                                    Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                           Report No: ICR2759



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                      (IBRD-72110 IBRD-78030)



                                       ON

                                     LOANS

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF US$10.71 MILLION

              AND US$3.0 MILLION OF ADDITIONAL FINANCING

                                     TO THE

                              REPUBLIC OF CHILE

                                      FOR A

            SOCIAL PROTECTION TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE LOAN



                                   July 30, 2013




Human Development Sector Management Unit
Bolivia, Chile, Ecuador, Peru and Venezuela Country Management Unit
Latin American and the Caribbean Region
                             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                         (Exchange Rate Effective June 6, 2013)

                              Currency Unit = Chilean Peso
                                  1.00 = US$ [ 0.0020 ]
                                 US$ 1.00 = [ 504.80 ]

                                     FISCAL YEAR
                                January 1 – December 31

                        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AF           Additional Financing
CAP          Circles of Analysis of Practices
CAS          Commissions for Social Assistance (Comisiones de Asistencia Social)
CASEN        National Socioeconomic Characterization Household Survey (Caracterización
             Socioeconomica Nacional)
CCT          Conditional Cash Transfers
CCC          Chile Grows with You (Chile Crece Contigo – CCC)
CONADI       National Corporation for Indigenous Development (Corporación Nacional de
             Desarrollo Indígena)
CS           Chile Solidarity (Chile Solidario)
FLACSO       Latin American Faculty of Social Sciences (Facultad Latinoamericana de
             Ciencias Sociales)
FONADIS      National Fund for Disabilities (Fondo Nacional de la Discapacidad)
FOSIS        Solidarity and Social Investment Fund (Fondo de Solidaridad e Inversión Social)
FPS          Social Protection Index (Ficha de Protección Social)
IEF          Ethical Family Income (Ingreso Etico Familiar)
INP          National Institute of Social Security (Instituto Nacional de Previsión)
IPDP         Indigenous Peoples Development Plan
IPP          Indigenous Peoples Plan
M&E          Monitoring and Evaluation
MIDEPLAN Ministry of Planning (Ministerio de Planificación)
MIS          Management Information System
NGOs         Non-Governmental Organizations
PAD          Project Appraisal Document
PDO          Project Development Objectives
QAG          Quality Assurance Group
RIS          Registry of Social Information
RUN          National Identification Number (Rol Unico Nacional)
SERNAM       National Women’s Service (Servicio Nacional de la Mujer)
SENAMA    National Service for the Eldery (Servicio Nacional del Adulto Mayor)
SERPLAC   Regional Secretaries of Planning (Secretarías Regionales Ministeriales de
          Planificación y Coordinación)
SIGEC     Management System for Agreements (Sistema de Gestión de Convenios)
SIIS      Integrated Social Information System (Sistema Integrado de Información Social)
TA        Technical Assistance
UIFs      Family Intervention Units (Unidades de Intervención Familiar)




                     Vice President:     Hasan A. Tuluy
                   Country Director:     Susan Goldmark
                    Sector Manager:      Mansoora Rashid
               Project Team Leader:      Theresa Jones
                  ICR Team Leader:       Theresa Jones/Jorge Barrientos
                                 CHILE
              SOCIAL PROTECTION TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE LOAN



                                                    CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 6
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 11
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 16
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 16
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 20
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 21
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 23
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 24
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 43
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 44
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 45
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 46
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR ........................................................................ 47
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 67
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 69
  MAP
A. Basic Information
                                                                          Social Protection
Country:                Chile                   Project Name:
                                                                          Technical Assistance
                                                                          IBRD-72110,IBRD-
Project ID:             P082037                 L/C/TF Number(s):
                                                                          78030
ICR Date:               08/06/2013              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     TAL                     Borrower:
                                                                          CHILE
Original Total
                        USD 10.71M              Disbursed Amount:         USD 11.99M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 12.31M
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Social Development
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
 N/A

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process              Date            Process              Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       02/26/2003     Effectiveness:             06/18/2004        06/18/2004
Appraisal:            10/20/2003     Restructuring(s):
Approval:             12/18/2003     Mid-term Review:
                                     Closing:                   09/30/2007        01/31/2013

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings          Borrower              Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory       Government:         Satisfactory
                                           Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
                                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                               Overall Borrower
                        Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
Performance:                               Performance:


                                                i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                              Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           No                                               Highly Satisfactory
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           No                                               None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original               Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Other social services                                                 100                 100


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Administrative and civil service reform                                14                  14
Indigenous peoples                                                     14                  14
Other social development                                               29                  29
Poverty strategy, analysis and monitoring                              14                  14
Social risk mitigation                                                 29                  29

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                             At Approval
Vice President:            Hasan A. Tuluy                       David de Ferranti
Country Director:          Susan G. Goldmark                    Axel van Trotsenburg
Sector Manager:            Mansoora Rashid                      Christopher Chamberlin
Project Team Leader:       Theresa Jones                        Theresa Jones
ICR Team Leader:           Theresa Jones
ICR Primary Author:        Jorge C. Barrientos
                           Theresa Jones


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The objectives of the Social Protection Technical Assistance Loan are to support the
efforts of the Government of Chile to implement Chile Solidario and lay the foundation
of a national system of social protection.



                                                 ii
Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)


(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                               Original Target       Formally     Actual Value
                                                Values (from          Revised      Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value
                                                   approval           Target      Completion or
                                                 documents)           Values      Target Years
Indicator 1 :     No. of families invited to participate in Chile Solidario
Value
quantitative or   91,539                     225,000                            648,014
Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2003                 12/31/2003                         12/31/2012
Comments
                  Monitoring Indicator for the Social Protection Sector Adjustment Loan,
(incl. %
                  associated with Chile Solidario. Included for reference only.
achievement)
Indicator 2 :     No. of families participating in Chile Solidario
Value
quantitative or   91,535                     220,000                            585,036
Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2003                 12/31/2003                         12/31/2012
Comments
                  Monitoring Indicator for the Social Protection Sector Adjustment Loan,
(incl. %
                  associated with Chile Solidario. Included for reference only.
achievement)
Indicator 3 :     No. of families receiving the Bono de Proteccion Familiar
Value
quantitative or   91,535                     220,000                            585,036
Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2003                 12/31/2003                        12/31/2012
Comments          Monitoring Indicator for the Social Protection Sector Adjustment Loan,
(incl. %          associated with Chile Solidario. Included for reference only. Data on spending
achievement)      included in Annex 2.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                               Original Target                     Actual Value
                                                                   Formally
                                                Values (from                       Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value                               Revised
                                                   approval                       Completion or
                                                                 Target Values
                                                 documents)                        Target Years
Indicator 1 :     No. of institutions (databases) agreeing to exchange information
Value
(quantitative     0(0)                                                          46(60)
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2003                                                    01/30/2013
Comments
                  Includes 38 institutions with Registry of Social Information agreements currently
(incl. %
                  in force as of 1/30/2013
achievement)

                                                  iii
Indicator 2 :     No. of variables incorporated into information system
                                                                            Chile Solidario
                                                                            participant
                                                                            demographic
                                                                            characteristics,
                                                                            status on minimum
                                                                            conditions, data
                Chile Solidario
                                                                            from social
Value           participant demographic
                                                                            protection index for
(quantitative   characteristics and status
                                                                            80% of families in
or Qualitative) on 53 minimum
                                                                            Chile, information
                conditions
                                                                            associated with
                                                                            participation in
                                                                            programs from
                                                                            databases
                                                                            mentioned in
                                                                            Indicator 1.
Date achieved     12/31/2003                                                01/01/2013
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 3 :     No. of institutions adhering to proposed standards
Value
(quantitative     0                                                         46
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2003                                                01/01/2013
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 4 :     % of Puente social workers trained
Value
(quantitative     100%                                                      100%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2003                                                12/31/2012
Comments
                  All Puente social workers received some mandatory training. More information
(incl. %
                  on types of training and system installed appears in Annex 2.
achievement)
Indicator 5 :   No. of programs included in Chile Solidario monitoring system
                                                                            Since CS
                                                                            monitoring system
                                                                            is part of SIIS,
                                                                            programs of all
Value
                                                                            institutions
(quantitative   0
                                                                            mentioned in
or Qualitative)
                                                                            Indicator 1. Many
                                                                            institutions have
                                                                            more than 1
                                                                            program.
Date achieved 12/31/2003                                                    12/31/2012

                                                 iv
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 6 :     No. of Program Evaluations
Value
(quantitative     0                         15                                   11
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2003                12/31/2003                          12/31/2007
Comments          Seminars were organized to discuss findings of all program evaluations.
(incl. %          Although number of evaluations fell short of target, discussions with programs
achievement)      through working groups covered numerous programs.
Indicator 7 :     Carry out surveys necessary for impact evaluation
Value
(quantitative     1                         4                                    4
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2003                12/31/2003                           01/07/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 8 :     Creation of 4 supporting units in MIDEPLAN for technical work.
Value
(quantitative     0                         4                                    4
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2003                12/31/2003                           12/31/2004
Comments
                  During 2006-2007, units were incorporated into operating structure of Executive
(incl. %
                  Secretariat for Chile Solidario.
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                      Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                               DO                            IP               Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                  (USD millions)
  1     05/26/2004           Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                      0.00
  2     05/26/2004           Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                      0.00
  3     12/13/2004           Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                      1.51
  4     04/29/2005       Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory               1.85
  5     12/22/2005       Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory               4.08
  6     11/13/2006           Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                      6.70
  7     05/18/2007           Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                      8.02
  8     12/01/2007           Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                      9.08
  9     05/20/2008           Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                      9.81
 10     12/01/2008           Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                    10.60
 11     06/30/2009           Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                    10.71
 12     12/14/2009           Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                    10.71
 13     06/28/2010           Satisfactory              Moderately Satisfactory             10.71
 14     02/07/2011           Satisfactory              Moderately Satisfactory             10.71

                                                   v
 15    08/10/2011         Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory   11.71
 16    03/13/2012         Satisfactory            Satisfactory          11.71
 17    10/15/2012         Satisfactory            Satisfactory          11.98


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable



I. Disbursement Profile




                                         vi
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

A. Country and sector issues

When the Social Protection Technical Assistance Project was appraised in 2003, Chile
had experienced a slow-down in growth, but there were signals that the economy would
begin to revive towards the end of the year with growth estimated at over 3 percent. The
country continued to emphasize the importance of trade and direct investment to the
growth and evolution of its economy. Chile had strong economic fundamentals: a
credible monetary policy; rules-based fiscal policy; and a flexible exchange system,
providing a strong foundation to support rates of growth above 4 percent in the medium-
term.

The share of the Chilean population below the poverty line had fallen from 40 percent in
1987 to slightly under 16 percent by 2000. The share in extreme poverty had dropped
from nearly 13 percent in 1987 to about 6 percent in 1996, where it had remained. The
rapid decline in poverty was mainly associated with economic growth and an increase in
targeted social spending. Nevertheless, the Government was concerned that although the
share of the population below the poverty line had declined, the share in extreme poverty
stagnated.

Analytical work suggested that an important determinant of persistent extreme poverty
was exclusion from a variety of networks that provided access to public and private risk
mitigation instruments. Indeed, the gaps in coverage of social protection programs
tended to be most common among the poorest and in rural areas. Although Chile’s social
protection institutions were relatively strong and well run, several weaknesses in the
social protection system were making it harder for the Government to address exclusion.
These included: (i) the inefficient use of available information; (ii) weakness of the
targeting instrument; (iii) gaps in monitoring and evaluation of social programs and
policies; and (iv)coordination failures at both the national and subnational levels. In May
2002, the Lagos Administration announced the Chile Solidario (CS) initiative, a package
of legislative and administrative reforms to Chile’s poverty reduction and social
protection policies. The objective was to bring Chile’s 225 thousand poorest households
out of indigence poverty.

B. Rationale for Bank assistance

The Bank had worked with Chile over a long period of time on analyzing trends in
poverty and the effectiveness of the Government’s poverty reduction strategy. In
addition to poverty assessments, at the time of project preparation there had been a recent
analysis of the social protection system (Chile: Household Risk Management and Social




                                            1
Protection). The latter had informed the reforms that were being supported in this
Project as well as the accompanying adjustment operation.1 The Government requested
the technical assistance loan from the Bank in order to ensure adequate financing and
advice during the implementation of the policy reforms that were supported under the
adjustment operation.

                                                Chile Solidario

    Although Chile Solidario shares the focus of the classic Conditional Cash Transfer (CCT) Programs in
    the Latin America on improving the welfare of poor families and the human capital development of
    children, it differed from them in several important ways.

  First, it was more narrowly targeted because it was a tool of the government’s social protection
  strategy oriented to address the needs of extremely poor families. Second, while CCTs generally
  concentrated on promoting the utilization of health and education services by children and, to a lesser
  degree, adults, Chile Solidario’s approach was at the same time more personalized and focused on
  improving the integration and quality of a broader range of services to improve their effective use by
C.   Higherpoor
  extremely   level families.
                      objectives
                              Third , in
                                   to    CCTsthe
                                      which    the project
                                                    monetary  transfer is central and usually large enough to
                                                            contributed
  increase significantly the consumption of the beneficiary families. In Chile Solidario the transfer is
  relatively small and furthermore declines over time. Finally, in many CCTs families stay in the
The   World
  program      Bank
            as long  asGroup’s    Country
                       their children        Assistance
                                      are attending schoolStrategy
                                                            and in someforcases
                                                                            Chile  setlonger.
                                                                                even   out 3 broad    goals:
                                                                                              The duration  of(i)
sustaining    economic
  participation             growth
                 in CS is limited  to and  social
                                      5 years.   In progress;    (ii) promoting
                                                     order to further  clarify someinclusion,    especially
                                                                                     of these differences, theof
  components
the             of CS are described
     rural population                in more detail
                           and vulnerable           below.
                                              groups;   and (iii) modernizing the state, necessary for
achieving the previous two objectives. Together with the complementary Social
  With the aim of linking families to the existing social network, the CS strategy was organized around 3
Protection
  components:  Sector Adjustment Loan, the Project responded to the latter two objectives. It
would     support Support
   1) Psycho-social  Chile’s isproposed
                                  provided byreform      of social
                                               a family coach          policy,
                                                                who works        directed
                                                                            with the         to 2 the
                                                                                                   yearspoorest
                                                                                     family for          using
households,
  a methodology  and  incorporate
                   focused            initiativesofto
                             on the achievement       modernize
                                                    specific         the state
                                                              tasks using        in order
                                                                          a specially       to facilitate
                                                                                      designed  methodology  this
  and  instruments.    This  was  implemented   jointly  by  FOSIS   and  municipalities.
reform, including by supporting better management of information. In addition,             Families   sign  an
  agreement to
investment      orwork with their
                   technical       assigned family
                                assistance   lendingcoach.   This is
                                                        services   inthe
                                                                       theonly “conditionality?.
                                                                            area                   In order was
                                                                                  of social protection      to
  support the families, a monetary transfer (Bono de Protección) is provided with a value declining in
  time. It is in
envisaged        the Country
              intended           Assistance
                        to finance             Strategy.
                                   the costs associated  with the family’s incorporation into the network of
  social services and benefits. This component is envisaged as serving as the “Bridge? or Puente
  between the system and the families.
  2) Participating
1.2   Original families
                     ProjectareDevelopment
                                   guaranteed access    to the existing
                                                    Objectives                 and transfers
                                                                         monetary
                                                                     (PDO)                    that the family
                                                                                      Key Indicators         (as
  qualifies
approved)    for –  family  allowance, social  pension   and disability allowance, student retention  subsidy,
  transfer to cover the costs of obtaining identification documentation, and the water subsidy.
  3) Participating families were guaranteed preferential access to services, transfers, and benefits
The   development
  available             objectives
              at the local  level thatof the related
                                       were   Projectto  were
                                                          the 7todimensions
                                                                  support the (53efforts
                                                                                  minimumof conditions
                                                                                            the Government
                                                                                                        in the
of  Chile
  areas     to implement
         of identity,                     Solidario program
                               the Chileemployment,
                      health, education,                          and to family
                                                        income, housing,   lay the foundation
                                                                                 dynamics).  Thisof  a national
                                                                                                   access was
  facilitated
system        with the
          of social    orientation and
                      protection.    Theassistance of the family
                                           loan would     supportcoach.
                                                                    Government actions in four key
  Although CS initially targeted extremely poor families, the system expanded later to cover other
  vulnerable groups, with the required adaptations. These included the elderly living alone (Vinculos),
  the homeless (Calle), and children of prisoners (Caminos).




1
    Social Protection Sector Adjustment Loan (Ln. 7202-CH)



                                                       2
1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as
approved)

The development objectives of the Project were to support the efforts of the Government
of Chile to implement the Chile Solidario program and to lay the foundation of a national
system of social protection. The loan would support Government actions in four areas:

      Reforms to Chile’s poverty reduction and social protection policies, to reduce
       poverty and exclusion by creating greater access to social protection and social
       services for the neediest households (Chile Solidario);
      Increase the efficiency and efficacy of social policy through improved targeting
       and better use of information by integrating, gathering and exchanging publicly
       and privately held data on households and relevant to social policy, into a national
       information system, as well as improvements to the country’s primary targeting
       instrument, the Ficha CAS;
      Strengthening regular monitoring and impact evaluation of social programs and
       policies; and
      Increasing the sustainability of reforms to poverty reduction and social protection
       policies, through clear assignment of roles and division of responsibilities
       between central government, municipal authorities and civil society.

A set of key indicators for the technical assistance project were included in Annex 2
(Results Framework and Monitoring). In addition, the following monitoring indicators
for the Social Protection Adjustment Loan (Ln. 7202-CH) associated with Chile Solidario
were included for reference:

   •       Number of families invited to participate in Chile Solidario
   •       Number of families participating in Chile Solidario
   •       Number of families receiving the “Bono de Protección Familiar?
   •       Percentage of coverage of social programs and monetary transfers included in
           Chile Solidario among the neediest families.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification

There were no revisions to the Project Development Objective or key indictors made
during the course of the Project.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

The primary target group for Chile Solidario was the estimated 225 thousand indigent
households, a substantial share of whom would participate. Beneficiaries were expected
to improve their standard of living, including, but not limited to level of income. If the
project were successful, one would expect to see a decline in the share of households
below the extreme poverty line, higher coverage of existing social protection policies and
programs among the extreme poor, and some re-design of interventions to better address


                                            3
the needs of this group. Other groups besides the extremely poor or those participating in
Chile Solidario were expected to benefit from improvements in social protection policies
because some reforms would affect a broader segment of the population.

1.5 Original Components

Component 1: National Information System for Social Protection. The design and
implementation of a national information system for social protection was aimed at
addressing limitations of the lack of communication, articulation and dialogue among
systems of information managed by different agencies. The basic approach was to use a
holistic design for the gathering, handling, and management of data related to the social
and economic characteristics of individuals. In the first phase, the design included
coverage of all families participating in Chile Solidario. It would then expand to include
families participating in all social programs, and finally, cover the total population. The
aim was to take advantage of modern technologies in the area of hardware, software and
communications to promote the interchange of information on the civil, social, and
socioeconomic attributes of the current population and potential beneficiaries of social
programs in Chile. The project financed consulting services necessary for the design of
the system and the development of the procedures, standards, and rules governing its
operation; software applications; computing equipment and data storage/processing
services, and staff training.

Component 2: Training. There were two training sub-components. The first one
covered training of MIDEPLAN and other government officials, at both the central and
local levels. The sub-component included activities to help MIDEPLAN progress in the
design of a system of social protection, based on the initial experience with Chile
Solidario, supported the implementation of the national information system for social
protection, and trained staff in the supervision and evaluation of a system of social
protection. The second sub-component strengthened the capacity of the social workers
and others who work with the families of Chile Solidario. Based on the initial experience
implementing CS as well as consultations with both social workers and supervisory staff,
a “community of learning? approach was introduced to enhance the cross fertilization of
experience among staff.

This required a combination of different mechanisms for training and the formalization of
knowledge and experience. Learning activities included: (i) structured small group
discussions among practitioners on specific themes; (ii) a program of short-term
exchanges between different municipalities or regions and contacts with technical
experts; and (iii) formal training through courses, seminars, and conferences. All of these
activities, as well as a virtual library, were supported through the design and
implementation of an appropriate technological platform that operated through a special
website. The project financed the design of curricula, the organization of courses,
associated travel and materials costs, staff exchanges, national and international technical
advice, seminars to discuss issues and problems arising in the course of implementation
of Chile Solidario, and supporting technological platforms.




                                             4
Component 3: System for Analysis, Evaluation, and Monitoring of Social Programs
and Policies. The goal of this component was to strengthen capacity within the public
sector to measure the impact of Chile Solidario and its associated programs. The project
financed: (a) the design of an integrated system to monitor the management, processes
and partial results of Chile Solidario; (b) the evaluation of the impact of selected aspects
of Chile Solidario in addressing the needs of its beneficiaries; and (c) the carrying out of
an impact evaluation of Chile Solidario in its entirety. Also included was the design and
implementation of a pilot project of citizen accountability.

Component 4: Institutional Strengthening of MIDEPLAN. In order for MIDEPLAN
to carry out its designated role to coordinate the implementation of the new set of policies,
a program of institutional modernization and strengthening for the ministry was required.
This process aimed at strengthening MIDEPLAN’s role as the coordinator of social
protection policy and programs in Chile. Additionally, several studies relating to issues
linked to indigenous families were planned. In addition to consultancy services, the
project financed office equipment for the Project Implementation Unit, as well as the
refurbishment of office space.

1.6 Revised Components

The Project’s components were not revised during implementation. However, with the
Additional Financing, activities were incorporated to cover the extension of the social
protection system to cover young children through Chile Crece Contigo (Sistema de
Protección Integral a la Infancia) – Integrated System of Protection for Young Children
or CCC).

1.7 Other significant changes

In May 2008 the Government of Chile requested additional financing for the Project.
Additional resources were required for activities related to Chile Solidario as well as for
the extension of the social protection system to cover young children through the Chile
Crece Contigo initiative.2 In fact, without the experience attained in the implementation
of CS, particularly the strengthening of coordination arrangements, it would have been
difficult to launch CCC. Additional financing was the best available mechanism to
maximize development impact and results for the technical support to the scale-up of the
social protection system in Chile. The activities proposed to be financed included
evaluations for Chile Crece Contigo, training of staff to implement Chile Crece Contigo,
the development of supporting materials and training to carry out recent modifications in
the methodology for Chile Solidario, and analytical and process studies and were a
natural continuation of what had been supported under the original Project. The Board
approved the Additional Financing Loan on October 29, 2009; it was signed on January 7,
2010; and became effective on September 3, 2010.

2
 CCC covers all children whose mothers receive prenatal care at public health facilities and/or
who take their infants to the public health services for check-ups, an estimated 80 percent of
children in Chile.


                                                5
In December 2012, at the Government’s request, the Bank cancelled US$1.4 million from
the Additional Financing. The main reason was the substantial delays which occurred at
the beginning of implementation of the activities due to a combination of factors. These
included the relative inexperience (with either public budget or Bank procedures) of the
new team at MIDEPLAN who arrived after the new administrative assumed power in
March 2010, the pressures they were under to respond to the reconstruction needs after
the February 10 earthquake and the fact that any further extension of the closing date was
impossible owing to the very short amortization schedule the Government had chosen for
the AF loan.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

Project preparation and design were based on the Bank’s broad knowledge of the Chilean
poverty situation and the Government’s policies and programs to address it. The Bank
had argued in its 2001 Poverty Report that given the persistent rates of extreme poverty
the Government should take a more proactive stance in its poverty reduction and social
protection policies. Both the Poverty and the Household Risk Management and Social
Protection Reports had indicated that despite remarkable gains in eradicating poverty, a
new set of policies and interventions – buttressed with technical assistance to improve the
use of information, including program monitoring and evaluation, and to strengthen
institutional capacity – were required to reach Chile’s poorest groups and increase the
effectiveness of poverty reduction and social protection policies. This analytical work
provided a solid base to assess the Government’s Chile Solidario initiative and structure
achievable development objectives consistent with the country’s needs and ability to
implement policy reforms and establish the associated practices and instruments. The
rationale for the Bank’s intervention was strong.

The development objectives are considered appropriate. They were realistic and
responsive to the Government’s priorities. The Project Development Objectives
effectively combined a focus on supporting the implementation of a specific initiative
(Chile Solidario) and the more ambitious goal of laying the foundations of a national
system of social protection. This mirrored the view of Government authorities who
believed that by maintaining the strict link between Chile Solidario and social protection
reforms, wider changes in the social protection system would eventually take place in a
way that was more politically possible and sustainable. The Government commitment to
strengthen social protection was maintained throughout the project although reflected
differently depending on political administrations.

Each of the 4 components was relevant to the achievement of the Project Development
Objectives. The project design aimed to use support for the implementation of Chile
Solidario to lay the base for activities which would contribute more broadly to the
strengthening of the social protection system and this in practice was achieved (see last
section in Annex 2 for more detail). The components supported the main elements



                                            6
needed to move toward a more integrated social protection system: a base of integrated
social information, including an effective targeting mechanism; a monitoring and
evaluation system; and the necessary training and strengthening of institutional capacity.
Although the components (and the reforms behind them) were demanding, project design
is not considered overly complex.

The initial assessment in the PAD that risks were minimal was confirmed, although some
predicted difficulties did materialize (challenges in closing the employment gap for the
extreme poor and promoting greater participation of civil society). Two risks identified
did not materialize. Pending legislation on Chile Solidario was passed and enacted on a
timely basis and the targeting performance of Chile Solidario was good.

The Quality Assurance Group (QAG) rated quality at entry as Highly Satisfactory.

2.2 Implementation

Project implementation was generally satisfactory. Not surprisingly, given the duration
of the project, there were several changes in key counterparts and in the institutional
arrangements for project activities within first the Ministry of Planning and Cooperation
an later in the re-named Ministry of Social Development. An important factor explaining
these changes was the development of the social protection system itself and the priorities
of different administrations. Initially, there were some difficulties because of a lack of
sufficient cooperation between the Social Division of MIDEPLAN and both the
Executive Secretariat of Chile Solidario and the Solidarity and Social Investment Fund
(FOSIS), the latter responsible for Puente, the family counseling component of CS.
These tensions were sorted out over time as the system was consolidated. The project
design was sufficiently flexible to accommodate these developments.

A factor that positively affected implementation of Chile Solidario, in particular
Component 1 was the approval of the Chile Solidario Law (Law 19.949) and the norms
issued for regulating its implementation including the interaction among the involved
ministries and agencies. The law specifically established the creation of a “national
registry of social data.? A key aspect introduced by the norms was the establishment of
mechanisms to regulate the access to and privacy of personal data contained in the data
bases incorporated into the information system.

A factor outside of government control which delayed implementation of the activities
under the Additional Financing was the February 2010 earthquake. MIDEPLAN was
given an important role in organizing some reconstruction activities which occupied their
full attention for several months during the first half of 2010. In addition, at the early
stages of implementation of the AF, the government counterparts were somewhat
unfamiliar with both government and Bank procedures.




                                            7
2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

The assessment covers 3 different aspects of M&E: the Integrated Social Information
System (SIIS) which was supported in Component 1 of the Project; the impact evaluation
for Chile Solidario, as well as the tracking of the specific indicators for the Project.

Design. The Project through Component 1 supported the development of an integral
M&E system for the social protection system. The conceptual design of an M&E system
for social protection had a broad scope for an integrated system that would enable the
availability of common information for the use and management of the inter-institutional
network of ministries and agencies. The key design feature was that the integrated
information system, in the long term, would become a management and operational tool
for all social protection services provided by the public sector. The system would include
a common registry and an integrated set of data bases of institutions in the social
protection network. Additionally, a key component of the integrated M&E system was
the design and implementation of a management information system (MIS) for Chile
Solidario to enable its administration, the monitoring of its operations family-by-family,
and providing information for evaluating processes and results. At a later stage, other
programs also managed by MIDEPLAN were added to the Chile Solidario M&E system.
One key design feature was the adoption of a modular approach which enabled a rapid
expansion of the system when new programs were added. The Chile Crece Contigo
program was incorporated, as well as other programs including support for homeless
people, seniors and other vulnerable groups. Basic design features included a user-
friendly approach, controlled hierarchical access, daily backup and recovery procedures,
and a web based platform.

The Bank and the Government agreed on the design of the impact evaluation for Chile
Solidario during project preparation. As described in the PAD, final and intermediate
objectives were clearly identified. Several options were identified to select the control
group, taking advantage of design features and implementation arrangements for CS
including its targeting methodology and planned phased roll-out. The design took into
account already available data or planned surveys, particularly the main household survey
in Chile (CASEN).

For the specific project activities, adequate indicators were identified. However, in
retrospect, some indicators for some components could have been more sophisticated
with more of a focus on progress towards installation of a system. For example, the
indicator of number of family coaches trained is very basic and should have focused
instead on measurements related to the achievement of competencies (certifications, for
example). Instead of tracking only the number of program evaluations, there should have
been indicators on the number of programs which agreed on preferential access. Some of
this data is presented in Annex 2. Also problematic were indicators presented as ratios
for which the definition of the denominator might evolve over time, particularly for
Component 1. In the case of training, some indicators proved impossible to track given
the quantity and variety of training courses. The results framework recognized that most
of the results of Chile Solidario (for example, number of participants and payment of the



                                            8
transfer) were not directly attributable to the technical assistance project. However,
several indicators for CS were included for reference because they were monitoring
indicators for the complementary Social Protection Sector Adjustment Project and were
important for the project context.

Implementation. Implementation of the SIIS, including the MIS for Chile Solidario and
other programs which were added to the system after 2007, was successful and is
described in more detail in Annex 2. There were particular efforts made to ensure and
improve data quality. Three surveys were carried out for the impact evaluation. In spite
of the problems mentioned under design, MIDEPLAN adequately tracked the activities of
the technical assistance project.

Utilization. Earlier, the Government of Chile had taken the approach of evaluating
social programs in the context of a budgetary system based on results. The M&E system,
supported by the TA project, introduced the notion that social programs should start to
keep records of their actions and basic data about their beneficiaries. This led to the
establishment of a single national registry of beneficiaries of social programs enabling a
more rational system for targeting resources to eligible beneficiaries minimizing the fraud
and duplication of efforts. Ministries and agencies started to use information contained in
the national registry to justify their budgetary request and to facilitate auditing of the use
of public resources. This process enabled the establishment of a network of institutions
participating in the program with specific programmatic supply of services, sharing
annual goals through formal inter-institutional agreements, using a single targeting
instrument.

The information from the MIS for Chile Solidario was used intensively to monitor
performance of municipalities and family coaches, and most importantly the progress of
the participating families in the social protection system. The family level specific data
on the latest status on the achievement of the minimum conditions guided the work on
arrangements for preferential access and identified key bottlenecks. Data was used to
make decisions on the level of municipal autonomy in implementing the program as well
as to evaluate family coaches.

The results of the impact evaluations were extensively discussed in Chile, including the
work authored by Bank staff and research by others using the same data sets. The
information on the indicators for project activities was used in work planning and to
make decisions on reallocations of spending.


2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Safeguards. The project triggered the safeguard policy on Indigenous Peoples and an
Indigenous Peoples Plan was the basis for consultations during project preparation, and
was disclosed. The application of the safeguards policy promoted more attention to the
indigenous population than had been the case up to then in Chile Solidario. Some
interventions such as support for self-employment among indigenous participants



                                              9
probably would not have happened otherwise. The IPDP for the original project was
completed, with some redefinition of particular studies during project implementation.
The work benefited from good technical supervision, close coordination with the Sub-
secretary of MIDEPLAN responsible for government policy on indigenous groups and
with CONADI (National Corporation for Indigenous Development) and inputs from
experts in the area. The main activities included the incorporation of questions in the
household survey and in the targeting instrument to identify indigenous families and
indigenous beneficiaries of Chile Solidario, training for social workers and supervisors
on theory and methodologies related to the indigenous population, and a comprehensive
study of the ethnic pertinence of Chile Solidario. The principal results of the latter were
that indigenous families in Chile Solidario valued the intervention strategy, that although
in general the 53 minimum conditions were valid for indigenous families, some
modifications were necessary, and that the intervention strategy needed some adaption in
localities with a high concentration of indigenous. The Program followed up on these
recommendations, including by adjusting some minimum conditions and adapting the
material for the family counseling to the values and beliefs of the indigenous
communities.

The social assessment done during preparation of the Additional Financing found that the
results of Chile Solidario for indigenous participants had been encouraging. Slightly
over 10 percent of the families contacted for CS were indigenous. The rate of non-
participation for the indigenous was about a third less than the average for Chile
Solidario. The share of families who exited the program successfully completing all of
the minimum conditions exceeded slightly the program average, as did their ability to
maintain the conditions. Poverty data showed a sharp drop in the gap between poverty
rates in the indigenous and non-indigenous population between 2003 and 2006 (from a
gap of 11.3 to one of 5.7 points).

The Government also had taken a series of actions to ensure that the indigenous peoples
received social and economic benefits that were culturally appropriate from Chile Crece
Contigo, including in response to consultations which had taken place. In order to ensure
that the design and implementation of Chile Crece Contigo was culturally appropriate,
several analyses had been undertaken and specific materials prepared. The experience
with implementation of the IPDP under the original project meant that specific activities
related to indigenous populations occurred early on in the development of CCC. These
included studies on cultural practices on child rearing, manuals for health workers, and
the preparation of special education materials to work with families. Given the measures
already taken, there were only three additional actions envisaged under the IPP during
implementation of the AF. Most progress was made in the preparation of specially
designed educational and other materials for families, service providers, and children in
indigenous communities (Mapuche and Rapa Nui) to support implementation of Chile
Crece Contigo. In all materials to support early childhood development were prepared in
5 indigenous languages. In line with the policy of cultural integration, the Government
distributed these materials to all children, not only the indigenous. Cooperation with
CONADI continued to be satisfactory with a focus on supporting self-employment
initiatives among indigenous participants in Chile Solidario.



                                            10
On fiduciary issues, there were minor weaknesses, particularly in the area of procurement,
which caused the ratings to vary between satisfactory and moderately satisfactory. This
was mainly due to the lack of in –depth experience on World Bank procedures and in
general a lack of pro-activity on the part of the staff responsible for project administration.
In addition, at the beginning of the original Project and during the AF, there were several
changes in staffing. Project management strengthened notably at the end of AF
implementation.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
The social protection system in Chile continued to evolve during the implementation of
the AF with the creation of the Security and Opportunities Subsystem known as the
Ethical Family Income (Ingreso Etico Familiar-EIF). IEF began to be implemented in
2013 and some design aspects are still being fine-tuned. In several ways, the EIF builds
on the experience of Chile Solidario and maintains with some adaptations some of its key
features such as the focus on the extreme poor, use of the social protection index for
targeting and family coaching. Municipal family intervention units will continue to play
a major role in implementing the program. Reflecting the challenge of the employment
dimension of CS and in line with the practices of OECD countries, the IEF includes more
focus on employment and payments to families linked to achievements in the area of
education and employment. In fact, the initial design of Chile Solidario had included a
fourth component on employment, but this had not been developed by MIDEPLAN.

One of the first initiatives of the Pinera administration was to convert MIDEPLAN into
the Ministry of Social Development. Under the new institutional structure it continues to
have a lead role in the monitoring, design and implementation of social policy. The
information system created under the TA project is now well established and
consolidated in all participating ministries and agencies. The newly created Ministry of
Social Development has incorporated its management under the new institutional
structure supported by the mandate established in the Chile Solidario law. One key
difference, however, is that the focus of the new Ministry has shifted more to execution
of policies instead of coordination, the focus under Chile Solidario and Chile Crece
Contigo. No follow-up operation is currently planned, but the Bank continues to work
with the Ministry of Social Development in the context of the Communities of Learning
on Conditional Cash Transfers and Labor.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The Project’s objectives, design and implementation were highly relevant and remain
consistent with Chile’s development priorities and with current Bank country and sector
assistance strategies. The Government continues to have a focus on the goal of reducing
extreme poverty and designing programs to reach that end. With revisions (including
some supported by the Project), key instruments supported under the loan such as the
SIIS, Registry of Social Information (RIS) and the targeting instrument (Ficha de



                                             11
protección social) continue to be important in the implementation of social policy. The
project was responsive to evolving needs originating in the changes in the institutional
framework for management of the social protection system, extension of the system, and
the specific priorities of different government administrations.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
The objective of the Project to support the efforts of the Government of Chile to
implement Chile Solidario and lay the foundation for a national system of social
protection was met to a large extent. Performance as measured by most of the indicators
for the specific technical assistance activities was satisfactory, even after considering the
shortcomings mentioned earlier in the design of some indicators. Moreover, the
Government made substantial progress in implementing Chile Solidario and in
strengthening the social protection system. A detailed assessment of the systems
approach appears at the end of Annex 2 and is quite positive. Several technical assistance
activities were critical to that achievement, particularly the installation of the Integrated
System for Social Information (SIIS), the training of family coaches and the undertaking
of several studies related to improvements on the supply side, to mention the most
important ones. In addition, the Project contributed to the sustainability of reforms to
poverty reduction and social protection policies through the strengthening of the role and
responsibilities of the municipalities. Details by component are in Annex 2.

3.3 Efficiency
 
Since this is a technical assistance project, the classic efficiency calculations are not
applicable. Efficiency gains that were expected included: reduction of targeting errors,
better integration and use of information on households which would enable cases of
fraud, misallocations, and overlapping of duplicating benefit payments to be identified
and eliminated. Targeting performance was excellent and is covered in 3.5(a) below.
The implementation of the SIIS and improved coordination are expected to have resulted
in efficiency gains. However, these have not been quantified.

The results from the impact evaluations of Chile Solidario show positive impacts on both
the final and intermediate objectives identified in the PAD and show interesting changes
as longer periods of time were covered, thereby highlighting the effects of the
coordination of services and improvements in the quality of programs. The first
evaluation which covered 2003-2004, can be considered a measure of the short-term
impacts of participation in Chile Solidario, as none of the families had completed their
time in the program. These results were primarily related with the take-up of particular
programs and were strongly influenced by the performance of the family coaches and the
minimum conditions, as the results of the coordination with the social programs were still
nascent. In the short-term, the main results for participant families were the following:




                                             12
                 Significant increase in the take up of monetary transfers and social
                  programs for housing and employment3
                 Improved education and health outcomes
                     o Higher preschool enrollment (4-6 percentage points), school
                          enrollment for 6-15 year olds (7-9 percent), adult literacy (4
                          percent higher take-up of adult literacy programs in urban areas
                          and 5 percentage points higher in rural areas)
                     o Households in urban areas were more likely to have taken up
                          complementary programs providing school materials, meals, and
                          dental care
                     o Increased enrollment in public health system (2-3 percent in urban
                          areas and 3 percent in rural areas), increased preventive health
                          visits for children under 6 by 4-6 percentage points in rural areas
                          and for women by 6-7 percent)
                 Suggestive evidence of the key role that the psycho-social support had in
                  enabling these changes by increasing awareness of social services in the
                  community as well as households ‘orientation towards the future
                 Evidence that on average Chile Solidario participants have increased their
                  awareness of social services in the community and are more likely to be
                  more optimistic about their future socio-economic situation
                 No significant effects on household income per capita
The results of the evaluation which covered the period 2003-2006 show the medium-term
results of the program. Importantly, these results indicate positive effects on employment
and income for some groups of families. The biggest impact on employment and income
was registered among spouses of heads of household, particularly in rural areas.
This evaluation continued to show evidence of increased take-up of monetary transfers.
Of particular interest were the results for the family allowance, which in spite of a
substantial increase in its coverage during the time covered by the evaluation, continued
to show not only significant positive take-up by Chile Solidario participants, but also by
families living in those same neighborhoods. Participation in Chile Solidario also raised
enrollment in housing and employment programs, among other services. Overall, people
who participated in Chile Solidario showed gains in living standards, including more
stable housing and, for some groups of participants, more stable work and higher income.

Results from the longer-term evaluation4 which is able to incorporate analysis on the
influence of the supply-side changes (better coordination and quality) which is
forthcoming show important variations in impact from participation in Chile Solidario:




3
 This finding relates to the indicator on coverage of social programs and monetary transfers
among the neediest families.
4
    Forthcoming from Carneiro, Galasso, and Ginja



                                               13
       Related to the large increase in the take-up of monetary transfers across the board,
        the impact is largely driven by those who did have the transfers before entering
        the program, in other words, those who were socially excluded from the social
        protection system. 
       The lack of overall impact on employment and income in the long-term masks
        very important heterogeneity depending on initial conditions (conditions met
        before the program) and across socio-demographic groups (age of head), but most
        importantly across cohorts. 
       Results show that the long-term impact on employment and housing is large for
        the cohorts who were exposed to the response of the supply side.  
         
The latter result has potentially interesting policy implications on the design of social
protection systems in terms of sequencing and integration of demand and supply side
interventions.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Satisfactory

The rating of satisfactory takes into account the high relevance of the objectives, design
and implementation of Chile Solidario as well as its role in laying the foundation for a
national system of social protection, the successful carrying out of most activities of the
technical assistance project and their demonstrated link with the outcomes on the project
development objectives. Moreover, as explained in the section above, findings from the
impact evaluation show positive results on CS participants.


3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
Data collected for the impact evaluations indicates that the targeting performance of
Chile Solidario was good. Targeting performance was particularly good for the
extremely poor. By 2006, the coverage of the program had reached 6 percent of the
overall population, but was 20 percent in each of the bottom three ventiles of income
distribution:5 Targeting of the extreme poor is likely to have improved after then with the
substitution of a national eligibility cut-off score instead of municipal specific ones.
Participation in the program had significant results in poverty reduction in rural areas,
which increased over time. Taking into account poverty dynamics – the movement in
and out of poverty – the impact evaluation suggests that at least in rural areas, Chile
Solidario addressed structural poverty, while also reducing the risks of falling into
poverty for female-headed households.


5
 “El Impacto de Proveer Apoyo Psico-Social a Familias en Extrema Pobreza y Aumentar su
Accesso a Servicios Sociales: Evaluando Chile Solidario? by Pedro Carneiro, Emanuela Galasso,
and Rita Ginja



                                            14
(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

The Chile Solidario initiative, announced in May 2002 by the Lagos administration, was
a package of legislative and administrative reforms to Chile’s poverty reduction and
social protection policies focused on bringing Chile’s 225 thousand neediest households
out of indigent poverty. Essentially, one of the aims of Chile Solidario was to implement
a new model of management of public institutions. In particular, there was a need for
better coordination of efforts in order to reflect the multi-dimensionality of poverty and
the integration of aspects of both assistance and promotion. Integration was reflected at
different levels. At the central level, the Ministry of Finance (Budget Department),
MIDEPLAN and FOSIS were involved. In fact, one of the motivations of giving
MIDEPLAN a central role in the coordination of Chile Solidario and eventually the
social protection system, was to strengthen the Ministry Implementation of CS had an
impact on many other public institutions working in the area of social protection for the
extreme poor. For those who traditionally worked with this group, it facilitated
improvements in targeting and coverage of the extreme poor through the coordination
because the CS families were given priority. Early on Chile Solidairo had a significant
impact on the Ministries of Health and Education, the agency in charge of child care
centers (Junta Nacional de Jardines Infantiles), the agency in charge of remedial support
and scholarships in schools (Junta Nacional de Auxilio Escolar y Becas), the Ministry of
Housing, and the municipalities.          The impact on FOSIS was also great because
previously it had not been working primarily with the extreme por. For other programs
such as the ones related to employment and more generally activities of the Ministry of
Labor, it facilitated the inclusion of these families who had not been attended before.

More specifically, the design and implementation of the system of social protection Chile
Solidario promoted institutional changes and strengthening in a variety of areas:

   Multi-dimensional nature of poverty: CS embodied the idea of a “ventanilla única?
    or one-stop shop? which extended a bridge (Puente) between the family and their
    rights. Its explicit ambition was to move away from sectoral to more integrated
    policies. The one stop shop was Chile Solidario and the instrument was the family
    coach.
   Family Coach: This was an innovative design element and they played an important
    role as coordinators, integrators, while at the same time reflecting the “promotional?
    aspects of CS. The coach worked on 2 levels – with the family and also with the
    network of social programs.
   Move away from demand-driven approach. The diagnostic of CS was that
    families often did not have the minimum instruments necessary (information,
    resources to get around, etc.) to demand the services they needed and for which they
    were eligible. This was the motivation for the idea of preferential access. It reflects
    the premise that the logic of social protection requires that the system develops its
    capacity to respond in an adequate fashion. In practical terms, this translated into a
    focus on ensuring the correct functioning of the supply side. The role of the transfer
    was to provide resources for the families to interact with the network and thus was


                                           15
    much smaller than the monetary transfers in the classic CCT programs such as
    Oportunidades in Mexico or Familias en Acción in Colombia.
   Focus on family instead of individual. Part of the dispersion of social programs
    was explained by a focus on individuals with the disadvantage of ignoring a key asset.
   Incorporation of rights focus into the design of social policies. The minimum
    conditions reflected the establishment of minimum standards that the State should
    guarantee to all of their citizens. They explicitly recognized fiscal constraints and
    thus reflected an ethical approach balanced by financial considerations. CS
    recognized that the idea of rights had to be internalized within the services and
    government levels in both their day-to-day decisions and overall policy. In order to
    be a true right, both the precise definition and accountability for their provision to
    individuals was required.
   Integrated Social Information System:               CS innovated in the design and
    implementation of information systems in several dimensions. The SIIS is one of the
    pillars of the social protection strategy. It provides information on the social transfers
    and services provided by the State. By facilitating coordination increases the
    efficiency in the delivery of those services among the agencies providing the services
    and the institutions managing the social protection system even though they are in
    different sectors and different levels of government.
   Organization and strengthening of a municipal network of local intervention.
    CS is characterized by the gradual strengthening of the role of the municipality and
    provision of more autonomy and responsibility for the implementation of the social
    protection system. This included the transfer of a higher share of monetary resources
    and of the portion of centrally-hired family coaches to municipalities, as well as
    investments in training and equipment to enable them to monitor and manage
    programs at the local level.


(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

Not applicable.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

Not applicable.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Low to Negligible

The rating of low to negligible is based on the fact that the legal and regulatory
framework for the intersectoral social protection system in Chile has been maintained
through 3 administrations with extensions of the system implemented through additional
subsystems (CCC and IEF) meeting the criteria set out in the original law. For details see
discussion of legal framework in Annex 2. The objective of the government remains the
reduction of extreme poverty. Moreover, the central instruments within the architecture


                                             16
of the social protection system – for example, the Social Protection Index (FPS) and the
Integrated Social Information System (SIIS) continue to be maintained and used. The
law creating the Ministry of Social Development confirmed the right of the Ministry to
request information from other agencies in order to carry out its functions and the
agencies are obligated to provide that information in a timely fashion (see Box on Legal
Framework in Annex 2). The institutions (MIDEPLAN/MDS, FOSIS, and the
municipalities) benefiting from the Project remain closely involved in current social
protection initiatives.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Satisfactory

Bank performance in preparing the original operation was highly satisfactory for the
following reasons. The technical assistance project supported an initiative to strengthen
the social protection system for the extreme poor which was an important policy initiative
of the Chilean government and in fact complemented the Social Protection Sector
Adjustment Loan. Technical aspects were strong since the assistance provided by the
Bank team during preparation and appraisal built on the comprehensive sector work that
had been carried out. The availability of the Household Risk Management and Social
Protection Report provided a sound basis to work with the team in MIDEPLAN to design
the project including key elements to strengthen the social protection system – improving
access to social protection and wider social services, measures to improve targeting and
the use of information, and strengthening the monitoring and impact evaluation of social
programs. Project design was also informed by analysis on poverty trends for which the
aforementioned report updated an earlier study done by the Bank. During project
preparation the Bank team consulted with a diverse set of municipalities, as well as civil
society organizations and think tanks, the findings of which were fed into the social
assessment. The original project triggered the indigenous peoples safeguard policy and
the Government prepared and disclosed an Indigenous Peoples Development Plan.
Reflecting the high capacity of the country, the procurement and financial administration
functions of the project were integrated within MIDEPLAN. The Bank also provided
strong technical support for the evaluation arrangements for the Chile Solidario program.
A minor weakness was the definition of the indicators chosen for the results framework,
which could have been better chosen to measure the advances in the social protection
system and had other shortcomings.

The Quality Assurance Group (QAG) rated the quality at entry of this project as Highly
Satisfactory. QAG rated 4 dimensions (strategic relevance and approach; technical,
financial and economic aspects; policy and institutional aspects; and Bank inputs and
processes as highly satisfactory and none less than satisfactory.




                                           17
Bank performance in preparing the Additional Financing was satisfactory for the
following reasons. Additional resources were needed to implement additional activities
to scale up the project’s impact and development effectiveness. The additional activities
were related to Chile Solidario as well as to the extension of the system of social
protection to cover young children through the Chile Crece Contigo initiative. They were
a natural continuation of what had been supported under the original project and the
additional financing needs were relatively modest. Additional financing was more cost-
effective for the borrower compared to a repeater or other new project. The Additional
Financing triggered OP 4.10 on indigenous peoples safeguards. A social assessment was
prepared and a new Indigenous Peoples Plan was prepared and disclosed. Based on the
satisfactory performance under the original project, project implementation, financial
management and procurement arrangements remained the same. There was one
shortcoming in quality at entry which was the delay in finalizing the Additional
Financing.      A year lapsed between approval of the Concept Memorandum and
negotiations. This delay adversely affected subsequent implementation of the AF and
made necessary a series of extensions to the closing date of the original project in order to
avoid a gap between the two loans.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Satisfactory

Bank performance is rated satisfactory for the following reasons. The Bank team focused
on development impact by following closely developments in Chile Solidario, its
extension to other vulnerable groups, and incorporation of the system for young children,
Chile Crece Contigo, as well as the impact evaluation. Project supervision was
complemented by a wide range of activities in the context of the CCT Community of
Practice facilitated by the Bank of which Chile is a founding member. Fiduciary staff
visited regularly and there was adequate follow-up of the safeguards policy related to
indigenous peoples, including the preparation of a status report during preparation of the
AF. At the request of MIDEPLAN, the Bank included specific expertise in supervision
missions, both Bank staff as well as consultants (topics of homelessness and
employment). Implementation status reports were prepared twice a year. Reporting of
performance on the indicators in the results framework could have been more complete
and consistent. The Bank’s technical support was stronger in its areas of comparative
advantage or where it was able to identify expertise (overall social protection strategy,
homeless schemes, labor market policies, design of targeting instruments and
international experience in activation policies) but fell short in the area of information
technology.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

Taking into account the ratings of satisfactory on both ensuring quality at entry and
supervision, overall Bank performance is rated satisfactory.



                                             18
5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

Government performance is rated as satisfactory for the following reasons. The design
and implementation arrangements for both Chile Solidario and Chile Crece Contigo were
based on high-quality and timely diagnostic work. In the case of the former it included
the results of a 2000 household panel which highlighted the substantial household
dynamics behind the overall poverty numbers and the vulnerability of poor households.
Studies also showed that existing social benefits and programs were accessed mainly by
the poor, not the extreme poor, and that progress in reducing extreme poverty had stalled.
Social protection spending was substantial ($800 million per year), but dispersed in 90
programs among 30 institutions with a sector and individual focus. Monetary transfers
included few promotional or pro-active measures to add value and empower participants.
The political commitment at the highest level to the reduction of extreme poverty and to
Chile Solidario (President Lagos) and Chile Crece Contigo (President Bachelet) as well
as to the supporting reforms and strengthening of the social protection system is
demonstrated by the promulgation of several important laws6 and equally important to the
creation of an enabling framework.

Especially critical for the latter, was the financing mechanism developed for Chile
Solidario in which the Budget Division of the Ministry of Finance was the key player.
Resources were allocated to a budget line for Chile Solidario within the overall
MIDEPLAN budget, separately for the programs and services needed to respond to the
set of minimum conditions, and tied to achievement of specific coverage targets and
services for Chile Solidario participants, as reflected in agreements with the Executive
Secretariat of Chile Solidario. Another interesting budgetary feature was that in order to
accommodate unforeseen economic developments which might increase the share of
extreme poor, CS was guaranteed a certain amount of funding and not penalized if it did
not need to use all of the resources allocated. There were no issues with counterpart
funding considering the global financing made available for CS.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

Performance of MIDEPLAN (later renamed the Ministry of Social Development), the
implementing agency is rated as satisfactory for the following reasons. The commitment
of MIDEPLAN to achieving the development objectives of supporting Chile Solidario
was consolidated during implementation of the original project, reflecting the
strengthening of the functions of the Executive Secretariat and finally the conversion into


6
 Chile Solidario - Law 19.949 (2004), Sistema Intersectorial de Protección Social – Law 20.379
(2009). See Annex 2 for detailed analysis.



                                              19
the Executive Secretariat for Social Protection, which became the main counterpart for
the Bank project. Initially there were some problems of coordination between
MIDEPLAN and FOSIS, the agency in charge of the implementation of Puente (the name
for the family coaching or psycho-social support component of Chile Solidario).
Implementation arrangements and staffing were satisfactory, although the visibility and
profile of the project within MIDEPLAN varied depending on the priorities of each
Minister.    There were no major implementation issues, with most processes
mainstreamed within the administrative structure of MIDEPLAN, although at times the
need to comply with both Bank and Government procedures increased administrative
requirements. The use of selected country systems (Chilecompra) was extended during
project implementation. Financial management performance tended to be better than
procurement performance, the latter generally rated only moderately satisfactory. The
monitoring and evaluation arrangements for Chile Solidario were best practice and the
information was used extensively in decision-making and resource allocation, with key
support being provided by the development of the SIIS (Component 1) as well as the
well-functioning budget management system of the Ministry of Finance.

The new administration which took over in 2010 had little experience with either
government or Bank administrative requirements, which slowed down implementation.
That factor, the transformation of MIDEPLAN into the Ministry of Social Development,
the decision to cancel several evaluation studies in 2012, and lack of sufficient budget
space in 2012-2013 (given shortfalls in execution in 2011), resulted in the cancellation of
nearly half of the amount of the AF. Nevertheless, the resources of the AF were used for
several high priority tasks, mainly the reform of the targeting instrument with a special
focus on measures to combat fraud and error and the baseline and related studies for an
evaluation of the parental education component of Chile Crece Contigo. In addition,
some of the activities planned for 2012 under the project were carried out using national
resources.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

Overall Borrower Performance is considered satisfactory in view of the Government and
the Implementing Agencies’ performance.

6. Lessons Learned

      The experience of Chile with Chile Solidario illustrates that a single initiative or
       program can serve as a practical and concrete base for the installation of broader
       social protection system which can be extended to cover other populations.
      Bank financing can play a role in financing activities which once validated can be
       incorporated into the national budget. Examples are initial investments in the
       SIIS, impact evaluation studies, and training for family coaches. Loan resources
       were often a more flexible source of financing than were normal budget resources,




                                            20
    particularly convenient for new or pilot activities. However, it would have been
    helpful to be able to depend on country systems to a greater extent.
   When considering different policy interventions to reduce poverty and help
    households manage risks to their income, policy makers often take for granted the
    critical institutional and information infrastructure necessary to operate social
    protection programs effectively. A comprehensive, integrated information system
    is critical in order to ensure that social programs reach those who need them the
    most, and to guard the system from falling prey to abuse. Without such a system
    social policies and interventions cannot be effectively targeted, monitored or
    evaluated. At the same time, the development of an integrated social information
    platform for a social protection system takes time and is likely to need to be
    flexible and adaptable to reflect the expansion and modifications of Government
    strategy over time.
   The incorporation of the targeting instrument into the integrated social
    information platform was a powerful tool in the creation of a national registry of
    beneficiaries which in turn became a valuable tool for managing a network of
    social protection services. An additional positive feature was its design on a
    decentralized basis with online updating possible.
   High-quality administrative data bases can be an important source of information
    not only for the monitoring of social programs, but also their impact evaluation,
    particularly if they can be linked to survey data.
   There are significant challenges in measuring the impact of the installation of a
    social protection system which incorporates not only interventions with program
    participants, but also gradual improvements and better coordination with the
    supply of social services and transfers. The methodologies required are complex
    and need to incorporate administrative data from a variety of sources as well as
    the traditional household surveys. And as the methodology becomes more
    complex, the communication of these results also becomes more difficult.
   Efforts to reduce the dispersion of effort and fragmented coverage of social
    programs of the poor are perhaps best envisaged as a process and need to be
    sustained over time. The experience of Chile suggests that effective coordination
    requires mutually-enforcing actions – for example, formal agreements and
    working groups among institutions and different levels of government, results-
    based indicators coupled with close supervision and remedial actions when
    necessary, supportive information and budget mechanisms (see 5.2(a) p. 19) and
    roles such as family coaches. The combinations of mechanisms and their relative
    importance are likely to vary depending on the country.




                                        21
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

The implementing agency had no comments on the ICR.

(b) Cofinanciers

Not applicable.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders

Not applicable.




                                       22
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                      Actual/Latest
                                   Appraisal Estimate                        Percentage of
           Components                                 Estimate (USD
                                    (USD millions)                            Appraisal
                                                         millions)
National Information System for
                                           3.7                2.8                    96
Social Protection
Training                                   1.7                1.6                    94
Analysis, Evaluation and
Monitoring of Social Programs              2.5                2.3                    92
and Policies
Institutional Strengthening of
MIDEPLAN and Project                       5.7                5.2                    91
Administration
              Total Baseline Cost         13.6              11.9                     88
              Front-end Fee IBRD             .1                .1
               Total Project Costs        13.7              12.0                     88




(b) Financing
                                                         Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                           Type of        Estimate     Estimate Percentage of
          Source of Funds
                                         Cofinancing       (USD          (USD      Appraisal
                                                          millions)    millions)
 Borrower                                              4.3          1.9*         44
 International Bank for Reconstruction
                                                       13.7        12.0         88
and Development

*Does not include US$25.4 million in global investment for Chile Solidario




                                               23
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Component 1: National Information System for Social Protection

In the context of the efforts through CS of strengthening and improving the organization
and management of social policy, the timely availability and use of information was key.
It was especially important in order to support the integration of social interventions and
sectors. This summary of the outputs of the component relating to the national
information system for social protection includes the 3 indicators in the results
framework, namely the number of institutions agreeing to exchange information, the
number of variables incorporated, and the number of institutions agreeing to the proposed
standards. In addition, the section covers broader aspects related to the development of
the system including technological, institutional (including the participation of different
levels of government), and legal aspects, all of which supported the progress on these
indicators. The information tools which were developed to support the social protection
system – the Integrated Social Information System (Sistema Integrado de Informacion
Social-SIIS) and the Registry of Social Information (Registro de Informacion Social –
RIS) surpassed what had been expected at the time of project appraisal. This happened
mainly because the development of the information tools reflected, supported, and
responded to the concrete changes and operational needs of the also evolving social
protection system over the decade (2003-2013). Also discussed in this section are the
outputs associated with reforms to the targeting instrument also supported by the Project.

The SIIS was implemented gradually and slowly and constantly improved because
system development was grounded on the social programs that MIDEPLAN administered
through the Executive Secretariat. It includes the Social Protection Index, Chile
Solidario, and Chile Crece Contigo. Initially (before the approval of the technical
assistance project), the module for Puente was installed in the municipalities. As will
become clear in the description that follows, the base for the SIIS was the management
information system (MIS) for Puente that early on interchanged information with the
Civil Registry and the Institute of Social Security (INP). The first transfers associated
with CS (bono de protección) were paid in November 2002 on line through the INP.
Under the Project, three phases can be distinguished. During the first phase through
December 2004, the SIIS focused on capturing the information needed for the CS target
population. Even at this early stage, the development of the SIIS was influenced by a
change in focus from centralized administration of databases and primarily descriptive
analysis to the aim of giving local managers the information and data on indicators
necessary to take the decisions necessary to meet the objectives of the local social
protection system. The requirements for CS7 were utilized as the model to design and
construct the SIIS.


7
 For example, as the first step, requirements included the monitoring of information at the
household level of the status on the roughly 50 minimum conditions, and their program exit and
entry, data on the family coaches and data consolidations at different levels (by family coach,
municipality, region and nation)



                                               24
In the second phase (2006), with the system operating in the 334 municipalities
implementing Chile Solidario, the SIIS generated a new module of information for the
on-line processing of the revised targeting instrument, the Social Protection Index (FPS).8
This step was crucial to consolidate the SIIS as the technological platform for Social
Protection.    This is because at the outset, agencies were reluctant to sign agreements to
participate in the information system by exchanging information contained in their data
bases. They saw no particular advantage for them when they were invited to participate
in the scheme. However, with the inclusion of the FPS with on line data entry
decentralized to the municipalities, a major milestone was reached. Since the FPS was a
key targeting instrument for a wide range of national subsidies such as social housing,
school lunches, water supply subsidies and several other monetary transfers (child
allowance, social pension) it gave the Ministry additional leverage for persuading other
ministries as it was now a component of the SIIS. In addition, as the social protection
system expanded to cover additional groups of the population – elderly individuals living
alone, for example – and as more programs gave preferential access to Chile Solidario
(school subsidies, for example) use of the Ficha became more extensive. Given the wide
territorial coverage and high number of households with the FPS, this component of the
SIIS has been transformed since 2007 to be a privileged source of information and
operates as the principal support for the rest of the functions included in the SIIS.
The last phase began at the end of 2007, when a new module was generated for the
registration and monitoring of Chile Crece Contigo. By the end of the TA project some
46 agreements had been signed with ministries and agencies covering more than 60
million records in over 60 data bases incorporated into the SIIS. There were 15,672 users
of the system, including all municipalities in Chile. By the end of 2009, nearly 80
percent of the population of Chile was registered in the SIIS. Later the Additional
Financing (AF) supported enhancements to the FPS instrument and system software was
upgraded by introducing a new data warehousing system and strengthening reporting
systems.

The main technical and operating characteristics of the SIIS are:
       Interoperability which is crucial in order to support decision-making within an
          intersectoral and interinstitutional social protection system;
       Phased Development on a modular basis and scaleable to incorporate new
          populations and initiatives;
       Flexible language utilized by the platform in order to adapt to the
          characteristics of other information tools, so that it could be easily used by
          other agencies;
       Validation of personal information through a unique national identification
          number (RUN) with all modules connected online with the Civil Registry;




8
    The module related to the FPS was installed in all 345 municipalities in Chile.



                                                  25
          Guaranteed adherence to secrecy rules through a legal and administrative
           regulatory framework that needs to be complied with by system users;
          Provision of training to prepare people to provide, access, and use the data;
          Secure system with controls over passwords and access;
          100% web based with user friendly interfaces, easy to learn for users; and
           developed through open source programs, the latter with the aim of reducing
           costs.

The main outputs financed by the Project included a study on the conceptual, logical and
physical design, including the evaluation of the existing databases, implementation of the
platform for the Social Protection Index, the implementation of the SIIS, equipment
purchases (including for municipalities), training for staff at the central, regional and
local levels and implementation of the initial stages of the most recent modifications of
the targeting instrument (Ficha Social). The latter included information campaigns and
training in addition to the initial registration of households using the new instrument.

The chart below provides more information on the development of the SIIS year by year.




                                           26
Area          2004              2005               2006                2007                    2008                    2009
Stage         Nascent           Design,            Consolidate         Inclusion of Social     Development of          Consolidate RIS
                                Development of     Technological       Protection Index and    Registry of Social
                                Platform and       Platform            Improvements in         Information (RIS)
                                                                       Standards
                                Data Exchange

Information   Exchange of       Inputs for the     Installed SIIS      Implement Social        Expand ways of          Consolidate
exchanges     information       construction of    in 336              Protection Index on     consulting online       mechanism of
              with 3            the SIIS           municipalities      line in 345             with database to        public access
              institutions –    platform were      to monitor and      municipalities          see which social
              Civil Registry,   the CS             supervise CS                                transfers people        Agreements with
              INP and FOSIS     agreements with    families            Achieved                were getting.           337 municipalities,
              (Puente)          other                                  interoperability        Users were              17 public agencies
                                institutions for   2 additional        between levels of       municipal               and 9 NGOS.
              Article 6 of      preferential       institutions        government.             employees, staff of
              Law 19.949        access,            exchanged                                   programs and
              Creation of       establishing the   information;        To improve,             private institutions.
              Social            periodicity and    13 in total with    regularize, and                                 Add module for
              Protection        the form of data   20 databases.       protect exchange of     Unify systems of        municipal benefits
              System CS         exchange. 11                           information, prepared   information as
                                institutions       Improved            Regulations on          programs                Apply standards in
                                exchanged data.    technology to       Connectivity and        expanded and the        the Law of
                                                   interchange         Exchange of             range of services       Transparency
                                                   information.        Information among       covered by the
                                                                       Public Institutions     social protection       Implement
                                                   Defined                                     system expanded.        statistical reports
                                                   periodicity of      Monetary subsidies                              linking Program for
                                                   data bases and      On-line                 Warehousing of          Homeless (Calle) at
                                                   data format                                 RIS data                national level.
                                                   structure.          Consolidate module                              Shared platform, no
                                                                       for Program for                                 cost for local actors



                                                                      27
Area        2004               2005                 2006    2007                     2008                  2009
                                                            Homeless (Calle) and
                                                            develop modules for                            Portal for social
                                                            Elderly living alone                           transfers and
                                                            (Vinculos) and CCC.                            services
                                                                                                           applications and
                                                                                                           queries
No. of      Analysis of        Data on 53                   Variables for CS, and    Information
variables   Information for    minimum                      also for Vinculos,       grouped in the
            CS – requires      conditions and               Calle and Social         following manner:
            the registration   consolidation/anal           Protection Index         FPS, Programs of
                               ysis at different
            of information                                                           the Intersectoral
                               levels (national,
            by household       regional,
                                                            Information for CCC      System of Social
            and tools that     provincial,                  includes System of       Protection, Non-
            permit the         municipal) plus              Registration,            monetary social
            monitoring of      basic household              Monitoring and           services, services,
            the changes in     characteristics              Referrals. Also set of   subsidies or
            the minimum                                     measurement              assistance without
            conditions                                      instruments at           a monetary
                                                            different                transfer, and
                                                            development stages       monetary transfers
                                                            and system of alerts.    or other assistance
                                                                                     involving cash

                                                                                     Development of
                                                                                     statistical model
                                                                                     for Social
                                                                                     Protection Index




                                                           28
Registry of Social Information (Registro de Informacion Social). The RIS began to be
developed in 2008. Within the SIIS, the RIS is the supporting instrument which provides
adequate and reliable data on the individuals in the social protection network. It is a
database which functions as a unique beneficiary roster. MIDEPLAN was mandated to
develop this tool in the 2004 law setting up Chile Solidario. A key step in the
progressive achievement of this mandate was the preparation of the regulations necessary
to facilitate the best use of the available information. These were finalized in 2008 and
permitted the RIS to sign agreements with institutions and regulate the processes of
information exchange. The development of these agreements and their extension over
time opened up the possibility of a progressive advance in the consolidation of a center of
data collection on beneficiaries and potential beneficiaries within the social protection
system. The cross checking of databases also helped improve the quality of the registries.
Requirements for the development of the RIS included the further analysis of the needs of
the inter-operability model, going deeper into the normative bases that would make
possible the regulated interchange of information and the technological conditions that
would permit the integration of the different information systems. The warehousing by
the end of 2008 of the RIS data signified that organized and reliable data for the families
or individuals who are or potentially are beneficiaries of social transfers or programs
provided by the state was available. A development promoting use of the RIS was the
passage of the Law of Transparency which obligated ministries to disclose information
on beneficiaries of public programs.

It is worth highlighting that the development of the SIIS and the RIS required substantial
training to ensure understanding and competency to meet the required standards and
norms and also to carryout statistical analysis. Numerous meetings were held with
participating institutions as well. Addressing concerns on security and guaranteeing
privacy were critical. MIDEPLAN defined the formats for collecting the data; the entries,
exits and forms of connection to the SIIS, how queries would be done, the way things
were stored and the security standards for the transfer and queries for social information.
There was one-on-one work with each entity in order to ensure the timely meeting of
these standards. Under the AF the Registry was expanded to cover the Ethical Family
Income.
.
Component 2: Training

There were two subcomponents: (1) Training of Government Officials, and (2) Training
of Family Coaches. The strategy and outputs of both are discussed in turn.

Training of Government Officials

The subcomponent generated several outputs. Aside from an assessment of training
needs, the principal activities financed by the subcomponent were courses tailored to
respond to specific operational needs that arose as the social protection system developed
and expanded and, towards the end of the original project, in the design and delivery of a
set of courses intended to support the consolidation of the system. Technological tools
such as on-line courses were used extensively. The training assessment undertaken



                                            29
during 2005-2006 focused on the demands for training from the regional staff of
MIDEPLAN and their teams coordinating Chile Solidario. The main needs identified
included: the recent evolution of poverty alleviation policies; gaps and challenges on
poverty reduction in 2005; in light of those gaps and challenges, the rationale, vision and
performance of Chile Solidario in the region; the politico-communicational positioning of
Chile Solidario in the region; fundamentals and methods for work within a network;
fundamentals and methods for teamwork; fundamentals and methods for community
work in extremely poor localities; and the management and use of information on Chile
Solidario. The training model was to be based on competencies.

The key operational needs which arose during implementation of the Project included
training related to the installation of the new targeting instrument (Ficha de proteccion
social – FPS). Over 2000 municipal employees (interviewers) received training on the
FPS in 2006. Distance learning courses were developed in several areas including:
management of the Programa Calle; integrated local service delivery for monetary
transfers, information on the definition and organization of the Social Protection System
Chile Solidario, and the legal and integrated management of the programs related to the
dimensions of income and employment. During 2006, the training program to develop
competencies to manage in a network was executed, including an evaluation process.
During 2007-2008, the number of courses offered increased to include in the case of the
homeless, courses on how to address handicaps, age and occupational issues. A special
online course was developed on topics related to employment and this was updated to
reflect the work with employment services. Audiovisual materials were designed on
various themes including: Regional Management of CS; work in networks of CS; Chile
Solidario from the perspective of work with women, the institutional impact of Chile
Solidaro in various programs, and programs with the aged (Vinculos), homeless (Calle),
and early childhood (Chile Crece Contigo). In 2008, courses continued to be expanded,
mainly for virtual learning, especially to support the program for homeless on several
technical issues (mental health, for example).

In 2009 the training strategy was extended to support the consolidation of the social
protection system. The strategy was organized into two lines of work: (1) a set of 16
competency-based courses delivered virtually through a single technological platform
organized in 4 areas of competencies: local management of the social protection system;
the management of programmatic resources for the vulnerable population; management
of tools to support the Social Protection System; and competencies to provide counseling
for CS families, and (2) specialized technical assistance made available to municipalities
to provide specialized assistance with the aim of improving their performance in areas
relevant to social protection. In that connection, two new courses were developed
focusing on management at the local level, one generally on social protection and the
other on the management of local networks in social protection. In the case of the first
line of work, MIDEPLAN invested in improvements in the technological platform with
the objective of putting at the disposal for everyone who had role in the social protection
system, a set of resources that constituted a system of lifelong learning with a view to
improving management processes and practices. Additional outputs financed under the
Project (including the AF) were national meetings related to both CS and CCC.



                                            30
Training of Family Coaches

The interaction of the family coach with the participant households is a critical design
feature of Chile Solidario. In order for them to contribute to the progress of the
households (or other vulnerable groups), they needed to have effective counseling skills
as well as be knowledgeable about the network of social services and programs. This
subcomponent benefited from substantial prior work analyzing the results of the initial
experience with Chile Solidario and an outside assessment of training needs, which led to
a comprehensive and flexible training design grounded in a competency and lifelong
learning approach, called the Community of Learning Puente. The outside assessment
(undertaken after some initial implementation experience) included an analysis of
preferences for delivery mechanisms and was informed by the characteristics of the Chile
Solidario program, interviews with management, municipal teams, family coaches, and
participating families, supplemented by consultations carried out on-line. As described in
the PAD, the strategy had several distinguishing features. It stressed teamwork and
facilitating fluid communication between the different actors implementing CS. It
addressed the needs for initial training, permanent skills upgrading, and feeding back into
improvements in the methodology and organization of these activities. This required a
combination of different mechanisms for training and the formalization (certification) of
their knowledge and experience. The system integrated 4 types of learning activities,
supported by a common easily accessible computerized platform:

      Circles of Analysis of Practices of structured communication and interchange of
       experiences among practitioners at different levels and with different
       responsibilities.
      An “Agency? which facilitated exchanges within CS, including visits to other
       locations, apprenticeships, contacts with outside experts and agencies.
      An “Institute? which focused on providing technical assistance to the family
       coaches through courses, seminars, conferences, and round tables, using both
       residential and virtual spaces.
      A “University? through which the Faculty of Social Sciences of the University of
       Chile opened a post-graduate degree for a social work specialty for the family
       coaches with the objective of improving theoretical and practical knowledge.

In March 2004 the Community of Learning was launched with a pilot phase until July.
The academic and operational definition of each component of the training system and
their annual operational plan were prepared and validated in the process with several
municipal UIFs. The Community of Learning worked during 2004 and 2005 with the
following results:
            303 Circles of Analysis functioning with 1.837 participants representing
               79% of the family coaches.
            1.776 participants in 103 clinics on the minimum conditions
            379 participants in 60 apprenticeships
            1.056 participants in 44 workshops for municipal Family Intervention
               Units (UIFs)
            185 face-to-face courses with 3.743 participants


                                            31
             21 graduate level university courses with 178 participants
             Computerized platform functioning


The chart below summarizes the main activities during the implementation of the original
loan. In the Project Paper for the AF, in addition to the continuation of training for
government staff related to the social protection system and in line with the legislated
transfer of more responsibility for the implementation of Chile Solidario from
MIDEPLAN to municipalities, $250,000 was to be made available to municipalities to
carry out capacity building activities to support activities to support strengthening of
management in areas related to the social protection system. However, the new
Executive Secretariat of CS which entered in 2011 decided on a different strategy of
support to municipalities which focused on the design and development of a portal which
would operate as a “one-stop shop? for social protection interventions accessed at the
municipal level. This was related to the development under the AF of a platform
designed for the management of social programs which aimed to improve the
effectiveness of basic business processes, which was supported under the AF, together
with the associated training. The platform would be used for the Ethical Family Income.




                                          32
2005                           2006                2007                             2008                      2009
Evaluated activities and       Carried out         Continued to strengthen          Redesign of targeting     Review, approval and
systemized learning.           qualitative         capacity of family coaches.      instrument (Social        implementation of re-
                               study on                                             Protection Index) and     designed CS.
Design of Training and         training results. Courses and internships            lessons from
Competency Certification                         organized by the University        implementation            Changes transmitted through
for family coaches. Joint      Incorporated
work by FOSIS Training         training criteria
                                                 of Chile.                          motivated a redesign of   “updating workshops? with
Unit and FLACSO to             in evaluations                                       CS to take into account   the family coaches.
define competencies and        and ratings of      Improvements needed in           different family types.
gaps. Identified               UIFs                methodology of Chile                                       An important new tool
methodology to guarantee                           Solidario identified, for        With exception of         incorporated was the group
service quality. Decided                           example, more                    training on               workshop – a concrete
technical and operational                          differentiation of attention     competencies through      expression of the community
orientations to guarantee                          depending on family type.        technical assistance      dimension of counseling –
delivery.                                                                           provided by FOSIS,        complementing and linking
                                                   Curriculum of courses            training suspended        to the minimum conditions.
Updated courses by                                 developed according to           pending finalization of   Focus on abilities and skills
identifying gaps and
redesigning delivery
                                                   preferences of staff as well     new design.               for social integration during
mechanisms and the                                 as the definition of the                                   the counseling process.
technical assistance                               competencies they needed         New design implied
delivered by FOSIS teams                           for counseling.                                     Training focused on
                                                                                    generation of family
to the municipal UIFs.                                                                                 providing family coaches the
                                                                                    profiles, revision of
                                                   40 semi-presencial versions      minimum conditions tools, capacity, and
1835 participants in 304                           of courses (counseling and       (from 53 to73)     competencies to help their
CAP                                                self-help, mediation,                               counseling when they come
                                                   systematic family analysis,      Working group      upon family structures and
8,848 hours of training                            family conflict and              (SERNAM, SENAMA, compositions with particular
delivered through different
                                                   violence, crisis intervention,   CONADI, FOSIS, y   characteristics of
components of Community
of Learning; 9992 hours
                                                   team management, work in         FONADIS) analyzed  vulnerability.
including activities outside                       and with networks, social        emerging profiles.
of Community of Learning                           interventions supporting



                                                                     33
2005                         2006   2007                       2008                      2009
                                    young children and         Given decision to         Developed 90% of the
Training and supporting             community focus).          include group sessions,   teaching materials to
materials developed on use                                     experts needed to         communicate the new
of CAPS.                            1500 users of the system   develop content on        contents developed for the
                                    had to take at least one   special themes.           program and the updating
2 Studies carried out: How
CAP made family coaches
                                    course.                                              course.
more effective and what
conditions facilitated an                                                                100% of UIFs participated in
effective family coach                                                                   the process of updating,
                                                                                         attending the training as well
31 Clinics delivered on                                                                  as taking the module
minimum conditions                                                                       available in the Platform
                                                                                         “Learning Together?
17 group internships with
245 participants

20 individual internships
with 40 participants




                                                     34
Component 3: System for Analysis, Evaluation and Monitoring of Social Programs
and Policies

Design of an integrated system of monitoring of management, processes and the
partial results of Chile Solidario System

Evaluations of programs that, forming part of the social protection network,
provide benefits and transfers to the users of Chile Solidario.

Specific studies include a process evaluation of CS, analysis of ethnic pertinence of CS,
and advice in the area of disability and gender. Other outputs under this activity
supported the feature of Chile Solidario which provided preferential access of
beneficiaries to existing monetary transfers and social services, particularly those relevant
to the achievement of the minimum conditions. Since the studies were focused on the
objective of preferential access, the findings became inputs into the design and
management of the agreements between the Executive Secretariat of Chile Solidario and
other agencies. These studies of the “supply side? were important not only because they
provided information on the results of the programs for the participants, but also because
it enabled the Executive Secretariat to have a more precise understanding of how services
functioned in practice, what were the specific processes and procedures within the
program, and how the actual operation compared with the formal design. The discussion
below describes first the studies which were carried out and then the related changes in
the way the agreements with other agencies were managed.

The first set of program evaluations was carried out in 2005. These included the
following programs: Pre-school Program, the School Subsidy for Retaining Students,
and the Housing Program Chile Solidario, Wage Subsidy, and the training program for
domestic workers. In addition to the in-depth evaluation of each program, the studies
included common themes related to preferential access including flexibility/adaptability,
social targeting, sustainability, sequencing, and management within a network. In 2006,
a set of evaluations of 6 programs related to the dimensions of work and income were
carried out.

Prior to the beginning of the technical assistance project, MIDEPLAN had started
preparing and signing agreements with various agencies to ensure preferential access to
the services related to the minimum conditions. During 2004-2006, the main activities
were: design of a standard instrument for the periodic reporting by MIDEPLAN regional
offices of the implementation of these agreements, including factors favoring or impeding
each program and tracking of progress on coverage, pertinence and effectiveness; a
national review of these programs; and the incorporation of the conclusions from the
monitoring reports into the agreements. At the end of 2006, as part of the functional re-
design of the Executive Secretariat, the function of monitoring the agreements was
formalized into the Management Unit for Preferential Access whose principal role was
the management and monitoring of the agreements which transferred resources for the




                                             35
implementation of both Chile Crece Contigo and Chile Solidario. The specific functions
of the Unit were:

      Carry out periodic working sessions with the institutions involved (whether
       collaboration or transfer of resources);
      Coordination of the national working groups for each one of the dimensions in the
       Social Protection System;
      Review, supervise, and approve the monitoring reports submitted as part of the
       requirements of the agreements which include transfers; and
      Identify new supply to be included in the Opportunities Map of Chile Solidario
       and Chile Crece Contigo.

As part of the agreements the programs themselves had to send periodic reports and all of
the agreements were in the system of monitoring of programs and social transfers of
agencies with agreements with Chile Solidario.

During 2007-2008, the new system was implemented. Programs with an agreement for
preferential access had a methodology and system of monitoring and evaluation designed
for their actions. Part of the responsibilities of the partner agency set out in the
agreement was sending reports to the Executive Secretariat, explaining what had been
done, who were the beneficiaries covered by the program, and spending levels. Those
responsible for reporting were identified. These reports were reviewed by the
Management Unit for Preferential Access. Each agreement linked with the organization
of committees or technical groups at the national as well as the regional level constituted
by representatives of MIDEPLAN and the institution in order to define coverage, agree
on actions, report on results, identify bottlenecks, etc. These groups were critical in order
to monitor execution, analyze advances and provide feedback. Also critical was the fact
that the work of the Management Unit for Preferential Access related to each of the
agreements was used to inform the budgetary process, specifically the definition of
resources that would be made available and the negation of budget line items with the
Ministry of Finance and in the National Congress. The Unit of Territorial Management
within the Executive Secretariat played an important role. They were responsible for
accompanying the process in the regions. When problems arose technical coordination
groups were activated at either the central or regional level. To sum up, the monitoring
and evaluation of the actions under the agreement was the responsibility of the agency
itself that got the resources and they informed the Executive Secretariat. It is worth
mentioning that most of these programs already had their own monitoring and control
systems which they took advantage of.

Starting in the second half of 2008, the Executive Secretariat incorporated the assignment
and monitoring of investment supporting municipal actions and the fund to support the
detection of gaps into the system. In 2009, the emphasis was on improving the
instruments used to monitor the programs and social transfers which had an agreement
with CS.       The management of all of the agreements was institutionalized within
MIDEPLAN in a management system (Sistema de Gestión de Convenios, SIGEC) in
order to standardize procedures and mechanisms.


                                             36
Another output under this component was a study that evaluated the installation of a pilot
on citizen participation for CS. However, in part because there were delays in carrying
out the study, the pilot was not judged necessary in view of the fact that CS had in the
meantime developed standard mechanisms of consultations with participants and also
was involving NGOs directly in the implementation of work with other vulnerable groups
such as the homeless.

Carry out Impact Evaluation for Chile Solidario

Three rounds of a panel survey were carried out under the project for the impact
evaluation. In addition, the analysis incorporated the use of the rich set of administrative
databases including the MIS of Chile Solidario, the Social Protection Index data, and the
information on participation in the programs of preferential access. Several seminars
were held during the life of the project to discuss and disseminate the results of the
impact evaluations. During the time covered by the AF, although no new surveys were
undertaken, the impact evaluation of CS was updated to take into account more
administrative data in order to assess the long-term impact of the program (see Section
3.3 in the main document). In addition, the AF financed evaluation studies related to
CCC.

Component 4:          Institutional Strengthening of MIDEPLAN and Project
Administration

This component was intended to support a program of institutional modernization and
strengthening for MIDEPLAN in order for it to carry out its designated role to coordinate
the implementation of the social protection system. The main initial output was the
creation in 2004 of several operating units in MIDEPLAN to support the operation of
Chile Solidario. In 2005, MIDEPLAN requested changes in this arrangement to reflect
internal changes in the design of the support for Chile Solidario, which involved a larger
role for the cabinet of the Minister of MIDEPLAN. In 2006, with the new administration,
the definitive design of the strengthened Executive Secretariat was put in place with the
support of the Project. From then on, the Executive Secretariat was the main counterpart
for the Project. The following units were created:

      Management of Access to the System (Social Protection Index)
      Management of Monetary Transfers
      Management/Analysis of Rights (Political-Technical Guidance for Management
       of the Supply of Services)
      Integrated Social Information System (SIIS)
      Management of Territorial Network
      Institutional Strengthening (Studies, Systematizations, Training)
      Internal Administration

Given the consolidation of the Executive Secretariat in MIDEPLAN, the focus turned to
the regions. In 2006 a study “Systemization and Analysis of Regional Management, as


                                            37
applied to Chile Solidario? was carried out.          The study identified gaps in the
management of coordination arrangements at the regional level in the area of social
protection. Using the results of the study as a guide, in 2007 efforts were made to
strengthen the areas of social protection in the MIDEPLAN regional offices. This
included the distribution of responsibilities within the offices, designing and making
available instruments to orient the work of the Regional Technical Committees of Social
Protection, and putting in place technical criteria to support the installation of the
programs of family coaching within the municipalities, and to enable the regions to
supervise the projects and use of resources which were being transferred increasingly to
the municipalities. In 2004, only 7 percent of the resources managed by Chile Solidario
were transferred to municipalities. By 2009, this share had risen to 40 percent.

Another output of this component was a series of studies related to the implementation of
Chile Solidario including the needs and aspirations of CS families who had finished
family counseling and a study of families who did not join or who dropped out of CS.
Other outputs included the design of the public portal for social services and transfers,
workshops related to other vulnerable populations (homeless, children of prisoners),
printing of communication and educational materials, and studies of programmatic needs
in the area of family dynamics. Under the AF, the project financed the design of the
psychosocial support and employment counseling for the Ethical Family Income.

Chile Solidario as a base for a Social Protection System

The Project Development Objective of the Project was to support the efforts of the
Government of Chile to implement Chile Solidario and lay the foundations of a national
system of social protection. Building on the detailed outputs and achievements of the
four components of the Project described in the preceding sections, the purpose of this
section is to relate them more directly to Bank benchmarks for a systems approach.
These are drawn from the World Bank’s recent Social Protection and Labor Strategy
2012-2022: Resilience, Equity and Opportunity.

The core focus of the strategy is to move Social Protection and Labor from isolated
interventions to a coherent, connected portfolio of programs. The argument is that in
order to effectively mitigate risks and foster opportunity, social protection and labor
programs need to be able to work together as a portfolio of complementary initiatives,
under a systems approach. Social Protection and Labor systems are “portfolios? of
coherent programs that can communicate with each other, share common administrative
subsystems, and work together to respond to risks and to deliver resilience, equity, and
opportunity to the population. The expected results are stronger social protection and
labor systems that can enhance the rights of citizens, particularly the poor. These systems
offer efficiency, through better designed tax/financing arrangements, economies of scale,
and common platforms such as registries. They impart effectiveness, through harmonized
incentives and fewer unintended consequences on behaviors.

Beginning with Chile Solidario, the detailed information on budget provides evidence of
the steady increase in spending for a connected portfolio of programs. The box gives



                                            38
examples of programs which received transfers under the Chile Solidairo budget line, a
subset of those which provided preferential access to Chile Solidario.

Budget for Chile Solidario by Year and Dimension (US$ millions)

   Component                2002 2003 2004        2005    2006    2007    2008    2009    2010
   Psycho-social Support    3.2  6.4  7.8         9.0     10.4    11.7    15.2    18.2    21.9
   Monetary transfers       .4   8.3  14.7        23.8    23.8    31.9    29.8    31.9    36.6
   CS Supply-Identity                    .3          .4      .4      .6      .2     .1      .4
   CS Supply-Health                   11.3        13.1     8.9     9.3     9.6     9.5    10.3
   CS Supply-Education                 6.6        13.7    17.8    22.3    30.1    34.5    37.7
   CS Supply-Family                     .5          .7      .4      .5      .5       .5     .5
   Dynamics
   CS Supply – Housing                     2.8    15.6    20.6    18.9    13.8    22.0    22.4
   CS Supply-Work and                     12.3    30.7    37.1    36.2    39.4    36.5    42.3
   Income
   Total                    3.6    14.7   56.2    106.9 119.4 131.4 138.7 153.3 172.1

   Dimension         Programs Involving Resource Transfers providing Preferential
                     Access to CS families
   Education         School Feeding Program
                     School-based Dental Services
                     Middle School Student Scholarships
                     Life Skills Program
                     Child Care Centers (including infant care and extended hours)
                     Program “Know your Child? and “Program of Improvement of early
                     childhood?
   Family            National Program for Support to Family Dynamics
   Dynamics
   Health            Family Health Plan
                     Programs of Technical Assistance for persons with Disabilities

   Work and           Support for Microenterprises
   Income             Program to Support Youth Labor Market Insertion
                      Hiring Subsidy
                      Program of Employment Support for Chile Solidario Beneficiaries
                      Creation of Microenterprises (Urban)
                      Program for Development of Employment Competencies for W omen
                      Program to Support Own-Consumption Production
   Housing            Housing Program Chile Solidario (Title regularization)
                      Housing Program Chile Solidario (Housing Improvements)
   Note: This table only includes the programs which received resource transfers under Chile
   Solidairo. There were other programs that provided preferential access to Chile Solidairo
   participants which did not receive resource transfers.

The last chart benchmarks the current social protection system in Chile against the
criteria set out in the World Bank strategy document at the three levels of engagement
(administrative, program and policy), summarizing the information presented in this
document. Of particular importance are the legal framework for the intersectoral social


                                             39
protection system (described in more detail in the box) and the specific mechanisms and
administrative arrangements which now exist to promote coordination including inter-
institutional agreements, national budgeting procedures, an integrated social information
system (SIIS) and registry of beneficiaries (RIS) through which information is exchanged
among nearly 40 public and private agencies. The long standing proxy means instrument
is used for targeting a wide range of programs. Both instruments and programs have
been adapted over time as conditions have changed and lessons learned. The Chilean
experience also suggests that in order to bring about better coherence among social
programs and policies, specific mechanisms may be helpful. There are some examples
included in the program section of the chart. They include the role of family counseling
(and specifically the role of the family coach) in the case of CS, support from the budget
process and the role of local actors where much of the coordination for vulnerable groups
needs to work in practice.

Chile has in recent years evolved towards a system in which all eligible persons have a
feasible chance of entry (in contrast to the previous rationing). Most social programs
include well-designed monitoring systems. The Budget Division of the Ministry of
Finance ensures that evaluation results are taken into account in spending decisions and
organizes an annual schedule of program evaluations. Program monitoring indicators and
evaluation results are accessible to the public on the website of the Budget Division.
Programs must also comply with requirements of the Law of Transparency, in which the
SIIS has played an important role for a variety of programs. Finally, the existence of
social programs and transfers and the wide coverage of the targeting instrument enabled
the Government to quickly respond to the need of the poor during the previous financial
and food price crises by providing lump sum transfers to specific target groups.




                                           40
Levels of        Systems Model for Social Protection and         Chile
Engagement       Labor
Administrative   Build basic management, information, and        “Nuts and bolts? subsystems:
                 service delivery tools.
                 Focus on developing “nuts and bolts?            (1)Use of RUN as unique identifier
                 subsystems that facilitate core business        (2)RIS (38 agencies)
                 processes of SPL programs:                      (3) Social Protection Index online
                 (1)Beneficiary identification systems           (4) Government system of monitoring
                 and(2) registries                               indicators and evaluations.
                 (3)Targeting schemes                            Results reported to Congress and
                 (4)M&E arrangements                             considered in budget decisions,
                 (5)Contracting and payment arrangements         including closing of programs.
                 for providers                                   (5) Inter-Agency Agreements in
                 AIM: Building basic subsystems to               Management System
                 support one or more programs.                   (6) Budgetary mechanism for resource
                                                                 allocation
                                                                 (7) Integrated Social Information
                                                                 System (SIIS) including RIS and
                                                                 Social Protection Index.
Program          Focus on design and implementation issues       (1)Use of Social Protection Index
                 through a synchronization across programs       across social assistance, labor, housing,
                 or integration of similar programs.             and pension programs. Only
                 Step needed for a systems approach is           instrument to determine level of
                 better synchronization of programs – with       vulnerability of potential beneficiaries.
                 beneficiary databases communicating with        (2) Structured access to set of
                 each other to be able to identify overlaps      programs and benefits, i.e. family
                 and gaps in benefits, and coordinated           counseling in CS and the Program of
                 eligibility parameters across different types   Development Support in CCC, which
                 of programs.                                    function as “one stop shop?
                 AIM: Improving design of existing               (ventanilla única) for participants.
                 programs and harmonizing across                 Mechanism that facilitates
                 portfolios of programs.                         harmonization and coherence among
                                                                 programs.
                                                                 (3) Annual revison (at regional level)
                                                                 of how programs performed for CS
                                                                 participants to decide whether to
                                                                 eliminate, expand, or include new
                                                                 ones. Linked to budget discussion.
                                                                 (4) Municipalities coordinate
                                                                 implementation of different programs
                                                                 and referral systems at local level.
Policy           Policy coherence and general strategy.          Evolving Legal Framework as scope of
                 AIM: Ensuring policy coherence across           System grew to cover extremely poor
                 programs and levels of government.              families, other vulnerable groups and
                                                                 young children
                                                                 Law No. 19.949 F(2004) creates Social
                                                                 Protection System CS
                                                                 Law No. 20.379 (2009) creates
                                                                 Intersectoral Social Protection System
                                                                 and Subsystem for Protection of
                                                                 Infants (CCC) Refers municipal role.
                                                                 Law No. 20.595 (2012) creates
                                                                 Subsystem Security and Opportunities
                                                                 and Family Ethical Income.



                                              41
                 Systemic Approach: Evolving Legal Framework in Chile

The evolution of the legal framework for social protection in Chile shows progress and
maintenance of a systems approach.

Law 19.949 (2004) created the Chile Solidario system. It includes: guaranteed access for
participants to specific existing monetary transfers and refers to preferential access to other
programs: provides legal basis for agreements with municipalities and public and private
agencies; specifies that national coverage of program will be set in accordance with Budget
Law and that targeting will use the Ficha (later the Social Protection Index); mandates creation
of the Registry of Social Information (RIS) which would be made available to municipalities
and public agencies; and requires MIDEPLAN to evaluate the program.

Law 20.379 (2009) created the Intersectoral Social Protection System: a management model
comprised of social actions and services executed and coordinated by distinct public agencies
for the most vulnerable population and requiring the coordinated action of these agencies to
improve their living conditions. Law mandates external evaluation of system and subsystems,
according to the instruments of the Budget Division of the Ministry of Finance. It mandates
that each subsystem has an MIS and includes provisions on management tools, specifically the
Social Protection Index and the RIS.

It is comprised of distinct subsystems: Chile Solidario, and CCC. Requirements for other
subsystems to be incorporated:

       Attend a defined group of families or persons, identified by the Social Protection Index
       Have a core service, in other words a particular program that provides entrance to the
        system (i.e. in the case of Chile Solidario this was Puente)
       Provide services or transfers that have been created by law
       Carry out actions that require coordinated, intersectoral management by distinct public
        agencies, and which is executed normally by the municipality
       Respond to criteria of relevance in their services
       Include procedures of measurement and evaluation, at the least results such as
        coverage, targeting, and quality (including MIS mentioned earlier)
       Include mechanisms of gradual exit
       Include a regional analysis of the social impact of the subsystem and its necessary
        adjustments to local conditions.

President determines entry of new subsystems based on proposal of the Interministerial
Committee and report prepared by MIDEPLAN.

Law 20.530 (2011) establishing the Ministry of Social Development maintained the central role
of the RIS by confirming that the Ministry has the right to “solicit from other ministries,
services or public agencies, the supply of available information needed to carry out its
functions. Agencies are obliged to provide this information in a timely fashion.

Law 20.595 (2012) creates subsystem of Security and Opportunities of the Ethical Family
Income.




                                            42
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

Not applicable.




                                      43
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                          Responsibility/
          Names                         Title                  Unit
                                                                            Specialty
Lending
Supervision/ICR
Daniel Jorge Arguindegui    Procurement Specialist            LCSPT
Jorge C. Barrientos         Consultant                      LCSHS-DPT
Martha Raines Burt          Consultant                      LCSHS-DPT
Pedro Carneiro              Consultant                        DECIE
Emanuela Galasso            Senior Economist                  DECPI
Maria Lucy Giraldo          Senior Procurement Specialist     LCSPT
Ana Maria Grofsmacht        Procurement Specialist            LCSPT
Febe Mackey                 Consultant                        LCSPS
Mariana Margarita Montiel   Senior Counsel                    LEGLE
Demetra Nightingale         Consultant                      LCSHS-DPT
Truman G. Packard           Lead Economist                    EASHS
Marcela Ines Salvador       Social Protection Specialist    LCSHS-DPT
Morag N. Van Praag          Senior Finance Officer          CTRDM - His

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                         Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                        USD Thousands (including
                                       No. of staff weeks
                                                              travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY04                                           15                       105.86
  FY05                                                                      0.00
  FY06                                                                      0.00
  FY07                                                                      0.00
  FY08                                                                      0.00
Total:                                           15                       105.86
Supervision/ICR
  FY04                                            1                        18.18
  FY05                                           19                       131.90
  FY06                                           13                       123.86
  FY07                                           13                        95.80
  FY08                                           19                       125.72
  FY09                                           26                       120.73
 FY10                                            16                        92.76
 FY11                                             0                         0
 FY12                                             6                        53.58
 FY13                                            10                        89.18
Total:                                          123                       851.71




                                            44
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
Not applicable




                                      45
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
Not applicable




                                     46
Annex 7. Borrower's ICR




                          47
48
49
50
51
52
53
54
55
56
57
58
59
60
61
62
63
64
65
66
67
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders
Not applicable




                                      68
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

Proyecto de Asistencia Técnica Banco Mundial – Chile Solidario: Informe sobre Estado
de Avance según Indicadores de Logro: Informe periodo hasta Diciembre 2009

Apuntes del Sistema Integrado de Información Social: Gestión de la Información Social
del Estado

Aportes del Sistema de Protección Social Chile Solidario a la Política Publica de Chile

Trayectoria institucional, arreglos operacionales y alcances del Sistema Chile Solidario
(Informe 2009)

Alleviating extreme poverty in Chile:     the short term effects of Chile Solidario by
Emanuela Galasso

Evaluating the Chile Solidario program: results using the Chile Solidario panel and the
administrative databases by Fernando Hoces de la Guardia, Andres Hojman, Osvaldo
Larranaga

El Impacto de Proveer Apoyo Psico-Social a Familias en Extrema Pobreza y Aumentar
su Accesso a Servicos Sociales: Evaluando Chile Solidario by Pedro Carneiro,
Emanuela Galasso, and Rita Ginja




                                           69
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 IBRD 33386R
       85°W                                 80°W                           75°W                                    70°W                                             65°W                                60°W
                                                                                                 PERUTacna
                                                                                                      To
                                                                                                                                    To
                                                                                                                                  La Paz
                                                                                                                                       To

                                                                                                            Arica
                                                                                                                           XV       Corque




                                                                                                                       Atta
                                                                                                                                                                BO LIVIA




                                                                                                                                     And
                                                                                                                           cama
                                                                                                                                              To




                                                                                                                                       es M
                                                                                                           Iquique                           Uyuni
                                                                                                                                I                                                                                           20°S




                                                                                                                            Desert


                                                                                                                                            ountains
                                                                                                          Tocopilla

                                      CHILE                                                                                       Calama

                                                                                                                                II
                                                                                                 Antofagasta
                                                                                                                                                        To                                         PA R AGUAY
                                                                                                                                                       Salta
                                                                                                                                        To
                                                                                                                                       Tolar
                                                                                                                                      Grande
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            25°S
25°S
                                                                                                                                             To
                                                                                                                                          Fiambalá
                                                                                                       Copiapo                      Nevado Ojos
                                                                                                                      III           del Salado
                           PAC I F I C OC EAN                                                         Vallenar                      (6,880 m)



                                                                                               La Serena
                                  REGIONS OF CHILE                                                                           To

                              I. TARAPAC?
                                                                                                     Ovalle   IV            Rodeo                                                                                           30°S
30°S
                             II. ANTOFAGASTA
                                                                                                                                To
                            III. ATACAMA                                                                      V




                                                                                                                                                                                                                 UR
                                                                                                                           Villa Nueva
                                                                                          Valparaíso
                            IV. COQUIMBO
                                                                                                                    SANTIAGO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                 UG
                             V. VALPARA?SO                                                               RM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                       UA
                          RM. REGIÓN METROPOLITANA                                                      VI Rancagua                                                                                                        Y
                              DE SANTIAGO
                            VI. LIBERTADOR GENERAL                                                Talca    VII           To                  A RGENT INA                                                                    35°S
                                BERNADO O’HIGGINS                                                                      Bardas
35°S                                                                                                                   Blancas
                           VII. MAULE                                             Concepcíon           Chillán
                          VIII. BIO B?O                                                              VIII
                                                                                                                      To
                            IX. LA ARAUCAN?A                                                          Victoria Las Lajas
                             X. LOS LAGOS                                               Temuco        IX
                            XI. AISÉN DEL GENERAL CARLOS
                                                                                    Valvidia
                                IB?ÑEZ DEL CAMPO
                                                                                                  XIV            To
                           XII. MAGALLANES Y DE LA                                     Osorno
                                                                                                             Nahuel Huapí
                                ANT?RTICA CHILENA                                                                                                                                                                           40°S
                                                                                  Puerto Montt
40°S                      XIV. LOS RÌOS*
                                                                                                      tains




                           XV. ARICA-PARINACOTA*                                                 X
                            * Regions approved by cabinet and                        Puerto
                                                                                    Quellión                                                                                            AT LA NT I C
                                                                                                     Moun




                              parliament, will become effective
                              on October, 2007.
                                                                                                                                                                                         O CEA N
 This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                      Puerto Aisén
 The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information                                                  To
                                                                                                                 Paso
 shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank                            Coihaique            Río Mayo
 Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any                                                                                                                                                           45°S
                                                                                                  Andes




 endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                                                           XI

                                                                                        Puerto

                   C HI LE                                                             Yungay
                                                                                                                                                                0            200           400          600 Kilometers



               SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                                                                                                                        0                    200                   400 Miles

               REGION CAPITALS
                                                                                                 XII                  To
                                                                                                                 Río Gallegos
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            50°S
               NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                                                                                                                      Strait of
               RIVERS                                                                                       Manatiales                Magellan

               MAIN ROADS                                                                              Punta                           To                      FALKLAND ISLANDS (ISLAS MALVINAS)
                                                                                                                                  San Sebastián
                                                                                                      Arenas                                                     A DISPUTE CONCERNING SOVEREIGNTY OVER THE
                                                                                                                                                               ISLANDS EXISTS BETWEEN ARGENTINA WHICH CLAIMS
               RAILROADS                                                                                                                                       THIS SOVEREIGNTY AND THE U.K. WHICH ADMINISTERS
                                                                                                                                                                                 THE ISLANDS.

               REGION BOUNDARIES

               INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                                Cape Horn
                                                                    80°W                75°W                      70°W                      65°W                           60°W                  55°W              50°W

                                                                                                                                                                                                                         JUNE 2007
