                                              Document o f
                                           The World Bank

                                    FOR OFFICIAL USEONLY


                                                                               ReportNo: 33.585-ID




                               PROJECTAPPRAISAL DOCUMENT


                                                FORA


PROPOSEDMULTI-DONORTRUST FUNDFOR ACEH AND NORTHSUMATRA GRANT

                              INTHEAMOUNT OFUS$85MILLION

                                                TO THE

                                    REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

                                                FORA

  COMMUNITY-BASED SETTLEMENT REHABILITATIONAND RECONSTRUCTION
     PROJECTFORNANGGROE ACEH DARUSSALAM(NAD)AND NIAS, PHASE 1


                                          September 23,2005




UrbanDevelopment Sector Unit
East Asia andPacific Region



This document has arestricted distributionand maybe usedbyrecipients only inthe performance oftheir
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                              CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                          (Exchange Rate Effective May 25,2005)
                          Currency Unit = Indonesian Rupiah
                             IDR 1,000    = US$0.105
                                  U S $ l = IDR9,470

                                      FISCAL YEAR
                            January 1     - December31

                         ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BI               Bank Indonesia
Bappenas         National DevelopmentPlanningBoard
BPK              BadanPemeriksa Keuangan (Supreme Audit Agency)
BPKP             Badan Pengawas KeuanganPembangunan(Development Finance
                 Controller)
B P N            BadanPertanahan Nasional (National Land Administration Agency)
BRR              BadanRehabilitasi dan Rekonstruksi (Agency for Rehabilitation and
                 Reconstruction for Aceh and Nias)
Bupati           District Head
CBO              Community-BasedOrganization
C D A            Community-Driven Adjudication
C H U            Complaints Handling Unit
CQ               Selection based on Consultants' Qualifications
CSIA             Continuous Social Impact Assessment
CSP              Community Settlement Plan
cso              Civil Society Organization
C S W - N A D    Community-Based Settlement Rehabilitation and Reconstruction Project
                 for Nanggroe Aceh Darussalam Province
Desa             Rural village
DHPF-BRR         Directorate o f Housing and Public Facilities of BRR
DHWS             Directorate o f Housing and Public Facilities
Dinas Permukiman Settlement Department inCityDistrict level
DIPA             Dafter IsianProyek Pusat (Approved Central Government Detailed
                 Project Budget)
DMC              District Management Consultant
DSCC             District Shelter Coordinating Committee
EIA              Environmental Impact Assessment
FMR              Financial Monitoring Report
GAM              Free Aceh Movement
GO1              Government o f Indonesia
I C              Individual Consultants
I C B            InternationalCompetitive Bidding
IDP              Internally Displaced People
ILO              InternationalLabor Organization
I O M            InternationalOrganizationfor Migration
K D P            KecamatanDevelopment Program
Kelurahan        Urban Ward
K E W            Komite RehabilitasiPermukiman (Community Trustee Committee for
                 Reconstruction and Rehabilitation)
K P              Kelompok Permukian (sub-villagehub-kelurahancommunity groups on
                 settlements)
K P K            National Anti-conuption Commission

                                                            FOROFFICIAL USE.ONLY
            K P P N          Kantor Pelayanan Perbendaharaan Negara (Treasury Office)
            K S M            Self-help community groups / kelompok swadaya masyarakat
            LAP1             Land Administration Project
            L C S            Least Cost Selection
            LMPDP            Land Management and Policy Development Project
            MDTFANS          Multi-Donor Trust Fund for Aceh and North Sumatra
            M&E              Monitoring and Evaluation
            M I S            Management Information System
            MOF              Ministry o f Finance
             MOU             Memorandum o f Understanding
             MPW             Ministry o f Public Works
            NAD              Nanggroe Aceh Darussalam Province
            NBF              N o n Bank Financed
            NCB              National Competitive Bidding
            NGO              Non-Govemmental Organization
             N S             National Shopping
             PCAR            Procurement Capacity Assessment Report
             PIMPRO          Pimpinan Proyek (Administrative Unit)
             PJSJ            Project Implementation Unit
             PJOK            Penanggung-Jawab Operasional Kegiatan (Project Manager at Kecamatan
                             Level)
             PMU             Project Management Unit
             P O M           Project Operational Manual
             QBS             Quality-Based Selection
             QCBS            Quality and Cost Based Selection
             R A L A S       Recovery o f Property Rights and Reconstruction o f Land Administration
                             System
             RFP             Request For Proposals
             S A             Special Account
             SESAF           Social and Environment Safeguard Framework
             SFB             Selection under a Fixed Budget
             SOCB            State-Owned Commercial Bank
             SOE             Statement o f Expenditure
             SPZD            Surat Permohonan Pencairan Dana (Payment Request)
             SPM             Surat PerintahMembayar (Payment Order)
             SPN             Surat Perbendaharaan Negara (Nation Treasury Letter)
             SPPD
             sss             Support for Project and ProgramDevelopment
                             Single-Source Selection
             TA              Technical Assistance
             TNI             Indonesian National Army
             TORS            Terms o f Reference
             TPK             TimPelaksana Kegiatan (Village-level project implementation team)
             UN              United Nations
             UNDB            United Nations Development Business
             UNDP            United Nations Development Programme
             UPK             UnitPelaksana Keuangan(Sub-District, Financial Management Unit)
             UPP             Urban Poverty Project
             UN-HABITAT      United Nations Centre for Human Settlements
             WWF             World Wildlife Fund

                                    Vice President:       Jemal-ud-din Kassum, EAPVP
                                 Country Director:        Andrew Steer, EACIF
                                   Sector Director:       Keshav Varma, EASUR
                              Task Team Leaders:          Aniruddha DasguptdGeorge Soraya, EASUR


This document has a restricted distribution and may be usedby recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. I t s contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without World Bank authorization.


                                TABLE OF CONTENTS




Annex A: Provisional List o f Desa and Kelurahan Targeted by the Project ----- 24
Annex B: Detailed Description o fProject Components ............................        28
Annex C: Terms o f Reference for Housing Facilitators ............................      33
Annex D: Collaboration among the Four MDTF-Approved Projects ------------ 36
Annex E: Organigramme o f ImplementationStructure ............................          43
Annex F: Overview o fMonitoring and Evaluation Systems ......................           45
Annex G: Environmental and Social Safeguards Framework .....................            49
Annex H: Anti-Corruption Action plan ________________________________________-------    63
Annex I: Procurement .................................................................. 71
Annex J: Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements-------------- 75
Annex K: ImplementationSchedule and PlannedProgress ........................            83
Annex L: ConstructionMaterials: Supply and Demand
         Conditions inProject h e a s ___________________-____________________--------  84
Annex M: Terms o f References for the Proposed Technical
         Assistance Activities ________________________________________---------------- 88
Annex N: IDA Staff SupervisionArrangements _________-___________________________        94

MAP
IBRD33420


                                          INDONESIA

   COMMUNITY-BASED SETTLEMENT RECONSTRUCTIONAND REHABILITATION
                               PROJECT FORNADAND NIAS

                             PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                  EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC

                                            EASUR

 Date: September23,2005                         Team Leader: Aniruddha Dasguptd
                                                George Soraya
 Country Director: Andrew D. Steer              Sectors: Housing construction (70%);General
 Sector ManagedDirector: Keshav Varma           water, sanitation and flood protection sector (30%)
                                                Themes: Access to urban services andhousing
                                                (P);Natural disaster management (S)
 Project ID: PO96248                            Environmental screening category: Partial
                                                Assessment
 Instrument: EmergencyRecovery (MTDF            Safeguardscreening category: Requires
 Grant)                                         frameworks

 [ ] Loan   [ ] Credit   [XI Grant   [ ] Guarantee  [ ] Other:

 For LoandCredits/Others:
 MDTFANS Grant Amount (US$m.): 85,000,000.00
 Total Bank financing (US$m.): 0.00




 BORROWER                                            1.20                0.00                 1.20
~




 SPECIAL FINANCING (MTDF)                           72.00              13.00               85.00
 Total:                                             73.20              13.00               86.20




 Tel: 62-21-72796155/58       Fax: 62-21-72796155




 Expected effectiveness date: October 15, 2005
 Expected closing date: June 30, 2008

Does the project depart from the CAS incontent or other significant respects?           [ ]Yes [XINO
Does the project require any exceptions from Bank policies?                            [ ]Yes [XINO
Have these been approved by Bank management?                                            [ ]Yes 1. IN0
I s approval for anypolicy exception sought from the Board?                             [ ]Yes [ IN0
Does the project include any critical risks rated"substantial" or "high"?
Re$ PAD Executive summarypage 6, TechnicalReport Part VI                               [ X]Yes [ ] No
Does the project meet the Regional criteria for readiness for implementation?          [XIYes [ ] N o
Project development objective The main objective o f the project i s to support the Government o f
Indonesia's efforts inrestoring the living conditions (housing andbasic infrastructure) o f the
communities affected by the devastating effects o f the earthquake and tsunami that struck Nanggroe
Aceh Darussalam and Nias on December 26,2004 by: (a) contributing to the Government o f
Indonesia's grant program for settlement rehabilitationand reconstruction, targeting an estimated 200
rural and urban villages affected bythe disaster; and (b)providing institutional support to the
Directorate o fHousing and Public Facilities (DHPF) under the Aceh ReconstructionAgency (BRR),
the lead agency insettlement reconstruction for Nanggroe Aceh Darussalam and Nias.
Re$ PAD, Technical Report Part II
Project description
Component A: Shelter Repair and Reconstruction Grants
Component B: Block Grantsfor Priority Infrastructure
Component C: Project Implementation Support
Component D: Program Support, Monitoring and Evaluation
Re$ PAD, Technical Report Part II-B
Which safeguard policies are triggered, ifany?
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)
Forests (OP/BP 4.36)
Re$ PAD, Annex G.
Significant, non-standard conditions, if any, for:
Re$ PAD Executive Summary
Boardpresentation: None
Grant effectiveness:
(a) a draft budget allocation, which satisfies the requirements o f the Project, for the first year o f the
Project, including hnding for local level implementation, has beenprepared by GoI;
(b)the head o fPMU(Project Manager) hasbeenappointed;
(c) the terms o freference for the PMC, including those o f the financial management experts, have
been approved by IDA; and (d) a draft circular letter, which satisfies the requirements o fthe Project,
shall have beenprepared by the Director General o f Treasury o f the Ministryo f Finance for
disbursement o f sub-grants.
Covenants applicable to project implementation:
(a) a Project Operational Manual, acceptable to the IDA, issued by MPW;
(b) Memorandum ofUnderstanding signedamongthe project managers o fKDP, UPP, W A S to
     define responsibilities o f eachproject, coordination arrangements and scope o f collaboration for
     implementing training activities;
(c) An agreement has beenreached between the P M U and a state-owned commercial bank (SOCB),
     selected by the MPW, and acceptable to IDA, to provide services inchanneling grants to
     beneficiaries; and
(d) FinancialManagement experts o fthe project have beenrecruited.

                                            EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

Summary. Across Indonesia, Aceh andNias bore the major brunt ofthe December 26,2004 earthquake
and tsunami disaster. The scale o f the disaster i s unprecedented  - more  than 230,000 people died or
remain missing,hundredso f communities were washed away, many local governments collapsed, and
normal social, and economic life devastated. People's homes were particularly hard hit, with initial
estimates o f over 280,000 houses destroyedor severely damaged, leaving over 700,000 people homeless.
A study conductedbydonor agencies (July 2005) indicates downward estimates: about 181,000 people
deceased or missingand about 100,000 housing unitsrequired. The program, composed o f two projects,
Phase 1and Phase 2, will facilitate the in-situreconstruction and rehabilitationo f up to 50,000 houses by
helping families rebuildtheir own houses and assisting communities to reconstruct their settlements ina
manner more resilient to future disasters. The program forms the core o fthe Government o f Indonesia's
Settlement Rehabilitation and Reconstruction Strategy for the affectedregion, and i s designed to enable
and empower devastated communities to participate and initiate the process o f rebuilding their lives,
homes, and livelihoods. This first project will take advantage o f existingnational community-driven
development (CDD) projects inAceh and Nias to deliver housing support for 25,000 unitsto families
rapidly and equitably. The delivery mechanism i s already being tested in several Acehnese communities
through pilot activities initiatedby existingIDA-financedprojects.

The Relationshipof this Projectwiththe Government'sReconstructionStrategy. The ultimate goal
of the post-tsunami reconstruction effort is to assist the recovery o fliving conditions and livelihoods o f
the affected population. Providing access to safe, well-designed housing, basic services, and tenure
security constitutes a critical step inmaking this recovery a reality. Towards this goal, the Government o f
Indonesia (GOI) formulated the "Comprehensive Human SettlementsRehabilitation and Reconstruction
Strategy", a policy framework for the formulation o f a human settlements rehabilitation and
reconstruction programthat addressesnot only housing, but also tenure and socio-economic issues
through active community participationand partnership with the local governments. This comprehensive
Strategy serves as the backbone of the Multi-Donor Trust Fund(MDTF)-fundedCommunity-based
Settlements Rehabilitationand Reconstruction Project for Nanggroe Aceh Darussalam (NAD)andNias
(CSRRP-NAD).

InMay2005, GO1established theBadanRehabilitasidanRekonstruksi (BRR: AgencyforRehabilitation
and Reconstruction for Aceh and Nias), whose mandate i s to leadthe implementation o f GOI's
reconstruction program. Given the massive challenge o freconstruction and the need for the BRRto
mobilize swiftly, it i s critical that the project should systematically support this agency throughout
implementation.

The project's overriding principle i s to develop a mechanism that allows the populationto plan and decide
on investments, control funds, implement projects, account for funds expended, and maintain works
constructed. The project provides technical assistance both at the community (inthe planning and
construction processes) and the program(GOI) levels.

To effectively support GOI's comprehensive program, the proposed project strategically allies with the
following MDTF-approved projects:

(a)   Kecamatan Development Project (KDP) (US$18 million);
(b)   Urban Poverty Project (UPP) (US$64.6 million); and
(c)   Recovery o f Property Rights and Reconstruction o f Land Administration System (RALAS)
      ($US28.5 million).

Inparticular, the projectbuildsonthe richexperience ofother CDD operations: Kecamatan Development
Projects and Urban PovertyProjects.


                                                      1

Relationshipwith Other Donor Programs. UnderGOI's umbrella framework, donors andbothlocal
and international non-governmental organizations (NGOs), (Asian Development Bank, RedCross, KfW,
MuslimAid, UN-HABITAT, and International Organization for Migration (IOM)), are engagedin
settlement reconstructionactivities. The BRR, through the DHWS-BRR, will provide leadership and
oversight to the Government's reconstruction and rehabilitation program. To assure harmonization o f
various recovery activities conducted inNADand Nias, the project will strengthen the Directorate o f
Housing and Public Facilities (DHWS) under BRR. DHWS-BRR will ensure that the MDTFprojects are
coordinated with other donor and NGO programs to minimize duplicationo f efforts and maximize
equality and transparency among beneficiaries. The DHWS-BRR will be staffed by GO1appointees and
consultants specializingincommunications/outreach, evaluation, complaints handling, and management
information systems (MIS).

The project closely collaborates with UN-HABITAT inthe preparation and implementationo f training
programs for local artisans and community members inhazard-resistant construction practices, selection
of buildingmaterials, and emergency preparedness and mitigation planning. Inaddition, a Memorandum
o fUnderstanding has been signedbetween GOI, UN-HABITAT,and the IDA to initiate pilot operations
infour villages participatinginKDPand 10urbanwards/communities participatinginUPP, beginningin
June 2005. This collaborationwill test the project's approach and allow for necessary adjustments and
refinements for scaling up or down.

MitigationandPreparednessfor FutureNaturalDisasters. As the project focuses onreconstructing
and rehabilitating settlements and small-scale infrastructure, it highlights several disaster management-
relatedmechanisms to enhance community resilience and reduce vulnerability to future disasters
Improved hazard-resistantbuildingstandards, community preparedness planning and mapping, and
heightened awareness o f hazard-prone areas are integrated into the community-level planningprocesses.
The international donor community and GO1elaborated a more comprehensive approach for addressing
longer term disaster management issues at the national level in a report entitled, "Developing a Disaster
Mitigation Strategy," January 2005.

ProgramPurpose. The proposed Settlement Reconstruction and RehabilitationProgramfor NADand
Nias i s estimated to cost U S 6 0 0 million, and all construction i s scheduled for completion by December
2007. Of this amount, the Multi-Donor Trust Fund(MDTFANS) i s expected to contribute US$l50
million, targeting 400 rural villageddesa and urbanwardskelurahan, and will be implementedintwo
phases. As a major contributor to the implementation o f the GOI's master plan on human settlements
reconstruction, this 3-year program i s geared towards operationalizing a model for settlements
rehabilitationand reconstruction for NADand Nias that i s backedby a mechanismto ensure
transparency, accountability, and social inclusion: a mechanism for the populationto plan and decide on
investments, control funds, implement projects, account for funds expended, and maintain works
constructed. Settlement design and construction under the project will incorporate hazard-resistant
techniques and buildingcode standards developed by the GO1(and BRR).

ProgramPhasing. The programwill be implementedintwo phases. The Phase 1Projectwill target
implementationin200 villages, 100rural and 100 urban, and approximately 10,000 reconstructedhouses
and 15,000 repaired houses, through December 31,2006. Upon an evaluation o fthe Project and meeting
specific requirements (triggers), a second phase o f the project will commence inJanuary 1,2006 and
continue through September 2007, targeting an additional 200 villages, 100rural and 100urban, and
approximately 10,000 additionalhouses reconstructed and 15,000 houses repaired.

Phase 1Project. The mainobjective o fthe project is to support GOI's efforts inrestoringthe living
conditions (housing and basic infrastructure) o f the communities affected by the devastating effects o f the
earthquake and tsunami that struck NADand Nias onDecember 26,2004 by:




                                                   2

(a) contributing to GOI's grant program for settlement rehabilitationand reconstruction, targeting an
    estimated 200 rural and urban villages affected by the disaster; and

(b) providing institutional support to the Directorate ofHousing and Public Facilities (DHPF) under the
    Aceh ReconstructionAgency (BRR), the lead agency insettlement reconstruction for NADand Nias.

The proposed project includes the following four components:

ComponentA: Shelter Repair andReconstruction Grants(US$50 million)
This component will finance in-siturehabilitation andreconstruction of about 200 affectedrural villages
(desa) and urban wards (kelurahan) through GOI's grants program for settlements rehabilitationand
reconstruction. Shelter reconstruction and repair grants will be given as two types o f support based on the
GOI's master plan: Rp 10million for partially damagedor Rp 28.8 millionfor fully destroyedhouses'.
The fundingunder this component i s estimated to provide up to approximately 15,000 shelter repair
grants and up to 10,000 shelter reconstruction grants for new houses. These estimated numberso f grants
are indicative and can only be finalized once the verification o f damage i s completed at the community
level. This grant aims to cover housingreconstruction and repair costs based on a structure o f about 36
sq. meters based on GO1estimates. Management o f these grants relies on community-based
organizations established through ongoing CDD projects financed by the IDprIIBRD(Kecamatan
Development Project-KDP inrural villages and Urban Poverty Project -UPP inurban wards). Under the
guidance o f the housing facilitator and the district management consultant (DMC)teams, attention will be
given to ensuring that hazard-resistant design standards and sound construction practices are adopted by
communities duringreconstruction.

In addition to KDPand UPP, which are the main projectpartners, NGOs and intemationalorganizations
which align with the overall operational framework on housingreconstruction envisagedby GO1and
operating under similar principles o f community participationwill be considered for possible inclusion in
the project based on GOI's request and inconsultation with the communities. Inthis case, the project,
communities and these organizations will enter into partnership agreements.

Possible funding for transitional housing and addressing the needs o f intemally displacedpeople (IDP)
willbe considered on a case-by-case basis according to the demand from beneficiaries andbasedon the
implementationplanproposed inthe framework o f community settlement plans (CSP).

ComponentB: BZock Grantsfor Priority Infrastructure (US%20million)
This component finances block grants for urbanwards (kelurahan) or rural villages (desa) for the
rehabilitation o f small-scale priority infrastructure2(mainly secondary and tertiary networks) as well as
other utilities relatedto effectiveness o f the shelter repairs and reconstruction program, according to the
rehabilitation and reconstruction plans formulated by the communities. This component buildsupon and
complements existing infrastructure grant support provided through the KDP and UPP systems for
community-level infrastructure rehabilitation. Block grants under this component match those provided
through UPP and KDP operations usingthe same CSP to fill minimumbasic infrastructure and social
service needs. The initial block grant amount would start from Rp. 500 million per kelurahan or desa.

'Theseunit   prices are subject to fluctuations, and would need to be kept under constant review. The unit prices for
bothhousing and infrastructure reconstruction and rehabilitation would be adjustedperiodically, as appropriate,
based on a review to be undertaken by the Executing Agency inconjunctionwith the Dinas PemukimanProvinces,
'andsubject to endorsement by BRR and approval by IDA.
  There will be a simple negative list o f items that cannot be funded including: (a) expenditures intended for military
or paramilitary purposes; (b) civil works for government administration or religious purposes; (c) activities related to
the manufacturing or use o f environmentally harmfulproducts; (d) activities using, producing, storing or
transporting hazardous materials and wastes; (e) activities related to logging; (0 activities inenvironmentally
protected areas; and (9) activities related to fisheries that are not inaccordance with standards set by the Recipient's
Fishery Service Agency.

                                                         3

However, given the diverse size o f the communities, this i s not a one-time grant, and needs for additional
fundingwill be considered inthe framework o fthe agreed CSP. Communities whose housingneeds are
covered by other donors may also apply for infrastructure block grants, providedthey utilize similar
community-based planningmechanisms, acceptable to GO1and IDA.

Component C: Project Implementation Support (US$11.6 million)
To expedite the settlement reconstructionand rehabilitationprogram at the local and national levels,
implementation support will be critical for mobilizing teams, preparing training programs, and hiring
consultants. This component will finance immediate and medium-term technical assistance (TA)
activities for (a) establishment and implementation o f the shelter support grants and priority infrastructure
block grant schemes and financial management systems acceptable to IDA; (b) overall project
implementation at the national, district, and village levels, including the hiring and training o f 150
housing facilitators; (c) capacity buildingat the community level to manage project activities &e.,
training of communities and local artisan on construction, disaster mitigation planning, and bookkeeping);
and (d) strengthening the capacity o fPMUand PIUs including additional operational costs to purchase
office equipment.

Component D: Program Support, Monitoring andEvaluation (US$3.4 million)
This component will assist DHWS inmonitoring andevaluation ofthe overall shelter programto ensure
that implementation i s efficient and effectively targeted and to promote accountability, and transparency.
Suchprocesses also facilitate good govemance procedures to minimize leakage o f resources.

Key ImpactIndicators'. The project targets are: (a) reconstructed or repaired shelters for approximately
25,000 households affectedby the earthquake-tsunami o f December 26,2004 inNADand Nias;
(b) restoredbasic, small-scale infrastructure in200 affected villages; and (c) a 65% satisfaction level
amongproject beneficiaries and participants as measuredby an independent survey.

Project implementationprogress indelivering inputs,and achievingproject outputs will be measured
systematically by the internal project monitoring system, a comprehensive system o f reporting from the
village level up to the policy malung level, through a Project MIS. Achievement of target project
outcomes and impact will be measuredthrough independent evaluation in sample villages against a
project baseline collected at project start-up, two times, once before a mid-term project review inmid-
2006, and at project completion inDecember, 2007.

ImplementationArrangements. BRRwill be the coordinatingbody for the donors supporting the
Govemment's Program. The Ministryo f Public Works (MPW) will be the executing agency for the
shelter program and will oversee project implementationthrough its provincial office (Dinas
Permukiman), where the Project Management Unit (PMU) will be established. The PMUwill be
supported by a team o fprovincial management consultants (PMC) who will oversee project performance
and manage all district project implementationunits (PIU) and D M C teams duringimplementation.

At the district level, under the guidance o fthe PMUandMPW, four DMCteams willberecruitedto
support project implementation throughout the 15 districts targeted by the project. Each DMC will cover
three to four districts, whose grouping will depend on the proximities and efficiency of organizing target
districts. The PIUineach district will oversee the D M C team working inits district, and act as secretariat
to the district settlement coordinating committee establishedby the local government. The DMC team
will providetechnical advisory support to the PIUduringimplementation.




 The performance indicators (a) and (b) were establishedusing the assumptions referred o f the unit rates at the time
o f appraisal. Due to unpredictability o f the unit prices, these performance indicators would be interpreted and
applied, taking into account any changes as may be agreed fromtime to time inthe unitprices used.

                                                         4

At the village level, 150 housing facilitators will be assigned. These facilitators will work inclose
coordinationwith existing K D P and UPP-basedcommunity facilitators. The housing facilitators will
train community volunteers in the damage assessmentmethodology and sound construction practices,
usingthe buildingcodes developedbyBRR as abasis, and will assist inthe monitoring o fconstruction
quality. The facilitators will work inteams o f three, comprised o f one senior, more experienced
facilitator and two junior facilitators. Eachteam will cover on average four villages. The housing
facilitators will report directly to the D M C and will receive guidance and oversight regardingtechnical
monitoring o f settlement construction.

SpecialArrangements to ExpediteProjectImplementation. Over the first four months, the following
steps will be taken inorder to expedite operations inthe field:


0   Training o fKDP and UPP facilitators to act as interim housing facilitators untilthe 150housing
    facilitators mobilize;
0   Direct support to BRRthrough "Bridging TA", funded through a reallocationo f funds from the
    Second Urban Poverty Project (UPP 2);
0   Recruitment o f the core consultant teams;
0   Launchingpilot operations with UN-HABITATin four KDP-involved desa and 10UPP-involved
    kelurahan inorder to test the approach and make necessary adjustments;
0   Establishment o f intensive field supervision arrangements by the IDA team; and
0   Retroactive financing o fUS$5.0 million for accelerating the project launchprocess.

TransparencyandAccountability. The project includes several layers to ensure full transparency and
accountability in all activities carried out under the project. To this end, an Anti-Corruption Action Plan
was prepared for the project and agreed upon with the GOI.

Gender Equality. To ensure women's participationinthe project, a gender strategy has been developed
which will systematically address gender mainstreaming and equality issues.

Action PlanandEffectivenessConditions. To ensure that project implementationstarts as quickly as
possible, the following actions have been agreed to be taken.

GrantEffectivenessandDisbursementConditions:

    a draft budget allocation, which satisfies the requirements o f the Project, for the first year o f the
    Project, including fundingfor local level implementation, has been prepared by GOI;
    the head o f P M U ( Project Manager) has been appointed;
    the terms o freference for the PMC, including those o f the financial management experts, have been
    approved by IDA; and
    a draft circular letter, which satisfies the requirements o f the Project, shall have been prepared by the
    Director General of Treasury of the Ministry o f Finance for disbursement o f sub-grants.

Shelter Support andInfrastructureBlockGrantDisbursementConditions:

    a Project Operational Manual, acceptable to the IDA, issuedby MPW;
    Memorandumo f Understanding signed among the project managers o f KDP, UPP, W A S to define
    responsibilities o f eachproject, coordination arrangements and scope o f collaboration for
    implementingtraining activities; and
    An agreement has beenreachedbetween the PMUand a state-owned commercial bank (SOCB),
    selected by the MPW, and acceptable to IDA, to provide services inchanneling grants to
    beneficiaries.
    Financial Management experts o f the project have beenrecruited.


                                                    5

Risks andMitigation Measures:

Project Risks. The project's success will hinge uponmitigatingthe following risks: (a) project
management risks; (b) technical risks; (c) social and environmental risks; and (d) security risks. These
riskswill be addressed through a series ofmonitoring and evaluation activities and audits (internal and
external, financial, technical and social) embedded inthe project design.

Security Risks. The security risks are higher inrural areas than ininner-city areas. The Kecamatan
DevelopmentProject has been operating inareas exposed to these risks, and its experience indicates that
the participatory and inclusive nature o f the project i s such that it will promote unity and resolution o f
community conflicts. The core training o f facilitators and socialization include conflict resolution
materials. Ifadjustments to the guidelines are requiredto adapt the specific conflict resolution
mechanisms, and to develop a strategy to deal with the specific conflict, they will be implemented with
the approval o f the PMUand IDA.

Project Management Risks. Project management risks derive from GOI's lack o f experience indealing
with this magnitude o f settlement reconstruction. There i s also arisko f less take-ups o fhousinggrants
by the communities as comparedto NGOsdue to implementation delays. The project allows flexibility to
reallocate funds from housingto infrastructure to scale up the infrastructure service coverage incase
housingneeds are met through other programs. To ensure efficiency inmanaging the widespread and
urgent needs for housing, the project will include the following: (a) creation o f a P M Uunder MPW to
serve as the key entity for project monitoring and oversight; and (b) establishment o f Management o f
Information Systems (MIS) inthe PMU.

Future Hazards and Technical Risks. The main technical risk o f the project consists o f balancing
structural integrity, architectural tradition, and social needs inhousing and community infrastructure
reconstruction. Inorder to mitigate this risk, the project will include: (a) training o f local artisans,
engineers and contractors; (b) oversight and guidance by housing facilitators and DMC teams; and
(c) technical audits by independent engineers. For the community infrastructure implementedthrough
community block grants, disaster mitigation aspects will be integrated inthe preparation o f CSPs.

Social and EnvironmentalRisks. Resettlement and land acquisition may be triggered during the
reconstruction period. Inthis case, a social and environmental safeguard framework (SESAF) was
developed duringappraisal to outline actions to be taken by the government and communities. The
project will finance a continuous social impact assessment (CSIA) by external consultants to monitor
issues faced by communities throughout project implementation. Withinthe project, complaint handling
units(CHUs) willbe establishedat various levels o fimplementationto resolve issues that arise inthe
fieldthat cannot be solvedbythe community. Also, a communication strategy will be finalized inthe
first six months to ensure transparency indecision-making and extend GO1andproject outreach towards
the affectedpopulation.

Inaddition, target communities, empoweredwiththeknowledgeofdifferentdonorprogramsworking in
nearby areas, may opt to work with other donors to reconstruct their homes. T o address this issue, the
project will continuously assess people's housing design preferences and overall project performance. It
i s also based on a strong CDD mechanismto ensure community involvement, ownership and participation
inthe in-situreconstruction andrehabilitationprocess.

The use o ftimber as a construction materialmay trigger significant indirect and cumulativeproject
impacts inthe longer term. These impacts needto be addressed within the broader context o f Aceh
reconstruction, for which a specific environmental study will be carried out duringthe early stages o f
project implementation. The output o f the study will be a strategy for making legally sourced timber




                                                    6

available to project beneficiaries, integrated with related support to beneficiaries inapplying green
construction standards and ensuring adequate environmental monitoring. The project will provide the
necessary resources to ensure that expertise i s available to support implementation o f the timber
availability and environmental impact assessment study andrequired follow up actions.


                                           TECHNICAL REPORT

                                          PARTI-BACKGROUND

December 26,2004 EarthquakeandTsunami. A devastatingearthquake measuring 9.0 on the Richter
scale occurred on the moming o f December 26,2004 off the coast o f the island o f Sumatra, Indonesia,
triggering a massive tsunami that traveled across the Indian Ocean, reaching the coast o f East Afiica.
Indonesia was arguably the worst hit by the two disasters -inthe provinces o f Aceh and North Sumatra,
with initialestimates ofmore than 230,000 people died and 700,000 remain displaced. Inaddition,
existing infrastructure systems were wiped out, and approximately 280,000 homes were either partially
damaged or completely destroyed. A study by the donors (July 2005) indicates downward estimates:
about 181,000 people deceased or missingand about 100,000 housing unitsare needed. According to the
initial damage and needs assessment conductedjointly by the Government o f Indonesia (GOI) and the
donor community inJanuary 2005, the preliminary estimate o f damage and losses sustained equals Rp.
41.4 trillion (US$4.45 billion), o f which US$1.4 billionwas attributed to the housing sector. Inthe
context o f these disasters, the rehabilitationandreconstruction o f affected settlements comprise an
essential component o f the Nanggroe Aceh Darussalam (NAD) and Nias post-tsunami and earthquake
recovery program.

Government's MasterPlan. The massive scale o freconstruction requiredto restore communities and
economic activities i s unprecedented. Inresponse, GO1has formulated a master plan for the
Rehabilitation and Reconstruction o fNADand Nias ("Rencana Induk Rehabilitasi dun Rekonstruksi di
NAD dun Nias "), which guides the coordination and implementationof all recovery programs inAceh.
As one o f this master plan's components, the ComprehensiveHuman SettlementsRehabilitation and
Reconstruction Strategy preparedby GOI, provides an overall approach for repairing and reconstructing
housing and settlements for the affected population. This policy framework serves as a basis for all
housingprograms undertakenby various donors inorder to ensure consistency and transparency. The
master planpresents the following features:


0    Emphasis on the importance o f community participation inreconstruction and rehabilitation
     interventions, including construction and tenure decisions, as an enabling factor o f the strategy; and
0    Promotion o f comprehensive human settlements rehabilitationand reconstruction processes,
     addressing not only housing, but also tenure and socio-economic issues through active community
     participation and partnership with the local govemments.

The master plan also states that the village level i s the smallest basic unit for intervention, and ifa donor
forms a settlement reconstruction project within a village, it should cater to all settlement needs within the
geographic area in order to avoid gaps and inequality among beneficiaries. The proposed project supports
and builds upon this masterplan. However, the design o f the project i s flexible enough to adapt to any
changes made to this master plan, includingthe categories o f damage and the housing grant amounts
basedon the level o f damage.

MitigationandPreparednessfor FutureNaturalDisasters. As indicatedabove, the project focuses on
reconstructing and rehabilitating settlements and small-scale infkastructure following the tsunami-
earthquake disaster. It i s important to note that this project highlightsseveral disaster management-
related mechanisms to enhance communities' resilience and reduce vulnerability to future disaster


                                                   7

impacts. Improved hazard-resistant buildingstandards, community preparedness planning and mapping,
and heightened awareness o f hazard-prone areas are integrated into the community-levelplanning
processes. The international donor community and GO1elaborated a more comprehensive approach for
addressing longer term disaster management issues at the national level ina report entitled, "Developing a
Disaster Mitigation Strategy," January 2005.

ProgramPurpose. The entire GO1settlementreconstructionprogramcoveringall affected areas is
estimated to cost U S 6 0 0 million, and all construction i s scheduled for completionby December 2007.
Ofthis amount, the Multi-Donor Trust Fund(MDTFANS) is expected to contribute US$150million in
two parts, initially US$85 million for phase 1, and upon meeting agreed upon key performance levels, an
additionalUS$67.5 million for phase 2. As a major contributor to the implementationo f GOI's master
plan on human settlements reconstruction, the program i s geared towards operationalizing a model for
settlements rehabilitation and reconstruction for NADand Nias that i s backed by a mechanism to ensure
transparency, accountability, and social inclusion. The model will include a mechanism for the
populationto plan and decide on investments, control funds, implementprojects, account for funds
expended, and maintainworks constructed. While the program's overall target i s to reconstruct 400 rural
villages/desa and urban wardskelurahan (see section I1A for details), this i s beingimplementedintwo
phases, with phase 1covering 200 villages, and phase 2 covering another 200 villages. Settlement design
and construction will incorporate hazard-resistant techniques and buildingcode standards developed by
GO1(and BRR).

LessonsLearned. Recent housingreconstruction projects by IDA indicate that rebuilding homes
following a disaster, helps facilitate the psychological healingprocess. Furthermore, housing i s
intrinsically linked to livelihood restoration, especially when people are given the opportunity to generate
much-needed sources of income and learn new skills through construction training programs. Projects
that have successfully achieved their objectives contained the following elements: (a) simple project
design; (b) maximizationo f existing institutions and mechanisms; (c) emphasis on active community
participation; (d) minimizing macro-conditionality; and (e) rigorous independent auditing and evolving
monitoring-and-evaluationsystems.

Roleof CDD. Buildingon these salient lessons and GOI's masterplan, itwas decidedto apply the
existing community-driven development (CDD)mechanisms established through the Kecamatan
Development Program(KDP) and the Urban Poverty Program (UPP), both financed by IDNIBRD. The
proposed project defines the KDP and UPP as mainpartners inensuringthe comprehensive approach to
the preparation and implementation o f Community Settlement Plans (details o f how these projects will
collaborate are described inAnnex D). However, the partnership i s not limitedto the above two projects,
but is also opento other NGOs and international organizations aligned with the general implementation
framework.

Inaddition, theproject will closely coordinate with the recentlyapprovedReconstruction ofAcehLand
Administration System Project (RALAS) to phase inthe areas o f interventions inorder to ensure that the
community-based land adjudication process for title issuance and housingreconstruction activities will
not conflict with one another or cause delays inimplementation. After participating villages are
organized, community self surveys for damage assessment conducted, and lists o f eligible households for
rehabilitation or reconstruction grants are finalized-- the  survey results, mapping and lists will be
submitted to the local BPN-RALAS project facilitators for verification and adjudication o f land claims.
Those households with clear land tenure reached by community-consensus will be allowed to begin
reconstructiodrehabilitation first, while those without clear land tenure status within the community
(tenants, squatters, IDPs from other villages) wiil follow the results o f B P N W A S field verification o f
land tenure clearance before beginning construction activities.




                                                   8

Relationshipwith Other Donor Programs. Under the Government's umbrellaframework, several
donors and both local and international non-governmental organizations (NGOS)~,are engaged in
settlement reconstruction activities,

To assure harmonization of these various recovery activities conducted inNADand Nias, the project will
provide assistance to strengthen the Directorate o f Housing and Public Facilities (DHPF) under the Badan
Rehabilitasidan Reconstruksi (BRR), the Special Agency for the Reconstruction o f NADand Nias
establishedby a presidentialdecree, and the Ministry of Public Works (MPW). The BRR, through the
DHPF-BRRwill provide leadershipand oversight to the Government's reconstruction andrehabilitation
program. This DHPF-BRRwill ensure the MDTFprojects are coordinated with other donor and NGO
programs to minimize duplication of efforts and maximize equality and transparency among beneficiaries.
The DHPF-BRR will be staffed by GO1appointees and consultants specializing incommunications /
outreach, evaluation, complaints handling, and management information systems (MIS).

The project closely collaborates with UN-HABITATinthe preparation and implementationoftraining
programs. Inaddition, a Memorandumo f Understandinghas been signed by GOI, UN-HABITATand
IDAto cany out pilot operations for four villages participatinginKDPand 10urbanwards/communities
participating inUPP, beginning inJune 2005. These pilots are testing the project's approach to make
refinements for scaling up. To date, 35 village KERAPs (Komite RehabilitasiPermukiman or
Community Trustee Committee for Reconstruction and Rehabilitation) have been organized and
establishedby UPP; inthese areas, community self-survey damage assessmentshave been completed or
are underway. Training modules indisaster-resistant community construction methods, and alternative,
quality buildingmaterials have been completed. Initial training i s underway for the first batch o f UPP
facilitators, and will be followed shortly by the first batch o f K D P facilitators.


                              PART I1 PHASE1PROJECTDESCRIPTION
                                       -

A. Phase1ProjectDevelopmentObjectives

The main objective of the project is to support the efforts o f the Government o f Indonesia (GOI) in
restoringthe living conditions (housing and basic infrastructure) o f the communities affected by the
December 26,2004 tsunami inNADandNias through:

(a) contributions to GOI's grant program for settlement rehabilitation and reconstruction, targeting an
     estimated 200 villages (rural and urban) affected by the disaster; and
(b) provision o finstitutional support to the Directorate o fHousing and Public Facilities(DHPF) under the
     Aceh Reconstruction Agency (BRR-Badan Rekonstruksi dan Rehabilitasi), the lead agency in
     settlement reconstruction for NADand Nias.

The proposedprojectwill employ a community-driven approach for programplanning, management,
implementation, and monitoring inorder to target appropriate beneficiaries, maintain a transparent flow
o f funds, and create community ownership o f the program. To enable the reconstructionprocess to begin
as quickly and efficiently as possible, the project will include technical assistance packages to strengthen
the DHPF under the BRRto oversee and coordinate the implementation ofthe GOI's settlement
reconstruction andrehabilitationprogram. The Phase 1project will be implemented from October 2005
(initially through retroactive financing o f the pilot project) through December 2006.




  Severalorganizations, includingthe AsianDevelopmentBank (ADB), IndonesiaRedCross Society, CARE, Save
the Children, IOM, KfW,UN-HABITAT, UNHCR,UNICEF, andWorld Vision, planto be engagedinhousing
reconstructionwork.

                                                    9

B. Project Components

This project comprises four maincomponents: (a) grants for in-situ shelter reconstruction andrepair;
(b)block grants for priority, small-scale community infrastructure; (c) implementationsupport and
capacity building; and (d) program support, monitoring, and evaluation o f the project. Individual project
components are outlined below. Details are providedinAnnex B.

ComponentA: Shelter Repair and Reconstruction Grants (US$50 million)
Field visits to affected rural and urban communities indicate that settlement reconstruction i s a major
priority for the affected population inthe short to mediumterm. People also expressed they would like
to: (a) control the construction process; (b) rebuild their homes themselves as muchas possible;
(c) remain on their own land; and (d) receive the full amount o f support for which they are eligible.

Two types o f shelter reconstruction and repair grants will be available to support GOI's master plan: Rp
10million for partially damaged' or Rp28.8 million for fully destroyed6houses. As mentioned, these
categories and amounts remain flexible to respondto changes inthe master plan, as designatedby GOI.'
This support grant aims to cover housingreconstruction andrepair costs based on a livingspace of about
36 sq. meters. To address this need, the project will facilitate in-situ settlement reconstruction o f 200
affected rural and urban villages (desa and kelurahan). The fundingunder this component i s estimated to
provide up to approximately 10,000 shelter reconstruction grants for new housingunits and up to 15,000
shelter repair grants. These estimatednumbers o f grants are indicativenumbers and can only be finalized
once the verification o f damage at the community level i s complete.

The process will be managed througha community-based approach, through which beneficiaries are
required to form groups (KP: Kelompok Permukian-sub-village/sub-kelurahancommunity groups on
settlements). Inorder to receive the shelter support grant, the following basic steps will be followed:

(a) Mobilization o f facilitators and organizing o f the community;
(b) Community mappingandtechnical damage assessment;
(c) Establishment o f eligible beneficiarylists and implementationplans;
(d) Approval o fallocationof funds to communities by PIU; and
(e) Disbursement o f grants intranches basedupon construction activities.

Housing facilitators will be recruitedto work with the KDP and UPP facilitators inorder to assist the
communities inthese steps. Based on the community-based mapping and damage assessment exercises, a
master list o f eligible beneficiaries will be established. The KPs will then be assisted by the facilitator
team in opening group bank accounts to receive the shelter grant support (detailed disbursement
arrangements are described separately inAnnex J). With support from the housingfacilitators, KPs will
also prepare implementationplans, which will spell out settlement construction and implementation
phases for eachmember household participatinginthe KP. The master list, account information, and
implementationplans will be used as a means to verify construction phases for grant disbursement.

Grants will be disbursed to the K P group bank accounts inthree tranches o f 40%, 40%, and 20%. KPs
will then give funds to eligible household group members. Tranches will be replenishedaccording to the
KPs' progress inthe implementation o f their agreed implementation plans; release o f subsequent tranches
will occur only after validation and sign-off o f disbursement request forms by the housingfacilitator who
has certified satisfactory completion o f the tasks. This request form will be co-signed by the KPs, with
KDP/UPPfacilitators also co-signing as the witness. Uponreceipt o fthe signed forms by the Field


'Structure is intact.
'For
 Structure i s fully destroyed.
      example, the grant amount may increase or decrease, as may the number o f damage categories.

                                                    10

OperationalManager (Penanggung jawab Operasional Kegiatan-PJOK)8, the disbursement requests will
be submittedto the assigned bank for disbursement. NGOs and intemational organizations which align
with the overall operational framework on housingreconstructionenvisaged by GO1and operating under
similar principles o f community participation will be considered for possible inclusion inthe project
based on GOI's request and inconsultation with the communities. Inthis case, the project, communities
and these organizations will enter into partnership agreements.

Intemally-DisplacedPeople (IDP), namely those who currently live intents, barracks, or with host
families or relatives, may decide to resettle inthe future and claim their shelter support entitlement.
However the scale o f such needs has not been definedto date. To address this potential issue, this
component includes a window o f funds for shelter grants (approximately 10%o f funds allocated under
this component). Giventhe urgency to preparethisproject, this window will be appraised at an
appropriate time duringimplementation once the scale and scope o f existingneeds are clearly defined. In
a similar vein, the need for transitional housingmay be considered for inclusionunder this component
based on requests from communities and the corresponding needs outlined intheir CSPs.

ComponentB:Block Gruntsfor Priority Infrastructure (US%20million)
Inorder for communitiestobehabitableandsustainable, infrastructuremustalsoberestoredandrepaired
inparallelwiththe housingstock. This component financesblockgrants for kelurahanor desafor the
rehabilitation o f small-scale priority infrastructureg(mainly secondary and tertiary networks) according to
the community rehabilitationandreconstruction plans. This component buildsupon and complements
existing infrastructure grant support provided through the existingKDP and UPP systems for community-
level infrastructure rehabilitation. Block grants under this component match with block grants provided
through UPP and K D P operations inthe same framework o f CSPs'O. to full minimumbasic infrastructure
and social service needs.

Inparallelwiththepreparatoryactivities (i-e., technicaldamage assessment, establishmentofthe
beneficiary list and the implementation plans, opening o f KP group bank accounts) required for shelter
grant support, the communities will also work towards preparing a CSP. Housing facilitators will work
closely with KPs and KDP/UPP facilitators to help devise the CSPs. This block grant o f Rp. 500 million
will not be sufficient to respondto all the infrastructure needs o fthe communities; thus,the CSPs will
serve not only as the basis for determining the priorities for the use o fblock grants, but also as a basis for
the communities to source matching funds from other donors / financiers. The KDP/UPP facilitators and
housing facilitators will support the communities incontacting and negotiatingwith potential donors and
financiers.




* PJOK   is a sub district staff member appointed by the District chief authorized to signoff on the
disbursement/payment requests.
  There will be a simple negative list o f items that cannot be funded including: (a) expenditures intended for military
or paramilitary purpose; (b) civil works for government administration or religious purposes; (c) activities related to
the manufacturing or use o f environmentally harmful products; (d) activities using, producing, storing or
transporting hazardous materials and wastes; (e) activities related to logging; (0activities inprotected areas; and
(g) activities relatedto fisheries that are not inaccordance with standards set by the Recipient's Fishery Service
Agency.
loA community settlement plan (CSP) includes information regarding tenure issues, site plans and layout,
households eligible for grant assistance, maps, identification o f land plots, damaged and destroyed houses,
infrastructure, and project implementation arrangements. The CSP will also include revised community spatial
planning including hazardriskmitigation strategies (e.g., securing evacuation paths, requiredset-backs). Each CSP
will be reviewedandverified by facilitators and DMCs, and approved by PIU onbehalfo f local government
authorities (District Shelter Coordinating Committees (PEMDA) and BRR). The CSP i s a generic term, and if a
similar format exists (e.g., K D P applies a "Village Development Plan"), necessary adaptations will be made to suit
the objective; it is not necessary to create a new/different format.

                                                        11

 The initial block grant amount starts from Rp. 500 millionper kelurahanor desa, butgiventhe diverse
 size o fthe communities, this i s not a one-time grant, and additional fundingwill be considered inthe
 framework o f the agreed CSP. Communities whose housingneeds are coveredby other donors may also
 apply for infrastructure block grants, provided they utilize community-based planningmechanisms,
 acceptable to GO1and IDA. Application for supplemental infrastructure funds will follow the same
process as the original application: the facilitator team will sign off on the revisedCSP and submit it to
the D M C for approval and disbursement.

Inadditionto the targeted 200 desaandkelurahan, affected communities located within the 15 districts
covered by the project, whose housingneeds are covered by other donors, may also apply for
infrastructure block grants, provided they utilize community-based planning mechanisms, acceptable to
GO1and IDA.

Component C:Project Implementation Support (US$11.6 million)
To expedite the settlement reconstruction and rehabilitationprogram at the local and provincial levels,
implementation support will be critical for mobilizing teams, preparing training programs, and hiring
consultants. This implementation support component will finance a series o f immediate and medium-
term technical assistance (TA) activities for: (a) establishment and implementationo f the shelter support
grants and priority infrastructure block grant schemes and financial management systems acceptable to
IDA; (b) overall project implementationat the provincial, district, and village levels; and (c) capacity
buildingat the community level to maintain andmanage project activities (settlement and infrastructure
construction, bookkeeping).

Local level implementationwill depend upon the hiringand training o f 150 housing facilitators.
Reporting directly to the district-level management consultant (DMC) team, these housing facilitators
will: (a) help manage oversight o fthe project at the desa andkelurahan levels incoordinationwiththe
KDPand UPPcommunity facilitators; (b) conduct the technical damage assessment and monitor housing
construction phases; (c) coordinate reconstruction progress with land facilitators appointed by the MDTF
LandManagement project; (d) coordinate construction skills (masonry and carpentry) training programs
with other donors andthe community; and (e) ensure that funds are beingdispersedto beneficiaries. The
facilitators will work inteams o f three, including at least one senior experienced facilitator, with two
junior facilitators. Eachteam will cover on average four villages. Before working inaffected
communities, all housingfacilitators will undertake a comprehensive training programthat teaches them
how to deal with issues such as socialization o f community safety planning and hazard no-build zones,
housing designs that incorporate earthquake, wind, and flood resistant measures, and identifying quality
and/or alternative buildingmaterials (i.e., bataco cement bricks). For additional information on the role
and duties o fhousing facilitators, see Annex C.

ComponentD:Program Support,MonitoringandEvaluation (US$3.4 million)
This component covers the technical assistance consultantsto the DHPF o fBRR,providing support to the
Settlement Reconstruction and Rehabilitation Strategy Program for Aceh and Nias, as well as the cost of
the establishment and execution o fpublic communications, complaint handling, and an internal and
external monitoring and evaluation framework to maximize effectiveness, accountability, and
transparency during implementation. This component also include establishment o f a Management
Information System (MIS) under the PMC for the project. Suchprocesses also facilitate good governance
procedures to minimize leakages o fresources.

C. KeyPerformanceIndicatorsofPhase 1and Triggers for Phase2

The MDTFANS Settlement Reconstruction and RehabilitationProgramis designedintwo phases in
response to emerging uncertainties and insufficient data and information surrounding settlement and
shelter damage assessments inNADandNias. It i s felt that phasing will allow the project to test and



                                                   12

verify approaches and methodologies, while more complete data and informationemerge. However, due
to the nature o f the settlement reconstruction and rehabilitation effort inNADand Nias, where many
victims have been living inrefugee tents and temporary barracks for over seven months, BRR has decided
that all reconstructionand rehabilitation activities mustbe completed by September 2007. Therefore, to
implement the program intwo phasesrequires that the phases overlap. Although implementation
progress and achievements inphase 1will determine implementation o f phase 2, to assess indication o f
progress inphase 1, the pilot project implementation in 15 kelurahans inand around Banda Aceh initiated
inApril 2005 with financing from GOI, willbeassessed. The triggerswillbe mainly based on the
benchmark o f processes rather than full fledge outputs and outcomes.

Requirements to proceed from phase 1to phase 2 (triggers) have been designed to measure processes
related to indicatorswhich confirm that the approach and methodology are appropriate.

      Critical Issues :                             Triggers:
1. Effective, efficient integration and             M O U among KDP, UPP, Settlement, RALAS projects
     coordination o f MDTFANS projects              executing agencies signed, issued(for 200 villages)
                                                    KDP, UPP, Settlements, RALAS coordination units
                                                    established and operating Banda Aceh and Jakarta (for
                                                    200 villages)
                                                    Settlement coordination committee established and
                                                    functioning inBanda Aceh (for 35 villages)
2. Up-to-date assessment o f                        Updated settlement, shelter damage assessment in
     reconstructiodrehabilitation needs in          NAD,NiasbyBRR,incorporatingexistinghousing
     Aceh                                           needs and commitments from various donors, and
                                                    identify any existing gaps
3,   Transparency accountability inthe              CBOs (TKPs and KERAPs) established in public,
     implementation o f the project                 transparent manner with leadership accountable to the
                                                    community (in 15 pilot areas)
                                                    Complaintshandling unit established, operational
                                                    MIS system established operational, producing periodic
                                                    progress reports inpilot areas and for the remaining 200
                                                    villages available.
4. Project Progress inphase 1                       Progress achieved in 15 pilot villages inNAD:
                                                    villages completed community mapping
                                                    villages completed CSP
                                                    CBO's established, notarized, functioning
                                                    KPs formed w/ members list and bank acct.
                                                    KPs have received first tranche o f shelter grant


Inorder to proceedto phase 2, all ofthe above requirementsmustbe achieved. The triggers havebeen
designed to minimize possible delays ininitiating Phase 2. GO1will evaluate phase 1progress achieved
infour to six months after project effectiveness, submittinga report to the WorldBankandMDTFAN
Steering Committee. A joint supervision mission will be conducted by the World Bank, donor members
o f the MDTFANS Steering Committee, and GO1representatives to measure and verify progress reported
achieved inphase 1. Based on the Bank's evaluation and recommendation, the MDTFANS Steering
Committee will issue a N o ObjectionLetter to proceedwith phase 2 o f the project.




                                                  13

                                       PART111 PROJECTCOSTS
                                                  -
The breakdown o f costs by component i s presentedbelow. The total project cost i s approximately US$85
million. GO1i s expected to provide US$1.2 million for overhead costs, including government staff
salaries and administration. Communities will contribute labor and mutual assistance.

                                                                      MDTF
                                                      Totalcost     Financing     GO1
                       .PROJECTCOMPONENT                           US$ Million
                         BlockGrant for Housing               50.31         50.01    0.3
                         New Houses                           32.d          32.01
                     I   RehabHouses                 I        18.d          18.01       I




                                                     I                       ..
                       OTAL PROJECTCOST                       86.21            84    1.2



                          PARTI V IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS
                                     -
A. DetailsofResponsibility,Decision-making,andProjectManagement

NationalLevel. To support day-to-day implementationo f GOI's, the DHPFhas recentlybeen
establishedwithin the BRR. This Directorate will communicate with the Ministryo f Public Works
(MPW) to coordinate reconstruction activities among central government stakeholders and donors. The
DHPFwill be located inBanda Aceh, andthe Headofthe DHPF (Program Manager) will be appointed
byBRR. The ProgramManager willberesponsible for the oversight o fsettlement reconstruction
implementation across NADandNias and will report directly to BRR and the MPW.

At the central level, the existingnationalsteering committee for BRRwill serve as the policy-making and
advisory body on land and housingissues for GOI's National Settlements Strategy Program. This
committee will provide inputs to the DHPF-BRR duringimplementation.

ProvincialLevel. The Ministryo fPublic Works (MPW), as the project-executing agency, will establish
a Project Management Unit (PMU) lead by a project manager (PIMPRO) located inAceh under its
provincial office (Dinas Permukiman), and will report regularly to BRR and MPW. This unit will
manage daily implementation o f the proposedproject. The PMUwill be supported by a team o f
provincial management consultants (PMC) who will oversee project performance and manage all district
project implementation units (PN) and district management consultant (DMC).

Under the guidance ofthe PMU, four DMCteams will be recruitedto supportproject implementation
across the 15 districts targeted by the project. The PIU at the districtllocal government level will act as


                                                  14

secretariat to the District Settlement Coordinating Committee established by the local government. As
described below, the D M C teams will provide technical advisory support to the PIU during
implementation.

Local Government Level. The close involvemento f local government authorities inthis project i s
paramount to ensure efficient implementation. District Settlement Coordinating Committees, in each
local district govemment, will be responsible for reviewingthe implementation progress at the local
government level and advising the relevant sectors on the necessary technical measures to resolve issues
that arise inthe field. The members will comprise the local government level equivalent o f the
participating sectors of the MPW, the settlement agency (Dinas Pemukiman), National Land Agency
(BPN), and selectedrepresentatives of civil society organizations relevant to the Government's housing
program. Ifsimilar consultation bodies already exist at the district level throughthe ongoing K D P and
UPP, the projectwill utilize themto avoid duplicationand delay. Issues that cannot beresolved at the
local government level and that require policy and regulatory interventions at a higher level will be
reportedto BRR.

One hundredand fifty housingfacilitators will be assigned at the village level. These facilitators will
work under close guidance of the K D P and UPP-basedcommunity facilitators. As mentioned above
under Component C, these facilitators will train community volunteers inthe damage assessment
methodology and good construction practices. The organizational structure for implementationi s
reflectedinAnnex E.

A Memorandumo fUnderstanding will be signedbetween the project and the project managers o fthe
ongoing KDP, UPP, and RALAS to define responsibilities o f each project, coordination arrangements,
and scope o f training activities (on community-driven adjudication processing, damage assessment and
construction skills), particularly the coordination among different facilitators (KDP facilitators, UPP
facilitators, land facilitators from RALAS and housing facilitators from the project) at the village level.

B. DueDiligenceMeasures

ConstructionQualityControl. Duringimplementation, the housing facilitator teams, under the
oversight o f the DMCcivil engineers and site planning experts, will supervise construction quality and
design, Requests for subsequent tranches will be signed o f fuponinspection o f construction works based
on the designs and implementationplans reviewedand approved prior to the release o f the first tranche.
Inthisregard, basedonthebuildingcodespreparedbyGO1(BRR),earthquake, tidal flooding, andhigh-
windresistanthousingdesigns and construction methods will be prepared, approved, and monitoredby
the PMUand DMCs. Local govemment authorities will also inspect homes to ensure that each structure
i s well built. Upon inspection by local officials, each household will receive a certificate o f occupancy.

Trainingand Capacity Building. The estimated capacity for self-built houses inthe pre-tsunami period
ranges between 17,000 and 28,500 per year throughout Aceh. Now, with more than 100,000 houses
plannedto be reconstructed, the demand for construction workers will be high. Even though most
communities have expressed the desire to self-rebuildrepair their homes in-situ, they will still require
skilled personnel such as construction foremen, masons, carpenters, and to a lesser extent, plumbers and
electricians to procure quality buildingmaterials. K O and UN-HABITATarejointly preparing a training
program for Aceh artisans (masons, carpenters) inhazard-resistant construction methods and altemative
construction materials. Project staff will work closely with these organizations to carry out training
activities inthe project areas; the provisions for training have been includedunder Component C.




                                                  15

                            PARTV PROCUREMENTARRANGEMENTS
                                      -

ProcurementImplementationArrangements. The selection of all consultant services is the
responsibility o f the Directorate General (DG) o f Human Settlements inthe Ministry of Public Works.
The procurement o f works for housing construction and tertiary infrastructure i s the responsibility o f the
K P or a group o f several K P s working together. For procurement activities involving the community,
there will be a "contract" with the community for the delivery o f certain outputs/products based on the
agreed lump sum amount and the technical specification, with a control mechanism. The control
mechanism from within the community for procurement processes (as currently applied under UPP and
KDP) will be included inthe Project Operational Manual.

ProcurementArrangements. Procurement for the proposedproject will be carried out inaccordance
withthe World Bank's "Guidelines: ProcurementunderBRDLoans and IDA Credits" dated May 2004;
"Guidelines: Selection and Employment o f Consultants by IDA Borrowers" dated M a y 2004; and, the
provisions stipulated inthe Multi-Donor Trust Fund(MDTF) and the ChildTrust FundAgreements to
which this project applies. The various items under different expenditure categories are described below.
For each contract financed by MDTF and the Child TF, the different procurement methods or consultant
selection methods, estimated costs, prior review requirements, and timeframe, are all definedinthe
Procurement Plan. The Procurement Planwill be updated annually, or as required, to reflect the actual
project implementationneeds and improvements ininstitutionalcapacity. Details o f procurement
arrangements are outlined inAnnex I.

SpecialProcurementProvisions. Due to the project's emergency status, consultants mustbe selected
quickly. Therefore, the Recipient will expedite and streamline its evaluation process, as detailed inthe
Project Operations Manual.

Procurementof Works. Works procured under thisproject would includerehabilitationand
reconstruction works of 25,000 houses and tertiary infrastructure. Community groups will receive
community grants inthe amount o f Rp 28.8 million per house (USS3,OOO equivalent) to be rebuilt,and
Rp 10millionper house to be renovated. As part of the CSPs, there will be sub-project agreements
between the community groups and GO1through the PJOK. The standard form for sub-project
agreements will be found inthe Project Operational Manual and will include information on: (a) the total
amount o f community grants; and (b) the implementation schedule and the number o fhouses to be
delivered by the particular K P by the end o f the contract period. Works may be conducted through
contributions from communities, which may be inthe form o f labor and materials. Inthis case,
procedures will be in accordance with paragraph 3.17 o f the Procurement Guidelines on "Community
ParticipationinProcurement". For contribution o f labor, communities may choose to include full or
partial labor costs inthe proposals and/or pay salaries for work done on the project.

Selectionof Consultants. The project will require consultant services for the following:

(a) a team o f local "bridging consultants" for project implementation start up;
(b) an Advisory team of individual consultants, to BRR;
(c) a Provincial Management Consultant, to manage District Management Consultants (DMC);
(d) four D M C teams, each coveringthree to four district governments;
(e) monitoring and evaluation consultants, hiredintermittently throughout the project; and
(0 ateam ofsocial scientists to carry out acontinuous social impactassessment(CSIA) during
    implementation.




                                                  16

Assessmentofthe Agency's Capacityto ImplementProcurement. The executing agency for the
project i s the DGHuman Settlements o f the Ministryo f Public Works. This agency will be responsible
for all consultant procurement. The executing agency i s familiar with IDA-financed projects, and
therefore, it has the capacity to carry out procurement following World Bank ProcurementKonsultant
Guidelines. However, the reputation o f the agency, coupled with the systemic environment for corruption
throughout the country, as well as the large-scale, rapid procurement involved inthe Aceh operation, have
putthe procurementrisk at high. Mitigationmeasures are describedinAnnex I.

ProcurementPlan. The Grant Recipient, at appraisal, developed a Procurement Planfor project
implementationthat provides the basis for the procurement methods. This plan was agreed upon between
the Grant Recipient and the Project Team during appraisal, and will be available at BRR, inthe projects
database and on IDA'Sexternal website. The Procurement Plan will be updated annually, or as required,
inagreement with the IDA task teamto reflectthe actual project implementation needs andimprovements
ininstitutionalcapacity.

GO1has requested a team o f "bridging consultants", to assist with the overallpreparation o f the project,
including preparing the design o f the construction works. IDA will fundthese contracts through
reallocated funds from UPP 2, at the request o f GOI. Subject to satisfactory performance, GO1may
extend their services duringimplementation. Based on GOI's request, retroactive financing o fUS$5
million i s also included to accelerate the initial project launchprocess.

Frequency of ProcurementSupervision. Inadditionto IDA'Sprior review supervision, the capacity
assessment o f the ImplementingAgency recommends that supervision be conducted monthly to carry out
post reviews o f procurement actions inthe field.


                             PARTVI FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT AND
                                         -
                                   DISBURSEMENTARRANGEMENTS

FinancialManagementandDisbursementArrangements. Project implementationrelies substantially
on community participation and activities, based on models that have beenwidely applied ina number o f
other projects financed by IDA. The CDD model bringsboth risks and benefits -risks from poor
capacity and implementationpoints that are widespread inthe region, and safeguards arising from
community participation. The financial management assessment has taken these factors into account, and
recognizes existingconstraints o f poor infrastructure and capacity inAceh, including the inadequacy o f
MPW staffinAceh. Although MPW has hadprior experience inmanaging IDA financed projects, it i s
anticipated that lack o f clarity concerning roles and coordination within the implementingagencies and a
low financial management capacity at the local level will impose special challenges. Based on these
factors, financial managementrisks inherent inthe project entity are rated high. Measures to mitigate
these risks have been agreed, including issuinga detailed Project Operational Manual.

InternalControls andRiskAnalysis. The major projectrisks relate to grant implementationat the
community group level, particularly whether beneficiaries use the grant funds for the intended purposes,
as well as management o fbuildingmaterials and financial administration. Inaddition to the anti-
corruption plan, the project includes several mechanisms to mitigate these risks:


0   Channeling the project funds directly to the group [KP] beneficiaries. The group will manage and
    execute the project. Fundflows will be linked to progress achieved on the ground;       .
0   Providing technical support to the national and local management teams. The consultants will assist
    P M U and PJOK on project administration and implementation;
0   Independent reportingby facilitators, who will supervise, monitor and flag developments during
    project implementation; and,



                                                    17

 0    Adapting proven management tools and systems usedsuccessfully under other CDD projects
      financed by the Bank Group.

 Besides the above risks, there are some risks related to delay o f issuance o f relevant documents, and
 hence delays inproject implementation. This risk will be mitigatedby requiring an agreed draft DPA
 budget as a condition for grant effectiveness. For community grant disbursement, the DGTreasury
 Circular letter for funds disbursement mustbe drafted and agreed upon, and the Project Operational
 Manual issuedby MPW must be acceptable to IDA.

 SupervisionPlan. Project financial management will be supervised on a risk-based approachat least
 twice a year. The supervision will review the project's financial management system, includingbut not
 limitedto sub-grant expenditures, accounting, reporting and internal controls. Financial management
 supervision will be conducted by financial management specialists and IDA consultants.




                Category                              Amount                       O hof Expenditures
                                                  (in US $ Million)                  to be Financed
   1, Shelter Support Grants
            (a) inpilot areas                           2.5                                100
            (b) otherwise thanpilot                     47.5                               100


  2. Infrastructure Block Grants                        20.0                               100
  3. Consulting Services, Goods and
  Incremental Operating Costs for
' Implementation support                                11.6                               100

  program supports                                       3.4                               100
  Total Grant                                           85.0



                                   PART VI1 SAFEGUARD POLICIES
                                              -
 Category Explanation. GOI's environmental review procedures are broadly consistent with IDA'Sand
 form the framework for environmental screening and mitigation. The project i s equivalent to IDA
 "Category B", recognizingthat a community-based approach i s being appliedand that most
 environmental impacts are likely to be localized, short term and reversible. For impacts acknowledged to
be indirect, complex and cumulative, additional environmental analysis will be carried out during project
 implementation(see paragraph below for further justification o f this approach). Mitigation o f such
 impacts will involve a coordinated approach with all key parties involved inAceh reconstruction.

 To ensure full compliance with IDA'Senvironmental and social safeguard requirements, and based on the
best-practice models in similar earthquake recovery operations, a Social and Environmental Screening
 and Assessment Framework (SESAF) was preparedbased on the experience o f the K D P and UPP (see
 Annex G).

 SocialAspects. The social impact i s expectedto be positive as the project will assist inmeetingthe
priority and basic needs o f the affected population, housing. Project design buildingon the successhl
 CDDmodels (KDP andUPP) will facilitaterebuilding a senseo fcommunity ownership and social
 cohesion.




                                                  18

As stipulated inGOI's master plan, the project adheres to the generalprinciple ofminimizing involuntary
resettlement. The need for resettlement may arise for (a) residents residing on land unsuitable for
reconstruction; (b) former tenants and squatters; and (c) internally displaced people (IDPs) who do not
wish to return to original areas. Inthe event involuntaryresettlement does occur, a LandAcquisition and
Resettlement Policy Framework has been developed, as part o f the SESAF inaccordance with OP 4.12, to
ensure applicationof the appropriate safeguard policies. The project will maximize the community-based
approach developed through ongoing KDP and UPP. The highlyparticipatorynature o f the project,
including community-based spatial and reconstructionplanning, will ensure that communities are able to
identifywhether any proposed investments will have anegative impact on social safeguards, and if
applicable, assign appropriate mitigation measures.

To ensure women's participationinthe community development process, a gender strategy has been
developed under this project which will systematically address gender mainstreaming and equality issues.
This strategy includes systematic recruitment o flocal female facilitators, targeting 20% o f all facilitators,
20% women consultants, 30% women community cadreholunteers, encouragement o f women to
participate as community trustees, and special arrangements for socialization and focus group discussions
and training activities targeted specifically to women's groups to discuss shelter reconstruction and
rehabilitation, as well as priority community infrastructure needs.

EnvironmentalAspects. The overall environmental impact ofthe proposedproject is expected to be
positive, as it supports the restoration o f housing and access to basic services inareas heavily damaged by
the tsunami and earthquake disaster. Direct negative environmental impacts are associated with siting,
design and construction works, such as disposal o f debris, use o f construction materials, design o f water
and sanitation measures, and worker safety. Indirect and widespread negative environmental impacts
relate mainly to the inappropriate sourcing o f construction materials, such as sand, gravel and
construction timber.

An environmental screeningprocess will be implemented to ensure that negative impacts are, as far as
possible, avoided through appropriate siting and design measures, and that adequate mitigation measures
are put inplace for residual impacts, including the use o f green construction guidance. Standard clauses
will be introducedinto relevant project documentation describing requiredmitigation measures, simple
indicators o f success and a monitoring plan. IDA will review samples o f these documents and will
require any corrective actions necessary.

The use o ftimber as a construction materialmay trigger significant indirect and cumulativeproject
impact inthe long term. These impacts needto be addressed within the broader context o f Aceh
reconstruction for which a specific environmental study will be carried out duringthe early stages o f
project implementation. The output o f the study will be a strategy for making legally sourcedtimber
available to project beneficiaries, integrated with related support to beneficiaries inapplying green
construction standards and ensuring adequate environmental monitoring. The project will provide the
necessary resources to ensure that expertise i s available to support implementation of the timber
availability and environmental impact assessment study andrequired follow up actions. Outline TORS
have been developed following discussions with relevant organizations, including UNagencies and WWF

ComplianceMonitoring. To ensure compliance withthe social and environmental safeguards
framework, several systems have been included inproject design. M I S and extemal audits (technical
audits and safeguard compliance) will be financed under the fourth project component to provide
monitoring support to the PMUthroughout the project's duration. Complaint handling and safeguard
compliance officers will be assigned at the PMUand DHPF-BRRto give advisory support for compliance
with the guidelines. A regularized Continuous Social Impact Assessment (CSIA) by independent
consultants will be carriedout duringimplementationto monitor social issues confrontedby beneficiaries.
Facilitators and other project staff will also be trained in the application o f safeguards procedures and


                                                    19

guidelines, including green construction guidance specifically designed for Aceh reconstruction and based
on recent policy guidance providedby WWF-Indonesia.

DHPF-BRRwill be the focal point for interfacing withconstituents andbeneficiaries about its settlement
rehabilitation and reconstruction program. The DHPF-BRRwill house a small communications team
responsible for informingpeople affected by the settlement program about its objectives, beneficiary
supports, gnevance redressal options, and eligibility criteria for assistance, Communities, local
government, as well as project implementation staff (facilitators, project consultants) can direct their
questions and complaints to the DHPF-BRRauthority. People may submit grievances by mail, telephone
to the DHPF-BRRgrievance hotline, via KDPWPP community facilitators, or via a website maintained
by the DHPF-BRR.

Disclosure. The project is rated as a category "B", which requires the preparation o f an Environmental
Assessment (EA) under OP.4.01. Under normal IDA processing, official receipt and clearance o f the EA
byIDA and its public disclosure both inIDA'SPublic Information Center inJakarta and IDA'SInfoshop
inWashingtonis a prerequisite for appraisal. However, under this emergency operation, the SESAF will
be disclosed inthe local language (Bahasa Indonesia) inIndonesia and on the E-Aceh website.



                                                 PART VI11    -
                                   MONITORINGAND EVALUATION

A comprehensive monitoring and evaluation systemwill be set up for the overall settlement
reconstruction program (see Annex F). This will include both internal and external project monitoring
and impact evaluation activities. Project monitoring will measure implementationprogress with respect
to distribution o f inputs, disbursement o f funds, and achievement o f targeted outputs, including progress
o f community mapping and land adjudication, completion o f CSPs, formation o f shelter groups (KP),
shelter construction achieved, and infrastructure construction achieved month-by-month. Project
evaluation will measure outcomes achieved against a project baseline, as well as overall project impact,
including beneficiaries stated satisfaction with shelter and settlement reconstruction results.

The internalproject monitoring andreporting systemwill include bi-monthly and quarterlyprogress
reports by housing facilitators on each participatingvillage. These reports, documenting the village
organization progress, community mapping, CSP preparation, KP formation, shelter funding and
construction progress, infrastructure planning, funding, and construction progress, will be collected and
reviewed on a sample basis by DMCs. This data will be reviewed and verified by DMC, entered into the
MIS, and submitted to the ProvincialManagement Consultant (PMC). Similarly, the PMC will review
the data andconduct spot verification field checks, beforepreparinga consolidatedprogressreport for
BRR, the PMU,as well as MPW, Bappenas, andIDA. Monthlyreports oncomplaints andresolution
progress will also serve as internalmonitoring o f the project, and will be includedinthe MIS, which will
be available through the project website to all stakeholders and the public at large.

Independent external project monitoring will also be conducted as a control, by invitingthe local media to
report on field implementation, as well as invitinglocal NGOs and universities to monitor andreview
implementationinthe field. Their reports and findingswill be postedon the project web-site.

Internalproject evaluation to measure achievement o ftargeted outcomes will be conducted through bi-
annual progress reports by the D M C and PMC, which will be presentedto PIUs, PMU, BRR,local
government settlement coordinating committees, other projects, donors, and NGOs inpublic seminars to
discuss progress achieved, problems encountered, and ways to proceed. BPKP will conduct annual
project audits, focusing on the P M U and PIU, as well as a 5% sample o f village CBOs and KPs, usinga
CDD audit manual.


                                                  20

Independent external project evaluation will be contractedby BRR to qualified consultants, research
institutions, or NGOsto conduct project impact evaluation. A project baseline o f village profiles will be
collected at project start-up by the housingfacilitators and stored inthe MIS. At two times duringthe
project, before the mid-termproject review in September 2006, and at project completion inDecember
2007, baseline villages will bere-surveyedto measure project outcomes and impact, includingbeneficiary
satisfaction with shelter and settlement reconstruction and rehabilitation.

Inaddition, theproject's CSIAwillbecontractedtoqualifiedparties, to assess specialtopics suchasland
tenure issues, targeting and gender, and complaints and grievances, among others. Similarly, technical
assessment to evaluate reconstruction and rehabilitationquality will be undertaken through technical
audits o f housing and infrastructure constructionby professional inspectors and independent construction
surveyors, contracted by BRR.


                           PART I X - ANTI-CORRUPTION ACTIONPLAN

The project includes several layers within the four components to ensure full transparency and
accountability. An Anti-Corruption Action Planwas prepared and agreed with GO1specifically for the
project (see Annex H). The BRR will significantlyreduce the risk o f corruption through: mechanisms
incorporated inproject design, strengthening internal controls; and enhancing the release of information
about all aspects o f project implementation. Internal controls will be strengthened by adopting general
safeguards for procurement and financial   management. The key measures include: (a) enhanced
disclosure provisions; (b) civil society oversight; (c) mitigation o f collusion, fiaud, and forgery; (d) a
complaints handling mechanism; and (e) sanctions and remedies. The project will be audited annually by
BPKP,usingguidelines for CDD projects, and at an increasedsample size o f 5% ofproject activities.




                                                 21

                                        PROJECTRESULTSSUMMARY

                    PDO                        Key Outcome          Frequency      Source     Responsibility
                                                 Indicators
To facilitate in-situ reconstruction and  -Target number of           quarterly   MIS          DMC,PMC
repair of settlements and related         houses (approximately
infrastructure in 100 urban and 100       25,000 households)
rural villages in tsunami-affected areas       repaired or rebuilt
of NAD and Nias, by assisting target      -are
                                            target villages have
households reconstruct up to approx.      restored basic, small-
10,000houses and repair approx.           scale infrastructure in     quarterly   MIS          DMC,PMC
15,000houses                              affected areas
                                         -Evidence of
                                          beneficiary satisfaction
                                         through survey               annually    Independent  CSlA
                                                                                  survey       consultant
   ComponentslSub-Components                    Key Output          Frequency    Instrument   Responsibility
      (Intermediate indicators)             Indicators for Each
                                                Component
                                          Component One:
                                          - # of community            monthly     MIS          DMC,PMC

                                          surveys and group
                                          implementation plans
                                          -completed
                                            #of housing groups        monthly     MIS          DMC,PMC
                                          -(KPs)housing
                                                 formed
                                            # of           designs    quarterly   Reports      BRR,PMU
                                          reviewed and structure
                                          safety tested
                                          - # of grants disbursed     monthly     MIS           DMC,PMC
                                          for housing recon-
                                         -rehabilitation
                                            # of houses
                                          reconstructed I             monthly     MIS           DMC,PMC

                                          rehabilitated based on
                                         the technically sound,
                                          hazard-resistant
                                         design (passing
                                          inspections)                quarterly   MIS           DMC,PMC

                                         -# of households living
                                          in community-built
                                         permanent shelter            annually    MIS           DMC,PMC
                                         - Average     cycle from
                                          grant application to
                                          completion of housing
                                          construction works per
                                         -villageIDPs living in       annually    MIS           DMC,PMC
                                            % of
                                          permanent shelter
                                         -# of CSPs prepared          Monthly     MIS           DMC,PMC
Block grants for community               - # of infrastructure        Monthly     MIS           DMC,PMC
infrastructure                           proposals approved
                                         - # of infrastructure        Monthly     MIS           DMC,PMC
                                         grants disbursed
                                         - # of beneficiaries                     Report        BRR
                                          covered under tertiary      Annually

                                          and secondary
                                          infrastructure
                                         -constructeddisaster
                                            Increased
                                          preparedness in             annually    independent   BRR

                                          community land use                      survey

Component C.                              - level of beneficiaries'   Annually    independent   CSlA
                                         awareness of                             survey        consultant

                                                       22

                                 entitlements and
                                 -project processes
                                    number of community    a Monthly  I MIS          DMC.PMC
                                  campaign sessions
                                 -organized                           I

                                    # of housing             Monthly    MIS         aDMC,PMC
                                 facilitators mobilized,
                                 trained and working on
                                 the ground
                                 - # of training programs    monthly    MIS          DMC,PMC
                                  carried out for
                                  communities on

Component D.                      -constructionactivities
                                    # of complaints         aMonthly    MIS          DMC,PMC
Program Support, Monitoring and
Evaluation                        -resolved
                                    Average duration for     Quarterly  MIS          DMC,PMC
                                  resolving a complaint
                                  -case
                                    Rate of beneficiary     aAnnually   independent  CSlA
                                  satisfaction as                       survey       consultant,
                                  monitored in CSlA and                              BRR
                                  -survey                    quarterly  MIS           DMC.PMC
                                    Incidence of
                                  corruption cases per
                                  district




                                               23

                 ANNEXA: PROVISIONAL LISTOFDESA                 AND KELURAHANTARGETED         BY
                                                    THE PROJECT

The lists inthis Annex are indicative. The project aims at covering 200 areas (100 from rural and 100
from urban) inthe Phase 1project, and another 200 inthe Phase 2 project from these lists. Inorder to
avoid duplication o f coverage among donors, GO1formulated a policy o f "one village, one donor",
meaning a donor should cover the entire village, not partially. However, at the time this Appraisal Report
was prepared, demarcation o f coverage among donors i s not yet finalized and subject to frequent changes.
Areas covered by this project will be served on first come, first served basis, depending on the readiness
o f the communities intaking all the requiredpreparatory steps as described inAnnex D. Other elements
may also affect the coverage including: (i)      opening o f group bank accounts and timely transfer o f funds;
and, (ii) to and availability o f appropriate construction materials. Basedon the project progress,
          access
the list o f areas for the project i s subject to scaling up or down.



 Urban Target Locations
                -
                -
                N O              City /District               KO              Sub district           villages
                  1 Kota BandaAceh                                                                          89




                    I




                                                       24

              8 IKab. Aceh Tenggara                                                21
I                                             I 1 1 Babus-Salam
                                                 I    1                            27
                I



              9  Kab. Aceh Tengah                                                  25
                                                1 1 KotaTakengon                   25

              10 Kab. Gay0 Lues                                                    22
                                                1 1 Blang Kejeran                  22


                                       TOTAL                                23    402


 Rural Target Locations



      District          sub District    Villages       Villages affected Target
                                                          by disaster


 Simeulue            Teupah Selatan        16                 12               12
                     Simeulue Timur        29                 23              23
                     Simeulue Tengah I     24                 19               19
                     Salang                 17                17               17
                     Simeulue Barat         14                11               11
                                                                               82
                                                                                         ~




 Aceh Besar




 Pidie               Jangka Buya            18                 9
                     Trienggadeng          27                  5               5




 Bireuen




                                        25

                Pandrah               18      4     4
                Jangka                44      27    27
                Peudada               40      11
                Gandapura             77      6      6
                                                    105

Aceh Utara      Seunudon              33      7      7
                Tanah Pasir           29      8      6
                Muara Batu            24      13    13
                Syamtalira Bayu       49      3      3
                Samudera              40      15     8
                Dewantara             15      4      2
                Baktiya Barat         27      6      3
                                                    42
Aceh Selatan    Labuhan Haji          16      1      1
                Trumon                30      8      8
                Kluet Selatan         24      5      5
                Pasir Raja            20      6      6
                Tapak Tuan            15      5      5
                Sama Dua              27      11    11
                Sawang                15      4      4

                Bakongan              22      5      5


Aceh Timur      Julok                 35      4      4
                Darul Aman            45      3      3
                Peudawa               17      1      1
                IdiRayek              63      6      6
                Simpang Ulim          23      1      1



Aceh Singkil    Singkil               16      7      3
                Pulo Banyak           7       7      7
                Kuala Baru            4       4      1



Aceh BaratDaya  Susoh                 28      4      4
                Manggeng              29      6      6
                                      21      9      9
                Babahrot              7        1     1




Aceh Barat     Arongan Lambale        17      4      4
               Kaway XVI              60      31     31
               Pantai Ceuremen   I    25      2      2
I
Nias Induk     Gunung Sitoli          28      28     28

                                    26   '

Nias Selatan   Teluk Dalam      32     26             26



                                       Sub Total :    486
                                      Grand Total:    888




                              27

                       ANNEXB: DETAILEDDESCRIPTION PROJECT COMPONENTS
                                                                   OF

1. Shelter repair and reconstruction grants (US$50.0 million)
Fieldvisits to affectedrural and urban communities indicatedthat housingreconstruction is a major
priority for the affectedpopulation inthe short to mediumterm. People also expressed they would like to
(i) controlovertheconstructionprocess;(ii) theirhomesthemselvesasmuchaspossible;
   have                                                  rebuild
(iii) ontheirownland;and(iv)receivethefullamountofsupportforwhichtheyareeligible.
     remain

Shelter reconstruction and repair grants will be given as two types o f support based on the GOI's Master
Plan: Rp 10 million for partially damaged" or Rp 28.8 million for fully destroyed12houses. These
categories and amounts remain flexible to respond to changes inthe Master Plan, as designated by GOI.
This shelter support grant aims to cover reconstructionandrepair costs based on a structure of about 36
sq. meters based on the estimates prepared by GOI. To address this need, the project will facilitate in-situ
settlement reconstruction of 200 affected desa and kelurahan. The fundingi s estimated to provide up to
approximately 10,000 shelter reconstruction grants for new housingunits and up to 15,000 shelter repair
grants. These estimated numberso f grants are indicative numbers and can only be finalized once the
verification o f damage i s complete at the community level.

Inorder to receive the support, the housingfacilitators, along withKDP/UPP facilitators, will assistthe
communities to conduct a technical damage assessment of individual homes to verify whether the
structure i s partially or fully damaged.

All householdswho meet the eligibility criteriaI3will receive a support grant. A household qualifies for
assistance under the project if it:

     provides either documented evidence (such as tax records, land title or utilitybills) or community-
     based evidence (such as self-survey) o f having lived inthe affected area prior to December 26,2004,
     irrespective o f previous tenure status - Le., renter, owner, squatter;
     lives within a geographic area covered by this MDTFproject and has not already receivedassistance
     from other donors for constructing or repairing houses to eliminate duplication o f coverage;
    joins with other households o f its choice to form a K P that opens a group bank account;
     confirms through the technical damage assessment survey that its home was damaged or destroyedby
     the tsunami-earthquake disaster; and,
     proves, through community-based mechanisms or documentation, that it has access to landI4.

The list o f eligible beneficiaries will be compiled by the facilitators with the help o f the KERAP" under
UPP or the TPKI6under KDP. The initial list will be posted in strategic public places for 10 days.
Duringthis time, a village meetingwill be heldto discuss the list so people may air complaints or
disputes, ask that another home be assessed, or request to be added to the list ifinadvertentlyleft off. If



`IStructure is intact.
l2Structure is fully destroyed.
l3Eligibility criteria are outlined ingreater detail inthe project Operational Manual based on criteria developedby
GOI. Informationabout eligibility criteria and entitlement rights will be disseminated to the affectedpopulation by
the DHWS-BRRexternalaffairs team.
l4Those households with clear indication o f land ownership through community consensus will receive grants first,
while households who are renters, squatters, those who want to move, or households requiredto move due their
proximity to a hazard-prone area, will wait untilcommunity land consolidation proposals are validated and accepted
by BPNthrough the RALASproject. However, these households are still entitledto receive funds, subject to the
availability o f land.
l5Community Trustee Committee for Reconstruction and Rehabilitation
l6Village-level project implementation team

                                                       28

any issues arise within the 10-day timeframe, an additional 10 days will be granted so that matters may be
resolvedamong community members under the guidance o f the facilitator team. After the 20-day period
has passed and the list has been verifiedjointly by the facilitator team and community, eligible
beneficiaries will form sub-village KPs, open bank accounts, and formulate their implementationplans,
These plans lay out these individual groups' settlement reconstruction plans and will be used as a means
to verify construction phases for grant disbursement. Inthis regard, each KP must open its own bank
account to receive funds as elaboratedinAnnex 5.''

After participating villages finalize lists of eligible households for rehabilitationor reconstruction grants,
these lists will be submitted to the local BPN-RALAS project facilitators for verification and adjudication
o f land claims. Those households with clear landtenure reachedby community consensus will be
allowed to begin reconstructiodrehabilitationfirst, while those without clear land tenure status within the
community (tenants, squatters, IDPs from other villages) will follow the results o f B P N - W A S field
verification o f land tenure clearance to beginconstruction activities.

Grants will be disbursed to community accounts inthree tranches o f 40%, 40%, and 20%. KPs will give
funds to eligible householdgroup members. Tranches willbe replenishedaccording to the KP groups'
progress inthe implementation of its agreed implementation plan; the release o f a subsequent tranche will
occur only after validation and sign-off by the KPs, the housing facilitator who has certified satisfactory
completion o f the tasks, and KDP/UPP facilitators as a witness. The signed documents will be sent to the
PJOK for disbursement authorization and usedas a basis for measuring construction progress for future
tranche disbursements. Any grants givento renters or squatters must be based on availability o f land to
facilitate housing construction and minimize major delays (refer to footnote 15). Duringimplementation,
housing facilitators will also work with community members and KDPNPP facilitators to help prepare
sound spatial plans and housingdesigns based on the buildingcodes developed by BRR.

Monitoring and evaluation o f this component will be carried out duringimplementation, via a continuous
social impact assessment, technical audits (construction quality, structure, materials) by independent
architects and/or engineers. Other methods o f monitoring and evaluation o f all components are outlined
inAnnex F.

Internally-DisplacedPeople (IDP), namely those who currently live intents, barracks, or with host
families or relatives, may decide to resettle inthe future and claimtheir shelter support entitlement.
However, the scale o f such needs has not been definedto date. To address this potential issue, this
component includes a window o f funds for shelter grants (approximately 10% o f funds allocated under
this component). Giventhe urgency to preparethis project, this window will be appraised at an
appropriate time duringimplementationonce the scale and scope o f existing needs are clearly defined. In
a similar vein, the need for transitional housingmay be considered for inclusion under this component
based on requests from communities and the corresponding needs outlined intheir CSPs.

While KDP and UPPremain the project's main partners, NGOs and international organizations which
align with the overall operational framework on housingreconstructionenvisaged by GO1and operating
under similar principles of community participationwill be considered for possible inclusion inthe
project based on GOI's request and in consultation with the communities. Inthis case, the project,
communities and these organizations will enter into partnership agreements.




"DetailsareexplainedintheProjectOperationalManual(POM)



                                                    29

2. Block Grantsfor Priority Infrastructure (US$20.0 million)
Inorder for communitiesto betrulylivable and sustainable, infrastructuremustalso berestoredand
repaired inparallel with the housing stock. This component finances block grants o f Rp. 500 million per
kelurahanor desa for on-site priority infrastructure18 (mainly secondary tertiary connections).

Inparallelwiththetechnicaldamageassessmentandestablishment ofthebeneficiarylist for shelter
support grants, the communities, together with the facilitators, will design a community settlement plan
(CSP) based on self-survey and mapping o f the affected population, assessment o f damaged/destroyed
housing and infrastructure, demarcation o f landboundaries, and other priority community needs. The
CSP will also include revised community spatial planning and will incorporate hazard risk mitigation
strategies, such as paths to higher ground, inthe event o f a disaster. Each CSP will be reviewed and
verified by facilitators and DMCs, and approved by the PIU on behalf o f local government authorities
(District Shelter CoordinationCommittees (PEMDA) and BRR). The CSP i s a generic term, and if a
similar format exits inthe areas where UPP and KDP are involved, necessary adjustments will be made to
the existing formats (Le., KERAP'sreconstruction and rehabilitationplans inUPP-involved areas or
TPK's village development plan inKDP-involved areas.).

According to the village-level community settlement plan (CSP) that includes individual proposals from
KPs, the community will weigh options presentedinthe CSP at the village level to decide how funds
should be distributed among its members. This component buildsupon and complements existing
infrastructure grant support providedthroughthe K D P and UPP systems for community-level
infrastructure rehabilitation.

The initial block grant amount starts from Rp. 500 million per kelurahan or desa, but given the diverse
size o f the communities, this i s not a one-time grant, and needs for additional fundingwill be considered
inthe framework ofthe agreed Community Settlement Plan. Communitieswhose housingneeds are
covered by other donors may also apply for infrastructure block grants, providedthey utilize similar
community-based planningmechanisms, acceptable to GO1and IDA. Application for supplemental
infrastructure funds will follow the same process as the original application: the facilitator team will sign
off on the revised CSP and submit it to the D M C for approval and disbursement.

Inadditionto the targeted200 desa andkelurahan, affectedcommunities locatedwithin the 15 districts
covered by the project whose housingneeds are covered by other donors may also apply for infrastructure
block grants, provided they utilize similar community-based planning mechanisms, agree to IDA
implementationterms, and follow the same design standards applicable to other beneficiaries.

3. Project Implementation Support (US$11.6 million)
Pre-tsunami estimates o f housingconstruction and repair inAceh were estimated at between 17,000 and
28,500 per year. Now, 125,000 houses are plannedto be reconstructed, with another 150,000 damaged
houses to be repaired, totaling 275,000 houses over the next two to three years. The unprecedented size
and nature o f the recovery process being undertaken inNADand Nias require a great deal o f oversight to
ensure efficient implementation. This implementation support component will finance a series o f
immediate and medium-term technical assistance (TA) activities for (i)            establishment and implementation
of the shelter support grants and priority infrastructure block grant schemes and financial management
systems acceptable to IDA; (ii)       overall project implementation at the central and district levels; and
(iii)capacity buildingo f communities at the village level to manage project activities.

  There will be a simple negative list o f items that cannot be funded including: (i) expenditures intended for military
or paramilitary purpose; (ii)  civil works for government administration or religious purposes; (iii)activities related
to the manufacturing or use o f environmentally harmfulproducts; (iv) activities using, producing, storing or
transporting hazardous materials and wastes; (v) activities related to logging; (vi) activities inprotected areas; and
(vii) activities relatedto fisheries that are not inaccordance with standards set by the Recipient's Fishery Service
Agency.


                                                        30

Capacity enhancement at the village level i s essential to successful implementation and ownership o f the
project, since this project will be the largest settlement reconstructionprogram inwhich many community
groups have participatedand/or managed to date. People who choose to rebuildand repair homes
themselves will be provided with training on carpentry and masonry skills. However, the demand for
construction workers will be high, since communities self-rebuilding and repairing their houses will
require skilledpersonnel to procure quality buildingmaterials, as construction foremen, masons,
carpenters, and to a lesser extent, plumbers and electricians. Information and oversight on sound housing
and infrastructure design and construction will also be providedat the village level by the District
Management Consultant (DMC) team.

Alongside community representatives, under this component 150 housingfacilitators will be hired to be
responsible for organizinghands-on training programs for families on technical aspects o fhousing design
and construction, with an emphasis on incorporatinghazard-resistant design standards. The housing
facilitators will also help manage oversight o f the project at the rural village/desa and urban ward /
kelurahanlevels incoordination with the KDP and UPP community facilitators, monitor housing
construction phases, coordinate reconstruction progress with land facilitators provided by the MDTFland
administration project (RALAS) for community mapping and community-driven land adjudication
processes, and ensure that funds are dispersed to beneficiaries; he or she will also express to the
community the logic behind the damage assessments and will help beneficiaries design and budget for
costs o f construction to fit within the allocated grant amount. The facilitators will work inteams o f three,
including at least one senior experienced facilitator, with two junior facilitators. Each team will cover
four villages on average.

Duringimplementation, these housingfacilitator teams, under the oversight o fthe DMC-basedcivil
engineers and site planningexperts, will provide intensive supervision o f construction quality and design.
Inthisregard, the teams will adhere to the earthquake, flooding, andhigh-windresistant housingdesigns
and construction methods preparedby BRR. The designs and standards will also be approved and
monitoredby the PMC and DMCs, on behalf o fthe government (local government housing coordination
committees and BRR,PMU, and PIUs).

Recruitmentand training of housing facilitators i s expectedto take a few months after effectiveness. As
an interim measure, a series of training activities on housingdamage assessment, community mapping,
and fundamentals o f hazard-resistant housingconstruction and designwill be organized for the existing
KDP andUPP facilitators incollaborationwithUN-HABITAT and L O .

Technical assistance activities are outlined below inthe order inwhich they will occur. The first TA
package ("Bridging TA") as requestedby GO1will be financed through reallocated funds under the on-
going Urban Poverty Project I1to facilitate the speedy recruitment o f qualified consultants and ensure the
minimumcore expertise is inplace to initiate the project. The ToRs ofthis TA package appear inAnnex
M. BasedonGOI's request, retroactive financingofUS$Smillionis also includedto accelerate the initial
project launchprocess.

    Bridging TApackagefor immediate assistance (within thePrst three months)
     0   hiringo fa core team o f consultants to assist inexpediting the planningand operationalization o f
         the Directorate o f Housing and Public Facilities under BRR as the overall coordinationbody for
         the projects and other donors, Project Management Unit (PMU) and Project Implementation
         Units(PIU), including finalizing ToRs andprocurement support for the subsequent projectTA;
     0   hiring o f consultants to provide technical advisory support on housing standards and design; and,
     0   completion o fproject manuals.




                                                    31

    Project TAfor medium-term assistance
    0   hiringo fconsultants for the Implementation Technical Assistance to the Directorate o fHousing
        and Public Facilities of the BRR, the ProvincialManagement Consultant (PMC) team, and the
        District Management Consultant (DMC) teams;
    0   design and creation o f a Complaints HandlingUnit, CommunicatiodExternal Affairs Unit, and
        EvaluationUnit within Directorate o f Housing, Waster and Sanitation o f the BRR;
    0   establishment o f an MIS system for programreportingand monitoringbetween the PMU, district
        level settlement committees, and PIUS;
    0   hiring and training o f 150housingfacilitators;
    0   Continuous Social Impact Assessments; and,
    0   provision o f technical assistance for housing designand infrastructure planning.

    Capacity Building and Targeting
    0   education o f the affected populationand training o f artisans and engineers on technical aspects o f
        construction and hazard-resistant design practices (such as masonry and carpentry skills); and,
    0   training o f housing facilitators and community volunteers from KERAP, TPK and K P groups in
        necessary skills such as bookkeeping, procurement, community organizingprinciples, and social
        mapping.

4.      Program Support, Monitoring and Evaluation (US%3.4 million)
This component covers the cost o fassistanceto the Directorate o fHousing, Water, and Sanitation
(DHPF) of the Earthquake-Tsunami Reconstruction and RehabilitationImplementation Coordination
Agency (BRR)in overall program monitoring and evaluation to ensure that program implementationi s
efficient and effectively targeted.

This component also comprises the establishment and execution o f an internal and external monitoring
and evaluation framework to maximize effectiveness, accountability and transparency during
implementation. Suchprocesses also facilitate good governance procedures so that leakages o f resources
are minimal. Internal monitoring activities will include regular supervision by the BRR advisory team,
the ProvincialManagement Consultant (PMC) team, IDA teams, and community participatory monitoring
meetings attended by community members. Externalmonitoring will comprise a continuous social
impact assessment carriedout during implementation by a team o f external consultants. Architects and
civil engineering specialists will be contracted by the P M Uto audit the quality o fhouses constructed, as
well as the infrastructure financed by the block grants. The project will also be audited by BPK.




                                                 32

                    ANNEXc: TERMSOFREFERENCEFORHOUSING                  FACILITATORS

I. Overview

To achieve the goals of this housingreconstructionproject, a goodteam o fhousingfacilitators will be
essential; communities require technical guidance inorder to prepare and execute a comprehensive,
inclusive community-based settlement reconstruction and rehabilitationprogram.

Housing facilitators will beresponsible for assisting the communities inthe following activities:
(i)execution o f damage assessment and eligibility verification; (ii)
                                                                   providing technical advisory support
for and training on settlement planning and design, hazard-resistant construction methods, and
supervision and quality control; (iii)monitoring o f fund disbursement to beneficiaries; and, (iv) giving
technical endorsement of housing reconstruction and repair phases.

11. ScopeofWork

Duringproject implementation, housing facilitators (HF)will behiredto work across all targeted desa
and kelurahanto assist the communities and provide necessary facilitations to the KPs (Kelompok
Permukian-sub-villagelsub-kelurahancommunity groups on settlements) on the issues related to housing
and infrastructure block grant programs.

Given that housing i s one o f the community's main concerns and i s closely inter-linkedwith other
community issues, KDP/UPP facilitators will guide the housing facilitators to integrate with existing
facilitator teams and to work jointly to organize community meetings, conduct technical damage
assessments, and to providenecessary technical support incommunity settlement plan preparation during
settlement reconstruction.

HFswill beresponsible for verifying and signingoff(co-signing with eachKPbank account-holder for
housing grants and KERAP/TPK for infrastructure block grants) on the ground the necessary
documentation for applying for shelter support, infrastructure block grant programs, and tranche
disbursement requests. KDP and UPP facilitators will also sign as a witness. The HFwill report to the
district-level management consultant (DMC) team located within the project implementationunit (PIU)
responsible for programmanagement inhis or her districts and sub-districts.

Support by this facilitator team may be offered to other donors working on settlement reconstruction to
share experiences and to exchange good practices. Main duties o f the housing facilitators are outlined
below.

       Duties of Facilitators

Project Management
    Know and understandproject goals and objectives, principles and procedures as described inthe
    project's Operational Manuals (Pedoman Umum,Petunjuk Operasional, Petunjuk Teknis)
    Workjointly with KDP/UPP facilitators on the ground to synergize community-based post-disaster
    reconstruction activities addressed by bothprograms
    Disseminate informationto all community residents, kelurahaddesaformal and informal leaders,
    community organizations, and particularly poor families and individuals about project goals,
    objectives, principles and procedures-includingbut not limitedto beneficiary eligibility criteria,
    construction design, methods, timing, and support options
    Collect and organize data on settlement damage andor reconstruction progress by village for
    reporting to the D M C on a monthly basis
    Enter data collected at the village level into M I S


                                                  33

0  Coordinate with other donors working on settlement reconstruction and rehabilitation issues as
   needed

DamageAssessment andEligibility Verification
0  Assist the community inpreparing its community settlement plan (CSP) highlighting
   damageddestroyed homes
   o Helpcommunities conduct self-survey and mapping activities along with KDPAJPP facilitators
   o Verify that the mappedinformationis correct andthat infrastructure is properly identified
   o Conduct damage assessmentsof all homes inthe village affectedbythe tsunami-earthquake
       disaster that occurred on December 26,2004
   o Work with TPK and KERAPcommunity groups to consolidate a list o f eligible beneficiaries,
       including damage data, to send to the PJOK for verification and to initiate grant disbursement
   o Encourage community members to form KPsinatimely manner
   o Work with the KDP and UPP facilitators to assistthe communities inpreparingCSPs or their
       equivalent based on the guidelinesprovidedby the project Operational Manual
   o Verify and sign-off on infrastructure block-grant applications withrepresentatives o fTPK at the
       village 1evelKERAP at kelurahan level
0  Train volunteers at the village level inthe housingdamage assessmentmethodology
0  Assist KERAP and T P W P K inthe review o f the communities' settlement reconstruction proposals
   for identifying and addressing hazard-prone areas, environmental, land acquisition, resettlement, or
   indigenous populationissues and considerations

TechnicalAdvisory Support and Training
   Participate in and successfully complete all MDTFproject-based training courses as requiredby the
   PMC and DMC
   Coordinate with other donors hands-on construction skills training programs, such as carpentry and
   masonry
   Assist inthe planning o f community infrastructure maintenance activities
   Ensure the buildingmaterials usedby communities are o f highquality and appropriate for
   construction standards applied by the Govemment, PMC and D M C
   Advise communities under the guidance o f the D M C team inhazard mitigation measures (such as
   emergency escape routes, hazard mapping) to reduce their vulnerability to future disasters
   Train community volunteers ingood construction processes as designatedby the buildingcodes
   establishedby BRR, including hazard-resistant design techniques (earthquake, wind, flood, tsunami),
   so that those who choose in-situ construction have a basis for rebuilding their homes to higher
   standards
   Help the community develop housing designs that are feasible and fall within the proposed grant
   support
   Work incoordination with the land facilitators hired through the MDTF-RALAS to assist in
   community land adjudication processes.

Fund DisbursementandMonitoring
0  Providenecessary information to and assist the KPs inopening group bank accounts
0  Ensure that project funds disbursed to the community bank accounts are received and intum
   disbursed to eligible beneficiaries
0  Ensure that the grants given to beneficiaries are used for housingreconstructionand rehabilitation
   purposes
0  Assist KERAP and TPK inthe preparation o fprogress reports, financial reports, and independent
   audit reports as described inthe project Operational Manual




                                                34

TechnicalEndorsementof HousingReconstructionandRepair
0   Verify and sign-off on K P housinggrant applicationsjointly with the KPs and KDP/UPP facilitators
    as a witness
0   Certify the tranche request o f each KP based on its progress inthe implementation o f the group's
    proposed implementation plan

Complaints and Conflicts
0   Ensure all community membersunderstand where and how to lodge a complaint concerning any
    aspect o f the project
0   Assist K D P and UPP facilitators in ensuring that all complaints are followed-up at the appropriate
    level, and assist informing resolution
0   Assist K D P and UPP facilitators in supporting the parties lodging complaints, along with parties
    seeking resolutions at the community level, ifpossible

       Periodof Service

Facilitators will be employed, trained, and assigned to two target kelurahan or desa for a period o f 12
months, with the possibility o f extension based on need as well as favorable perfonnance evaluation by
the DMC.

       Recruitment

Recruitment o f facilitators will be undertaken by the DMCs inan open manner by advertising inlocal
mass printmedia. Selection o f candidates will be based on verification o f the minimumqualifications
required, followed by testing, interviewing, and upon acceptance of the position, training. Women are
encouraged to apply.

Training will be conducted by the DMCs, which will utilize training modules prepared by the PMC,
(additional training materials may be used only with the permission o f the PMC) covering orientation to
the project Operational Manual, technical guidelines for damage assessment, as well as skills necessary to
communicate effectively with community members.

       Qualifications

    Minimumbachelor (S-1) degree, or technical (D-3) diploma
    Experience o f at least five years for senior facilitators, and two years for junior facilitators, preferably
    inthe field o farchitecture or civil engineering (thiswouldbe an assetbutisnotmandatory)
    Basic understanding o f and experience with computers for reportingpurposes and MIS data entry
    Be willing to reside inan appropriate location with ready access to assigned target kelurahan or desa.
    Demonstrate the ability to work congenially and productively with other facilitators ina team context,
    as well as local govemment officials, consultants, and village leaders
    Knowledge o f local construction practices i s desirable




                                                   35

             ANNEX D: COLLABORATIONAMONGTHE FOURMDTF-APPROVED                         PROJECTS

A.     Background

The ultimate goal of the post-tsunami reconstruction effort i s to assist inthe recovery o f living conditions
o f the affected population. Access to safe, well-constructed and decent housing, basic services and tenure
security constitute critical steps inmaking this recovery a reality. Along with the Community- based
Settlements Rehabilitation and ReconstructionProject (CSRRP-NAD), the following projects will also be
implementedunder MDTF:

(i) KecamatanDevelopmentProject(KDP);
(ii)UrbanPovertyProject(UPP);and
(iii)ReconstructionofAcehLandAdministrationProject(RALAS).

The overridingprinciple that runs through the settlement project i s to ensure a mechanism for the affected
population to plan and decide on investments,control funds, implement projects, account for funds
expended, and maintain works constructed. Inthis principle, the project buildson the rich experience o f
two ongoing Community DrivenDevelopment (CDD) operations: KDP and UPP. Bothprojects form the
core of the CDD platform o f IDA'Sassistance program inIndonesia and are already working on the
ground inthe Province o fNAD. K D P was the only donor program operational inAceh before the
tsunami. Inthe aftermath o f the tsunami, UPP 2 mobilized existingteams to initiate preparatory activities
for launching community-based reconstruction activities. And UPP 3, recently approved by IDA'SBoard
o f Directors, i s scheduled to initiate operations inthe Province'ofNAD.

The three MDTF operations (KDP, UPP andRALAS) builduponongoing IDA-financed projects andwill
play an important role in supporting the implementationo f community-based settlement rehabilitation and
reconstruction processes. The essential project mechanism i s maintainedinthe MDTF operations, with
limitedadjustments to fit the emergency context. The project cycle i s simplified and acceleratedinboth
K D P and UPP (four to six months inKDP-Aceh as compared to 9-14 months inthe normal cycle; and,
three months inUPP-Aceh as compared to eight months inthe normal cycle). W A S integrates
Community-driven Adjudication Systems (CDA), a community-led process indocumenting and
reestablishing plot boundaries for the issuance o f land titles. RALAS will recruit CDNLand facilitators
who will train community volunteers and the teams o f facilitators (Housing, UPP, KDP, and CSRRP-
NAD)to ensure technical soundnessofthe mappingandcommunity-basedprocess ofverifyingtenure
status.

The objectives o f this Annex are:

0    To clarify the inter-workingrelationshipamong the above four MDTFprojects (KDP, UPP, RALAS
     and C S W - N A D ) ;
0    To explain howjoint efforts o f these parallel projects culminate inproviding the target population
     with access to decent housing, basic services, and a certain degree of secure tenure; and,
0    To clarify new or additional measures introduced into the existing operations (KDP and UPP) to
     support the settlements rehabilitation and reconstruction program.

B.     Coordination Arrangements

Coordination o f MDTFANS projects will be undertaken at all levels, village, district, province, and
national. At the village level, RALAS facilitators will train housing facilitators and UPP and KDP
facilitators inthe proper method for community mappingrequired for adjudication purposes. Upon
completion o f target village community mapping, results will be submitted to R A L A S B P N for land
certificate processing.


                                                     36

At the district level, progress of settlementreconstructionandpriority infrastructure will bereviewedby
the district settlement coordination committees, as will be the land certificationprocess o f land on which
housing i s being reconstructed. Similarly, at the provincial level, the settlement coordinationcommittee
will monitor and review progress achieved and problems encountered.

At the national level, an M O Uwill be formulated and signed among all four projects' executing agencies,
Home Affairs, Public Works, and BPN. Coordination will also be facilitated through the World Bank
Task Manager's regular meetings and communication.

C.     ImplementationProcess

Basic Stepsto Community SettlementReconstructionandRehabilitation. As inAnnex B
(Components Description), for the implementation o f the settlement grants program (housing repair and
reconstruction, infrastructure), the following basic steps will be adhered to: (i)mobilization o f facilitators
and community organizing; (ii)      community mapping and technical damage assessment; (iii)    establishment
o f eligible beneficiary lists; (iv) preparation o f implementationplanslcommunity settlement plans; and
(v) disbursement of grants intrancheslconstruction activities.

Based on the above steps, the diagram on the last page o f this annex enumerates the chronological
sequence o f actions to be taken by each MDTFproject to rehabilitatelreconstructthe target settlements
and recover land title registrations.

Linkagewith KDP andUPPinCommunityOrganizingand SocializationProcesses. The CSRRP-
NADwillrelyheavily onthe community organizinglcommunitygroup formationprocesses facilitated by
the KDP andUPP teams. The CSRRP-NAD recruits and trains teams o fhousingfacilitators (three
facilitators per four villages), who will be entering target areas already organized, 'or being organized, by
the above two project teams. With support from the KDP and UPP facilitator teams, housing facilitators
will familiarize themselves with the communities and work closely withthe teams to inform communities
about the project, entitlements, and procedures for conducting the damage,assessment. The housing
facilitators and community housinggroups co-sign tranche disbursement requests, with KDP and UPP
facilitators witnessing. However, housing facilitators may not be mobilized until September 2005. To
lessen the risk o f delay, the CSRRP-NAD, together with the W A S , intends to provide early training for
K D P and UPP facilitators already worlung inaffected areas on the basics o f entitlements, specific
procedures for damage assessment, and community mappingto fillthis potential gap.

Linkagewith RALASon Community-drivenAdjudication(CDA) Processes. The Reconstruction o f
Aceh's LandAdministration System (RALAS) Project will coordinate with and support the CSRRP's
housingrehabilitation and reconstruction, as well as priority infrastructure construction, with the entry
point for coordination between the two projects beingthe community mapping, which will follow the
RALAS community-driven adjudication process. These projects will work together to phase inareas o f
interventions inorder to ensure that the community-based land adjudication process for title issuance and
housingreconstruction activities will not conflict with one another or cause delays inimplementation.
Community mapping i s a process to inventory land plots, demarcate boundaries and verify inheritance
issues. Incase a community agrees to change or adjust boundaries through right of way or voluntary land
consolidation for the purpose of improving site layout (road realignment, etc.), or allows renters
previously residing inthe area the option to purchase land, the community can present these decisions as
part o f its community settlement plan (CSP) to the BPN. B P N will regularize the tenure based on the
proposedplan, as long as this plan i s approved by both the community and the Government, and that any
land disputes are resolved duringthe mapping and planning processes. Once community mapping and
planning i s completed, agreed upon, and validated by the community, land adjudication and title issuance
will proceed inparallelwith settlement construction activities.




                                                      37

Thisprojectwill coordinate withRALAS to identifyandbeginbuildingincommunities where the land
project and B P N are able to quickly affirm the property rightspattern as derived from community-based
land adjudication. Community damage assessment self-survey will identify households requiring
reconstruction and repair. Those households with clear indication o f land ownership will receive shelter
support grants first, while renters, squatters, households wanting to move, or households required to move
due to their proximity to hazard-prone areas, will wait untilcommunity land adjustment proposals are
validated and accepted byB P N through RALAS.

Linkagewith UPP andKDP onInfrastructureBlockGrants. For infrastructure, block grants ofthe
CSRRP-NAD will be matched with the block grants under UPP (Rp. 500 million per kelurahan) and KDP
(ranging from Rp. 1-4billion, based on damage per kecamatan). The Community Settlement Plan
presents the community's (village or kelurahan) priorities ininfrastructure and identifies possible funding
sources.

D.    AdditionalandNew Measuresto beIntroducedto KDP andW P

The following i s a summary o f new and additional measures to be introducedinto K D P and UPP for the
purpose o f effectively implementing CSRRP-NAD:

Group account^'^: For KDP, the TPK (Activity Management Team at the village level) and for UPP, the
K S M (community self-help groups) will be the groups held accountable for grant management at the
micro level.
o For desaorganizedthroughKDP: Ineach target desa, the TPK, a village-level task force selected
    by the community, willberesponsible for settlement reconstruction activities. Members ofTPK will
    form sub-TPKs (settlement groups, KP), each o f which will open a group bank account. Inregular
    KDPoperations, apercentage o f the grant allocation is utilized for administrationcosts to pay the
    TPKs. For the CSRRP-NAD, administration costs for the TPKs will be borne by the projectbut will
    not be based upon a percentage o f the shelter grant assistance. Instead, TPK members will receive a
    modest honorarium. The TPK and the housingfacilitators (witnessed by the K D P facilitator) will
    sign o f f on tranche disbursement requests by the KPs for the funds to be directly transferred to the
    local brancho f BRI. Infrastructure block grants, however, will be disbursed to the group bank
    account under the TPK.
o For kelurahanorganizedthroughUPP: Ineachtarget kelurahan, group bank accounts managedby
    the KSMs2' will be established for the shelter support grants. KERAP(Committee for Community
    Reconstruction and Rehabilitation), the UPP facilitators, and the housing facilitators will verify and
    sign off on tranche disbursement requests. Infrastructure block grants will be disbursed to the group
    bank account under the KERAP.

GrantFundinginTranches. While bothKDP and UPP disburseblock grants, the level offinancial
authorization to request release o f funds (KDP at kecamatan level, UPP at the kelurahanlevel) and
threshold differ. For bothprojects, the amount o f funds flowing into the group accounts surpasses the
amount normally handledduringregular operations2'. Inorder to mitigate the risk o f mismanagement
and overestimation o f absorptive capacities, the shelter support funds will bereleased inmultiple tranches
(3)22basedon reconstruction andrehabilitationprogress. Tranching o f funds will be basedupon the
community's definition o f construction phases, which will be spelled out inthe implementationplan. For
example, some communities may opt by construction phases, others may opt by priorities usingthe initial
tranche for those inthe most urgent need for housing such as pregnant women, or for financing totally
damaged housing, to be later followed by partialrepairs. Upon agreement among the community and


l 9Detailed description o f flow o f funds i s inAnnex J (Financial Management).
''For
2o The average size of a K S Mranges from 5 -10 households.
      details see Annex J (Financial Management).
22 40%, 40% 20%

                                                       38

 facilitator team, the CSPs will be submitted to the District Settlement Coordination Committee and PJOK
 for approval.

 Role of HousingFacilitators. The project finances recruitment o f housing facilitators (HF) (see Annex
 C for the TORS).They serve as the closest counterparts to the TPKs and KSMs on all matters relatedto
 settlement rehabilitation and reconstruction. They will be responsible for conducting technical
 verifications o f shelter support grant activities, endorsing disbursement requests as technical experts, and
 providing guidance and training on hazard-resistant design standards. However, inmany cases, housing
 issues are related to other aspects o f community development. Due to this issue, the HFs will liaise
 closely with the KDPand UPP facilitator teams. C S W - N A D will sign an M O U with bothKDP and
 UPP to define responsibilities o f each type o fproject facilitator working inthe field.

 OperationalManual and Harmonizationof Procedures. The CSP acts as the document requiredfor
 applying for shelter support and infrastructure grants. The K D P mechanism uses "Village Development
 Plans", a "Funds Utilization Plan" and an "Expense Report" as documentation for addressing all the
 reconstruction priorities of the community, including housing. The UPPmechanism uses a "Community
 Rehabilitation and Reconstruction Plan (CRRP)" as documentation for the similar purpose as outlined
 above. This will be followed by community mapping (documenting the damage and pre-tsunami status o f
 land use inthe community), a community-spatial plan (indicating the proposedland use and site layout in
 coordination with the RALAS facilitator team) and a community / housingplan (number o f eligible
 grants, detailed list o f anticipated expenditures for housingrepairs and reconstruction), all to be attached
 to the CSP.

 To minimize confusion and to expedite the processing o f grant applications and tranche disbursement
 requests, common formats for the requireddocumentation needed for grant applications will be developed
 and includedinthe Project Operational Manual, currently under preparation. The P O M will be issued by
'BRR,to be bindingon all other projects. This will ensure that all the target communities follow a
 harmonizedprocedure. A Memorandumo f Understanding will be signedbetween the Executing
 Agencies o f KDP, UPP, RALAS and CSRRP to clearly define responsibility o f eachproject, scope o f
 collaboration, and coordinationarrangements. Adjustments will also be made to the operational manual
 of each project to accommodate the specific requirements o fthe CSRRP.




                                                     39

Schemeof Coordinationat DifferentLevels



                                  CONSULTANT                                                                                                 GOVERNMENT                    Instrument     BANK


        I/CSRRP-NAD/RAIAS/KDP
                      COORDINATlON MEETlNG                                                                                           SETTLEMENT STEERINGCOMMITTEE

                                                                                      ~ U P P ~
        u                                                                                                                                         Bi-monthlyMeeting
                                                                                                                       L                                                ,                      i
 ................................................................................ ..................


                                                                                                            _ _

                                                                                                                                              ,      Monthly Meeting
                                                                                                                                                             ,
.....................................................*..........................................            .....

                                                                                                                                           SETTLEMENT COMMlllEE
                                                                                                                                                                                     I
                       COORDINATIONMEETING                                                                        I/                 P:;    I  Local BWGff~ce PJOK
                                                                                                                                                 I                   PJOK
                                                                                                                           CSRRP-NAD                           KDPI ,W)
                                                                                                                                                                     UPP (I
          \                                                                                                 M    flhly Meefhg
...................................................       I................................................      .......................
                                                                                                                      \




  ....................................................................         .............................

                        Facilitators

                                                                      Monitoring

                        Facilitators
                      CSRRP-NAD




                                                                                                                                                       40

FIGURE1 CHRONOLOGICAL DIAGRAM:COLLABORATION OF THE FOUR MDTF PROJECTS TO
       -
DELIVERHOUSING,       INFRASTRUCTURE AND LAND               TITLES

      Role of UPP-Aceh                Role of KDP-              Basic Steps          Role of CSRRP-             Role of R 4 L A S
              (urban)                 Aceh (rural)                                             NAD
      Recruitment, training and      Recruitment, training     Community               1Recruitmentof           1Recruitment and
      mobilization of Facilitators   andmobilizationof                                  Project consultants at   training of Land
      Registrationand training of    consultants               organizing               PIUand DHPF-BRR          Facilitators
      community volunteers           Coordination meeting      Electionof
                                                                                       1Recruitmentand           Training of existing
      Establishlist of areas to be   among provincial          community                training of Housing      UPP and KDP
      coveredunder the project       consultants,district      representativesand       Facilitators             facilitatorsas interim
      FGD/SocialisationMaster        consultants,and           formation of
                                                                                      B Establishlist of areas   measure
      plan                           kecamatan facilitators    community working
                                                                                        to be covered under      Establishlist of areas
      Formationof KERAPs             meetings/socialization    groups                   theproject               to be coveredunder
                                     Establishlist of areas    Projectteams                                      the project
                                     to be covered under       coordinate locations
                                     the project               where eachprojectis
                                     Electionof TPKs           working


     o Communityself-               o   Community             Technical Damage         IMobilization of          BPN to demarcate all
       surveyiCommunity                 mapping               Assessment                Technical Housing        roads and sections to
       Mapping                      o   Technical damage      Establishmentof           Facilitators             providea reliable
     o Technical damage                 assessment            beneficiary list         ILeadingtechnical         ground framework
       assessment                   o   Establishmentof       Communitymapping          damage assessment        for community
     o Establishmentof                  beneficiarylist       (documentingthe           with support from        adjudication
       beneficiarylist              o   Community             tenurestatus before       UPPiKDP                  RALASteam
     o CommunitySettlement              SettlementPlan        the tsunami               facilitatorsand          providing necessary
       Plan (CSP) preparation           (CSP)millage          Community                 community                supportto ensure
     o Communityto reach                Dev't Plan             SettlementPlanor its     volunteers               technical soundness
       consensus on the CSP             preparation           equivalent               m Liaising with land      of mappingprocess
                                    o   Communityto                                     facilitatorsin           based on Community
                                        form consensus on     Community
                                                                                         communitymapping        Adjudication
                                        the CSP               consensuson
                                                              implementationplan       * Collaboratingwith        Manual, to cover:
                                                               (phasing,                 UPP and KDP              landparcel
                                                              prioritization etc.)       facilitatorsinCSP        inventorization,
                                                                Project teamswork        preparationand           boundary
                                                                with local               technical review of      demarcation
                                                                govemment and            CSP.
                                                                BRR to resolve any
                                                                squatter, renteror
                                                                other resettlement
                                                                issues, ifnecessary.
       UPP facilitator to witness       KDP facilitatorsto      Sign-offof CSP            Technical review         Once the community
       joint sign-off by the            witnessjoint sign       and HousingGrant          and sign-off of CSP     mapping completed
       Housingfacilitators and          offby Housing           Application               before submission        and agreed by the
       KERAP to submit for              facilitators,TPK        Openingof group           to Settlement            community, the map
       approvalby Settlement            and Village and         bank accounts             Coordination             will bepublicly
       Coordination Committee           submissionfor                                     Committee                posted(notification
       Openingof KP accounts            approvalby                                        Assist the               process) and within
       Sendingthe master list of        Settlement                                        communities in           30 days, BPNwill
       beneficiariesand account         Coordination                                      opening bank             verify and officially
       informationto BRI                Committee                                          accounts                confirm
                                        OpeningofKP                                       Assist the               Within 90 days from
                                        accounts                                           communities in          the official
                                        Sendingthe master                                 planningmaterials        confirmation,titles
                                        list ofbeneficiaries                              purchase                 will be issued.
                                        and account
                                        information to BRI
       Facilitatorssign off tranche     Facilitatorssign off     Construction              Verifyingand
       releaserequest to BRI            trancherelease           Activities.               signingoff (with
       Constructionactivities           request                  Tranche                   KDP and UF'P
       managedby KSMdKPs                Construction             disbursement              facilitators) each
       Regularaccountability            activitiesmanaged                                  trancherequests
       meetings                        by TPWUPKs                                          from communities
       Referringcomplaints              Regular                                            Inputto the MIS
                                        accountability                                     Referring
                                        meetings.                                          complaints
                                        Refer complaints




                                                       41

2. Fur    unity




                 42

                   ANNEX E: ORGANIGRAMME OFIMPLEMENTATION STRUCTURE



                  IMPLEMENTATION SETTLEMENTS
                                      STRUCTURE FORGOVERNMENT'S
                          RECONSTRUCTIONAND REHABILITATION                 STRATEGY




          MPW        BAPPENAS           BRR,other relevant sector

                                                                          4
                                                                      BRR
                                            Directorate for Housing, Water Supplyand Sanitation,
                                                 Strengthenedwith Implementation TA consultants
                                           (external communications, complaints handing, and evaluation)




PIU       PIU            PIU        PIU
city/      cityl         cityl       city/
district   district      district    district




           Line of Control
_-----b    Lineof Facilitationand Coordination
-------    Line of Coordination




                                                   43

                               IMPLEMENTATION STRUCTUREFORPROJECT IMPLEMENTATION



                                                                                                       -
      Project Management Unit (PMU) MDTF
                                      -
                     Housing                                           I
                                                                       !.................................................................
      (PMC sits within and services the PMU)                           i  BupatiAppointing the
                                                                           committee members

                                                                                                                                         I

                                                        Settlement Coordinating                                      I
                                                         Committee Coord. Team
                                                                   -                                                              Bupati
                                                                                                                                                     -



                                                                                                                                              I
                                                          Project Implementation Unit (PIU)/ SecrZrtariat                                     I          ................................................
                                                                                                                                              I          !      Bupati
                                                                                                                                                                appointing                                    1
                                                         District Management Consultants (DMC)                                                ;II...........I...............................................
                                                                                                                                                                PJOK
                                                                                                                                              11         1\,
                                                                                                                                                         1                                                    :
                                                                                                                                              I




                Line of Control
_ _ _ - _b-     Line of Facilitation and coordination
__-_---         Line of Coordination



                                                         44

                   ANNEXF:OVERVIEWOFMONITORINGEVALUATION     AND                   SYSTEMS

Monitoring and evaluation is a key feature o f the MDTFANS Community-based Settlement
Rehabilitation and Reconstruction Project. A number o f important lessons have been learned through the
monitoring and evaluation experiences with other community drivendevelopment projects. These
include the need to separate the tasks o fproject monitoring, reporting, and limitedinternal evaluation
(such as best practices), which will be undertakenby the project implementers (PMU, PIU), assisted by
project consultants (PMC and DMC), and project facilitators, from project extemal evaluation, including
tasks such as financial and technical audits, achievement o f project outcomes and objectives, and
measuring project impact, which will be undertaken independently and contracted out to separate
consultants on a task-by-task basis.

I.Monitoring

Program Monitoring
Overall programmonitoring and oversight for the National Comprehensive Settlements Rehabilitation
and Reconstruction Program will be the responsibility o f the Directorate o f Housing, Water, and
Sanitation (DHPF) of the NAD-Nias Reconstruction-Rehabilitation Agency (BRR).This includes
monitoring o f implementation progress o f all reconstruction activities undertaken inNAD and Nias, as
well as coordination with other agencies and donors involved insettlement reconstruction. The project
will provide technical expertise inthe form o f advisers to the BRRinthe operation and management o f a
Settlement ReconstructionMIS. This ProgramMIS will regularly monitor financing, reconstruction,
public services, populationwelfare, and public perceptions o fthe reconstruction and rehabilitationeffort
inNAD-Nias. Data and indicators will be collected on finances, infkastructure, utilities, public services,
housing, livelihoods, social welfare, healthand population, and education. The CSRRP MIS which will
be developed and implementedfor the project (see below) will be an integrated part o f the BRRMIS.

Project Monitoring
Projectmonitoring will be the fullresponsibilityo f the PMC, and it will report monthly on project
implementationprogress as measuredby inputs delivered, funds disbursed, and outputs achieved.
Specific topics o fmonitoring will include progress o f community mapping, completion o f damage
assessments, formulation o f CSPs, formation o f shelter groups ( U s ) , infrastructure construction
planning, physical and financial progress o f housingand infrastructure reconstruction, and complaints
handling from the Complaint Handling Unitso f the PMUand BRR.

The PMC will train D M C staff as well as housing facilitators inthe systematic periodic project reporting
formats fiom housing facilitators up to the executing agency and national steering committees. This
project monitoring system will be computerized, with standard report formats developed inmenu format
for ease o f data entry, compilation, and summarization, as reports flow from housing facilitators, to
district'city DMCs and PIUS,to PMC and PMU, and finally to the executing agency, national steering
committee, and the World Bank. At the districtkity level, the DMCs will verify the compiled reports o f
housing facilitators throughrandom sample field checks or checks o f questionable data. Similarly, at the
provincial level, the PMC will also verify all consolidated DMC reports usingthe same method.

Project monitoring will be done with a view to analyzing and improving project management and using
the results to make management decisions. The project MIS will be designed to streamline and simplify
data collection methods. Monitoring informationwill be consolidated into the M I S usingcomputer-based
data entry. The 150housing facilitators will use a paper-based system to enter desakelurahan specific
information. Payment of the housing facilitators' salaries and expenses will be dependent on submission
o fthese reports. At each district these paper reports will be consolidated by administrative support staff
into the computer-based system, for which they will receive specific training. The information will be
transferred electronically to the D M C and PMC where possible. Ifelectronic links are not operating, then
the data will be transferredusingdiskettes.

                                                 45

DMCs will enter their process implementation monitoring data into the system. The systemwill be set up
so that it can generate reports for communities and for local governments at each level. Monthly project
reporting and monitoring data will also be made available on the project website, to all levels o f the
project, government, and the public at large. Printouts o f some o f these data will be taken to communities
to allow for the desa / kelurahanto benchmark their perfomance with those o f their neighbors, allowing
government departments and civil society groups to observe project implementation progress.

Finally, the World Bank will conduct periodic project supervision missions with the Executing Agency.
BRRas well as the PMU,PIUs, PMC, and DMCswill assist andparticipate inthesejoint supervision
missions. MDTFANS members and representatives will be invitedto participate inthese missions as
well.

Oversight by Civil Society Groups
The project will also seekto establish independentprojectmonitoring. Local media will be contractedto
write articles about how the project operates and i s progressing on a regular basis. The project will
provide full access to monitoring, financial and evaluation data to all stakeholders and to any other civil
society organizations (CSOs) such as localNGOs or universities that request such access and wishto
verify such data with actual field conditions. BRRhas additionalbudget allocationto contract
independent monitoring entities such as universities or NGOsto provide independent monitoring o f the
project implementation.

11. ProjectEvaluation

Internal project evaluation will measure project outcomes and objectives achieved. It will be conducted
through bi-annual progress reports by each D M C and the PMC, which will be presentedto PIUs, PMU,
BRR,local government settlement coordinating committees, other projects, donors, andNGOsinpublic
seminars to discuss progress achieved, problems encountered and overcome, and ways to proceed which
may maximize the outputs, outcomes, and impact o f the project.

GO1will conduct hierarchical routine and ad-hoc monitoring and evaluation o f the project. District
housing coordinationcommittees will arrange for members to participate inperiodic meetings and field
trips to monitor project activity. At the provincial level, the housingcoordinationcommittees will
conduct similar monitoring and evaluation meetings and field trips with their members, together with the
Directorate o f Housing, Water, and Sanitation o fBRR.

Finally, participant monitoring and evaluation will also be utilized. Housing facilitators, assisted by K D P
and UPP facilitators, will train and assist K P s to monitor and evaluate their own group's performance.
Cross-group activity evaluation will also be undertakenbetweenneighboring villages and districts.

Financial Audits
Inaddition, BPKPwill conduct annualproject audits ofthe PMUandPIUs, as well as audits of5%
samples of village CBOs and KPs, usinga new, community-driven development (CDD) audit manual
developedby BPKP.

111. ImpactEvaluation

Project Baselineand Impact
An independent project impact evaluation will be conducted to measure project impact and achievement
o f project outcomes and objectives, including number o f victims now living inreconstructed or
rehabilitated housing, number o fbeneficiaries from reconstructed community infrastructure, and overall
satisfaction level o f beneficiaries. At project start-up, housingfacilitators will collect baseline data on
basic village profile data including pre- and post-tsunami population, households, gender, age ranges,
housing situation, previous employment, current employment, children in school, transportation, and

                                                   46

basic village infrastructure pre- and post-tsunami. The baseline data collected will be stored inthe project
MIS. At two times duringthe project, before mid-termproject review (September 2006) and at project
completion (December 2007), data will be re-collected from sample villages and compared to the baseline
by independent researchers/consultants contractedbyBRR.

Continuous SocialImpactAssessment (CSIA)
Inadditionto baseline data evaluation, continuous social impactassessment(CSIA) willbeconductedto
facilitate articulation o f community perceptions, grievances, and feedback vis-&vis identification of
beneficiaries for housing reconstruction and rehabilitation. CSIA will assess the social dimensions o f the
recovery, rehabilitation and reconstruction effort. Through direct interaction with beneficiary
communities, it will carry out independent evaluation o f project implementation and distribution o f
project benefits. It will assess project impact and help to identify necessary mitigation measures.
Specifically, the CSIA will:

1. Assess social targeting, including gender, and timely and appropriate distribution o f shelter support
    grants;
2. Recordpublic, concerns, and grievances, presenting them inlocal formal decision-making forums;
3, Identify social riskmitigation measures;
4. Guide and conduct independent social and community audit to mitigate possible negative effects and
    enhance positive effects;
5. Review land tenure issues and its impact on housing reconstruction; and,
6. Review social safeguard issues and prepare checklists to ensure social soundness and religious/ethnic
     equity to minimize social exclusion.

An independent researchinstitute/university/consultant willbe contractedbyBRRto undertake the
project impact evaluation and the CSIA. Reports will be submitted to the Ministry o f Public Works,
BRR, and the PMUfor distribution. Inaddition, other special studies focusing on specific issues
identified duringproject implementationmay be undertaken.

Technical Auditingand Evaluation
Settlement housingreconstruction and rehabilitationwill be evaluated for meeting basic specifications o f
construction quality and soundness, as well as earthquake resistance bothby independent inspectors and
construction surveyors contracted by BRRto conduct technical audits of project reconstruction.

Resources
A total o fUS$ 1.8 million is provided for monitoring as well as evaluation o fthe project/program. A
budget o f US$1.6 million for M I S development and management will be included inComponent C.
Implementation Support.

CSRFW Monitoring:andEvaluationSvstem




                                                 47

   progress,                   checks sample of                       committee I,      WB on project
   provincial                  reports                                Bappeda I, MPW,   implementation
   infrastructure                                   I              1  Bappenas, WB,     progress
   construction progress                                              web-site
d. complaints handling                                                PMU, BRR,         external indicator of
   status report                                                      settlement        project
                                                                      committee I,      implementation
                                                                      Bappeda I, MPW,   progress and
                                                                      Bappenas, WB,     beneficiaries
-                                                                  I web-site           satisfaction
e. supervision missions        PMU, BRR, MPW,       I quarterly    I  national steering Cross-check of
                               Bappenas, WB                           committee,        project reports and
                                                                      executing agency, information
                                                                      Bappenas, MDTF
                                                                      steering
-                                                                     committee
-
2. External monitorinK
   periodic project            local NGOs,            bi-annual       PMU, BRR,         external control check
   monitoring at village       universities, media                    settlement        on project
   levels                                                             committee I,      implementers
                                                                      Bappeda I, MPU,
-                                                                     Bappenas, WB
-
3. Internal evaluation :
b. Village housing                                                    Village CBO,      supervision by DMC
   reconstruction I                                                   kepala desa,      and PIU on achieving
   rehabilitation                                                     camat, DMC, PIU,   project outcomes
   completion report;                                                 settlement
   village infrastructure                                             committee II
   completion report
a. district housing                                   annual          PMC, PMU, BRR,    supervision by PMC,
   reconstruction I                                                   settlement         and PMU on
   rehabilitation                                                     committee II       achieving project
   completion report;                                                                   outcomes
   district infrastructure
   completion report          ~



b. Project housing                                    annual          PMU, BRR,          supervision by BRR,
   reconstruction I                                                   settlement         executing agency,
   rehabilitation                                                     committee I,       WB on achieving
   completion report;                                                 MPW, Bappenas,     project outcomes
   project infrastructure
-  completion report
-
4. External evaluation:
a. Baseline impact             Research consultant    Mid-term        PMU, BRR,          Compares current
                               contracted by BRR      review,         settlement         and post-project
                                                      project         committee I,       target villages with
                                                      completion      MPW, Bappenas,     pre project condition
                                                                      WB
b, Continuous social           research consultant    bi-annual       PMU, BRR,          lndepth studies of
   impact assessment           contracted by BRR      reports         settlement         critical issues
   (CSIA)                                                             committee I,       affecting desired
                                                                      MPW, Bappenas,     outcome, objective,
                                                                      WB                 impact
C. BPKP audits                 CDD audits of 5%       annual          PMU, MoF, BRR,     Cross-check for mis-
                                                                                       L
                               samde of villaaes:                     MPW,. Bawenas.
                                                                                 . .     use of funds,
                               audit of PMU and PIU                   WB                 corruption
d. technical audits of         Architectural        IIannual        II PMU,BRR,          Technical
   construction                engineering firm,                    1 rBW, Bappenas,     assessment
                               contracted by BRR                                         community-built
-                                                                                        construction ualit




                                                  48

                  ANNEXG:ENVIRONMENTALAND SOCIAL SAFEGUARDSFRAMEWORK

A. Introduction
The project i s expected to support rehabilitation and reconstruction o f settlements (rural and urban)
affectedby the December 26,2004 earthquake and tsunami through a block grant program for housing
and in-situinfrastructure. Itbuilds on the community-driven development (CDD) mechanism evolved
through the on-going Bank-financed KecamatanDevelopment Project (KDP) and UrbanPoverty Project
(UPP) that are operating indevastated kelurahan and desa areas. Based on the eligibility criteria, it will
provide block grants to reconstruct up to approximately 20,000 new houses, and to repair up to
approximately 30,000 damaged houses in400 desa and kelurahan.

B. Objectives of the Framework
The environmental and social safeguards framework provides general policies and guidelines to serve the
following objectives:

    Protect human health;
    Prevent or compensate any loss o flivelihood;
    Prevent environmental degradation as a result o f either individual investments or their cumulative
    effects;
    Enhance positive environmental outcomes;
    Avoid or minimize involuntary resettlement;
    Avoid conflict among community members and strengthen the community's social cohesiveness;
    Prevent or compensate any loss o f livelihood from the loss o f land or access to natural resources,
    including land because o fthe project; and
    Restore the living condition o f the affected communities.

Implementation o f these guidelines i s built into the project oversight and housing facilitator terms o f
reference, and the project provides external audits o f their implementation. The framework takes into
account the Green Reconstruction Guidelinesfor Policy Makers, and Best Practice Implementation
Guidance in Green Reconstructionfor ImplementingAgencies, prepared by WWF Indonesia (Feb 2005).
Thisproject triggers the following World Bank environmental and social safeguards policies.

World Bank Safeguards Policies

     Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project                      Yes                 N o
     Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.0 1)                        [XI                 [I
     Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                    [I                  [XI
     Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                        [I                  [XI
     Cultural Property (OPN 11.03, being revisedas OP 4.11)           []                  [XI
     Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                            [XI                 [I
     Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20, being revised as OP 4.10)           [ ]                 [XI
     Forests (OP/BP 4.36)                                             [XI                 [I
     Safety o f Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                     [I                  [XI
     Projects inDisputedAreas (OP/BP/GP 7.60)                         [I                  [XI
     Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)              11                  [XI


C.    Environmental and Social Issues
C.l EnvironmentalIssues
The project will not lead to land conversion, destruction o f environmentally sensitive areas, or historically
significant sites andor other cultural resources. Timber requirements for reconstruction will be procured,



                                                  49

as far as possible, fi-omlegal sources. Environmental issues from which negative impacts can be expected
are divided into those which are: (i) localized/direct; and (ii)widespreadindirect.

Localizeddirect impacts are likely to include:
0   inappropriate siting (from an environmental and socio/cultural perspective, as well as possible future
    disaster events) ;
0   inappropriate design and management o f associated surface water drainage;
0   inappropriate design and management o f sanitation measures;
0   improper design o f water supply systems;
0   poor handling and disposal o f debris and rubble;
0   poor onsite management and construction techniques;
0   use o f hazardous construction materials (such as asbestos); and
0   inappropriate sourcing of sand, gravel, bricks and timber for reconstruction.

Widespreadindirect impacts may include:
0   excessive depletion o f natural resources (associated with procurement o f construction materials);
0   cumulative/regional effects o f poor handling and disposal o f debris and rubble; and
0   possible water resource impacts associated with over-extraction o f groundwater resources.

Direct impacts will be addressed via application o f suitable codes and practices to be included inthe
Project Operational Manual, including Ministry o fPublic Works standards, as well as green
reconstruction guidance being developed by UN-HABITAT. Effective applicationo f such standards will
requireprovision of training for the Housing Facilitators, KDPLJPP facilitators and other key members o f
each community. A monitoring systemto track the implementation o f the community settlement plans
will also bebuilt into the project. Community settlement plans will incorporate agreed environmental
principles, such as commitments to use legally sourced timber.

Indirect impacts cannot be addressed at the level o f a single project and will require a coordinated
approach involving all key parties involved inAceh reconstruction. For example, the issue o f
unsustainably sourced timber i s already o f highvisibility within government structures (national and
local), the NGO community (national and local), and the donor community.

The World Bankwill ensure that this project i s inline with broad-scale approaches that are currently
beingputinplace at the level o f the BRR,UN-Joint Logistics Center, and the WWF-CI Timber for Aceh
Program, to support the supply o f materials for Aceh reconstruction.

C.2 Social Issues
Social issues pertainingto the rehabilitation and reconstruction works under the project are mainly related
to the land titles. The main land issues identified so far are:

(i)Unidentifiedorabandonedsitewithunidentifiedlandownersand/orownersareidentifiedbutdied
or vanished;
Thousands o fpeople remainmissing due to the tsunami. Some o f the survivors still live inthe
campsban-acks, or have moved to other regions. Most o f them intendto go back to their origins;
however, the timingvaries. Therefore, some people mightnot be present during the community mapping
and the establishment o fbeneficiary list for shelter grants. Consequently, potential conflicts inthe land
claims and encroachment may arise inthe later stage o f the project implementation.
(ii)Loss/destruction of title documents/damages or loss of property records in the Office of National
LandAgency (BPN);
Large number o f property records were damaged or washed away due to the tsunami. Conflicts among the
community members may also arise duringthe determination o f land plot boundaries because some are
inundated or subsided, or because some o f the landowners are still missingor live in other places.


                                                 50

(iii) Landplots inundated and unsuitablefor further development;
Many areas, particularly those along the coastline, were washed away. Many pockets are still inundated
and unsuitable for further development, inspite of people's wishes to return to their original plots.
(iv) Landformally squatted or rented, and totally destroyed;
Many households were occupying someone else's landprior to the tsunami, whether legally or illegally.
(v) Renters who lost their houses;
Inadditiontotheabove, there werehouseholds who were renters andlosttheir housingduetothe
tsunami.
(vi) Inheritance issue;
As many landowners are missingor still live inother places, apotentialconflict may arise indetermining
eligible heirs to land ownership. There i s also a potential problem in definingthe custody o f the land
rights inthe case o f heirs under the age of 19. Another challenge i s indealing with the tenure rights
definedunder the customary and traditional codes. Due to the traditional codes not defining clearly rights
for the women to inherit land, a challenge will be how to ensure that female heads o f households retain
the right to remain intheir original areas.

D.    Environmental and Social Management Framework
D.l EnvironmentalManagement Framework
The Government o f Indonesia's environmental review procedures are broadly consistent with those o fthe
World Bank, and will form the framework for the project's approach to environmental screening and
mitigation. The project i s considered to be equivalent to World Bank "Category B"; recognizingthat a
community based approached i s being applied and that most environmental impacts are likely to be
localized, short term and reversible.

For impacts that are acknowledged to be indirect, complex and cumulative, additional environmental
analysis will be carried out duringproject implementation (see below for further justification o f this
approach). Mitigation of such impacts will involve a coordinated approach with all key parties involved
inAceh reconstruction.

(a) Screening criteria
Inline withpast WorldBankpractice ofapplyingenvironmental safeguards to communitybasedprojects,
each individual community settlement plan will be screened against existing GO1criteria (see below) and
classified into one o f the following categories:

    Those requiring a full environmental assessment for which the Ministryo f Environment has
    established criteria - it is unlikely that any of the community settlement plans will require afull EA
    Those requiring an environmental management and monitoring plan (UKLRJPL) for which the
    MinistryofPublic Works has established criteria(see below)- it ispossible that afew community
    settlementplans mayfall under this category
    Those for which standard operating procedures will suffice, together with training and monitoring
    support to ensure that the necessary guidance i s applied appropriately and consistently. The DG
    Human Settlements of MPW can provide some guidance, which can also be supplemented with
    additional guidance providedby the World Bank. I t is expected that most community settlement plans
    willfall under this category.




                                                   51

(b) Government ofIndonesiaEnvironmental ScreeningCriteria



 Development of new
 housing/settlement
       o   Metropolitan city,           2 25 ha                         2 <25 ha
                                                                          -
           extent area
       o   Big city, extent area        2 50 ha                         2 <50 ha
                                                                          -
       o   Medium and small city,
           extent area                  2 100ha                         2 - <lo0 ha

 Renovationo f
 housing/settlement
       o Metropolitan and large                                        2 1ha
           city
       o   Mediumcity                                                   2 2 ha
       o   Re-establishmento f                                          2 1ha
           pre-existing areas



Inaddition, a `negative list' approachwill beappliedto ensure that the following substances, materials
and sub-project types are precluded from project funding:


0   Pesticides, ozone-depleting substances, tobacco or tobacco products;
0   Asbestos containingmaterials;
0    Sub-projects producing liquid or gaseous effluents and emissions, with the exception of normal
     sanitation needs for individual households;
0   Hazardous materials and wastes, including use, production, storage or generation o f hazardous
    wastes;
0    Sub-projects or activities with the potential for significant conversion or degradation o f critical forest
     areas or related critical natural habitats (as defined inOP 4.36 on Forests);
4   Miningor excavation o flive coral; and
0    Construction o f water retaining structures or storage structures o f capacity greater than 10,000 cubic
    meters.

(c)    Screening process
The project will provide block grants (for tertiary infrastructure) and household level grants (for housing
construction) based on the completionby eachparticipating community o f a community settlement plan.
These plans will be developed with the support o fDistrict Management Consultant teams (DMCs) under
the Project ImplementationUnit, as well as KDP and UPP facilitators, intime handing over to housing
facilitators to be recruited and trained duringthe initial stages o f the project.

The community settlement plans will be developed for discrete areas within each kecamatan and
kelurahan. Plans will include construction o f new houses and the rehabilitation o f damaged houses,
depending on the degree of destruction caused by the tsunami. Plans will provide detailed descriptions o f
all activities proposed, including a minimumof:

0   Rehabilitationo f surface drainage networks, water supply and sanitation systems (tertiary level)
0   Numberand locationo fhouses to be constructedrehabilitated;


23 Decreeof the Ministry of State for Environment,No 17/2001
24 Decree of the Minister of PublicWorks, No 1712003



                                                      52

0   Volume, type and specification o f materials needed for each house;
0   Type and specificationinterms o f water, sanitation and drainage requirements; and,
0   Plans for safe disposal o f debris and rubble.

The Ministry o f Public Works will be responsible for environmental screening o f these plans, in
coordinationwith local environmental authorities. The process will be supported by the District
Management Consultant teams (DMCs) and housing/KDP/UPP facilitators, and will be linked to the
technical review and approval o f each community settlement plan. A ProvincialManagement Consultant
(PMC) team located inthe Project Management Unit (PMU) will include a complaints handling and
safeguards specialist, who will provide additional guidance and support to the DMCs. Inmost cases, it i s
likely that standard operating procedures only will need to be applied based on housing sector
environmental guidelines (as further discussed below), including specific guidance on green
reconstruction materials being developed by UN-HABITAT.

The screening process will ensure that negative impacts are, as far as possible, avoided through
appropriate siting and design measures, and that adequate mitigation measures are put inplace for
residual impacts. Standard clauses will be introduced into relevant project documentation describing
required mitigation measures, simple indicators o f success and a monitoring plan. Each participating
community will base its plans on a set o f agreed environmental principles, including the use o f legally
sourced timber. The World Bank will review o f sample o fthese documents and may require corrective
actions to be taken.

(d)   Standards and codes of practice
Withthe exception o f a few impacts acknowledged to be wide scale and cumulative innature, the
environmental management process should consist largely o f verifying the inclusion o f appropriate
standards inthe project design and implementationdocumentation. Areas likely to be more effectively
covered through the development o f standards and codes include, but are not limited to, the following:


0   Rubble/debris collections and disposal;
0   Guidelines for temporary shelter site dismantling and disposal;
0   Site selection criteria for new housing settlements, including altemative analysis framework;
0   Guidelines for new housing site clearing and preparation;
0   Community environmental management plans for new settlements, including waste management
    practices;
0   Good environmental practice inhousingconstruction; and
0   Good environmental practice in small-scale construction.

As indicated above, some o fthis guidance is available via the MPW, but supplementary guidance will
also needto be includedinthe project operational manual and assembled at the level o f the local PIUs.
The WWF principles on green reconstruction provide a usefulbasis. More operational level guidance
designed for field-based managers and facilitators, particularly inthe area o f construction materials, i s
currently beingprepared by UN-HABITAT.

Should this material fail to be developed intime to support project implementation, the World Bank will
develop and apply its own guidance basedon applicable standards and practices drawn from other
tsunami affected countries.

(e)   Indirect and cumulativeenvironmentalimpacts
Wider scale impacts associated with depletion o f natural resources and debris disposal, which are
potentially more significant and long term, will require additional environmental analysis. The project
willprovidethe necessary resources to ensure that expertise i s available to support implementationo fthe
study andrequired follow upactions. This study will be carriedout duringthe early stages o fproject

                                                  53

implementation, inparallel with the detailed design stage o f the project. Outline TORSare provided as
Attachment 1.

One o f the key objectives o f the study will be to assess the likely scale and significance o f project impacts
on local forest resources, taking into account the need for (potentially) large volumes o f timber for
housingreconstruction. At present there are varying estimates o f the likely volumes that will beneeded,
which can only begin to be verified once the project becomes fully operational at the community level. At
the same time, it i s clear that there i s very limitedlegally sourced timber available locally, but an
abundance o f illegal timber.

The study will develop a more accurate profile oflikely demand for timber associated with the project,
based on data derived from the first community settlement plans, disaggregated into annual estimates. It
will assess availability and supplytrends inthe local timber market (volumes, provenance, pricing and
quality). It will evaluate the level and significance o f impacts on the forest resource attributable to the
project. It will then define a strategy for ensuringthat sufficient volumes o f sustainable timber can be
made available to project beneficiaries. The Strategy will be integrated with safeguards measures being
taken at the community level to provide training to project facilitators ingreen construction standards and
ensure that the Community Settlement Plans include agreed environmental principles.

The study will buildon demand side studies that have been carriedout by FAO,WWF and others, as well
as existing approaches to sourcing of materials being appliedby other donors involved inreconstruction
activities (WFP, UN-HABITAT,IOM, Oxfam). It will assess the impact, also, o fmeasures being taken
by the UNJoint Logistics Center (JLC) and WWF's Timber for Aceh Programto facilitate the efficient
supply of construction materials (including sustainably sourcedtimber)into Aceh.

D.2 Social SafeguardandResettlementPolicyFramework
(a)    Principles
As stipulated inGOI's Masterplan, the project adheres to the general principle o fminimizing involuntary
resettlement. The need for resettlement may arise for (i)     residents residing on land unsuitable for
reconstruction; (ii) former tenants and squatters; and, (iii)  internally displaced people (IDPs) who do not
wish to return to original areas. Inthe event involuntary resettlement does occur, a LandAcquisition and
Resettlement Policy Framework has been developed as part o f the SESAF inaccordance with OP 4.12 to
ensure application o f the appropriate safeguard policies. The project will maximize upon the community-
based approach developed through ongoingKDP and UPP. The highlyparticipatory nature o f the project,
including community-based spatial and reconstruction planning, will ensure that communities are able to
identify whether any proposed investments will have a negative impact on social safeguards, and if
applicable, assign appropriate mitigation measures.

The "Comprehensive Human SettlementsRehabilitation and Reconstruction Strategy" preparedby the
GO1serves as a basis for all housingprograms undertaken by various donors stipulates the principles o f
promoting community-based approach and o f minimizing involuntary resettlement. Inthe Strategy, the
affected communities are encouraged to explore viable alternatives to minimize displacement.

Following are the overriding principles o f how the project deals with the land issues:


0   Maximizingcommunity consultationas a mechanismto clarifylandtenure situation, resolve
    conflictsto minimize resettlement. The community proposing the settlement reconstructionwill use
    a transparent and participatoryprocess to ensure that all eligible and affectedpersons agree on any
    option that involves land acquisition and resettlement, and agree on the community mapping and the
    community settlement plan. The backbone o f the project design i s the community-driven
    development mechanism and it buildson the experience o f KDP andUPP. It i s assumed that this



                                                     54

     built-inCDD mechanismwill help the project affectedpopulationidentifyintra-community solutions
     inmostcases.
0    Sensitivity to the local culture and the traditional regulationswhere appropriate. Land
     acquisition and resettlement will take into account relevant local or traditionalregulations/laws where
     appropriate, and this will be reflected duringthe community mapping and consultation process,
     community settlement plan and implementation mechanisms.
0    Minimizing adverse impactson assets. The GO1ensures that noreal decline inincome will take
     place because o f displacement and all project affected persons will be compensated for their looses at
     replacement cost and provided with rehabilitationmeasures to assist them to improve, or at least
     maintain their pre-disaster living standards and income earning capacity.

(b)      Land Acquisition and Resettlement
At the appraisal stage, the projectcannot identifythe intensity o fthe potential social issues and impacts
that may arise duringits preparation and implementation. Nor can the project assess the land acquisition
and resettlement needed, as the size o f need o f the settlement reconstruction o f each community will be
identified once the project starts on the ground. The need for land acquisition or for involuntary
resettlement inspecific housing reconstruction activities will only be known duringproject
implementation, when site-specific plans are available. However, incase the need for land acquisition or
for involuntary resettlement does occur, following provisions will apply:

(i)Anyhousingreconstructionactivitiesinvolvinginvoluntaryresettlementorlandacquisitionofmore
than 25 households or 200 persons will only be approved after the preparation by the District level
Housing Coordination Committees o f a full LandAcquisition and Resettlement Action Plan (LARAP)
acceptable to the Bank. Several issues are likely to increase the complexity o f land acquisition-the
availability o freliable landrecords, the inability o fpeople to document ownership, the demise o f
occupants and subsequent uncertainty about transfers o f title. LARAP should spell out the GOI's
measures to implement the principles o f compensation and livelihoodrestoration for any Project Affected
Person (PAP). This includes any person who, on account o f the execution o f the Project, has experienced
or would experience direct economic and social impacts caused by the involuntary taking o f land
resulting in:

0    relocation or loss o f shelter;
0    loss o f assets or access to assets; or
0    loss of income sources or means o f livelihood, whether or not such person mustmove to another
     location, resulting inadverse impacts on the livelihood o f such person.

The Project Operational Manual will include procedures for identifying eligible project affected people,
calculating and delivering compensation, and mechanisms for dealingwith grievances. While the
detailed format o f the full LARAPwill be provided inthe Project Operational Manual, it should cover
essentially the following information:

     Description o f proposed investments that require land;
     Information on the project affected persons;
     Policy on the land acquisition andresettlement;
     Procedures and requirements to acquire land and resettlement;
     Mechanisms for land compensation andresettlement;
     Consultation, disclosure and grievances mechanisms;
     Institutional arrangements;
     Financing sources; and,
     Time schedule for the implementation o f LARAP.




                                                   55

The D M C teams will ensure that the above LARAP spells out clearly the proposed actions for settlement
reconstruction o f the affected communities. The DistricUCity Housing CoordinationCommittee will
mediate the consultationwith support o f the D M C teams. All the LARAPsneedprior review and
approval by the National Steering Committee for the project and the World Bank.
(ii)thelandisacquiredfromlessthan25households/200people(orabout40privatelandowners), the
    If
following steps will be followed:

    The community or the local government that needs the land will negotiate with the private
    landowners. The agreement on the type and level o f compensation i s made through a participatory
    and transparent process.
    Agreement between the community or the local government and the private landowners will be
    incorporated inthe community settlement plan, with clear landplots demarcation, type and amount o f
    compensation (ifit i s incash), the timing o f payment, and the fundingsources for the compensation.
    Dependingon who obtains the land, compensation may be paid from funding from community and/or
    local govemment.
    Ifthe localgovernment acquires the land, there willbeanagreement betweenitandthe household
    beneficiaries on the arrangement scheme o f the right o f use o f the land. This agreement will be
    incorporated inthe community settlement plan, with clear landplot, arrangement o f the rights o f use,
    obligation o f the beneficiaries, and accompanied by a list o f eligible beneficiaries. The agreement has
    to be verified by the village level facilitators o f KDP and UPP as well as housing facilitators and the
    DMCteams at the DistrictICity Housing CoordinatingCommittee. The agreement will be reached
    through a participatory and transparent process.
    Where voluntary contribution o f land or other assets are indicated, either inthe new site or inthe
    existing site whereby the reconstruction works will be located, there will be a clear agreement
    between the contributors and the recipients, including the names, land plots with clear demarcation,
     and the details o f the terms o f the contributions. This agreement will be incorporated inthe
    community settlement plan and verified by the facilitators and the D M C teams inthe District/City
    Project ImplementationUnit. The usage o f the contributed land will be defined through community
     consultation and be made transparent to the community.
    Ifthe community or local government acquired landfromprivate landowners through cash
     compensation or other compensation scheme, it will be paidprior to the implementation o f the
     community settlement plan.
    The settlement reconstruction inthe new sites will only be carriedout once the community members
     agree on the community settlement plan, the World Bank approves the plan and compensation i s paid
    by the GOI.

     Consultation andDisclosure

This environmental and safeguards framework has been discussed with BRR, MPW and other relevant
authorities at the provincial and local government levels. The GO1will disclose this fiamework inNAD
Province. The World Bank will ensure that the framework i s published inthe Infoshop and the World
Bank Indonesia Public Information Center. The framework will be available also on the E-Aceh website
(http://www.e-aceh-org).

The project designembedded a community-based approach as a way to promote active participation and
transparency inthe decision-mahng processes at the community level. Community consultations at the
village level (e.g., community forums, accountability meetings) will be the main platform for this
approach. This includes the addressing o fthe social issues/impacts that arise, identifying land owners and
land plots, preparing the settlement plan, acquiring land and resettlingpeople, and, preparingthe
settlement reconstruction sub-project proposal, as well as managing the construction o f housing and
infrastructure. Ifhouseholds move to other sites, consultation with the host population will also be done
to minimize potential negative impacts and future social disruptions.


                                                     56

Processes o f acquiring land either by the community or the local government will also involve
consultation with the landowners (private and public), facilitated by the DMCs. The maps o f the land
plots and owners as well as the community settlement plan will also be disclosed to the public. The
KERAPo fUPP and Community ForumofKDP as well as the DMCs inthe District Housing
Coordinating Committee will ensure that the disclosure o f all agreements and documents will take place
appropriately at the district level. The consultation process and the results agreed by the community
members will be made available to the public through websites, meetings, newsletter, public postings, and
other means.

Duringproject preparation and implementation, it is important to have proper consultation and
collaborationwith other agencies/projects that support or complement the project. This includes the
Steering Committee o f the Reconstruction of Aceh Land Administration System Project (RALAS) and the
National as well as the Provincial Land Agency, the UPP and K D P and the BRR, plus other donor
agencies and NGOs who are working inthe housing sector and land inventory/mapping. At the
provincial level, the project will also coordinate with the "Sekretariat Bersama" o f the RALAS project,
situated at the Provincial Land Agency. The Project Operational Manual will provide the detailed
mechanisms on the consultation and disclosure, which follow those o f the UPP and KDP.

F. GrievanceRedressalMechanisms

Each member o f the community has the right to file complaints should there be any concerns that remain
unsolvedduringcommunity consultations. Complaints can be conveyed inthe form o f written documents,
inperson, through e-mail, media, etc. At the community level, complaints canbe addressed to the UPP
and KDP facilitators. Ifthe problem can not be solved by the village level facilitators, then complaints
should be conveyed to the Kecamatan Facilitators (inthe case of KDP)/City Coordinators (Korkot, inthe
case o f UPP) and to the D M C o f the District/City Project ImplementationUnit. Inconsultation with the
District/City Housing Committee, the D M C will respond to the complaints within a specific period o f
time. Unresolvedcomplaints at the city/district level will bebrought to the ComplaintsHandlingUnitat
the Directorate o f Housing and Public Facilitiesunder the BRR. All complaints and responses should be
documented at the community, city/district and provincial level, inthe respective Management Unit
Offices. The Project Operational Manual will provide the detailed mechanisms on the complaints and
grievance redressal, which follow those o f UPP and KDP.

G.    Monitoringand Evaluation

G.l Environmentalmonitoring
Field-based environmental monitoring will focus on the construction phase for each community
settlement plan to ensure compliance with applicable codes and practices. Monitoringwill be the
responsibilityo f the MPW with support from the DMCs and field based facilitators. The Project
Operational Manual will include a field-based environmental monitoring protocol to assist the process.
Completed protocols will be summarized inbi-annual reports and used as an input to supervision
missions.

To provide further technical guidance, review and monitoring capacity, particularly duringYear 1, the
project will contract specialist social and environmental services to be located at the level of the PMC and
providing coverage for each o f the DMCs, as required. Inputs o f up to 16weeks from an international
specialist supportedby 3 full time local environmental specialists are envisaged for Year 1 (this
arrangement to be reviewed for subsequent years). Routine World Bank supervision missions will assess
the overall implementation o f the framework and, ifrequired, recommend additional support.




                                                  57

G.2 Social monitoring
Monitoring and evaluationwill be done to ensure that the social issues and impacts have been addressed
properly and in a participatory, fair, and transparent manner, inparticular where land acquisition and
resettlement processes take place. The housing facilitators, together with the UPP and K D P facilitators,
will carry out datahnformationcollectionto monitor the progress and impacts. At the CityiDistrict level,
the D M C inthe District/City PIUwill consolidate the informationcollectedbythe facilitators and provide
necessary follow upiinterventions based on the assessment o f the consolidated data.

ContinuousSocial ImpactAssessment
Inorder to ensure that social issuesare addressedandsocial impacts areminimized, theproject will
undertake a Continuous Social Impact Assessment (CSIA, see Annex F on Monitoring and Evaluation)
starting duringthe community preparation until completion o f project implementation. The mechanisms
and format o f the CSIA i s provided inthe Project Operational Manual. The CSIA i s preparedby an
independent team assisted by the housing facilitators and closely collaborate with the village facilitators
of KDP and UPP. Volunteers o f K D P and UPP and ineach kelurahan/village will also assist the
independent team. The District Management Consultant inthe District/City Project ImplementationUnit
will supervise the preparation and the implementation o f the recommendation o fthe SIA.

H. ImplementingInstitutionsandCapacityBuilding
Under the overall coordination by the BRR, at the districucity and villageiward levels, each project
implementing entity (PMU, PW, KPs) i s expected to take responsibility inensuring that this framework i s
supported, The key tasks, responsibilities and related management actions requiredin supporting the
framework are listed inthe following table:

 Tasks                         IResponsibility               IRequired actions

 Environmental Safeguards Measures
 Community level awareness      D M C environmental           -General awareness raising to be provided
 raising ingreen                specialists,                  to the community based on UNHabitat
 reconstruction standards       Project facilitators          green construction guidance (to be
                                                              developed)
 Technical training for         D M C engineering and         -Training to be providedbased on MPW
 Project staff, facilitators,   environmental specialists     Standard Operating Procedures together
 Dinas P U and Dinas                                          with UNHABITAT green construction
 Lingkungan in                                                guidance (to be developed)
 environmental screening
 and mitigation
 Environmental screening of     Project Manager (PIU),        -Each community settlement plan to be
 community settlement plans     Local environmental           screening according to screening procedure
                                authorities                   set out inthis document
 Application o f                Project Manager (PIU),        -Prior to approval o f community settlement
 environmental codes and        DMCenvironmental              plans, the P I U Project Manager will ensure
 practices to community         specialists,                  that relevant M P W and other environmental
 settlement plans               World Bank Jakarta Office     guidelines are applied, and that sufficient
                                                              mitigation and monitoring i s included for
                                                              any residual impacts.
                                                              -The DMC environmental specialist (and
                                                              World Bank Office Jakarta) will review a
                                                              sample o f these plans and may require
                                                              corrective actions to be taken.
 Environmental monitoring       Project facilitators,         -Completion o f 3-monthly monitoring
 (construction phase)           DMC environmental             protocols to be included inquarterly project
                                specialists,                  reports. Corrective actions to be
                                World Bank Office Jakarta     documented.



                                                     58

  Environmental monitoring       Beneficiaries                   -Environmental monitoring against basic
  (longer term)                                                 Iindicators to be gradually transferred to the
                                                                 community.
  Social Safeguard Measures
  Compensation                   GO1(districtlcity and central   -Preparation o f LARAP by the DMC.
                                 government)                     -Prior review o f LARAP (less than 25
                                                                 households/200 persons/40 private owners)
                                                                 by the District-level housingcommittee.
                                                                 -Prior review o f full LARAP (more than 25
                                                                 households/200 persons) by National
                                                                 Housing Coordination Committee.
                                                                 -Request counterpart financing for land
                                                                 acquisition and monetary compensation.
                                                                 -Identify availablepublic land for
                                                                 compensation and additional land to
                                                                 purchase for compensation.
  Preparation and monitoring     Independent (consultant) team   -DMCs andthe independent (consultant)
  o f continuous SIA (CSIA)      assistedby the facilitator and  teamprovide guidance and training to the
                                 volunteers                      facilitators/volunteers prior to the
                                 DMCs will monitor the           preparation o f the Community Settlement
                                 implementation o f CSIA         Plan after the KERAP inUPP or the TPK in
                                                                 K D P is established.
  Preparation and monitoring     Preparationo f LARAP will be    -DMCs willprovide guidance andtraining
  o f LARAP for land obtained    done by the KERAPiTPK           to the KERAP/TPK, facilitators and
 by community                    assisted by facilitators and    volunteers prior to the preparation o f the
                                 volunteers.                     community settlement plan.
                                 DMCsmonitor the
                                 implementation o f the
                                 LAMP.
 Preparation, implementation     Preparation o f LARAP will be   -PMU/PMC will provide guidance and
  and monitoring o f LARAP       zarried out by the Project      training for the PIUs and DMCs as well as
  for land obtained by local     [mplementation Unit with the    facilitators at the earliest stage.
  government                     assistance o f DMCs
                                 PMU/PMCwill monitor the
                                 implementation o f L A M P
 Preparation and                 The KERAP and TPK will          -The PIU/DMC will provide guidance and
  implementation o f the         prepare the CSP; the            training for the KERAP and TPK, as well as
  Community Settlement Plan      PIUDMC will monitor the         for facilitators at the earliest stage
  (CSP)                          ?reparationand
                                 implementation o f the CSP

The project will deliver practical guidance and training to the level o f the DMC-PrUs and the community
inapplication ofthis safeguards framework. Trainingwillbeprovidedfor: key community members, all
field level facilitators, all PIUstaffmembers, Dinas PU, and Dinas Lingkungan staff. Given that 300
housing facilitators will need to be recruited during year 1o f the project, the rollingprogram o f training
will be requiredwith events scheduled every 2-3 months.

The main capacity needs and related budget items required to support implementation o fthis framework
are provided inthe following table.




                                                      59

                Item                                   Needs                          Indicative budget
Environmental
Environmental management                I  International environmental    1  -20 weeks duringyear 1. T o be
support to PIUs (includes                  specialist supporting the         reviewed for years 2 and 3
development o f training materials         PMU
and delivery o f training to P I U staff   National environmental            -3 specialists (fulltime) during
and project facilitators)                  specialists supporting the        year 1. T o be reviewed for years 2
                                           1ocal~IUs                         and3
Community awareness ingreen             IIIProject facilitators           1IIT o be included intheir TORS
construction standards
Environmental study on indirect            1International and 1national      -8 weeks international specialist.
and cumulative project impacts             EIA specialist;                   -12 weeks national specialist.
                                           1International and 1local         -6 weeks international specialist.
                                           forestry resource                 -12 weeks national specialist.
                                           management specialist
Social
Preparationand monitoring o f              A Social expert at the            -The DMC will monitor the
continuous SIA, including training         PMU/PMC and at the                preparation and implementation o f
materials and awareness to                 P I U D M C                       the recommendation o f the CSIA
potential social issues                                                      with the assistance o f the
                                                                             KabKota Coordinators and
                                                                             Facilitators. Dependingon the
                                                                             intensity and seriousness o f the
                                                                             social issues, the Kab/Kota
                                                                             coordinators may be assisted by
                                                                             junior social experts. Each expert
                                                                             may cover 10-15 villages /
                                                                             kelurahans.
                                                                             -For PMUPMC and PIUDMC, a
                                                                             fulltime Social expert each i s
                                                                             needed for the whole Proiect
                                                                             preparation and implementation
Preparation o f LARAP, including           A Social or land acquisition      -The DMC will monitor the
training materials for land                and resettlement expert at        L A R A P implementation with the
acquisition and resettlement               P I U D M C and PMUiPMC           assistance o f the KabKota
                                                                             Coordinators and Facilitators.
                                                                             Dependingon the intensity and
                                                                             seriousness o f the land acquisition
                                                                             and resettlement issues, the
                                                                             KabKota coordinators may be
                                                                             assistedbyjunior land acquisition
                                                                             and resettlement experts. Each
                                                                             expert may cover 10-15
                                                                             villages/kelurahans.

                                                                             The P M U P M C and P I U D M C
                                                                             need a land acquisition and
                                                                             resettlement expert each, for at
                                                                             least duringthe project preparation
                                                                             and first year o fproject
                                                                             implementation. The assignment
                                                                             o f the expert may be extended in
                                                                             accordance withthe need
Preparation o f Community                  Anurbanplanner and                -The P I U D M C andP M U P M C
Settlement Plan (CSP) including            community dev't specialist at     need an urbanplanner and
training for preparing the CSP             the P I U D M C and               community dev't specialist at least
                                           P M U P M C                       during the project preparation and

                                                         60

                                                      first year of project
                                                      implementation. The assignment
                                                      o f the expert may be extended in
                                                      accordance with the need.
                                                      -The DMC will monitor the
                                                      preparation and implementation o f
                                                      the CSP with the assistance o f the
                                                      KabKota Coordinators and
                                                      Facilitators.

Preparation of Land    An expert oflandmapping in -The number o f field land
inventorylmapping      the PIUPMC and PMUPMC          mapping experts neededwill
                       ;A fieldlandmappingexpert      depend on the size of a particular
                       i s needed to guidance and     villagelkelurahan, and the land
                       supervise the mapping in       inventoryhapping activities that
                       each village, and may          have been done by other parties.
                       collaborate with the RALAS     -Expert for each villagelkelurahan
                       Project                       1will be needed for at least 12
                                                      weeks.




                                     61

                                                                                              Attachment 1

 OutlineTORSfor an EnvironmentalStudy onIndirectand Cumulativeimpactsassociatedwiththe
                    IDA settlement rehabilitationandreconstructionprojectinAceh

Introduction
The Aceh reconstructionprocess requires the buildingand rehabilitation of tens ofthousands ofhousing
unitsover the next 2-3 years. This effort will place a significant burdenon already highlystressednatural
resource conditions across the province. Particular areas of concern include the sourcing o f construction
materials, water supply requirements, and the clearance and safe disposal of rubble and other tsunami
related debris.

This study will evaluate the level and scale o fwidespread and cumulative impacts associated with the
IDA'Shousingreconstruction projectinAceh, and design appropriate mitigationinline with Government
of Indonesia environmental laws and standards, as well as those of the IDA.The study will be carried out
duringthe early stages of project implementation, inview o fpressingneeds to progress housing
reconstruction in Aceh.

Key Tasks

Task 1: identifykey indirect and cumulative type impacts.

Task 2: for each impact area assess baseline environmental conditions,

Task 3: for each impact area, define level and scale o f impact attributable to the IDAhousing
reconstruction project.

Task 4: for each impact area, define and assess environmental mitigation alternatives.

Task 5: develop operational environmental management plan for the IDA housingreconstruction project.

The Consultingteam
The team will be lead by an international environmental management specialist with over 10 years
experience inEIA, supported by an international forest resource management specialist. International
specialists will be supported with suitably qualified Acehnese consultants. The team will be based in
Aceh for the duration o f the study.

TimingandResources
The study will carried out duringthe first 4 months o f project implementation. The results of the study
will informthe IDA'Sfirst supervision mission. The study will require 14weeks ofinternational
specialist input and 24 weeks o fnational specialist input.




                                                 62

                                   ANNEXH:ANTI-CORRUPTIONACTIONPLAN

Executive Summary
The primary objectives of this Anti-Corruption Action Plan are to identify corruption risks and mitigation
measures beyond the standard control systems employed by the IDA. Further program-specific control
systems are outlined inthe FinancialManagement & Disbursement Arrangements and inthe Procurement
Arrangements annexes. This Action Plan: (i)            maps potential riskso f corruption; and (ii) program
                                                                                                 presents
activities to address these risks inthe form o f an Action Plan.

The project follows a learning approach, and implementation experiences will be continually incorporated
into the implementation processes. The Anti-Corruption Action Plan should therefore be seen as a starting
point and not an all-inclusive list o f mitigation measures. This learningapproach i s especially important
inthe reconstruction o fthe post-tsunami andpost-earthquake areas ofAceh andnorthernSumatra, where
there are both multiple problems and needs, yet at the same time weakened local government and
complex lines of coordination between government and non-government agencies.

CorruptionMapping. The matrix included inthis action plan identifies some potential risks o f
corruption and specifies some appropriate mitigationmeasures that havebeen agreed to by the
ImplementingAgency of the Government o f Indonesia, 9.9. BRR (Badan Pelaksana Rekonstruksi dan
Rehabilitasi NAD and Nias) and the ExecutingAgency of the Government o f Indonesia, 9.9. The
Ministryo fPublic Works -(MPW). The mappingexercise will berepeatedtwice duringthe lifetime o f
the project to incorporate innovations and lessons learned.

The Action Plan. The anti-corruption strategy has been developed around the premise that the project
will be built upon two establishedGovernment o f IndonesiaCommunity Driven Developmentprograms:
The Urban Poverty Program (UPP) and the KecamatanDevelopmentProgram (KDP, the rural sister
project to UPP), For the sake o f this anti-corruption plan, the project activities can be seento fall into two
distinct sets: the first i s the procurement, mobilizationand management o f supporting consultant services
at the provincial and national levels, and the second i s the community level activities themselves.

Communitv level uarticiuation and empowerment are crucial to the success o f the project as a whole.
These will draw heavily on experience from the UPP and KDP projects, usingestablished village and
sub-district mechanisms wherever possible. Together, these factors will inspire greater accountability and
better governance. This project empowers groups at the village" level to officially manage the
distribution o f standard housing grants among group members, and together mobilize other available local
resources. These groups, assisted by trained facilitators and engineers, will be responsible for the
technical quality o ftheir own housing. It i s inthe long term self interest o f the group members to make
the best possible use of the available resources. The design of the project incorporates careful
socialization and transparent management techniques that help to ensure the necessary participationand
empowerment.

Inrelationto corruption, there are three mainriskareasinvolvedinthisproject. The first group o frisks is
to be found inthe transfer o f funds from national level to end-user. The second group relates to the
multiple risks o f coercion at the local level. And the third group of risksrelates to procurement,
particularly of consultant services.

The streamlined and participativeprocesses adapted from KDP and UPP are expected to greatly reduce
risks related to getting funds to the groups that needthem. Nevertheless, the post-disaster area does
present a unique set o f challenges that must not be underestimated. The project recognizes this problem
and will not only adopt the mitigation measures already developed under UPP and KDP, but also ensure


25Urban villages (kelurahan) and rural villages (desa).

                                                        63

more frequent monitoring and supervision activities to further reduce associated risks. Taken together,
these measures are deemed to greatly reduce the overall level o f risk.Further, because grant amounts are
known at the group level, the likelihood is highthat individuals will use the project's complaint
mechanisms iftheir entitlements are delayed or subjected to deductions.

The risks relatedto coercion at the local level range from mildto very serious. At the lower end o f the
spectrum, it i s possible that well-meaning engineers might try to coerce villagers to use contractors to
undertake works that the villagers would prefer to do themselves. These types o frisks are greatly reduced
through open dialogues at the village level and clear mechanisms for getting `second opinions' from
higher levels o fproject management. The more serious risks includethe threat o fphysical violence from
armed factions who may seek to influence decisions, or even steal the grants. To offset these latter risks
the grant disbursement mechanismswill allow for multiple withdrawals at bankbranchesnearest to the
material suppliers chosen by the villagers. Inother words, there will not be a needfor large sums o f cash
to be carried from place to place. Again, the collective decision-making and management processes are
perceivedto offer the best protectionagainst abuse.

Close supervision and rigidenforcement o f the rules governingprocurement and financial management at
the national, province and district levels o f the project will help to ensure that contracts at those levels
will notbe fraught withproblems. Civil society oversight o fprojectprocesses should provide additional
security inprocurement and implementation activities.

Some o f the most important aspects o f the anti-corruption actionplan can be summarized into the five key
elements that follow. Underpinning each o f these elements i s the careful consultative process that ensures
participation and empowerment.

A. EnhancedDisclosure Provisions and Transparency
The project will simplify disclosed materials and make them readily available to the public. Specific
disclosure measures related to information at the national, province and district levels will include, but not
be limited to:
     Public disclosure o f annual procurement plans and schedules (and their updates), biddingdocuments
     and requests for proposals.
     Disclosure to all bidders o f the summary o f the evaluation and comparison o f bids, proposals, offers,
     and quotations, after the successful bidder i s notified.
     Allbiddingdocuments willbe madepublicly available inaccordance withWorldBankprocurement
     guidelines.
     All short lists ofconsultants will be madepublicly available inaccordance with World Bank
     consultant guidelines.
     The summary o f the evaluation o f all bidswill be available to all bidders and parties submitting
     proposals for specific contracts, promptly after the notification o f award to the successful bidder.
     All bidopenings will bepublic.
     Representatives o f the end-users o f the goods or works being procuredat the District or Provincial
     level will be able to attend the public bid openings.
     All informationregardingcontracts awarded will be publicly disclosed.
     Disclosureo f audit reports and mid-termreview.
     Public information centers established inrelation to the Aceh reconstruction effort will be fully
     utilized to ensure that the simplified information i s available to beneficiaries.
Inrelationto transactionsundertakenat the individual andgroup levels, salient informationwillbemade
readily available to communitiesby a range o f means, including routine public accountability meetings
and notice boards. Project facilitators will check on a regular basis that such information i s being shared

                                                    64

inappropriate ways. Failureto disseminate informationmayresult insuspension of fundingto a given
group (KP) or village.

B. Civil Society Oversight
The programrecognizes that greater oversight by civil society i s likely to reduce the risk of corruption
and misuse o fpower. The program involves a highdegree o f formal participationby community groups
within the areas o fbeneficiaries, the private sector, and traditionalladat and religious leaders, through the
monitoring o f the projectslend results, memberships o f the tender committee, and the evaluation o f the
quality o f delivery procured services/products.

ExistingNGOs and other civil society organizations will be involved ina variety o fways, inter alia: i)
through participation inworkshops; ii)as key resourcepersons for the development and strengthening o f
groups where possible; iii)as evaluators on an ad-hoc basis, possibly with some hired under contract for
routine monitoring and/or specific studies; and iv) as training providers inparticular skill areas.

Opportunities will be given for CSOs to become involved insupervision missions.

C. MitigatingCollusion,Fraud& Forgery
Opportunity for collusion and fraud exist inany project. However, due to the participatory, transparent
nature o f the project, many o f the possible risks are significantly reduced. There i s a risko f forgery o f (a)
documents certifying completion o f work, and (b) contractor invoices and reimbursable expenditure by
consultants. Mitigation will be throughrequirements for stronger documentary trails, use for formal
vendor invoices for reimbursement claims, requiring extensive pre-audits by BPKP on eligibility and
completion o f construction, and certification o f completion by community groups also before payments
are released. Transparent, well-advertised procurement under the program with appropriate oversight i s
the starting point for reducingthe likelihood o f collusion. Additional auditing and procurement
procedures are proposed, such as oversight by technical assistance and capacity building. Performance o f
the project consultants/contractors/suppliers will be monitoredand evaluated by government (BRR,
MPW) as well as by civil society. Government assessmentso fperformance will be circulatedto the
relevant technical parties. Cases o f collusion, fraud and forgery within the government will be reported
directly to the authorized agency mandated under the Indonesian law, which i s the attorney general office
and the Anti-Corruption Commission. Inthe case o f collusion, fraud and forgery within the community,
the cases will first be reported, discussed, and decided at community level meetings (Rembug Warga)
prior to their submission to the relevant authorities, Experience inother CDD projects indicates that
many risks can be mitigated by the threat and use o f community-based sanctions such as those usedunder
UPP and KDP.

D. ComplaintsHandlingMechanism
Complaint handling procedures as defined inKeppres 80/2003, will be strictly followed by assigning
authorized officials to be responsible for maintaining a database of complaints and the follow up actions.
While the program i s designed to encourage local complaints resolution, insome cases local elites might
still try to misuse power and program activities; so, it i s important to be able to access a more central
complaints handling system. A special unit designated for handlingo f complaints will be set up by BRR
for all related reconstruction activities, includingbut not limited to this housingproject. This unit may
investigate and facilitate the resolution o f complaints and problems deemed within the mandate o f BRR,
but inmost cases the problems will bereferredback to the relevant agency. The database o fcomplaints,
follow-up actions being taken, and sanctions applied will be publicized to increase participants'
involvement and to increase the likelihood o f their lodging protests, thereby raising the social costs o f
misuse o f funds. BRR and MPW will endeavor to ensure that complaints will be resolved ina
professional and timely fashion, and without risk o freprisal to `whistleblowers' inthe public. All o f the
village level sigdinformation boards will provide details o f the project and BRR's complaint handling
unitmailing addresses.


                                                   65

E. Sanctions& Remedies
Clear sanctions and remedies are important final steps inthe effort to fight corruption. This project will
endeavor to apply a zero tolerance policy to corruption, as do the UPP and KDP. Communities are
encouragedto impose reasonable, effective sanctions on citizens who abuse the power that has been
entrusted to them. There i s an increasing wealth o f anecdotal evidence suggesting that such sanctions can
be more easily applied andmore effective than protracted legalproceedings, especially incases o fminor
abuse. The project does not endorse vigilantism or extreme community sanctions. Formal sanctions may
also be applied. For example, any official (government or non-government), community member, or
private sector entity participatinginthe project can be prosecuted ifthe cases warrants and sufficient
evidence i s available. Inall procurement contracts, evidence o f corruption, collusion or nepotismwill
result intermination o f the relevant contract, possibly with additional penalties imposed (such as fines,
blacklisting, etc.) inaccordance with IDA and GO1regulations. Transfers o f funds into specific village or
group level accounts will be suspended incases where significant misuse o f funds i s suspected. Larger
rural or urban areas may be subject to suspension or cancellation o f assistance ifmisuse o f funds i s
suspected to occur widely inthe respective and no appropriate action i s taken to rectify the situation.
Information regardingsuccessful cases, where lessons are learned and funds are retrieved, will be widely
disseminated.

CorruptionMappingMatrix
Limitingthe occurrence o fcorruptioninthisproject starts with identifyingpotentialriskareas-this is
called corruption mapping. This exercise will be repeated at least every six months as the project
progresses and lessons are learned.


 CorruptionMappingArea          Level o f         Opportunityfor             Mitigation Action
                                Risk                 Corruption
 PROCUREMENT
 Capacity o f the PIMPRO           high       Non-independent         - Independentprofessionals
 and TenderlEvaluation           (Central)    judgment o f the        included as part o f the
 Committee                                    consultant evaluation   consultants' proposal
                                              process. The            evaluation team
                                              decisions tend to bias  - Capacity buildingfor all
                                              towards consultants     actors involved in
                                               as "instructed" by the procurement, including
                                              higher-level officials  certificationo f staff in
                                               or other parties.      accordance with Keppres
                                                                      -8012003
                                                                        Development o f Project
                                                                      Management Manual to
                                                                      streamline all procedures and
                                                                      sanctiodcomplaint handling
                                                                      mechanism

 Proposal evaluation             MEDIUM        -Delay inevaluation    - The  Procurement Plan, with
                                              process that would      detailed timeline, will be
                                              benefit exclusive       bindinginthe Legal
                                               consultants            Agreement, and will set as the
                                               - Proposals are        basis for any procurement
                                               rejected due to        actions.
                                               reasons unrelated to   - The  IDA would declare mis-
                                               the capacity o f       procurement for any
                                               consultants in         unjustified extension o f
                                               canying out o f the    validity o f proposals
                                               contractslservices     - QCBS   procedures with
                                               - Significantly high   budget ceiling will be
                                               technical scores       followed

                                                    66

                                     allocated to the        - The estimated budget for
                                     "preferred"             each contract package will be
                                     consultants such that   based on actual experience
                                     no other consultants
                                     can effectively beat
                                     their proposals
                                     regardless o f the
                                     prices, which could
                                     result to significantly
                                     highprices
                                      - False information
                                     about the information
                                     provided by the
                                      consultants

                               high   - The committee may    - The TOR willbe designed to
                                     call the prospective    be quite rigid
                                      winner and negotiate
                                     -the contract amount    - Mandatory disclosure o f
                                        Collusion and        contract awards
                                     nepotism inawarding
                                      the contract
Quality o f delivered          high  - The delivered         -Involvement o f civil society
services                             services are o f lower  oversight and supervisory
                                     quality than the ones   consultants inthe inspection
                                     specified inthe TOR,    -oEnhanced
                                                               f the delivered services
                                     and the officials may                complaint
                                      take kickback          handling mechanism
                                      through the            - Involvement o f community
                                     difference              groups inmonitoring the
                                     - Significant changes   quality o f the consultants'
                                     o f key staff o f       deliverables
                                      consultants at the     - Enforce   reward punishment
                                      early stage o f the    system as defined inKeppres
                                     -assignment             80/2003
                                        Intentionallylow
                                     quality o f supervision
                                      o f contracts, and
                                     kickback from the
                                      consultants

                               HIGH  Risko fkickback, and    Mandatory review by the IDA
Procurement Planning,                budget markup           o f Procurement Planning, and
including the one for the sub                                disclosure o fProcurement
projects                                                     Plan inpublic domain,
                                                             including disclosing the
                                                             contract amount

Overall Procurement            HIGH   Risko fkickback,       - Enhanced    disclosure,
                                      collusive practices to complaint handling, and
                                      "award" the contract   sanctions as defined in
                                      to "preferred"         Keppres 80/2003
                                      consultants, and       - Enhanced capacity for the
                                      lower quality o f      officials involved in
                                      services               procurement decision,
                                                             including hiring o f consultants
I                                                            - Enhanced    the control system
                                                             (internal and external)


                                           67

                                                              including involvement o f
                                                              professionalmembers o f civil
                                                              society inthe procurement
                                                              decision actions
                                                              - Development      o f Project
c                                                             Manuals
                                                              - Tighten   IDA supervision



IMANAGEMENT
 The final list o f P M Uand  MEDIUM - Risk o f weak            The criteria and performance
 PIUstaff with their (i)             capacity (e.g. lack o f  ndicators o f Project Manager,
 experiences inhandling              familiarity with IDA     rreasurer, planning staff,
 donor financing project and         procedures, lack o f     Irocurement staff, financial
 (ii) ofproject
     history                         managingthe project      itaff and monitoring &
 management and or treasury          o f a similar scale) o f :valuation. Staff o f CPMU,
 training taken                      P M U and PIU staff.     'MU andPIUagreedbythe
                                                               DA have been incorporated in
                                                               he P M M and will be used as
                                                               he basis o f the annual
                                                               )erformance review o f the
                                                               .elevant staff

                                                               I  Requirement o f P O M as a
                                                                  guideline for project

                                                               - Requirement
                                                                  implementation.
                                                                                 o f Government
                                                                  Project Management,
                                                                  Treasury and P O M training
                                                                  for CPMU, PMU and PIU
                                                                  staff.
                                                               - Annual Training agreed by
                                                                  the IDA on CPMU, P M U
                                                                  and P I U staff.

 Publicationo f all Audit     MEDIUM Risk o funavailability    The implementing agency will
 Reports and release into the        o f information on the     (and the IDA can) make
 public domain Publication.          progress and result o f   publicly available promptly
                                     project                    after receipt o f final audit
                                     implementation            reports prepared inaccordance
                                                               with the loadcredit
                                                                agreement, and all formal
                                                               response o f the government
                              MEDIUM Lack o f local             The project design includes
 Mechanisms                          experience may result      oversight and supervision to
                                     incommunities              minimize risks.
                                     overlooking cases o f
                                     abuse.                     Meetings will be held
                                                                regularly at the village and
                                                                sub-village levels to make
                                                                collective decisions o n
                                                                strategic issues, and to review
                                                                the use o f funds.

                                                                Local accountants will audit
                                                                finances each year.

                                                                Audit results willbe reported


                                          68

                                                       to the community at the
                                                       relevant accountability
                                                       meeting. Ideally, each sub
                                                       district should be visited at
                                                       least twice by the PMC, and in
                                                       each o f these a sample group
                                                       o f villages should be singled
                                                       out for quality control
                                                       purposes.

                                                       Inorder to enhance the quality
                                                       o f consultants ' supervision
                                                       under the project, facilitators
                                                       are requiredto regularly check
                                                       the community level books.
                                                       They will also need to sign
                                                       and file a "representation
                                                       statement" regularly,
                                                       confirming that they have
                                                       checked the books and found
                                                       them satisfactory. The
                                                       consultants at higher level
                                                       would randomly check the
                                                       facilitators' statements and
                                                       will also be requiredto sign
                                                       and file similar representation
                                                       statements. A mechanism for
                                                       checking and applying
                                                       sanctions will be developed
                                                       for those filing false
                                                       statements (sanctions may
                                                       include job separation).

COMMUNITY
PARTICIPATION
Limited dissemination of    LOW  Information is kept   Socialization will be carried
information relatedto the        limitedto certain     out through meetings,
Program                          circulation or group  workshops and focus group
                                 o fpeople only such   discussions at the various
                                 that non qualified    project levels (province,
                                 proposals could be    district, village). It will also
                                 Expected              include a campaign through
                                                       newspaper spots and radio
                                                       programs. The socialization
                                                       strategy i s geared towards
                                                       making communities aware o f
                                                       the project's goals, and its
                                                       rules and regulations. These
                                                       are aimed to ensure that
                                                       stakeholders know what their
                                                       respective roles and
                                                       responsibilities are, andhow
                                                       to hold each other accountable
                                                       for their actions.
Selection o f KERAP/UPK     LOW  Von transparent       The selection process of
members                          xocess o f            members of the community
                                 IERAPITPK             groups that oversee the project

                                     69

                                   members which           :KERAP for UPP and TPK for
                                   result to low integrity KDP) will be conducted
                                                           through a transparent and fair
                                                           zlectionprocess, with
                                                           significant participation from
                                                           the members o f the
                                                           Zommunity
Channeling o f funds        MEDIUM Kick backs for the      Funds are transferred directly
                                   government officials    to accounts controlled by
                                                           beneficiaries. Once the
                                                           beneficiaries fulfillthe draw
                                                           down conditions, following a
                                                           request from the PJOK (after
                                                           verification by the District
                                                           Management Consultants), the
                                                           finds are remittedavailable
                                                           within a few days.

                                                           The procedures, size and
                                                           criteria for defining grants,
                                                           eligibility criteria for
                                                           beneficiaries, and conditions
                                                           for draw down are all
                                                           simplified and defined upfront
                                                           to ensure that stakeholders can
                                                           easily understandthem
Implementation o f the sub MEDIUM  Misuse o f finds at     All financialinformation i s
project investments                the community level     made public and displayed in
                                                           at the community level.

                                                           Minutes o f all meetings,
                                                           monthly financial status, and
                                                           names and amounts o f finded
                                                           proposals are posted on
                                                           signboards at the community
                                                           level. Discretion o f actors i s
                                                           limited by setting rules that all
                                                           financial transactions require
                                                           at least three signatures, two
                                                           from project-related
                                                           representatives elected by the
                                                           community and one from the
                                                           project's
                                                           consultant'facilitation team.
                                                           Additional procurement
                                                           requirements are enforced for
                                                           substantialpurchases (as
                                                           detailed inthe procurement
                                                           annex).
                                                           Local accountants will audit
                                                           finances. Audit results will be
                                                           reported to the community at t
                                                           accountability meetings   .




                                       70

                                         ANNEXI:    PROCUREMENT

Procurement Implementation Arrangements. The selection o f all consultant services for the project i s
the responsibility o f the Directorate General (DG) of Human Settlements at the Ministryo f Public Works.
The procurement o f works for settlement construction i s the responsibility o f the Community Groups
(KP) or a group o f several KPs. For the procurement involving the community, the main challenge i s to
have a "contract" with community for the delivery o f certain outputs/products based on the agreed lump
sumamount andthe technical specifications, with a controlmechanism. The controlmechanism from
within the community for procurement processes (as currently applied under UPP and KDP) will be
included inthe project Operational Manuals.

Procurement Arrangements. Procurement for the proposedproject would be carried out inaccordance
with the World Bank's "Guidelines: Procurement under IBRDLoans and IDA Credits" dated May 2004;
"Guidelines: Selection and Employment o f Consultants by IDA Borrowers" dated M a y 2004; and, the
provisions stipulated inthe MultiDonor Trust Fund(MDTF) and the Child TF Agreements. The various
items under different expenditure categories are described ingeneral below. For each contract to be
financed by MDTFand the Child TF, the different procurement methods or consultant selection methods,
estimated costs, prior review requirements, and time frame, are definedinthe Procurement Plan. The
Procurement Plan will be updated annually, or as required, to reflect the actual project implementation
needs and improvements ininstitutional capacity.

Procurement of Works. Works procured under this project would includerehabilitation and
reconstruction works o f approximately 25,000 houses and tertiary infrastructure. Community groups will
receive community grants for an amount of Rp 28.8 million per house (USS3,OOO equivalent) to be
rebuilt, and Rp 10million per house to be renovated. There will be subproject agreements between the
community groups and the Govemment o f Indonesia through the PJOK. The standard form o f subproject
agreement will be found inthe project Operational Manual and will include information on: (i)   the total
amount of community grants; and (ii)    the implementationschedule andthe number ofhouses to be
deliveredby the particular K P by the endo f contract period.

Works may be conducted through contributions from communities, which may be inthe form o f labor
and materials. Inthis case, the procedures will be inaccordance with paragraph 3.17 o f the Procurement
Guidelines on "Community ParticipationinProcurement". For contribution o f labor, communities may
choose to include full or partial labor cost inthe proposals and/or pay salaries for work done on the
project. Construction usinga labor-intensive arrangement with community members i s subject to the
followingprovisions:


0   The architectural plans and engineering designs shall be acceptable to Govemment regulations and
    standards.
0   The implementatiodsubprojectagreement covering these works shall include the following:
    (i)specified lump-sum, fixed price amount based on a written estimate o fwork to be rendered by
    identified laborers from the community; and (ii)  descriptioninreasonable detail, including basic
    specifications, estimated completion date, and relevant drawings where applicable.

Inareaswhere the community doesnot have the capacity to construct works themselves, or where the
community groups so decide, the community may (with GO1prior agreement as established inthe
subproject implementation agreement) choose to hire contractors to build the houses. Inthis case, the
procedures will be inaccordance with paragraph 3.5 o f the Procurement Guidelines (Shopping method).
These contracts will be contracted under lump sum, fixed price contracts awarded on the basis o f
quotations obtained from three qualified contractors inresponse to a written invitation. The invitation
includes basic specifications, required start and completion dates, an agreement format acceptable to the
IDA, andrelevant drawings. The awardwillbe made to the contractor who offers the lowestprice
quotation for the works. No restriction on participation inthe biddingi s allowed. To enhance

                                                  71

transparency, the list of vendors and their corresponding committedpaid amount will be disclosed inthe
public domain, at least on the information board and inthe public accountability meetings.

The District Management Consultant teams (DMCs) on behalf o f the Ministryo fPublic WorkdGOI),
through the community facilitators, will always be consulted to ensure smooth construction processes in
the field. This includesbut is not limited to: (i) hazard-resistant housingengineering design & lay
                                                  simple
out, (ii) determination of hiringor not hiringcontractors, (iii)  determination o f the housing contract
packages to be built by particular contractors, and (iv) the hazard-resistant construction methods to be
implementedinthe field. The project Operational Manual will provide additional detailed procedures
regardingthis matter.

Selectionof Consultants. The project will require consultant services for the following:

0    A team oflocal consultants, as "bridging consultants", for assisting GO1inthe overall preparation of
     the project, including preparing the designo f the construction works. This will be funded through
     reallocationo f funds from UPP2 at the request o f GOI. Subject to satisfactory performance, GO1may
     extend their involvement duringthe implementation o f the project;
0    An Advisory team o fIndividual Consultants, to (a) provide support to the BRR (the Government's
     Implementation Body for Aceh Reconstruction and Rehabilitation) particularly on developingpolicy
     and supervising housingdevelopment;
0    A Provincialmanagement consultant, to manage and coordinate District Management Consultants;
0    Four District Management Consultant teams (DMC). EachD M C will cover 4 district governments
     per D M C team; and
0    Monitoring evaluation consultants will be hired intermittently throughout project duration.

Firms. All contracts for firms would beprocuredusingQuality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS) except
for contracts estimated to cost US$lOO,OOO equivalent or less that would be procuredusingselection
based on Consultants' Qualifications (CQ).Short lists composed entirely o f national consultants: Short
lists o f consultants for services estimated to cost less than US$400,000 equivalent per contract may be
composed entirely o f qualified national consultants inaccordance with the provisions o f paragraph 2.7 o f
the Consultant Guidelines.

IndividualConsultants. Specialized advisory services would beprovidedby individual consultants
selected by comparison o f qualifications o f three candidates and hired inaccordance with the provisions
o f paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 o fthe Consultant guidelines.

With GOI's request, retroactive financing o fUS$5 million i s also included for consultingservices to
accelerate the project launch.

Sing'teSource Selection. Consultancy services which demand qualificationsunique to the community
participatorynature o f the project which i s closely related to the expertise o f the on-going CDD projects
(UPP andKDP) includingrecruitmento fhousing facilitators and community mapping and services that
require urgent mobilizationinthe project's emergency context (i.e., "Bridging Consultants"), Single
Source Selection will be applied. All single source selections above US$50,000 will be subject to prior
review.

Goods, Inanticipation o fthe need o fimmediate goodpurchases that may be required duringthe
rehabilitationperiod, Direct Contracting, as defined inpara. 3.6 o f the Procurement Guidelinesmay be
applied. Per contract amount will be no more than US$50,000 with aggregate o f US$500,000.

Other. The procurement management, reporting, procedures, and SBDs to be used for eachprocurement
method, as well as model contracts for works and goods procured, are included inthe project Operational
Manual satisfactory to the IDA.


                                                   72

Assessmentof the agency's capacityto implementprocurement. The executing agency for the project
i s the DG Human Settlements o f the Ministry o f Public Works. This agency will be responsible for all
consultants procurementwork.

The last CPAR for Indonesia was carried out inFebruary 2000, with the final report issued inFebruary
2001, after which a new Keppres 80/2003 was issuedto replace Keppres 18/2000. The detailed
comparison and update between the two Keppres was provided separately inthe Procurement Capacity
Assessment Report (PCAR), which was conducted particularly for this project. However, it was observed
that the new Keppres provides a greater basis for an open and competitive procurement process, with
clear sanctions mechanisms and disclosurerequirements.

The executing agency i s familiar with World Bank      - financedprojects, and therefore, it has the capacity to
carry out procurement following World BankA Procurement/Consultant Guidelines. However, the
reputationo f the agency, coupled with the systemic corruption environment throughout the country, as
well as the large amount o frapidprocurement involved inthe Aceh operation, putthe procurement risk
high, The following actions will be conductedto mitigatethe procurement risks:

     All information related to the contracts (at least the name of contractors, the nature o fthe contract,
      and the contract amount), the performance o f the contractors, as well as the sanctions will be
     publicized on the e-Aceh website (http://www,e-aceh,org).
      A project Operational Manual (POM) will be developedprior to negotiation. The POM should
      include, but not be limited to, all applicable procurement, procedures, and monitoring and reporting
     requirements under the,project.
      A trainingprogram onthe Project Manuals, including onprocurement, for all project actors willbe
      developed and agreed with the IDA prior to effectiveness.
      An EvaluationCommittee, comprisingqualified members acceptable to the IDA, will be formed at
      the Executing Agency level, to assess quarterly the performance o fthe consultants. The assessment
      report will be sent to and agreed with the IDA on an annual basis. This report will provide the basis
      for continuationo f the consultants' services.
      Procurement audit withTerms o f References acceptable to the IDA will be conducted at least twice a
      year.

The Assessment found that the overall procurement risk i s HIGH.Prior review thresholds, as found in
the Procurement Plan, are basedon this capacity assessment.

ProcurementPlan. GOI, at appraisal, developed a draft procurement plan for project implementation,
which provides the basis for the procurement methods. This plan has been agreed between the Borrower
and the Project Team on September 6, 2005 and i s available at. It will also be available on the e-Aceh
website and on the IDA'Sextemal website. The Procurement Plan will be updated inagreement with the
Project Team annually or as required to reflect the actual project implementation needs and improvements
ininstitutionalcapacity.

Frequencyof ProcurementSupervision. Inadditionto the prior review supervision to be carriedout
from IDA offices, the capacity assessment o f the Implementing Agency has recommended monthly
supervision missions to carry out post review o fprocurement actions.




                                                    73

Detailsof the ProcurementArrangements InvolvingInternationalCompetition

A. Goods,Works, and NonConsulting Services

0  ICB/NCB contracts estimated to cost above US$5 million (Works) and US$500,000 (Goods) per
   contract, will be subject to prior review by the IDA.

B. ConsultingServices

0  List of consulting assignments with short-list of intemational firms or individual with intemational
   experience.                                                                                 7
                                                                                               Comments




0  Consultancy services estimated to cost above US$500,000 (firms), US$50,000 (individuals) per
   contract and single source selection of consultants (firms) will be subject to prior review by the IDA.




                                                74

                      ANNEXJ: FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT               AND DISBURSEMENTARRANGEMENTS

     Summary and Overview. This project is designed to facilitate reconstruction andrehabilitationof
     housing among affected families inthe Tsunami affected areas o f Aceh. The ExecutingAgency for the
     Trust Fundwill be the Ministryo fPublic Works (MPW). Project implementation relies substantially on
     community participation and activities, based on models that have been widely applied ina number o f
     other projects financed by the IDA. The community-drivendevelopment model bringsboth risks and
     benefits -risks from poor capacity and implementation points that are widespread inthe region, and
     safeguards arisingfkom community participation. The financial management assessment has taken these
     into account, and recognizes existing constraints o f poor infrastructure and capacity inAceh, including
     inadequacy o f MPW staff inAceh. Although M P W has had prior experience inmanaging IDA financed
     projects, it i s anticipated that lack o f clarity role and coordination within implementing agencies and low
     financial management capacity inthe local level will impose special challenges. Based on these factors,
     financial management risks inherent inthe project entity have beenratedas high.Measures to mitigate
     these risks have been proposed, includingthe issuing o f a detailed project operational manual for the
     project.

     InternalControls andRiskAnalysis. The project's major risks relateto grants implementationat the
     community group (KSM and village) level, particularly whether grant beneficiaries use the funds for
     intended purposes. Risksare also related to management o fbuildingmaterials and financial
     administration. Besides the anti-conuption plan, the project includes several mechanisms to mitigate these
     risks. Among them are:

     0    channeling the project funds directly to the group beneficiaries; the group will manage and execute
          the project implementation; fund flows will be linkedto progress achieved on the ground;
     0    providing technical support to the national and local management teams; the consultants will assist
          P M U and PJOK on project administration and implementation
     0    independent reporting by facilitators, supervising and monitoring to flag developments o f project
          implementation
     0    adaptation o f provenmanagement tools and systems used successfully under other CDD IDA projects
          (KDPand UPP)

     Besides the above risks, there are some risksrelated to delay o f issuance o frelevant documents. The IDA
     proposes to mitigate this risk of delay by requiring a finalized, draft year one budget DIPA acceptable to
     the IDA, be available as a condition for grant effectiveness. For community grant disbursement, the DG
     Treasury Circular letter for funds disbursement must be drafted and agreed upon, and the Project
     Operational Manual must be issuedby MPW and acceptable to the IDA.

     A detailed analysis of financial managementrisks arising from the country situation, the proposedproject
     entities and specific project features and related internalcontrols has been completed duringthe
     assessment, and i s summarized below. These risks have been rated on a scale from High, Medium and
     Low.

Risks                         1 Assessment       I Summary   Comments and RiskMitigation Measures.
A. Inherent Country Risks

1, Budgetary procedures         Medium             Overall progress inbudgetingreforms i s slow. The risks come from
                                                  lack o f implementation guidelines o n a new budget law, i.e.
                                                  transition from dual budget to unifiedbudgeting system. There are
                                                  many implementation guidelines, which need to be issuedby MOF.
2. Public Sector Accounting     Medium            Public sector follows single entry and cashbasis with a partially
                                                  computerized system. An Accounting Standards Board has issued
                                                  Exposure Drafts on modified accrual basis. Implementation o f
                                                  standards started at FY05 i s remains a challenge

                                                            75

3 , Auditing Arrangements      Medium         BPKP has legal mandate for external audit o f Aceh project. Detail
                                                             -                                      -  -
                                              implementation to exercise the mandate has not been issued yet.
OVERALL      INHERENT Medium
C O ~YRISK    R
B. Entityspecific risks
1. ImplementingEntity          Medium         Lead implementing agency i s MPW, which has several experience in
Organization                                  managing IDA projects. However, implementingunit under local
                                              government i s weak capacity.
2. Accounting capacity,        High           Accounting capacity at M P W i s adequate, but capacity inlocal
staffing.                                     government is weak.
3. Audit arrangements          High           Risksarise fromintegrity constraints andlimitedcapacity of the
                                              auditor
4. Information systems.        High           Risksarise from semi-automatedaccounting systems ingovernment
Reporting and monitoring.                     agencies, inability to deliver reliable and timely financial reports and
                                              inability o f these systems to track outputs.
Overall Entity specific        High
Risk
C. PROJECT SPECIFIC
RISKS
1. Organization Structure      High           M P W has several experiences inmanaging IDA projects. However,
                                              coordination and capacity inthe local level are weak. Group o f
                                              consultant team will be provided to assist P I U to manage the project
                                              inthe locallevel.
_ _ _ _ _ _ ~
2. Budgetary procedures        High           Budget document issuance may create delay on project
                                              implementation. All procurement process should begin prior to
                                              budget issuance and when the budget document issued, contract
                                              could be signed and executed.
3. Flow o f Fund               Medium         The fundwill transfer to group account inthree trances (40%, 40%
                                              and 20%). Except the first trance, the transfer will depends on
                                              progress implementation. There will be independent facilitators who
                                              will ensure that the fund goes to eligible beneficiaries.
4. Selection and out put o f   Medium         Substantial expenditure included inTA, which i s traditionally
consultants                                   vulnerable to internal control lapses. Mitigationthough appropriate
                                              internal controls prescribed inProject Operational Manual, i.e.
                                              consultant payment relatedto presentation o f consultant inthe field
5. Procurementprocedures       High           Procurementprocess and availability o f housingmaterial inlocal
for housing material                          market for a big demand i s questionable.
5. Grant implementation        High           Weak capacity o f community to implement the project, especially on
                                              buildingmaterial supply. Adoption ofprovenmanagement tools and
                                              systems used successfully under UPP and KDP, includedphoto
                                              evidence on progress implementation
7. Payment validation          High           Traditionally a weak area inIDA financed projects. To mitigate
                                              risks, additional documentation andinternalcontrol requirements
                                              willbe prescribedinProject Operational Manual to enhance
                                              documentary trails.
8. Audit arrangements          Medium         Risksarise fromthe auditors' integrity and capacity constraints.
                                              Option o f Hiring a private auditor to work under BPKP as mention
                                              ingovernment regulation for Aceh.
Overall projectspecific        High
Risk



        ImplementingAgency. At the central government level, the existingnational steeringcommittee for
        BRRwill serve as the policy-making and advisory body on landandhousingissues for the Government's
        National Settlements Strategy Program. The Project Management Unit at the provincial level will be



                                                       76

under MPW. Insub district level, there will be PJOK who will administer payment requests from the
community groups. The implementation o f the reconstruction programwill be executedby community
groups and apply the community-driven development (CDD) mechanisms established through the Urban
Poverty Program (UPP) and the KecamatanDevelopment Program(KDP), both financed by the IDA. To
maximize efficiency, the housing programwill work inurban and rural areas covered by these two
programs, as both have existing community-based networks at the kecamatan and kelurahan levels,
enabling them to assist inthe management and monitoring o f grant disbursements. The role and
responsibility o f BRRunder this project will be the coordination o f reconstructionwork, including
facilitation inremoving the administrative bottlenecks, and coordination among different agencies and
donors.

BudgetStructures. The project will follow the standard government budgetprocess. All expenditures
funded by this Trust Fundwill be budgeted inthe central government budget. MOF promised to speed up
the budget process and work inparallel. The budget will be simplified, instead o f detail line activities as
inother project.

ProjectFinancialManagement Staff. MPW staffhas experience with IDA financed projects. Itmeets
the government requirement as project finance officer. However, staff members at the sub-district level do
not have adequate experience and knowledge o f IDA financed projects. Inaddition, overall environment
control i s weak. Corruption and collusion have beenreportedfrom the past experiences without fully
satisfactory follow up action.

The mitigation actions to reduce the above risks include providing technical assistance and independent
monitoring to the project management operation. The consultant will provide technical assistance and
training inproject screening, financial management, procurement includedbudget document preparation,
disbursement mechanism, accounting and reporting. The project also provides technical assistance that
includes an oversight and monitoring activities at the local level.

Procurement. The project will follow CDDprocurement procedures for shelter support grants. The risk
may come from the procurement process and availability o f housingmaterial inthe local market, since
there will be a big demand for such materials. The other risk i s selection o f consultants who will assist the
project management units and community groups.

CompliancewithAudit Covenants. There is no outstanding Audit Report either from the ministryor
DGlevel onthe IDA financed project. Therefore, there is norestriction for the agency to proceedthe
project.

AccountingandReporting. The accounting system andprocedures will follow the government
accounting system. The specific accounting procedures for the project's activities will be includedinthe
Project Manual. The Project Management Unit (PMU) inMPW and PJOK at the sub district level will
maintain separate accounting records, on cash basis. The community group also requires simple
accounting and financial reports. The consultant will assist all implementing agencies on financial
administration. P M UinM P W will responsible to prepare and submit a consolidated financial report to
the IDA on quarterly basis, The format o f the annual financial statement will be the same as financial
statement inthe FMR.

Audit Arrangements. Financialand managerial audits will be carried out bythe project. The National
Development Audit Agency (BPKP) will conduct annual audits especially designed for the NADand
Nias reconstruction effort, utilizing a CDD audit manual, and an increased 5% sample size. The annual
audit report will be furnished to the IDA no later than six months after the end o f the government's fiscal
year.




                                                77

The audit assignment will be inaccordance with the agreed Terms o f Reference. The TOR will include
an assertion on the reliability o f the project financial statements and a verification o f accounting
information at the community level on a sample basis. The annual audited financial statement will
include a review and reconciliationo f Special Account transactions and quarterly FMRs. The audit report
will be accessible to the public.

    Audit Report        DueDate
    Project Financial   A single annualAudit Report, no later than six months after the end of each
    Statement           Fiscal Year

SpecialAccount. GO1will establish a SpecialAccount (SA) at Bank Indonesia or a State-Owned
Commercial Bank (SOCB), acceptable to the IDA, denominated inUS dollars. The SA will be under the
name o f the Directorate General o f Treasury (DGTreasury), Ministryo fFinance. The DGTreasury shall
provide copies o f the weekly bank statements o f the SA to the PMU, which will reconcile transactions
with the financial record. Special Account withdrawal procedureswill follow the governments'
procedures, as acceptable to the IDA. The project will follow FMR-based disbursement procedures. The
Withdrawal Application (W/A) will be submitted to the IDA on quarterly basis and be supported by
quarterly FMR and cash forecast for the next six months.

Flow of Funds. Funds for infrastructure block grants and shelter grants will be channeled to community
group accounts through a State-Owned Commercial Bank (SOCB) selected by the GOI, acceptable to the
IDA,which has a real-time online bankingsystemand extensive branches intsunami affectedareas.
M P W will sign a contract agreement with this SOCB to provide banking services on channeling grant
funds, A master account will be maintained at the SOCB-Banda Aceh which authorizes the withdrawal
of fund by eligible beneficiaries. The P M Umanager will be responsible to administer and prepare reports
on project activities.

The PMUmanager will submitpayment requests (SPM) to Treasury Offices (KPPN), which will issue
payment orders (SP2D) to the SA depository bank (Bank Indonesia or SOCB) and remit funds from the
special account to the master account inthe SOCB inBandaAceh. The SOCB will provide monthly
statements to P M U for monitoring purposes. Eligible beneficiaries are identified inthe field, which are
community groups (KERAP/TPK) for infi-astructure or housing grants. A standard form will be
completed by eligible beneficiaries, certified by the housing facilitators and approved by subdistrict
project manager (PJOK).

PJOK will submit the beneficiaries' forms and payment requests to the SOCB branch office at the
relevant district. The bank branch office will check ifthe claims match the master list provided by P M U
through the SOCB-Banda Aceh and arrange for a real-time direct debit to the master account at the
SOCB-Banda Aceh and credit the beneficiaries' bank accounts opened either at the SOCB branches or
other banks. Except for the first tranche, the second and thirdpayment will depend on progress reports
from the field. The flow o f fund diagram i s illustratedinFigure 1.

Disbursement for other components will follow the standard govemment flow o f fundmechanism, which
i s acceptable to the IDA. The P M U will be responsible for administering and preparingreports on project
activities. The PMUsubmits paymentrequests (SPM) to the Treasury Offices (KPPN), which will issue
payment orders (SP2D) to SA depository bank (Bank Indonesiaor SOCB) to transfer funds fi-om Special
Account to the supplier/consultant/ contractor's account.

Based on SP2D, the P M Umanager prepares a consolidated project financial reports for all activities,
which should be submitted through DGTreasury to the IDA on a quarterly basis and used as the basis for
disbursement, The flow o f funds diagram for other components o fthe project shows inFigure 2.




                                                    78

                                                     Figure 1
                              Flow of Funds for Housing and Infrastructures Grants


                                                                                               n
     Guidance                                                        1111                              Guidance
                 I b                                                       SP2D I
                                                                              3b I                     I C




"IIPI                 PMU          I
              Banda ceh
                                                                                                                AIC
Proposed List                                                                Master List                        Induk
                 2c




                                              Notice of authorized
                                               PJOK and DMC                        SOCB branch
                                                       3




                                        I                                                                           I
                   Proposed List        -1      DMC                                        I
                                          KORKOTIKM-KAB                                                             I
                                         1                                 Instruction to pay                       I

                                                                                                          On-line   I
                                             Kecamatan                                                  Transfer    I
                                                                                                               4d   I
                                                                                                                    I
                                 Request                        Request
                             for payment                        for payment                                         I
                                     4a
........................                                        4a                  .........................       I
                                                                                                                    I
.........................
i Facilitators            i                                                        .........................
                                                                                    i Facilitators                  I
                                                                                                                    I
                                                                                                                    I
                                                                                                                    I
                                         111111 1111111111                                                         1




                                                     79

Notes for Figure 1:
l a  Memorandum of understandingon fund channelingmechanism
lb   GuidanceLetter from MPW to PMU.
I C  GuidanceLetter form SOCB HeadOffice to SOCB BandaAceh (Coordinatingbank)

2a   After community preparationscompleted, SPPB (grant agreement) betweenKERAP/TPK andKP are signed
     with PJOK
2b   PJOK to submit the proposedlist (grantee, address, amount) thru DMC to PIU
2c   PIUto submit the proposedlist (grantee, address, amount) to PMU
2d   PMUto submit the "approved" master list (id. No, grantee, address, amount)to SOCB BandaAceh
2e   SOCB to distribute the master list to the relevant SOCB Branch(paying bank)

3    PIU submit the names and specimen of signatures ofPJOK andDMC to SOCB Branch
3a  based on the MOU, PMUissue request for payment(SPM) to KPPN
3b   KPPN, issue paymentorder to SOCB BandaAceh to overbook from SpecialAccount to AiC Induk

4a   When payment i s due, KERAPiTPK andKP submit a request for payment(SPB) to PJOK
4b   PJOK andDMC approve andforward the SPB to SOCB Branch
4cid After verifications, SOCB transfer funds crediting KERAPiTPK or KP account and debit the A/C Induk at the
     SOCB BandaAceh

5a   SOCB BandaAcehto provide PMUwith report andbank statements regularly, usedas the basis for preparing
     FMR




                                                   80

                                                      Figure 2
                           Special Account and Flow of Fundsfor Non-Grants

               .......................................................   WorldBank
                                   WIA 3C
                                        -

                                                MOU -la




             ' Circular Letter-1b
                                                  KPPN                         n1
 "-                                                                I            I Guidance


             I.  IIIIII
                     . . . . . .-.I
                        I                             A

                           2b
                                                      I


          BandaAceh                          Bank Stmnt of SA  -3a           Branch


                                                Consultants1
                                                  Suppliers




Notes for Figure2.
1a   Memorandum o funderstanding on fimd channeling mechanism
lb   Circular Letter from DGTreasury to KPPN on procedures for payments
ICGuidanceLetterformSOCBHeadOfficetoSOCBBandaAceh

2a  Whenpayment is due, consultantslsuppliers submit invoices to P M U
2b  P M U submitrequest for payment (SPM) to KPPN Khusus
2cld KPPN Khusus issue payment order (SP2D) to SOCB banda Aceh to debet /SA and credit consultantisupplier
    account
3a   SOCB provide bank statement o f S/A to DG Treasury/PMU/KPPN Khusus
3b  PMUprepares FMR and submit itthruDGTreasury
3c  DGTreasury forward FMRalong with WIA to WBOK
3d  WB replenish funds to the Special Account at SOCB Banda Aceh




                                                     81

Action Plan. As an emergency project, conditionality will be heldto a minimum.There are a few actions
that the central government must implement before the project can become effective. Table 1below
shows these action plans as agreed.

                                             Table 1-ActionPlan

    IssuedProblems                      RemedialAction                   Responsibility      Due Date
                                                                            Unit
1,Key Project staffing   Appointment o f keyproject management staff,       MPW         Before Grant
                         inc. M P W project manager, director and                       Effectiveness
                         financial officer for the PMU, and draft TOR
                         for FMconsultants should be agreed with the
                         IDA

2. Budget for the first  The GO1Year 1budget DIPA i s drafted             M P W M O F   Before Grant
year implementation      documented, ,acceptable to IDA                                 Effectiveness
3.Project Operational    P O M issued by executing agency, acceptable to    M P W       Before Community
Manual (POM) or          IDA                                                            grants disbursed
JuklaWJuknis, inc. FM
aspect
4. DGTreasury Circular   DGTreasury Circular letter for budget funding    MOFMPW        Before Community
letter                   and disbursement drafted                                       grants disbursed
5 . Channeling grants to Final contractual agreement betweenP M U and        M P W      Before Community
beneficiaries            SOCB for channeling finds                                      grants disbursed

6.Project management     FMTraining for financial officer                   M P W       Early in Year 1o f
   capacity              Recruitment o f FM Consultant                                  project
                                                                                        implementation




                                                    82

                    ANNEX K.IMPLEMENTATIONSCHEDULEAND PLANNEDPROGRESS


10                             Tasks                              I
 1 MDTFPAD prepared,approved
 2 PMU established
 3 Project manuaidrafted
 4 Bridgingconsultantsrecruited
 5 Pius established
 6 Project manuaifinalized, issued
 7 NMC recruited
 8 DMCs recruited
 9 NMC-DMC project workshop
'0 Trainingmodules prepared,trainingof trainers
I1 Housingtaciiitators recruited(KDP & UPP facilitators)
i2 Housingfacilitators trained(KDP & UPP facilitators)
 3 Housingfacilitators mobilizedto district, sub district,viliage
14 Provinciallaunchingworkshop
i5 Districtappointmentof PJOK
'6 DHWSof ERR established
I? Provincialhousingcoordination committeeestablished
i8 Cityidistricthousingcoordination commiteesestablished
i9 Projectverification of target kecamatan,KDP, UPP
!O Projectsocialization in kecamatanw/ KDP, UPP
!1 Projectsocializationintarge villages w/ KDP, UPP
!2 Establishmentof CTCKERAP,UPP, TPK, KDP
!3 Communityself surveys
!4 Communitysettlementplans
!5 Preparationof list of target house reconstruction
!6 Preparationof list of target house reahbilitalion
!7 Approvalof lists
!8 Formationof housinggroups, bankaccounts

!9 Documentpreparationfor tranche 1 houserecon-rehab
IO Documentcompilation,processwi PJOK to KPKN
I1Tranche 1 transferto housinggroups
12 Tranche 1 implementationreviewedby facilitators
13 Document preparationfor tranche2 houserecon-rehab




                                                                 -
                                                                 -
I4 Document compilation,processw/PJOK to KPKN
I5 Tranche2 transfer Io housinggrous
I6 Tranche 2 implementationreviewedby facilitators
17 Houserehabiiitationcompletioncertified by faciiitator
I8 Documentpreparationfor Iranche3 housereconstruction
19 Documentcompilation,processw/ PJOK to KPKN
10 Tranche3 transferto houserecongroups
.1 Tranche 3 implementationreviewedby facilitators
.2 Housereconstructioncompletioncertifiedby facilitator

                                                  All Programs
                          For Pliot Activities (In BandaAceh)    r m [
                  Overlap Range betweenPilot and Phase i
                                                         Phase1




                                                                      83

                                 ANNEXL:CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS: SUPPLYAND
                                       DEMAND     CONDITIONS IN PROJECT AREAS

The objective o f the Community-based Settlement Reconstruction& RehabilitationProject inNAD,Nias
i s to facilitate the reconstruction and repair o f settlements intsunami-affected areas o f NAD and Nias.
200 villages (100 rural, 100 urban) are targeted, focusing assistance on families whose houses were either
destroyed or damaged by the disaster. The project will assist these households/families reconstruct upto
about 10,000 homes and rehabilitate up to about 15,000 homes, as well as refurbish small-scale
community-level infrastructure.

The maximum target o f 10,000 houses reconstructed and 15,000 houses rehabilitated has the potential to
severely burdenthe local market for key buildingmaterials, including wood, cement, brick, zinc roofing,
and steel reinforcement (for earthquake resistance), intwo ways. First, other donors, NGOs, and
government agencies will be assisting inhousingreconstruction and rehabilitation at similar and lesser
levels, which are currently pledged at about 115,000 to 160,000 units26.             Secondly, local andregional
markets, warehouses, stores, roads, and ports were also severely damaged or destroyed, significantly
disruptingthe supply and distribution o fbuildingmaterials and making it difficult to rapidly increase
supplies available inAceh. This problem must be addressed, as communities will be seriously constrained
duringthe recoveryperiod ifthere is limited availability o fbuildingmaterials to purchase and prices rise
as people chase limitedlocal buildingsupplies.

Normally, data on historic and current construction capacity including buildingmaterials supply,
availability, and sources would be located with provincial and district governments, as well as through
provincial and district chamber o f commerce's andreal estate and contractor associations. InAceh, these
data have all disappeared. The size o f pre-tsunami NADbuildingmarket was roughly equivalent with
that o f West Sumatra today, and halfthat o fNorth Sumatra today.

Aceh construction industrybackground
The construction sector o fthe economy inAceh reached its peak in 1995, following steady growth since
1975. However, from 1996 onward, during a period o f civil-military conflict and unrest, as well as the
economic-monetary crisis of 1997-98 through 2000, the sector displayed significant negative growth.
From2001 untilthe earthquake-tsunami of 2004, the construction sector was still quite stagnant,
exhibiting only minor growth, and hadnot returnedto its previous levels of 1995.

The construction sector consists o f two types o f construction: (a) contracted construction and (b) self-built
construction. Contracted construction includes government contracts for government buildings,roads,
bridges, as well as private sector buildings(offices and commercialbuildings), and a very small
percentage o f upper end residential construction inand around Banda Aceh.

Self-built construction i s the method most pre-tsunami residential houses were built inAceh, namely by
household owners, with family help, utilizing timber (usually illegally procured timber from local
protected forests, thus free), cement and sand, some brick (more brick and cement inurban settings, more
timber inrural settings), and zinc sheets for roofing material. The average private residence inAceh i s 50
sq. meters, with 41% o f rural, and 35% o f urban houses under this average size. Dercon2' estimates the
self-building capacity o f Aceh over the last 25 years at somewhere between 17,000 and 28,500 houses
constructed per year inthis manner.

Inthe same analysis, Derconestimatedaverage housingexpenditures ofAcehresidents at US$73 per year
inurbanareasandUS$28 per year inrural areas, representing 40% ofurbannon-food expenditures and


26 This i s as o f June 7,2005. (aggregation ofnumber o f houses committedby Asian Development Bank, UnitedNations, Caritas,
RedCrossiCrescent, IOM, Habitat for Humanity and others).
27 Bruno Dercon, DFID, June 3,2005.

                                                           84

15% o f total urban expenditures, and 35% and 10% respectively for rural areas. It i s relatively safe to
assume that this very low household spending capacity could support only a very small buildingmaterials
supply and distribution industryinAceh prior to the disaster. Needless to say, after the earthquake-
tsunami o f December 26,2004, this supply and distribution industry has been severely weakened.

BasicbuildingmaterialsstatusinNAD-Nias

1. gravel - adequate quantities o f gravel are found inall areas o fAceh, except Sabang, which is a
   limestone-based island; Banda Aceh and Aceh Besar supply Sabang with sand and gravel; the quality
   o f gravel ranges from medium to good; excavation o f gravel includes both legal and illegal local
   sources; generally gravel i s excavated from local rivers, possible only before and after the rainy
   season, September to January, as excavation duringthe rainy season i s difficult, and no stockpiling
   facilities are owned or utilized.

2. sand - adequate quantities o f sand are found inall areas o f Aceh, except Sabang, which i s a
   limestone-based island; Banda Aceh and Aceh Besar supply Sabang with sand and gravel; the quality
   o f sand ranges i s generally good; excavation o f sand includes bothlegal and illegal local sources;
   generally sand i s excavated from local rivers, possible only before and after the rainy season,
   September to January, as excavation duringthe rainy season i s difficult, and no stockpiling facilities
   are owned or utilized.

3. brick -traditional brick making i s available around the provincial town o f BandaAceh, as well as
   around most district capital towns; quality ranges substantially between very poor quality in Sabang
   to medium quality inBanda Aceh and variable quality inLhokseumawe, Langsa, Meulaboh;
   quantities produced are adequate inLhokseumawe, Langsa, Meulaboh, and inadequate inBanda Aceh
   and Sabang; prices are currently on the rise in all areas; Bataco (cement bricks) are produced in
   Banda Aceh, but have not been preferred historically by local consumers. New brick-making facility
   has been donated and arrived inBanda Aceh.

4. cement -productiono f cement inNADfrom Lhoknga has stopped due to earthquake-tsunami
   damages; the two types o f cement needed and generally available, for structural and non-structural
   concrete, comes from Semen Padang, shipped infrom Medan; some cement i s also available from the
   Lafarge Group, also inNorth Sumatra; during security operations, when transportation i s constrained
   between Medan and Banda Aceh, and Banda Aceh and districts, cement disappears from local
   markets, and prices rise dramatically; cement prices are vary sensative to transport costs and
   constraints.

5. steel - small <10 mm steel bars are available inmost local markets from manufacturers inMedan,
   used for concrete reinforcement; larger sizes of steel bars >20 mm for use inbridgeconstruction
   usually are procured from Jakarta or Surabaya manufacturers.

6. skilled labor -laborers skilled inmasonry and carpentry, as well as construction foreman and
   supervisors usually come from Medan; unslulled and semi-skilled laborers come from Aceh as well
   as North Sumatra and Java.

7. timber -very little certifiedtimber i s available anywhere inNAD. Timber concessions have been
   limited due to on-going conflict. Self-built housing usually utilizes illegal local timber, due to limited
   law enforcement o f small scale theft. Larger scale constructionutilizes timber from Riau and
   Kalimantan, legal and illegal.

Project impact onlocalconstructionindustry supply and distribution
Two basic types o f houses are planned, using existing Ministryo f Public Works standard house designs,
type 36 and type 45, both approximately 36 square meters. Each house type can be constructed on stilts

                                                 85

(elevated) for rural and coastal villages, and directly on ground foundations for urban areas. While wood
content requirements are slightly higher for the elevated house designs and cement and brick requirement
are slightly higher on the grounded house designs, on average wood requirements are about 10 cubic
meters per house. Project requirements for this level o freconstruction are 10m3 x 35,000 houses
(equivalent) = 350,000 cubic meters of wood invarious forms (plywood, planks, door and window jams,
roofing frame) at a current price o f between Rp.3.5 million and Rp. 2.8 million / cubic meter. For Aceh-
Nias housingreconstructionas a whole (280,000 houses), could reach 2,000,000 cubic meter o f timber.

The Minister ofForestry has disallowed the use of forest resources fromNADprovince for reconstruction
purposes, as most of the available timber there i s located inprotected forests and national parks. In
addition, the current certificationo f origin process has been corrupted, leading to a crackdown on all log
and timber transportation and very frequent confiscation (with or without proper documentation) from all
parts o f Indonesia.

Similarly, cement requirements will be high,together with sand and gravel, with an average of 2.68 cubic
meters o f concrete required for each house. This totals 93,800 cubic meters o f concrete for project
purposes, and 536,000 cubic meters for Aceh and Nias housingreconstruction as a whole. Cement was
producedinpre-earthquake-tsunami NAD,but production facilities were destroyed / damaged inthe
disaster. The status of repair i s unknown. Cement productionexists inPadang, but production levels and
spare installed capacity i s unknown.

Bricks will also be a key buildingmaterial inhighdemand for reconstruction, with an average o f 81
square meters o fbrick requiredfor each house. This totals 2,835,000 square meters o f brick for project
purposes, and 16,200,000 sq. mt. for Aceh and Nias housingreconstruction as a whole. The previous
local brick making industryinAceh was damaged. Rebuilding the local brick industrywill have to be
supplemented by purchasing and transporting brick to NAD,from other areas o f Sumatra, probably North
Sumatra, Bataco (cement brick) i s available in some locations inAceh, but previously not favoredby
consumers.

Zinc and/or asbestos roofing will also be ingreat demand. Each house constructed will require 63 square
metes x 35,000 houses equivalent, 2.2 million square meters o f zinc or asbestos, at Rp. 46,130 per square
meter. Major productiono f zinc and asbestos i s located inJakarta, Surabaya, and Medan.

Alternatives to address the situation
The project impact on the local construction andbuildingmaterialsindustrywill be enormous, with a
targeted reconstruction of up to about 10,000 houses, and rehabilitation o f up to about 15,000. In
addition, other donors, bilateral and multilateral aid agencies as well as the private voluntary agencies will
be assisting to reconstruct or rehabilitate up to 125,000 houses.

Ina disaster this enormous, withreconstructionplans to match, massive government interventionis
certainly not unwarranted. It would not be unusual for BRR or other government agencies to procure
building supplies, or coordinate the procurement o fbuildingsupplies for the Aceh reconstruction, from all
parts o f Indonesia or internationally, to insure adequate quality, quantity and competitive prices for the
Aceh reconstruction. The government could, and should assist constructionindustryparticipants to
rebuild, reconstruct, and expand their construction and buildingsupply enterprises with loans and tax
incentives, to rise to the challenge of the reconstruction effort. Butno such efforts are currently being
discussed with the government; such efforts are beyond the realm of this settlement reconstruction and
rehabilitationproject.

What this project can do i s capitalize on its community-driven development approach, and utilize the
strengthsof organized housing groups, of organized community bodies to identify sources o fbuilding
materials, to negotiate prices, quality, and delivery o f such buildingmaterials to participant community
groups for settlement reconstruction and rehabilitation. Ifmore than one desa or kelurahan community

                                                   86

body i s experiencingthe same buildingmaterials problems o f price, availability, and/or quality, then
city/district DMC together with the PIUand housingcoordination committee may be called on to assist to
solve the problem. Finally, ifcommunity bodies inseveral city/districts are experiencing similar building
materials procurementproblems, then the PMC together with the DHPF o f BRRmay be called on to
address the problem.

Specifically concerningthe availability o ftimber for settlement rehabilitation and reconstruction inNAD
and Nias, this problem i s a national policy and operational issue, beyond the scope o f this project, and
will have to be dealt with bythe central government. Ifnecessary, BRRmay intervene inthe marketby
procuring (or contractingan NGO to procure) quality key materials (timber, cement, steel) for purchase
by CTCIKERAPand KP groups at fair prices.




                                                 87

                                     ANNEXM:TERMSOF REFERENCES(TORS)
                                      TechnicalAssistanceFor Preparationof
               Community-basedSettlementRehabilitation andReconstructionProgram
                                                    for NAD-Nias


Background
On the morning o f December 26, 2004, a major earthquake registering 9.0 on the Richter scale hit
Indonesia, with its epicenter inthe Indian Ocean, within 150 kilometers o f Aceh Province, on the northern
tip o f Sumatra. The earthquake was followed by a massive tsunami that devastated the human population
livingon the coastline o f Aceh Province, and parts o fNorth Sumatra Province. The disaster killed over
230,000 people and 700,000 people were displaced.

The Government carried out a multi-sectoral damage assessment**inJanuary 2005 with support from the
donor community andjointly prepared a Technical Report and associated Notes on Reconstru~tion~~,to
help donors andbilateraland multi-lateral financing institutions inassessing the impacts o fthe disaster
and inidentifying possible areas o f assistance.

According to the Damage Assessment, it i s estimatedthat some 4,000 villages and urban communities
have been affected, approximately 127,000 houses completed destroyed and approximately 153,000
partially damaged. The preliminary estimate o f damages and losses inAceh and North Sumatra i s
estimated at Rp. 41.4 trillion (US4.45 billion) o f which Rp.13.4 trillion (US$1.4 billion) i s attributed to
the housing sector.

Inthe context ofthese disasters, reconstructionofthehousingsector comprises animportantcomponent
o f the Aceh post-tsunami recovery program; previous housingreconstruction projects indicate that as
people rebuildtheir homes following a disaster, it helps facilitate the psychological healing process.
Furthermore, housing i s intrinsically linked to livelihood restoration, especially when people are given the
opportunity to generate muchneededsources o f income and learn new skills through housing
construction training programs.

The GO1has formulated a Blueprintfor Rehabilitation and Reconstruction in Aceh and Nias, which
guides the coordinationand implementation o f all recovery programs being introduced inAceh. As one
o f the blueprint's components, the Comprehensive Human Settlements Rehabilitation and Reconstruction
Strategy provides an overall approach for programming the repair and reconstructiono f housing and
settlements for the affected population. This policy framework i s a basis for this housingreconstruction
program and serves as a basis for all housing programs undertaken by various donors in order to ensure
consistency, transparency, and a smooth transition from the relief to the recovery phase. The proposed
project supports and builds upon this Government framework and fits within the blueprint strategy for the
overarching recovery process.

ProjectDevelopmentObjective
The primary development objective o f the projectis to facilitate the reconstructionandrepair o f
settlements intsunami-affected areas o f NADand Nias villages over a three-year period. An estimated
200 villages are expectedto be covered, o fwhich 100 are rural and 100 are urban. The project aims to
assist families whose houses were either destroyed or damaged by the disaster, inthe reconstruction o f
approximately 10,000 homes and the rehabilitationo f an additional 15,000 homes, as well as to refurbish
small-scale community level infrastructure. This objective will be achieved through the provision o f


28BAPPENAS and The Intemational Donor Community (eds.) (2005): Indonesia: Preliminary Damage and Loss Assessment -
TheDecember 26, 2004 Natural Disaster, Jakarta, 19 January.
29BAPPENAS and The Intemational Donor Community (eds.) (2005): Indonesia: Notes on Reconstruction-TheDecember26,
2004 Natural Disaster, Jakarta, 19 January.


                                                      88

grant funding to communities for the reconstruction and repair o f damaged housing stock based on
individual entitlements. Priority infrastructure needs will be addressed through block grants to
communities. The proposed settlement reconstructionproject will employ a community driven approach
for programplanning, management, implementation, and monitoring inorder to target appropriate
beneficiaries, maintain transparency o f the flow o f funds, and create community ownership o f the
program.

To enable the reconstructionprocess to beginas quickly and efficiently as possible throughout NAD and
Nias, the project will also provide technical assistance packages to establish a Directorate o f Housing,
Water, and Sanitation (DHPF) under the NAD-Nias Earthquake/Tsunami Reconstruction and
Rehabilitation Agency (BRR) to oversee the implementation o fthe GOI's settlements program,

ProjectAdministrationandImplementation
The Ministryo f Public Works, as the project executing agency, will establish a Project Management Unit
(PMU) lead by a project manager located inAceh, who will report regularly to DHPF o fBRR on project
progress and guidance, and maintain coordination regularly with Project ImplementationUnits (PIUs) in
the settlement office (dinaspermukiman) each target district/city. The PMUwill hire a provincial
Management Consultant team (PMC) to assist inproject management, and District Management
Consultant teams (DMC) with offices inthe participatingkotas / kabupatens inNAD and Nias, to assist
each PIU, and field housing facilitators to work closely with target communities (kelurahan and desa);
teams o f community volunteers will also be recruited, trained, and assigned to assist at the village (desa,
kelurahan) level.

At each level o flocal government (provincial, district, city), a coordinationcommittee will be convened
and the membership will be the provincial/local government level. These local housing coordination
committees will be responsible for reviewing the implementationprogress at the local government level,
and advising the relevant sectors on the necessary technical measures to revolve issues that arise inthe
field.

Role
A small Preparatory Techncial Assistance (PTA) Team will be contractedbythe Kepala Satuan
KerjaPMU to assist them to undertake and complete final project preparations for start-up. The
preparatory team will be contracted approximately for four months inthe period immediately following
grant agreement approval through the start-up o f project field implementation, completing their
assignment shortly after the BRR Technical Advisors, PMC and D M C teams are completely set up.

WorkingArrangements
The PTA will establish a fully staffed and well-equipped office at the provincial-level inBanda Aceh,
NAD,andwillbe ledbyaProject Management Advisor, assistedbyexperts, technicians, and
administrative office staff.

Scope of Work
The Preparatory Technical Assistance Team will be contracted by the Kepala Satuan KerjaProject
Management Unit (PMU) to assist it inundertaking and completing final project preparations. The
Preparatory Team will be contracted approximately for the 4 months o fthe project, or untilthe complete
set up o fthe PMC and DMCs.

Specifically, the Preparatory Team will:
1. Finalize all project implementationmanuals, operational guidelines, technical guidelines, and
    supplementary guidelines as needed;
2. Finalize all training modules, trainingmaterials, and training evaluation formats;
3. Finalize socialization strategy, (information and awareness raising) programs and materials;



                                                 89

4. Prepare and finalize all technical assistanceneededthat related with procurementkender activities,
   including TORSfor BRR Advisors, PMC, DMCs, and housing facilitators;
5. Coordinate with key project stakeholders on project start-up activities and logistics, including
   provincial governments o fNADand North Sumatra, all target city and district governments inNAD
   and Nias, andBRR;facilitate the formation o f the DHPF and local housingcoordination committees;
6. Designproject monitoring, evaluation, and coordination procedures and operation standards for all
   project implementationcomponents (PMU, P N , PMC, DMC, housingcoordination committees);
7. Develop a project's data and informationmanagement, which will include a project data base and
   various computerized reporting from the field level, the establishment o f a project web site, on which
   the MIS operates, the project-wide complaint and resolution system, and the project financial
   management system;
8. Prepare a project complaints handling and resolution system with multipleaccess (electronic and
   manual) from multiplelevels (village, sub district, district, province, central), and integrate into
   design o f the future projectMIS;
9. Develop a rough estimate o f the materials required and carry out a rapid market survey on the supply
   condition o f construction materials to propose a procurement management systems (logistics and
   supply o fmaterials) for the project.

Periodof Service:
Technical services by the Preparatory Technical Assistance Team will be required approximately for 4
months, or untilthe BRR Advisors, PMC, and D M C teams are fully set-up.

StaffingRequirements:
1. SettlementProgramAdvisor: (1person@?4 staff-months)
   Minimummaster (S-2) degree, with at least 8 years similar settlement housing
   reconstruction/rehabilitationexperience, and at least 5 years experience as team leader o f similar
   projects.
0  At least 5 years relevant experience inprojectmanagement and community-driven development
   Knowledge o f seismichunami resistant construction
   Familiar with localhegional construction industry,materials, and supply
   Procurement knowledge an asset.
   Possess capability to lead and manage a team of specialists,
0  Fluent inEnglishand Indonesian, bothwritten and spoken
0  Demonstrated ability to work congenially and productively with consultants, counterparts, and other
   project stakeholders in a team context.
   Main tasks:
   o Coordinate all PTA professional staff
   o finalize housingsection o f all project operational manuals
   o Liaise with PMU, BRR, provincial government, target city/district governments, Ministryo f
       Public Works and BAPPENAS, World Bank
   o Facilitatethe establishment o f DHPF, as well as provincial and district housing coordination
       committees
   o assist the DHPF o f BRRprepare multiplestandard seismichunami-resistant housing designs
       usingavailable materials and supplies, with appropriate construction methods
   o assist the DHPF o f BRRto analyze the buildingmaterials industrylocally, regionally, and
       nationally, identifying sources as well as constraints inthe market supply and demand o f
       construction materials and suppliesnecessary for seismichunami-resistant housing designs and
       the appropriate construction methods.

0  The expert will be assisted by 1 sub-professional with relevant qualification for the same period o f
   assignment.



                                                90

2. ProgramMonitoring and Analyst (1person @ 4 staffmonths)
   Minimummaster (S-2) degree inarchitectureor community housingand settlements with 5 years
  relevant experience, including experience inprogram design, policy formulation and strategic
  planning
0  Fluent inEnglishand Indonesian, both written and spoken
   Demonstrated ability to work congenially and productively with consultants and counterparts ina
  team context.
0  Main task:
   o Assist BRIX plan andmonitor settlement housingreconstruction andrehabilitationprograms on-
       going inNADand Nias, reviewing implementation progress, constraints to progress, preparing
       consolidated reports, and coordinating with various donors and agencies involved inhousing
       construction
   o finalize all training modules, training materials, and training evaluation formats
   o prepare project monitoring, evaluation, and coordination procedures and operation standards for
       all project implementation components (PMU, PIU, PMC, DMC, housing coordination
       committees)
   o prepare a project complaints handling andresolutionsystemwith multiple access (electronic and
       manual) frommultiplelevels (village, sub district, district, province, central), and integrate into
       design o f the future project MIS
   The expert will be assistedby 1 sub-professional with relevant qualification for the same period o f
   assignment.

3. ProcurementExpert: (1person@ 4 staffmonths)
b  Minimumbachelor (S-1) degree with at least 5 years relevant Indonesian experience indevelopment
   project procurement
0  At least 3 years experience incommunity development projects
b  Possess experience and ability to work together with government and non-government organizations
b  Familiarity with the Procurement Guidelines and procedures o f the World Bank, or at least with other
   equivalent international agencies
0  Familiarity with the GO1requirements for procurement
0  Demonstrated ability to work congenially and productively with consultants and counterparts in a
   team context.
b  Main tasks:
   o assist the P M Uinthe finalization o f all technical assistance tender documents including TORSfor
       the BRR Advisor Team, PMC team, and D M C teams, as well as
   o assist inthe finalization o f community procurement formats andprocedures inthe project
       manuals

4. Data and InformationManagement Expert (1person@ 4 staff months)
0  Minimumbachelor (S-1) degree with 5 years relevant experience, including experience inoperating
   and maintainingM I S system.
e  Skilled invarious computer programs, including but limited to SPSS, STAT, Microsoft Access, SQL,
   and generic spreadsheets and database programs.
0  Capable to rapidly and accurately prepare and update database
e  Experienced inutilizing and presenting statistical analyses from databases inreporting project
   progress.
0  Demonstratedability to work congenially and productively with consultants and counterparts in a
   team context.
   Main task: prepare and manage the Project Information and Data Base including error-resistant data-
   entry menus, standard report formats, automatic summarization and compilation o freports at city,



                                               91

    district, and provincial levels, an accurate and frequently updatedproject data base, and analysis o f
    project performance as request by project managers.

0   The expert will be assisted by 2 sub-professionals with relevant qualification for the same period o f
    assignment.

5. Project ManualJunior Expert (1persons@ 4 staffmonths)
0   Minimumbachelor (S-1) degree with 3 years relevant worlung experience inwriting and editing
    project manuals, as well as incommunication and socialization.
0   Possessunderstanding and knowledge, as well as experience with community-driven development
    projects directed at communities, local governments, and stakeholders.
0   Possess general knowledge o f housingreconstruction and rehabilitation.
0   Demonstrated ability to work congenially and productively with consultants and counterparts ina
    team context.
0   Main task:
    o finalize all project implementation manuals, operational guidelines, technical guidelines, and
        supplementary guidelines as needed (pedoman umum,petunjuk operasional, petunjuk teknis).

Source of Funds
Fundingfor technical consulting services ofthe Preparatory Technical Assistance Team contractedby the
GO1will be providedby UPP2, andretroactively funded by a MDTFgrant.

Reporting
All written reports will be inBahasa Indonesiawith summaries inbothIndonesian and Englishand
submittedto the PMUand other stakeholders. The reports shall be formulated as special report manner,
which minimumcomprise as follows:

a. Preliminary AssessmentReport
Thisreport will explain the consultants' work plan, methodology, understanding o fthe terms o freference,
and understanding o fthe project as described inany available governing manuals, and basic strategy and
approach inundertakingthe assignment. The report shall be submitted not more than one month after the
issuance o f a work order (instruction for comencing the assignment) by the project. Fifteen copies of the
report are to be submitted, and the consultant will present the report to the PMU, Ministry o f Public
Works, and the World Bank.

b. Monthly Report
Standardized report inexecutive summary format containing PTA's administrationactivities for the
current month, progress o fwork to date, and work planned for the next month. The reports shall be
submitted on the 5' day o f the following months.

c.  Draft Final and FinalReport
This report contains a comprehensive account o fproject implementationresults and outcomes, lessons-
learned, experiences gained, and conclusions as well as recommendations formed as a result o f
undertaking the assignment. The report must be submitted not laterthan 20 days after the completion of
services, with 15 copies. Draft final report mustbe presented to the nationalproject steering committee
and Ministryof Public Works, as arranged by the PMU.




                                                 92

Project Data

All project data generated inthe process o fundertaking this assignment is the property o fthe Government
o f Indonesia, and the PTA i s responsible for the proper and accurate preparation, utilization, maintenance
and storage inthe project data base, which will be handedback to the project and PMU.




                                                 93

                           ANNEXN: IDA STAFFSUPERVISIONARRANGEMENTS

Challengesof the recovery phase. Inthe post-disaster situation, information to inform the design o f
recovery programs may be difficult to come by or unreliable. Experience from past IDA support to post-
disaster reconstructionand recovery efforts indicates that flexibility inproject design i s necessary to
permit changes as project implementationyields more information. Related to flexibility, reconstruction
needs to be more closely monitored inthe immediate post-natural disaster situation. InIndonesia, there i s
the added complexity o f working inan area affected by civil conflict. The overall working environment
for the project, therefore poses a variety o f challenges:

    Due diligence in housing design and construction. The need for technical quality assurance for the
    reconstructedhousing to be resistant against future hazard risks;
    Social safeguards. Ensuringthat the program i s carried inan equitable way, and that it addressesthe
     specific needs o f the vulnerable groups (e.g., widows, orphans, IDPs, renters and tenants) on land and
    housing issues;
    Promoting donor synergy. Efforts to ensure continuous and constructive donor
     coordinatiodcollaboration to avoid duplication, enhance harmonization o f technical standards for
    reconstruction, seek complementarity in financing activities and common project monitoring and
     evaluation arrangements;
     Coordination among the MDTFprojects. The project design i s closely tied with three other MDTF
     projects (KDP, UPP, RALAS) as described inAnnex D. Seamless coordination i s essential to ensure
     that the community-based systems designedunder the project function effectively;
    Better implementation planning and organization of the workprogram. The project requires close
     coordination among different levels: from the village/community, local government, provincial and
     ministerial levels. With multiple actors involved inthe reconstruction processes, BRRshould be
     taking a proactiverole in setting a framework for implementationplanning and demarcation o froles
     and modalities o f coordination. As BRR i s a new institutionwith a specific mandate for the post-
     tsunami reconstruction, there i s a strong needto provide support for institutional strengthening o f
     BRR.
     Managing External Relations. The project progress and outcomes will be closely monitored through
     VIP visits, donor community, NGOsand media. Externalrelations shouldbe managedproperty to
     ensure that consistent information on the project i s conveyed to suit the information requests o f
     diverse target audience and stakeholders.

The project is amajor contributor to the GOI's Housing Reconstruction Program, andprovides a
framework for the inputs o f other donor agencies. Given these highstakes and set o f complex challenges,
the reputational risk for the IDA i s significant. Attention o fthe donor community on the project
performance will be high, and there will be little tolerance for misuse o f funds. The IDA will be expected
to ensure that sufficient arrangements are inplace to supervise the project. Supervisionarrangements
should be geared to: (i)  continuously assessing project performance for due diligence and fiduciary
performance; (ii)  making timely interventions/adaptations based on the evolving project context and, (iii)
providing expert opinions to GO1as needed, inparticular during the project launchto ensure better
implementationplanning.

Supervisionframework. Given the above context, the IDArecognizes the needfor intensified
supervision arrangements, inparticular for the first year, to ensure the project's success and to mitigate
reputational risk. Inaddition to a core task team required for normal operations, a field supervision team
covering critical aspects o f the project i s therefore required.

The field team will be ledby an internationalexpert (IDA staff or consultant) with extensive experience
inmanagingprojects ofsimilar scale andnature (Field TeamLeader, FTL). The FTLwillbebased on



                                                    94

full-time basis inthe field (Banda Aceh) and serve as a contact point for the IDA (Headquarters and
Jakarta) inthe field. Reporting directly to the Project TTL, the FTL will closely monitor project progress
and provide continuous support to the implementingagency. The FTL will be supported by consultants
(combination o f international and local, and on a full time and part-time basis) to cover the following
aspects: (i) project management planning and liaison; (ii)  technical/structural due diligence; (iii)
                                                                                                    social
safeguard/land issues (thisexpert may be nominated by RALAS team); (iv) environmental safeguards;
and (v) fiduciary compliance. Supervision missions will be undertaken on a quarterly basis.

Given the intense supervision requirements, especially duringthe early years, it i s estimated that the
project will require a supervision budget o f about US$350,000 for the first year (see Attachment l), as the
project gets on track and the capacity o f implementation agencies i s strengthened. This estimate was
developed by usingthe case o f recently approved-Nam Theun 2 Hydroelectric Project inLao PDR as a
point of reference. The Nam Theun 2 Project was highly controversial and the need for intensive
supervision has been recognized to allocate annual average o f about US$l.l million as supervision cost
for the consecutive five years (see Attachment 2). For NamTheun 2 Project, two IDA staff members are
expected to be based inthe field, inadditionto other staffthat will carry out periodic supervision
missions.




                                                 95


MAP SECTION


