Docunent of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 7759
PROJECT COMPLETIOr REPORT
MALAWI
PHASE II OF NATIONAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
(WOOD ENERGY PROJECT)
(CR. 992-MAI)
MAY 16, 1989
Agriculture Operations Division
Southern Africa Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ABBREVIATIONS
CCDC     Capital City Development Corporation
CG       Central Government
ERR      Economic Rate of Return
ESU      Energy Studies Unit
FAO/CP   Food and Agricultural Organization/Cooperative Program
FD       Forestry Department
FRIM     Forestry Research Institute of Malawi
FRR      Financial Rate of Return
GOM      Government of Malawi
IDA      International Development Association
LA       Local Authority
MAI      Mean Annual Increment
MANR     Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources
MFNR     Ministry of Forestry and Natural Resources
MOWS     Ministry of Works and Supplies
NRDP     National Rural Development Program
RHEA     Regional Mission in Eastern Africa
WED      Wood Energy Division
SAR      Staff Appraisal Report
ICB      International Competitive Bidding
LCB      Local Competitive Bidding



THE WORLD BANK        IOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
rHE WORLD SANK
Washington. D.C. 20433
US.A.
Olfit of  OF.1ttrG,elw
Oputtmw iva^tkan
May 16, 1989
HENORAuNm TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Malawi -- Woot Energy Project
(Credit 992-MAL)
Attached, for information, is a copy of the report entitled
"Project Completion Report: Malawi--Phase II of National Rural Development
Program (Wood Energy Project) (Credit 992-MAI)" prepared by the Africa
Regional Office. No further evaluation of this project by the Operations
Evaluation Department has been made.
Attachment
I This document has a restrtd distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not othewise be disclosed without World ank audhoribtion.



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAWI
PHASE II OF NATIONAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
(WOOD ENERGY PROJECT)
(Cr. 992-MAI)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface .       .................... ........................             i
Basic Data Sheet ....... .......................................
Evaluation Summary .......... ................................... iv
I.     INTRODUCTION ..................... *#*.*                        1
II.     PROJECT IDENTIFICATION, PREPARATION, APPRAISAL AND
NEGOTIATIONS ..........       .....................  2
III.     PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND OPERATING PERFORHANCE .........  5
A. Implementation of Components and Project
Revisions:
(a) Retail Nurseries .                                 5
(b) FD Plantations ........                .....       8
(c) CCDC Plantations .                                 9
(d) Local Authority Plantations .................. 10
(e) Wood Energy Division ......................... 11
(f) Energy Studies Unit .      ......  .    ....      11
(g) Charcoal Tri'.s .                                 12
(h) NRDP IIl  Pre-investment Studies .............. 12
B.  Project Costs, Financing and Disbursements .......... 13
C.  Procurement .........................                 .  13
D.  Adherence to Covenants ........... .... .. ... ...... 14
E.  Auditing and Reporting .........................        . 15
IV.     PROJECT IMPACT .........................           .. .         15
A.  Wood Production.    ........................... 15
B.  Production Costs and Financial Returns .............. 17
C.  Economic Returns .                                        17
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contentt  (Cottd.)                               Page No,
V.    INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE   ............................... 18
A.  Bank Performance ................................... 18
B.  Implementing Agencies ............................... 20
VI.    CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS TO BE LEARNED ....*............... 20
ANNES
ANNEX  I   Physical Implementation Ttbles
ANNEX II   Summary Costs and Disbursement Tables
ANNEX III   Economic and Financial Analysis Tables
ANNEX IV   Detailed Cost Tables
ANNEX V     Summary of Wood Yield Survey
MAP : IBRD 14336R



- i -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAWI
PHASE II OF 9hTIONAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
(WOOD ENERGY PROJECT)
(Cr. 992-MAI)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the NRDP II Jood
Energy Project in Malawi, for which IDA approved on January 15, 1980 a
Credit in the amount of US$13.8 million. The Credit was declared effective
on June 9, 1980.   It  closed  on  December 31, 1987 after three extensions
totalling 24 months.
The PCR was prepared by FAOICP and AF6AG staff, and is based on
material prepared by the Wood Energy Division in Malawi, a study of project
related documents and files, a two week field visit in April 1987, followed
by a further one week field visit in January 1988.
The Project is the first Bank Group operation in the sector.
Further Bank involvement in the wood energy sector in Malawi continues with
the Second Wood Energy Project which was approved by the Board in March
1986.
The draft report has been read by the Operations Evaluation
Department (OED), and copies were se - to the Borrower and its agencies for
comment in February 1989. No comments were received.



- ii -
PROJECT CONPLETION REPORT
MALAWI
PHASE II OF NATIONAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
(WOOD ENERGY PROJECT)
(Cr. 992-MAX)
BASIC DATA SHEET
Actual
Appraisal                as a Z of
Key Proiect Data                     Estimate     Actual      Estimate
Total Project Cost (US$M)              16.3        16.4         101
Credit Amount                          13.8        13.8         100
Amount Disbursed                       13.8        13.8         100
Amount Cancelled                                     _
Date Physical Components completed  06130185    06130/85
Proportion then completed              100Z        looz
Economic rate of return                 142          9.42
Financial rate of return                 9.72        7.4t
Financial performance                              Fair
Institutional performance                          Good
Imoortant Dates
First mention in Files                   -          02/78
Appraisal                              03/79     03-04/79
Negotiations                           01180        O1J80
Board Approval                         03180     03/13/80
Signing of credit agreement            04/80     04/25/80
Effectiveness                       07125/80     06/09/80
Closing                             12131/85     12/31/87
Other Proiect Data
Borrower                   s   Government of Malavi
Executing Agency           s   WED. MINR
Fiscal Year GOC            I   April 1  - March 31
Name of Currency           :   Kvacha
Currency Exocange Rates
1980 (Appraisal)    US$1.00 - MK 0.812
1981                US$1.00 - MK 0.895
1982                US$1.00 -  RK 1.055
1983                US$1.00 - MK 1.175
1984                US$1.00 - MK 1.413
1985                US$1.00 - MK 1.172
1986                US$1.00 - MK 1.861
1987                US$1.00 - MI 2.243
Average for IDA disbursements USS 1.00 - MI 1.432



- iii -
Follow-or. Proje.t          :     Second Wood Energy
Loaa Number                       Ln. 2570-MAI
Loan Amount                 :     USSH16.7
Date of Board Approval      :     03125/86
Cumulative Disbursements
FY81  FY82  FY83  FY84   FY85   FY86   FY87   FY88
Appraisal
Estimate (US$M)                  2,400 5.800 9,000 11,400 13,200 13.800 13,800 13,800
Actual (US$M)                      925 3,254 6,109  7,699  9,085  9,883 11.162 13.800
Actual as 2 of Estimate             39    56    68      68    69      72      81    100
Date of final disbursement: 06/30188
STAFF WUIS
(staff weeks)
FY74 FY76 FY78 FY77 FY78 FY79 FY80 FYn1_ FY82 FY83 rYe4 FY8S Fye86 FY87 FY88 TOTAL
Preappralsal            .S        8.9 18.6  .9                                          2t.7
Appraisal                             28.2 18.2                                         4t A
Negotiations                            .1  7.6                                          7.7
Supervision                                 6.6 12.1  8.0  9.3  6.9  2.1  4.9 15.1  7.5 69.8
Other                              .1  3.4  .0  .8                                       4.8
Subtotal     .0  .0  .3  .0  4.0 48.2 82.2 12.9  6.0  9.8  6.9  2.1  4.9 15.1  7.6 149.4
Aission Data
Date    No. of   Haidays   Specialization   Report   Performance
(MolYr   Persong  in  ield  Represented (1)  Date         Rating
Ident.     02/78       1       4            d            02103/78        _
Prep.      09178       1      60            b            01108179        _
App.       03179       3      63            a,s,b        02/08180        -
Sup. I     06180       2      14            a,b          07/10/80       1
Sup. II    lls80       2      18            a.b          11121180       2
Sup. III   06181       2      20            a.b          09102181       2
Sup. IV    10181       I       2            a            11124181       (2)
Sup. V     05182       2      18            a.b         06102/82        2
Sup. Vl    11182       2      14            a.b          12115182       2
Sup. VII   05183       2      14            b.c          06/16183       2
Sup. VIII  11/83       2      14            b,d         12/13183        2
Sup. IX    04184       1       3(3)         b           05123/84        2
Sup. X     12184       1       5(3)         b            02112/85       1
Sup. XI    11/85       1       1(3)         b            01129186       1
Sup. XII   10/86       2       8(3)         a,b         12/08/86        2
Sup.(PCR)  04187       2      17            a.,          04;21/87       2
Sup (PCP.)  02/88      1      7             a            02/26188       2
(1) a a economist; b - forester; c - agriculturalist5 d - agric. economist
(2) Micro supervision while on other work; mission issued only BT0.
(3) Partial supervision combined with other mission work.



- iv -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAWI
PHASE II OF NATIONAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
(WOOD ENERGY PROJECT)
(Cr. 992-MAI)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Oblectives
1.         The NRDP II (Wood Energy) Project vas the first operation in tha
Malawi forestry sub-sector assisted by the Bank Group. The principal goals
of the project were (a) to assist in the development of Malawi's forestry
resource so as to permit a sustainable energy supply in the future without
damaging the environment; (b) to improve forest management and
conservation; and (c) to improve the institutional and economic framework
required for forestry development. Major components of the project
consisted of the establishment of retail nurseries and fuelwood/pole
plantations, strengtheni.g of the Wood Energy Division, and establishment
of an Energy Studies Unit. The principal po:.icy measure was an agreement
by the Government to increase wood prices gradually, so that by the time
project output was marketed wood prices would be at a level to ensure full
cost recovery in project plantations.
Implementation Experience
2.         The project's objectives have been partially achieved.  The
physical infrastructure of the nurseries was set up very rrpidly and all
the nurserymen were in post by the first year of the project. However.
production and sales of seedlings lagged considerably behind the appraisal
targets, which were highly unrealistic in view of the fact that retail
nurseries were a new concept in Malawi. Although production in the
nurseries improved steadily, and by the end of the project average
production levels had reached the original estimates, seedling sales
remained rather low. This was largely because the agreed increases in wood
prices did not take place. Farmers proved to be reluctant to puclhase
seedlings because the low stumpage rate for fuelvood, combined with the
easy access to free wood in the virtually unprotected and uncontrolled
indigenous forest, greatly reduced their financial incentives to grow their
owv wood supply. The lack of extension services for the farmers compounded
this problem. As a result, the total area planted under woodlots and
volume of wood produced during the project is less than half that foreseen
at appraisal.



Results
3.         The number of hectares established under the plantation
component actually exceeded the appraisal target. However, wood yields are
likely to be substantially lower than expected -- the average mean annual
increment is about 4.7 m3/ha against a potential 10-14 m31ha. This is
partly due to poor planning - thla was the first time that the Forestry
Department had undertaken such a large fuelwood plantation program- which
resulted in the establishment of plautations in unsuitable locations and
with inarpropriate species and provenances. In addition, insufficient
attention was paid to tending and weeding in the first years after planting
and inadequate fire protection was provided. While wood yields are low,
the per hectare costs of establishing the Government plantations are high,
due to heavy outlays on vehicles, staff housing, offices, roads and other
infrastructure. The ultimate financial cost per cubic meter of wood
produced by the FD is therefore very high - current ditta suggest a cost
recovery stumpage rate about 8 times higher than the present stumpage rate.
In addition to being a high cost producer, it is clear that the FD does not
have the financial. managerial and staffing capacity to plant on the scale
necessary to deal with the fuelwood deficit.
Findin2s and Sustainability
4.         In retrospect, given the inexperience of both the Bank and the
Government in social forestry and fuelwood plantations it would have been
better to have started with a pilot project. This might have avoided some
of the mistakes such as establishment of nurseries and plantations in
unsuitable locations. inappropriate seeds and provenances and inadequate
maintenance of plantations.   However, the project was successful in
establishing institutions. preparing staff and developing public and
political support for tree planting. The project created the WED and the
ESU. A well trained, competent, experienced and dedicated staff is now in
place. The project team managed to launch planting a tivities throughout
the country, by motivating schools. villages and area action groups to
plant trees. More generally, the project had an important impact on
raising, nationwide, the consciousness for the emerging fuelwood crisis.
The WED now has the capacity to conceive, prepare and implement the Second
Vood Energy project with only marginal foreign assistance.
S.         The project was not designed to deal with issues such as wood
conservation, revenue collection and protection and management of natural
forest. Although agreements on wood pricing were incorporated into the
project design, in practice the Government did not implement this critical
reform. However, throughout project implementatien there was an on-going
policy dialogue between the Bank and the FD, from which developed the long
run strategy for the sub-sector. A gradual redefinition of the appropriate
role of the Government in the forestry sub-sector has taken place. with
more emphasis on creating a policy environment that encourages private
production and conservation and less on direct production of wood by the
FD. The lessons learned from the project have been incorporated into the
design of the Second Wood Energy Project which aims to implement a
comprehensive policy package designed to create incentives for private tree
planting and wnod conservation. Its most significant features are
increases in fuelwood prices, expanded forest protection and revenue
collection activities, and provision of incentive payments to small farmers
for tree planting. Provision is made for only a limited amount of
Government plantations in environmentally fragile areas.



PROJECT COMPLETION RErORT
MALAWI
PHASE !I OF NATIONAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
(WOOD ENERGY PROJECT)
(Cr. 992-MAI)
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01     The forestry sub-sector plays a vital role in the Malawian
economy. The indigenous forest provides the rural population with poles
for bl iding and fuelwood for heating and cooking; the principal source of
energy for urban households is fuelwood or charcoal, and, finally, the
tobacco and tea industries, which represent Malawi's chief source of
foreign exchange earnings, are critically dependent on large supplies of
fuelvood for curing. Overall, firewood for domestic and industrial
purposes represents over 85? of total energy consumed in the country.
However, official statistics on the value of forestry products do not
adequately reflect this contribution, because wood consumed for domestic
purposes is free of charge, while the stumpage rate on commercial wood is
extremely low and, in any case, rarely enforced.
1.02     Partly as a result of increasing population pressure, there is now
a substantial gap between the demand for fuelwood and its sustainable
supply. The deficit is being met by depletion of the natural forest which,
if it continues unabated, would have major repercussions for the future
wood supply and environmental balance of the country. At present it is
unlikely that alternative energy sources would become available at prices
the population in general could affcrd. There are no known deposits of oil
or natural gas in Malawi. Imported f._ssil fuels are prohibitively
expensive and a drain on scarce foreign exchange. Rural electrification is
unlikely to materialise in the near future because of the high
establishment costs, while solar energy and biogas are still at the
experimental stage. Limited coal deposits of poor quality occur in the
north of the country, but exploitation is at an early stage and
transportation costs are likely to be excessive. Malawi can therefore be
expected to remain dependent on the forestry sub-sector for much of its
energy supply for the foreseeable future. In view of the current rapid
depletion rate of the natural forest, the Government has placed priority on
the development of a sustainable wood energy program to meet the future
demand for fuelwood and building poles while at the same time conserving
the indigenous forest and environment. Since the late seventies, the
Government has sought assistance from the Bank in development of its
forestry/wood energy strategy and financing of the investments needed to
support the program.
1.03     The National Rural Development Program, Phase II (First Wood
Energy) Project (Cr.992-MAI) was the first Bank Group assistance in the



-2-
Malawi forestry sub-sector. Since then, as part of SAL III, the Bank has
also financed a Technical Assistance Project (Cr.1428-MAI, signed in
January 1984). which included a provision (US$1.4 million) for technical
assistance to help improve the efficiency of tobacco curing technology and
thereby reduce fuelwood consumption. In 1984, the Bank financed the Wood
Industries Restructuring Project (Loan 2486-MAI US$6.4 million) which is
designed to further the rehabilitation of the wood processing industry and
the conversion of the Forest Industries Department into a Wood Industries
Corporation. In 1984, the Bank, together with the Forestry Department,
prepared a forestry sub-sector study (Report No.4927-MAI) to assist the
Malawi Government in laying the graundwork for the development of a
forestry strategy and to identify the necessary policy actions and possible
investments. In 1986, the Bank financed the Second Wood Energy Project
(Ln.1670-MAI) -s the second phase in the long term forestry-wood energy
program. The experience and lessons learned from the first Wood Energy
Project and the findings of the forestry sub-sector study were directly
incorporated into the design of the second project. In 1987, IFC made a
loan to the Viphya Plywoods and Allied Industries Ltd. (IFC Loan 872-MAI,
US$3.6 milli.n).
1.04     The current project became effective on June 6, 1980.  The
Borrower was the Government of Malawi and the implementing agency was the
Wood Energy Division (WED) in the Forestry Department (FD) of the then
Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources (HANR). The Ministry was
subsequently divided into the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of
Forestry and N&tural Resources (MFNR). The principal objectives of the
project were (a) to assist in the development of Malawi's forestry resource
so as to strengthen its permanent energy resource base; (b) to improve
forest management and conservation; and (c) to improve the institutional
and economic framework required for forestry development. Major components
of the project consisted of the establishment of retail nurseries and
fuelwood and pole plantations, strengthening of the Wood Energy Division,
establishment of an Energy Unit and pre-investment activities for NRDP III.
Although the project got off to a somewhat slow start, the physical
components were all completed satisfactorily by the original closing date,
December 31, 1985. However, substantial funds remained undisbursed due to
the marked appreciation of the dollar over the project period. At the
request of the GOM, the closing date of the project was extended, first for
a year, and then subsequently twice more, for six months each, to finance
maintenanie of the plantations, operation of the nurseries and the Wood
Energy Division, replacement of vehicles, preparation for Phase II of the
Wood Energy program and extension of the successful Pilot Energy Efficiency
Project in tobacco curing. The project finally closed in December 1987, 24
months after the original closing date.
II. PROJECT IDEN¶TIFICATION, PREPARATION. APPRAISAL
AND NEGOTIATIONS
2.01     In 1978, the Government of Malawi requested that the Bank consider
financing the first phase of a long term forestry-wood energy program,
aimed at reducing the imbalance between wood supply and demand, and hence
reversing the trend toward the destruction of Malawi's forest resource.
The potential for a wood energy project was first identified in February



-3-
1978, when a Bank mission visited Malawi to discuss with the Ministry of
Agriculture and Natural Resources a rural forestry component of an
unidentified agricultural project. The component, an energy project
including fuelwood/pole plantations and a farmer tree grower program based
on establishment of nurseries, along with various studies and strengthening
of the Forestry Department, was initially conceived as an integral part of
the ongoing National Rural Development Program. However, in view of the
innovative nature of the -roposals and consequent high risk, together with
the probable size of the component, it was subsequently agreed between the
Government and the Bank to have a separate wood energy project rather than
a forestry component of a larger agricultural project. Following the Bank
mission, a national team of senior officers from the MANR was convened to
prepare a Forestry Sector Background report with emphasis on the supply/
demand for fuelwood and poles, in accordance with terms of reference left
by the Bank. A forestry consultant with the FAO/World Bank Cooperative
Program visited Malawi in May and June 1978, to assist in the preparation
of the report, which served as the basis to prepare the project. The
FAO/CP consultant returned to Malawi in September/October 1978 to assist
the MANR in the completion of the Project Preparation Report which was
finalized in January 1979. The World Bank's Regional MissLon in Eastern
Africa (RMEA) provided support and guidance to the MANR during
identification and preparation of the project.
2.02     The appraisal mission took place in March/April 1979, when a three
man mission spent about three weeks in the field. While tLa overall design
of the project remained essentially the same, the appraisal team did
introduce a few modifications. The preparation report had recommended that
Gmelina species should be planted in all the individual woodlots since this
species is more resistant to termite attacks than Eucalyptus and treatment
of planted Eucalyptus with aldrin was believed to pose a '4ealtb risk.
However. the mission recommended the planting of Eucalyptus, since Gmelina
has a much lower growth rate and a much lower heating value. The mission
also recommended that treatment with aldrin be confined to the nurseries,
which is a method widely used in other countries. The Government accepted
these recommendations.
2.03     The area for the fuelwood and pole plantations (11,400 ha) was
accepted as presented in the preparation report. However, the figure for
the total area to be planted under individual woodlots (31,600 ha) was
found to be too ambitious, as it was based on an assumed planting density
of 1500 trees/ha, while the mission believed that a planting density of
2,500 trees/ha would be more likely. The mission estimated that around
15,000 ha of individual woodlots would be established over the five year
period. While the plantation component represented the bulk of project
costs, the appraisal mission emphasized that the long run achievement of
the project depended largely on its success in encouraging households, who
are the largest consumers of wood, to grow their own wood . The vast
majority of households are too poor to pe- the full cost of plantation wood
(which would therefore have to be mainly for commercial purposes) nor are
there other cheap energy sources available to them. The mission concluded
that the most important contribution of the project would be in promoting
the establishment of wood lots by small farmers so that they could be self-
sufficient in fuelwood in the future.



-4-
2.04     The mission also recommended the inclusion under the project of an
Energy Studies Unit that would investigate not only more efficient use of
wood energy but also alternative sources of energy such as bio-gas and
solar energy.  An energy economist from the 3ank visited Malawi briefly in
May 1979 to appraise in detail this component. A final change in the
project resulting from the appraisal was the decision to include funds to
finance about 1,500 ha of fuelwood plantations by the Capital City
Development Corporation (CDDC).
2.05     The project was negotiated in January 1980 and with only  minor
modifications was accepted as presented by the appraisal mission. Three
main issues had emerged during appraisal of the project. First, the
mission was concerned about the availability of land for the FD and urban
and rural council plantations. It was agreed at negotiations that the
written approval of the traditional authorities, and the payment of
compensation where applicable, should be a condition of disbursement for
each plantation component. Second, calculations by the mission suggested
that the zurrent stumpage rate was considerably below the level required
for full cost recovery. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that
a charge system reflecting the principle of cost recovery would be enforced
gradually so that, by the time the project output was marketed, a price
level that ensured the full recovery of production costs would have been
reached. Assurances were also obtained that the Government and IDA would
consult annually on the general pricing policy affecting the forestry sub-
sector, giving due regard to social considerations and the impact a price
increase would have on the major users of fuelwood. The third issue
concerned the revenue from the district and town council plantations.  It
was agreed that the revenue would be remitted by the respective councils to
the Central Government and thus accrue to the national budget.  However,
i           assurances were obtained during negotiations that the Government would
provide, following consultation with the Bank, financial incentives to the
councils, by remitting to them a percentage of the revenues.
2.06     The principal goal of the project is to assist in the development
of Malawi's forestry resource so as to permit a sustainable energy supply
in the future while conserving Malawi's natural forests and the
environment. The project as negotiated consisted of:
(a) establishment and management by the Wood Energy Division
of a national network of 88 nurseries which would produce
seedlings for sale to the public who would be encouraged
to grow woodlots to meet their domestic needs for
fuelwood and poless
(b) establishment and operation of plantations to produce and
sell fuelwood and poles for commercial and industrial
use; specifically (i) about 3,000 hectares by the
Forestry Department; (ii) about 1,500 hectarea by CCDC
and (iii) about 300 hectares by each of five District
Councils and three Town Councils;
(c) strengthening of the Wood Energy Division within the
Forestry Department through the appointment of key staff;



-5-
(d) studies of improved methods of charcoal production and
marketing to be carried out by the WED;
(e) establishment and staffing of the Energy Studies Unit
within the Planning Department of MANR to carry out
studies of possibilities to reduce wood consumption
through more efficient utilization and development of
alternative energy sources; and
(f) financing of pre-investment activities for NRDP III.
2.07     The estimated total cost of the Project was US$16.3 million,
comprising US$1.5 million fox nurseries, US$6.8 million for Government
plantations, US$1.1 million for local authority plattations, US$1.2 million
for CCDC plantations, US$3.7 million for the WED, UTS$0.2 for charcoal
trials, US$1.3 for the Energy Studies Unit and US$0.5 for the NRDP III Pre-
Investment Study. The IDA credit of US$13.8 million financed 85 percent of
project costs, with the remaining 15 percent financed by the GOM.
2.08     Processing of the credit proceeded smoothly and rapidly as there
were no special conditions for board presentation or project effectiveness.
The credit was approved by the Board on March 13, 1980; the credit
agreement was signed on April 25, 1980 and the project became effective on
June 9, 1980.
III. IMPLEMENTATION AND OPERATING PERFORMANCE
A. Implementation and Performance of Project Components
a. Retail Nurseries
3.01     The Project provided for the establishment of 88 permanent
retail nurseries. Details on ntusery establishment, seedling
production and distribution are given in Annex 1, Table 1.
Construction of 80 of the permanent nurseries was achieved during the
first year of the project and the remainder completed in financial
year 1984/85. In addition, 10 temporary nurseries were set up during
the 1982/83 planting season. 1
3.02     While the physical infrastructure of the nurseries was set up
very rapidly and all the nurserymen were in post by the first year of
the project, production and sales lagged considerably behind appraisal
targets. During successive supervisions, it became apparent that the
l/These were not originally contemplated in the SAR as it was expected
that hired transport from the Plant Vehicle Hire Organization (PVHO)
would solve the problem of seedling distribution to remoter areas.
However, during the project it was realized that PVHO vehicles were
not always available at the time of the seedling distribution
campaign, and it was therefore decided to establish 10 temporary
nurseries to meet the growing demand for seedlings in areas away from
the existing permanent nurseries.



-6-
original estimate of 100,000 seedlings produced per nursery, per
annum, from year one of the project, was much too ambitious, and the
targets were revised accordingly. Specific problems identified during
supervisions included lack of idequate transportation, and late
procurement of inputs such as seed, polythene tubes and fertilizers.
In fact, production improved steadily during the project as the FD
gained experience and, by 1985/86, average annual production from the
nurseries had reached the appraisal targets. A total of about 13.4
million seedlings were produced for the 1986/87 planting season,
exceeding the targets by 68Z. A further positive development was the
gradual decline in the seedling death rate during the project, from
around 202 at the beginning to 7.52 by 1986187. Reflecting both these
factors, the average production cost of seedlings declined drastically
over the project period, from 35.5 tambala per seedling in 1980/81 to
3.3 tambala in 198f/87 (see Annex I, Table 2).
3.03     A more fundamental issue, however, was the low percentage of
seedlings produced that was actually sold. resulting in substantial
carry-over of stock from one year to the next. Part of the
explanation again relates to the inexperience of the WED in this type
of operation, which led to a host of minor teething problems, such as
inadequate publicity, particularly at the beginning, delayed seedling
distribution due to lack or breakdown of vehicles, distribution of
seedlings to selling points where demand had beea poorly assessed and
experiments with new species not yet accepted by farmers. However,
although sales did improve substantially over the life of the project,
as many of these minor problems were ironed out, sales were still at
only 692 of production by the seventh year of the project. During the
course of Bank supervision, several more fundamental design flaws
underlying the disappointing sales rate were identified:
(i) Inappropriate Location of Nurseries. The location of
nurseries was not based on a thorough supply and
demand analysis that identified wood deficiency areas,
nor was any prior assessment of the accessibility of
the sites made. Consequently there was very
substantial variation in sales levels across
nurseries, with some nurseries selling less than 5,000
seedlings per annum. Closing such nurseries proved to
be impossible in the face of major local political
resistance.
(ii) Lack of Extension Services. As originally conceived
in the SAR, the bulk of the extension work was to be
carried out by the nurserymen, together with some
support from the WED and the agricultural extension
service of MANR. It was envisaged that the nurserymen
would devote about half of their time to advising
farmers on planting and tending techniques, with
special attention to choice of species, site
preparation, planting distance, planting seasons,
protection against termites, browsing animals and
fire, and weeding. In practice, the nurserymen had
neither the time nor the training to previde extension



-7-
services to the farmers. At the suggestion of a Bank
supervision mission, a committee was formed in late
1982 to work on the design of an extension system for
treeplanting. Detailed terms of reference were left
for the committee by the mission. On subsequent
supervision missions, a fair amount of technical
assistance was provided by discussing with the Project
management, in some depth, organizational options in
extension. However, despite these initiatives, there
was little or no progress during the project in
secting up a system for forestry extension services,
largely because there was no agreement on whether
foresters should be fully integrated into the existing
Agricultural Extension Service or whether a separate
parallel system should be set up for forestry.
(iii) Lack of Incentives for Tree-PlantinR. Earlier
supervision missions placed a great deal of emphasis
on the issue of inadequate extension. Later
supervision missions, drawing also on the findings of
the sub-sector study, concluded that planting for
fuelwood was unpopular with small farmers largely
because of low producer prices for fuelwood and the
availability of free wood in the virtually
uncontrolled and unprotected natural forests.
Planting trees was found to be well accepted and
practiced where there existed a nearby cash market for
poles, suggesting that the problem was not that
farmers did not know how to grow trees, but that they
did not find it financially attractive to grow trees
for fuelwood. Raising the stumpage rate alone would
not help as the stumpage rates could not be enforced
under the existing very weak revenue collection
system.
3.04     An issue that surfaced repeatedly during supervisions was the
appropriate price level for sale of the seedlings. The intention in the
SAR was that there should be full cost recovery through sales. This was
soon realised to be impossible, as during the 1980/81 planting season
production cost was 35.5 tambala per seedling as against a selling price of
2.5 tambala and, even so, sales were poor. In the second and subsequent
years, the concept of cost recovery was dropped in favour of low prices to
encourage farmers' demand and the price of seedlings was lowered to 1
tambala. In 1982/83, differential pricing was introduced, with the price
set at 1 tambala for smallholders and 3 tambala for estates, the objective
being to reduce unnecessary subsidies to estates. This differential
continued and increased in 1983/84 when the price to estates reached 10
tambala per seedling. However, the experiment was not a success as it
caused considerable confusion to the nurserymen and apparently was evaded
by many estates who sent their tenants to collect seedlings at the lower
rate. The price differentiation was abandoned in the 1984/85 campaign and a
uniform selling price of 1 tambala per seedling was established. As a
consequence of the increasing productivity of the nurseries, and increasing
sales rate, the unit cost of sales has gradually declined during the



-8-
project period, reaching 3.3 tambala during the 1985/87 selling campaign
(see Annex I, Table 2). This suggests that, given further improvement in
the sales rate, it should be possible to sell seedlings at a price f.mall
farmers can afford and yet keep subsidies to a minimum.
3.05     Record keeping by the nurserymen has generally been rather poor.
Records on seedlings distribution by users were maintained only during the
1981/82 and 1982/83 planting seasons and then were discontinued. According
to this early data, it seems that, on average, small favmers represented
about 502, followed by estates (24Z), communities and institutions (122),
large scale private farmers (8Z), and Government (6Z). Monitoring of the
seedling survival rate after sales was carried out only to a very limited
extent. The FD had produced standard forms for reporting survival rates,
but the use of these forms by nurserymen never caught on and has been
discontinued. Monitoring appeared to be on an ad hoc basis, according to
the interest and time available by ADD staZf  involved.  The Forestry
Extension Officer from Salima ADD estimated mortality at 142 in 1982 and
20? in 1983. Blantyre and Karonga ADDs produced mortality figures of 20-30Z
for 1984.  Finally, Chipita reported a good survival rate with only 15?
mortality.  Failures were attributed to moisture, stress, termites, fire
and livestock.
3.06     In retrospect, given the innovative character of the nursery
component, a pilot operation would have been more appropriate. This would
have allowed the FD to gain experience in operating this type of component
and permitted greater flexibility. Under a pilot scheme, it would have
been possible to test different ways to provide extension services. Also,
surveys should have been carried out to identify key wood deficit areas and
farmer attitudes to tree planting so that nurseries would be located in the
most receptive areas. More fundamentally, the disappointing experience
with respect to sales demonstrated that the success of the nursery program
is critically dspendent on changes in the policy environment to create
financial incentives for small farmers to plant trees.
b. Forestry Department Plantations
3.07    i. total of 9,000 ha of fuelwood and pcle Eucalyptus plantations,
equally distributed among the three districts of Blantyre, Lilongwe and
Zomba, were to be established under the Project. This target was actually
exceeded, as a total of about 9,300 ha of plantations were actually
established by the end of the 1985/86 seasons. Furthermore, as mentioned
in paragraph 3.12, some additional 1,580 ha in Dowa district that were to
have been planted by CDCC were also established under the Central
Government plantation program. Details concerning the location and phasing
of implementation of this component are given in Annex I, Table 4. Details
on the various species planted are presented in Annex I, Table 5.
3.08     Apart from some minor changes during project implementation,
construction work and purchases of plant and vehicles were executed as
foreseen at appraisal. As indicated in Annex I, Table 6, 51 houses (11
type D, 26 type E and 14 Type F:) were built, as well as 301 traditional
houses, 5 office blocks, 8 store-rooms, 3 workshop/garages and 10 other
small buildings housing generators, water tanks and/or water pumps.
Purchases of plant and vehicles, before replacement, included 4 pickups, 4



-9-
seven-ton lorries, 4 tractors with trailers, 12 motocycles and 4 generators
(Table 7). As indicated in Table 8, a total of 228 km of roads have also
been constructed under the project.
3.09     Although the Government plantation component got off to a somewhat
slow start, largely because of delays in the civil works constructed by the
Ministry of Works and Supplies, the appraisal target for hectares
established was slightly exceeded by the original closing date of the
project (December 1985). However, yields from the plantations are very
low. A survey carried out in 1987 by the Forestry Department and the
Forestry Research Institute of Malawi suggest that the average mean annual
increment is around 4.7 m3lhectare/annum, compared to a potential 10-15
m3/halannum estimated in the SAR (see Annex V). In some extreme cases the
MAI of the plantations is lower than that of the unimproved miombo woodland
cleared from the site. This was partly due to poor planning - this was the
first time that the Forestry Departement had undertaken such a large
fuelvood plantation program - which resulted in the establishment of
plantations in unsuitable locations and with inappropriate species and
provenances. However, bad management also played a role. Several
supervision missions drew attention to the rather low quality of
maintenance of the plantations, especially those established in the latter
years of the project. The primary maintenance operations, after
establishment, include fire protection measures, line screenings, grass
cutting and weeding. These operations were not always accomplished at the
right time, and in some cases were completely neglected. As a result there
is a high fire risk in some of the plantations. Clearly, the low wood
yields have a detrimental effect on the financial and economic returns to
the plantations (see paras 4.06 and 4.07).
3.10     While wood yields are low, the per hectare costs of establishing
the Government plantations are high, due to heavy outlays on vehicles,
staff housing, offices, roads and other infrastructure. The ultimate cost
of the wood produced by the Forestry Department is therefore extremely
high. The cost for Eucalyptus wood from the project is estimated to be
about MK2l.9 per stacked cubic metre of wood, in 1986/87 prices, (see
Chapter IV and tables 1 and 2 in Annex III for calculation details). This
cost is about 8 times higher than the 1987 stumpage rate of MK2.70 per
stacked cubic metre, despite the pricing covenant agreed in the Credit
Agreement. An additional problem identified during supervision was the
very high variation in the establishment costs of plantations between the
regions that appeared to be largely due to differences in the quality of
management and supervision.
c. CCDC plantations
3.11     It was envisaged at appraisal that CCDC would utilise some of the
land within the designated boundaries of the Capital City for the
establishment of 1,500 ha of plantations for fuelwooi and pole production.
This was intended to meet the ever increasing demand for wood from the
commercial and industrial sectors, as well as from urban dwellers. It was
agreed at negotiations that the funds would be onlent by the Government to
CCDC at an interest rate of not less than lOZ repayable over 30 years,
including a grace period of nine years. The execution of a subsidiary loan
agreement, acceptable to IDA, between the Government and CCDC, was a



-10-
condition of disbursemer, for the CCDC plantations. However, CCDC and the
Government were unable to agree on the terms of a subsidiary loan
agreement. CCDC claimed not to have been fully consulted before the
negotiation of the project between GOM and IDA, and decided that it could
not afford to participate in the project on the terms originally agreed to
at negotiations (i.e., by borrowing funds at 102 interest). An additional
problem was that the land to be used was fairly heavily settled. The costs
of compensation and resettlement had been substantially underestimated and
CCDC did not feel able to bear these costs which had not been included in
the loan package.
3.12     As a consequence, GOM requested the World Bank to approve
utilising the funds available for this component to finance the
establishment, by the FD, of a fuelwood and pole plantation about 60 miles
outside Lilongwe in forest reserves in the Dowa district. After the Bank's
approval in 1981, the establishment of this plantation started with the
1982/83 planting season, and was completed by 1984/85 (see Annex I, Table
4).
d.  Local Authority Plantations
3.13     The project provided for the establishment of 8 plantations of 300
ha each for fuelwood and pole production (5 in rural areas in Karonga,
Lilongwe, Kasungu, Blantyre and Zomba; and 3 in urban areas of Karonga,
Kasungu and Zomba). In physical terms, all have been sucessfully
implemented, reaching a total coverage of about 2,710 F- by 1985/86, as
against 2,400 ha estimated at appraisal. 2 Details of regional and
district distribution, as well as phasing of implementation of this
component, are given in Annex I, Table 3.
3.14     During implementation of the project, building construction and
purchase of plant and vehicles were executed as foreseen at appraisal. As
indicated in Annex I, Tables 6 and 7, 12 houses (3 type D and 9 type E), 54
traditional houses and 21 store-rooms were built, and a total of 13
motorcycles (before replacement) purchased. Furthermore, 47.5 km of roads
were also constructed under the project (see Annex I, Table 8).
3.15     The original plan in the SAR was that the respective District and
Town Councils would be responsible for the implementation of thi, component
and the FD would allocate funds to them for that purpose. However, in view
of the fact that Local Authorities had no expertise or desire to carry out
the necessary implementation program, and also because the WED felt that
control of funds allocated to the councils would be difficult and
disbuzsement and accounting procedures complicated by council's use of
funds, it was agreed to transfer responsibility for project execution to
the FD. The intent was that the Local Authorities would take back the
responsibility for maintenance and operation of the plantation later on.
To date, this has not happened and the LA plantations still remain under
the responsibility of the FD. However, the Forestry Support Services
Division within the FD is currently preparing a management plan and cost
2/ As mentioned in Para 3.16, this figure includes 147 ha in Nkata Bay
District which was added during the project.



-11-
estimates to maintain the plantations. This will be sent to the Minstry of
Local Government for review and a fin&l decision is expected before the end
of 1988.
3.16     Likoma and Chizumulu Plantation.  In 1981/82, GOM asked the FD to
carry out a survey on fuelwood availability and needs on the two islands of
Likoma and Chizumulu within the district of Nkata Bay. The survey found a
severe fuelwood shortage in the islands which was met by importation of
wood from adjacent Mozambique. The matter was discussed during a World
Bank supervision mission in November 1982 and the FD was asked to formulate
a proposal to be included under the project. The proposal for the
establishment of 147 hectares of fuelwood and pole plantation was accepted
by the Bank and planting started in 1983/84 and was completed in 1985/86.
e. Wood Energv Division
3.17     The Wood Energy Division was established within the FD to be
directly responsible for Project implementation and to direct, coordinate
and control all matters relating to wood energy. Adequate staffing was a
serious problem in the first few years of the project both at headquarters
and in the field. Although at headquarters most vacancies were in middle-
level administrative positions, vacancies at the managerial level, such as
the key position of the Senior Planning and Extension Officer, hampered
efficient implementation of the project. In the field, there were large
numbers of vacancies at the forester and forest ranger levels. However, by
the end of the project substantial progress on staffing had been made,
with most of the posts foreseen at appraisal filled (see Annex I, Table 9).
f. Energy Studies Unit
3.18     The Energy Studies Unit, like the WED, was in the MANR at the
beginning of the project. When the MANR split into two ministries, the
Energy Studies Unit initially remained in the Planning Division of the MOA,
while the WED went to MNFR. Later, however, the ESU was moved to the WED
to promote close coordination between the ESU work program and other
project activities. Expenditures under this component were higher than
those estimated at appraisal, mainly because of the costs of the expatriate
consultant who headed the Unit for the first four years. Overall, the
performance of the Unit was mixed. Early supervision missions found the
initial work program overly oriented towards theoretical and exploratory
work (such as in-depth surveys on selected topics) rather than toward
carrying out practical experiments, as was also originally intended.
Another problem was that staffing of the unit with Malawians was rather
slow.
3.19     In the first few years, the Unit carried out a survey of smell
farmers' use of energy, followed by a national survey of smallholder
knowledge, attitudes and practise with respect to tree planting. The
latter found that, in general, farmers do know how to grow trees and do so
when it is financially attractive, for example, where there is a good
market for poles. By the time of the mid-term review of the Project (June
1983), the supervision mission had some concerns about the role of the
Unit. As stated in the SAR, the ESU was assigned to carry out a variety of
studies required for planning of possible future wood energy projects,



-12.
including ti) investigating the reduction of wood consumption through
developing designs and fabrication t-chniques for cooking stoves, large
scale wood combustion devices such as tobacco curing barns, biogas units
and solar heaters, and (ii) collecting data in traditional tree harvesting
systems and their effects on forest yields, on the relationship between
deforestation and agricultural productivity, and on traditional cooking
practices. While the mission recognized this list probably exceeded the
capacity of sucli a unit, it felt the actual activities - essentially the
carrying out of studies based on rural household surveys - were too
limited. The mission recommended that the ESU play a more important role
in formulating a wood based energy policy, and providing the necessary data
for wood energy related investments. Based on the mission's suggestions,
the ESU prepared a work program which was reviewed and approved by the
Bank. Subsequent supervision missions found the work of the Unit more
focused and relevant.
3.20     In retrospect, it is clear that the catalogue of activities
planned in the SAR was too ambitious for a small new unit. However, by the
end of the project period, the ESU was fully staffed with Malawians
(including the head of the unit), several of whom had been on study leave
overseas and who represented a well trained and competent group.  The ESU
is now capable of contributing to the formulation of a wood based energy
policy, and carrying out studies, surveys and data collection as necessary
to support wood energy related invcstments such as the Second Wood Project.
g. Charcoal trials
3.21     Provision was made available under the credit for the Wood Energy
Division to carry out charcoal trials to identify more efficient methods of
charcoal production and investigations into marketing and consumer
acceptance of charcoal. The WED, together with the ESU, undertook trials
on a small scale comparing the efficiency of three kiln technologies -
traditional earth pit kilns, imported portable steel kilns and locally made
brick kilns. They found that the traditional earth kilns were very
wasteful while the steel kilns were very expensive, and required fairly
intensive and sophisticated management that was unlikely to be widely
available in Malawi. Brick kilns appeared to offer the best solution,
being more efficient than the earth pits and cheaper and simpler to operate
that the steel kilns. These results, and some preliminary findings
concerning the potential industrial and urban houshold markets for
charcoal, formed the basis for the design of the Pilot Charcoal Production
Component of the Second Wood Energy Project.
h. NRDP III Pre-investment
3.22     The purpose of this component was to ensure the uninterrupted
execution of successive rural development projects within the National
Rural Development Program through creating continuity between project
planning and project implementation by appointing key project staff,
collecting additional base-line data and providing in-service training of
planning and management staff. Of the US$400,000 allocated to this
component under the credit agreement, about US$260,000 was spent, mostly on
housing and office construction in Lilongwe Northeast and Dedza Hills.



-13-
B. Costs, Financing and Disbursements
3.23     Costs.  Total project crats were estimated at US$ 16.3 million.
By the original closing date of the project (December 1985), all the
physical components of the project had been completed satisfactorily but at
a total cost of only around US$ 11.5 million (70? of SAR estimate). This
substantial cost underrun was primarily due to currency realignments over
the project period, specifically the dramatic appreciation of the dollar
against all major currencies. At the request of the Government, the
closing date of the ;roject was extended, first for a year. and then
subsequently twice more, for six months each. During the extension,
project funds were used to finance maintenance of the plantations,
operation of the nurseries and the WED, construction of new headquarters
for the Forestry Department, replacement of vehicles, preparation for Phase
II of the Wood Energy Program (including procurement of vehicles, studies,
short term consultancies and a project implementation workshop) and
extension of the successful Pilot Energy Efficiency Project in tobacco
curing. 3    The Credit closed on December il, 1987, with total costs of
US$16.4 million. Summary cost data are presented in Annex II, Tables 1 and
3; detailed cost tables can be found in Annex IV.
3.24     Financina.  According to the SAR, the Government would finance 152
of project costs and IDA 852. Actual financing by the GOM represented
14.9X of total costs (Annex II, Table 4b).
3.25     Disbursements.  Disbursements averaged around 68? of appraisal
estimates for most of the project period. Disbursements were initially
slower than expected because of delays in civil works constructed by the
MOWS and the delay in establishing some plantations caused by the
withdrawal of CCDC. By the original closing date (December 1985) of the
project, all the physical components of the project had been completed on
schedule but only 72? of the credit had been disbursed, mainly because of
the very marked appreciation of the dollar during the project period. The
Credit was extended three times for a total of two years, finally closing
on December 31, 1987. The entire credit of US$13.8 million was disbursed
by June 30, 1988. Details on disbursements are in Annex II. Tables 4 & 5.
C. Procurement
3.26     Procurement for goods and services has been in accordance with
Bank Group procurement guidelines. Plant and vehicles were procured under
ICB during the first year of the project. Preparation of bidding documents
and evaluation of the bids were undertaken by the WED in a competent and
timely manner with no significant problems or delays. A comparison between
appraisal estimates of unit costs and the actual unit costs shows that,
I/Research trials under the Tobacco Energy Conservation Project have
demonstrated that wood consumption can be reduced from an average of 42
stacked m3 per ton of tobacco cured to between 10-15 stacked m3 per ton by
utilizing an improved furnace and better management and curing techniques.
The main focus of the program is now directed to disseminating the
research findings and training estate managers, furnace builders and
furnace stokers/operators in the new techniques.



-14-
with one or two exceptions, the bids were close to estimates.  Overall,
averaging out under and over estimates, total expenditure for vehicles and
equipment was within appraisal estimates. Small items of machinery and
equipment, as well as material (such as seed and fertilizer) were procured
under LCB, using procedures accep- ble to the Bank. Building construction
works in areas such as Lilongwe were tendered on the basis of LCB and
successfully executed. Other buildings which, due to their small size and
scattered locations, were not suitable for LCB were constructed under force
account of the Ministry of Works and Supplies (MOWS), or the FD.   While
the housing constructed by the FD was accomplished without problems, delays
in completion were experienced in some areas for buildings constructed by
the MOWS.  These delays were partly due to tardiness in preparation of site
plans by the FD and partly because the MOWS was thoroughly overburdened
with commitments.  In 1987, additional vehicles required to replace worn
out vehicles under Wood Energy I and start-up vehicles for Wood Energy II
were procured successfully through ICB.
D. Adherence to Covenants
3.27     Stumpage Rates:  As stated in the credit agreement, the Government
recognized that wood prices, to the extent that they are determined by the
Government, should be fixed at such levels as would promote a more
efficient use of wood, stimLulate further forestry development and preserve
forests on public and customary lands, while giving due regard to social
considerations and to the impact that prices would have on the major users
of fuelwood. Consistent with these objectives, the Government agreed to
take action to increase wood prices gradually so that by the time the wood
produced under the project is marketed, wood prices would be at a level to
ensure full cost recovery in project plantations. It was further agreed
that the Government and IDA would consult annually on general pricing
policy affecting forestry products.
3.28     In practice, there was little attempt by the Government to comply
with this covenant. At the beginning of the project, the stumpage rate was
MK 0.25/stacked cubic yard (equivalent to MK 0.33/stacked cubic meter).
During the project period the stumpage rate was raised twice, first to MK
0.50/stacked cubic yard, (MK 0.66/stacked cubic meter) and then to
MK1.8e/stacked cubic meter. In March 1986, the stumpage rate was raised
50Z, to MK2.70/stacked cubic meter, to comply with the conditior.s for board
presentation of the Second Wood Energy Project. However, actual costs data
from the plantations imply a cost recovery stumpage rate of about
MK21.9/stacked cubic meter in 1986/87 prices (see Annex III, Table 2).
Hence wood prices are still very far from full cost recovery levels.
3.29     In retrospect, the clause about giving due regard to social
considerations and the impact of price increase on users allowed the
Government to put off taking action with respect to wood prices which
would clearly be unpopular and painful in the short run but which is
absolutely critical for the success of the future wood energy program.
Wood pricing was a major issue during negotiations of the Second Wood
Energy Project and, in this case, the covenant was made stronger and more
specific in terms of timing and did not include a 'let-outs clause on
social grounds.



-15-
3.30     Revenue Sharing with Local Authoritiess  It was agreed at
negotiations that an agreement would be made between the Local Authorities
and FD on sharing of revenues from forestry products, by not later than
December 31, 1980. This agreement proved difficult to reach. The Ministry
of Local Government apparently felt that if the plantations are to be
considered town and district council plantations, most, if not all, of the
revenues should accrue to these councils. However, the intention of
Treasury and the Bank had always been that the bulk of the revenue would
accrue to the central budget, while allowing the local authorities to keep
a small portion as a financial incentive to maintain the plantations.
Although this issue was raised repeatedly by early supervision missions, it
was decided only recently that the revenue share to be allocated to the
Local Authorities would be set at 202.
3.31     All other covenants were complied with satisfactorily.
E. Auditing and Reporting
3.32     The WED prepared progress reports on the Project every six months,
based on an outline suggested by the first supervision mission. These
reports were generally thorough and satisfactory, although occasionally not
actually completed until some months after the period covered. Assurances
were obtained at negotiations that all Project accounts, including
statements of expenditures, would be audited by independent auditors and
that the audited accounts, together with the auditors report, would be
submitted to IDA not later than six months following the end of the fiscal
year. In practice, although the accounts and the audit report were always
satisfactory, they were sometimes overdue by up to as much as nine months.
However, the trend would appear to be towards improvement, with the latest
audit, for the 1986/87 fiscal year, submitted on time.
IV. PROJECT IMPACT
A. Wood Production
4.01     The total area planted and estimates of wood produced under the
project are summarized below; details can be found in Annex III, Table 1.
Area       SAR
planted   estimate        Output         SAR estimate
(ha)       (ha)     ('000 m3 solid)   ('000 m3 solid)
Component
LA plantations    2,710      2,400           401.6              998
CG plantations   10,900    10,500**       1,615.4             4,368
Woodlots           7,218*   15.000         1,028.3            4.320
TOTAL          20,828    27,900         3,045.3             9,686
* Hectares of woodlots planted estimated by dividing the number of
seedlings sold or issued free (see Annex I, Table 2) by 2,500, the
assumed planting density per hectare.



-16-
** 9,000 ha of central Government plantations plus 1,500 ha of CCDC
plantations actually established by central Government.
4.02     Plantations.  The areas planted under the LA and CG plantation
components slightly exceeded the SAR estimates. However, ultimate output
of wood, in solid cubic metres, is estimated at only just over one-third of
appraisal estimates. The SAR assumed four coppice rotations of eight years
each, with an MAI of 15 m3/ha during the first two rotations, 12 m /ha
during the third and 10 m3/he during the last rotation. The SAR emphasized
that these expected yields were tentative and would have to be revised,
when more accurate information became available. A preliminary evaluation
of yields in the plantations was undertaken during the appraisal of the
WEII project and concluded that the SAR estimates were overly optimistic.4
This was confirmed by the results of a survey carried out by the FD and
FRIM in different ecological sites to obtain more reliable data on wood
yields (see Annex V). The survey, which terminated in September 1987 and
covered an area of about 9,500 hectares (almost 70 Z of the total project
area), found average wood yields over 50 Z lower than those forecast at
appraisal. Based on the survey, the following MAI forecasts have been used
to estimate total project output: 4.7 m3/hL in the first rotation, 7.5
m3/ha in the second, 6.5 m3/ha in the third and 6.0 m3 in the final
rotation. Assuming four six-year rotation, these yields forecasts lead to
an estimated total output of about 2 million solid m3 over a period of 30
years (see Annex III, Table 1).
4.03     Woodlots.  As noted earlier, the production and sales targets for
the nursery program were much too ambitious. The SAR assumed that each
nursery would produce and sell about 100,000 seedlings per annum, from year
one, leading to an estimate of around 15,000 ha of woodlots to be
established during the project period. In practice, it took five years for
production to reach the original target, and sales lagged considerably
behind production. As a result, the estimated number of hectares planted
as woodlots is less than half the SAR estimate. Based on the field work
for the WEII appraisal, yields from the woodlots are assumed to be slightly
higher than those used to estimate output from both CG and LA plantations.
It is further assumed- that wood will be cut by smallholders on the
equivalent of a 5-year rotation. This implies a total output of about 1.0
million solid m3 of wood from the woodlots over a 20 yea. period. (Annex
III, Table 1).
4.04     According to estimates made during the appraisal of WEII, there
was an apparent annual wood deficit of about 4 million m3 in 1984, which is
projected to rise to an annual deficit of 5.6 million m3 over the next ten
years. The entire 30 year output of the project is thus only equivalent to
roughly 50Z of one year's wood deficit. In terms of production, therefore,
the impact of the project is very small. Clearly, the central Government
does not have the financial or manpower resources to plant on a scale to
fill the gap between supply and demand. During project implementation, the
Bank and the GOM worked together to develop a strategy for wood energy,
4/The mission also recommended that the wood from the plantations be cut on
a 6 year rotation basis.



-17-
which emphasizes the role of Government in creating a policy environment
that would promote private production and conservation of wood rather than
in producing wood directly.
B. Production Costs and Financial Returns
4.05     Stumpage Rate.  In the SAR calculations of the cost recovery
stumpage rate and FRR were made separately for the LA, the CCDC and the CG
plantations. However, as in practice, all plantatiorns under the project
were established and maintained by the Forestry Department, separate
calculations would be meaningless and have not been made. Based on the
actual costs for the plantations (LA plus CG) for the first eight years of
the Project and projections of costs and of wood output thereafter, and
using a discount rate of 12Z, the stumpage rate that would ensure full
recovery of costs would be around MK 31.3/solid m3 (MK 21.9/stacked m3) in
1986/87 prices. (Anrnex III, Table 2 presents the details of the
calculation).5 The 1987 stumpage rate of MK 2.70/stacked m3 highlights the
failure of the Government to adhere to the covenant on wood pricing in the
DCA.
4.06     Financial Returns.  Details for the calculation of the FRR for the
plantations component are presented in Annex III, Tables 3 and 4. Based on
information from the FD, it is assumed that out" t from about 402 of the
area planted would be sold as poles, with the x.-ainder sold as fuelwood.
Projected real stumpage rates for fuelwood are taken from the appraisal
report for the Second Wood Energy Project (Report No.5914-MAI, Para 4.05).
Using these assumptions, the PRR for the plantations is estimated at about
7.4?.  Following the example in tLe SAR, no calculation of financial
benefits has been made for the farmers woodlots as virtually all wood
produced under this program would be utilised by the farmers themselves to
meet their domestic requirements. The original aim for the nurseries, as
stated in the SAR, was that the seedlings would be sold to farmers at cost,
and hence no separate financial rate of return was calculated for the
nursery component. In practice, in the initial years of the project,
seedlings were sold at prices substantially below costs, implying heavy
subsidization of the nursery component (see Annex I, Table 2). However, as
production and sales levels improve, it should be possible to achieve full
cost recovery at prices farmers can afford.
C. Economic Returns.
4.07     A major problem in estimating the economic returns to the project
is how to value fuelwood production. The existing local market is
distorted; the price of fuelwood reflects the low private costs of clearing
forests at present rather than the considerable long-term costs of
5/The SAR estimated the cost recovery stumpage rate in the Forestry
Department plantations as MK 7.30/ms solid (1979 prices), using a 10?
discount rate. Using the inflation rates shown in Annex II, Table 2a,
this would imply a stumpage rate of MK 18.0/solid m3 in 1986/87 prices.
At a 10? discount rate, the stumpage rate based on actual costs and
revised projections, would be MK 25.9/solid m3 in 1986187 prices - almost
45 2 above the SAR estimate.



-18-
replacement, not to mention environmental degradation. Following the
approach taken in the SAR for the Second Wood Energy Project, the wood
output from the project is valued at the economic cost of supplying the
same quantity of fuel (in energy equivalent units) through the next best
alternative. The choices include: (a) use of alternative sources of energy
such as kerosene; (b) production of charcoal from exploitation of existing
forestry resources such as Viphya; and (c) continuation of unrestricted
exploitation of existing natural forests. 6   Details of the calculations
for the alternative measures of valuing fuelvood are presented in the WEII
SAR (Report No.5914-MAI. Annex 2, Tables 14-16). The economic returns to
the plantation component are calculated imputing in turn the economic value
of fuelwood implied by these three alternatives. Costs are adjusted to
include the current rental cost as a proxy for the opportunity cost of
land. The ERR to the plantations varies from 9 to 16Z. (See Annex III,
Table 5 for details.).
Economic Rates of Return to Plantations
Associated with Alternative Ways to Value Fuelwood
Economic Value
of Wood              ERR estimate
M4K/Solid m3            _
Alternative Energy Sources:
Imported Kerosene                     58.3                    16.3
Viphya Charcoal                       26.7                    10.4
Depletion of Indigenous Forest        22.8                     9.4
4.08     Analysis done during the appraisal of the Second Wood Energy
Project suggests that small farmers would produce fuelvood at approximately
one-third of the cost of Forestry Department plantations (see Report
No.5914-HAI, para 4.06). Hence, the economic returns to the woodlots are
likely to be substantially higher than the economic returns to the
plantations, reflecting the much lower total economic costs of tree
planting by smallholders.
V. INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE
A. Bank Performance
5.01     Proiect Design. In retrospect, there appear to be some flaws in
the project as originally designed by the appraisal team. The establishment
of a large nationwide network of nurseries in the first year of the project
6/This alternative involves substantial transport costs, as the distance
required to fetch wood is likely to be large. In addition, there are
environmental costs associated with destruction of the natural forest.
While these are difficult to quantify, a rough estimate is made in terms
of the possible losses in agricultural productivity.



-19-
was premature. Although almost all the nurseries were physically
established in year one, production and sales of seedlings were
considerably below the very ambitious appraisal estimates. A pilot nursery
scheme which would have allowed the FD to gain .xperience in operating a
very innovative and unfamiliar type of componen, would have been more
appropriate. Another problem was that no survey had been carried out to
identify key wood deficit areas, and, as a result, some nurseries were
located in areas with no shortage of wood and consequently little demand
for seedlings; in other cases, nurseries were located in sites with poor
accessibility. As conceived by the appraisal team, extension was supposed
to be carried out by the nurserymen. In practice, this proved impossible as
the nurserymen had neither the time nor the capability to do extension.  A
pilot scheme would ideally have included provision for testing different
ways of providing extension to farmers on treeplanting. The most
fundamental problem with the nursery component, however, was the lack of
incentive for small farmers to plant trees, given the prevailing policy
environment. The scope of the project was basically too narrow, focusing as
it did on production of seedlings, but failing to address policy issues
such as low producer prices for fuelwood and availability of free wood in
the natural forests, which greatly reduced the incentives for tree
planting.
5.02     With respect to the plantation components, the appraisal mission
appears to have totally misjudged the willingness or capability of both
CCDC and the local authorities to establish and maintain plantations.
Although the overall number of hectares planted actually exceeded the
number foreseen at appraisal, all the plantations were ultimately
established by the FD who, at least according to the SAR estimates, had
higher costs than either CCDC or the local authorities. Given the very
high costs of central Government plantations and the fact that the FD does
not have the capacity or resources to plant on the scale necessary to deal
with the fuelwood deficit, it would have been desirable to have devoted
more attention to identifying ways to get agents, other than the civil
service, to plant trees. A further problem with the plantation component is
that preliminary evidence suggests that the appraisal team overestimated
wood yields by over 50Z.
5.03     Proiect Supervision. Bank supervision has, overall, been satis-
factory. Thir:een missions, comprising foresters and economists/
agricultural ec;onomists, spent a total of about 130 man days in Malawi to
supervise the Project. Continuity of staff on supervision was good; the
missions generally consisted of two persons, of whom at least one had been
on a previous supervision. Bank missions helped project management
identify specific implementaticn problems such as transportation
bottlenecks in seedling distribution, lack of publicity, late delivery of
inputs, poor m& itenance in the plantations and so on; and alsc provided
advice on issues such as the design of an extension system, methods of
termite control, and seedling prices. More importantly, throughout project
implementation, there was an on-going policy dialogue between the Bank and
FD, based on the findings of the supervision missions and the forestry sub-
sector study, from which developed the long run strategy for the subsector
and the design of the second Wood Energy Project.



-20-
B. Implementing A2encies
5.04     The Wood Energy Division was created in the Forestry Department to
be directly responsible for Project implementation and to direct,
coordinate and control all matters relating to wood energy. One problem
that surfaced during project implementation and which undermined management
effectiveness to some extent was the frequent absence of the more senior
members of the WED, who travelled extensively both within Malawi and
abroad. Another issue was that the project manager was sometimes
overburdened with otner responsibilities within the Ministry and unable to
devote sufficient time to details of project implementation. Overall,
however, the management of the project was satisfactory. All the physical
components of the project were completed on time. Although the appraisal
targets for the nurseries were not achieved, these were highly unrealistic
given the lack of experience of the Bank and the country in social forestry
operations. However, the project team did increase the national awareness
of the emerging fuelwood crisis and developed public and political support
for tree-planting. The project team managed to launch planting activities
throughout the country by motivating schools, villages and area action
groups to plant trees. Throughout implementation, staff from the WED
worked closely with the Bank in the development of the forestry/wood energy
strategy and policies.
5.05     One of the conditions in the DCA was the appointment of a suitably
qualified and experienced financial controller. An expatriate financial
controller was recruited whose work was very satisfactory, and who
established excellent working relations with staff in the FD. However, the
training of Malawian counterparts has been less satisfactory despite the
best efforts of the controller, largely because of thc rather low calibre
and high turnover of the counterparts. This in turn stems from the more
general problem that the salaries for accountants in the civil service are
much less attractive than salaries in the private sector.
VI. CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS TO BE LEARNED
6.01     The project achieved most of its physical targets by the original
closing date. In addition, the project was successful in establishing
institutions, educating staff, and developing public and political support
for tree planting. The project had an important impact on raising,
nationwide, the consciousness for the emerging fuelwood crisis which is now
drawing attention on the highest political level and establishing firmly
the concept of social forestry in Malawi. The project created the WED and
the ESU. A well trained, competent, experienced and dedicated staff is now
in place with the capacity to conceive, prepare and implement the much more
complex second phase Wood Energy project with only marginal foreign
assistance.
6.02     The plantation component was successful in purely physical terms -
the numbers of hectares established actually exceeded the appraisal target.
However, the wood yields from the plantations are substantially lower than
had been anticipated. This is partly due to the establishment of



-21-
plantations in unsuitable locations and with inappropriate species and
provenances. In addition, insufficient attention was paid to tending and
weeding in the first years after planting and inadequate fire protection
was provided. While wood yields are low, the per hectare costs of
establishing the Government plantations are high, due to heavy outlays on
vehicles, staff housing, offices, roads and other infrastructure. The
ultimate financial cost per cubic meter of wood produced is therefore
extremely high -- around MK21.9/cubic meter stacked (in 1986/87 prices) for
the project plantations, which is about 8 times higher than the present
stumpage rate. It is also clear that the Forestry Department does not have
the financial, managerial and staffing capacity to plant on the scale
necessary to deal with the fuelwood crisis. Instead, the Government needs
to concentrate on establishing the right environment to induce private
production and conservation of wood, through its policies on wood pricing,
revenue collection and indigenous forest protection. In the medium term,
Government planting should be restricted to environmentally fragile areas
where private planting would not occur.
6.03     The project did not initially meet the targets set in the SAR for
the nursery component. Production and sales targets were highly
unrealistic given the lack of experience of the Bank and the country in
social forestry. A further problem was that the selection of nursery sites
was arbitrary and not based on attitude or wood deficit surveys. As a
result, nurseries were often not located in the most receptive or
accessible areas. A pilot project would have provided more flexibility
than a production-oriented project, and would have allowed the FD to build
up experience in operating this type of component. The establishment of a
large nationwide netwurk of nurseries in year one overloaded the managerial
and supervisory capabilities of the WED and regional forestry offices. It
would have been better to establish the nurseries gradually, with locations
based on results obtained in surveys of wood deficiency areas and on small
farmers' attitudes towards tree planting. In addition, a pilot project
could have provided the framework for testing alternative extension
systems.
6.04     By the end of the project period, average production levels from
the nurseries had reached the original appraisal estimates, but seedlings
sales remained rather low. Despite the disappointing sales performance of
the nurseries, however, analysis undertaken for the Second Wood Energy
Project clearly demonstrates that tree planting by rural households is by
far the lowest cost way to deal with the fuelwood crisis. Supplying
farmers with subsidized seedlings through retail nurseries is a highly cost
effective way for the Government to promote tree planting. However, for
this approach to be successful, it is necessary to ensure that financial
incentives exist for farmers to plant trees. The experience under the
Project demonstrates that merely providing subsidized seedlings is not
enough. The main reasons why tree planting is not popular with small
farmers are the low producer prices for wood and availability of free wood
in the natural forest.
6.05     The project was not designed to deal with issues such as wood
pricing, revenue collection, and protection and management of natural
forests, but did create the basis for dealing with these wider issues in
the second phase. The lessons learned have been incorporated into the



-22-
design of the second phase. The major thrust of the Second Wood Energy
project is to implement a comprehensive policy package designed to create
incentives for private tree planting and wood conservation. Its most
significant features are increases in fuelwood prices, expanded forest
protection and revenue collection activities, and provision of incentive
payments to small farmers for tree planting. The Project aims to encourage
private tree planting directly by providing investment incentives,
subsidized seedlings and extension services, and indirectly by increasing
the stumpage fees to cost recovery levels plus a margin for the producer.
Access to free wood in the indigenous forests will be restricted. The
actions on wood pricing and revenue collection indirectly create incentives
for greater wood conservation. In addition, the Project is introducing
more fuel-efficient technologies in tobacco curing. charcoal making and
domestic cooking stoves. In line with the redefinition of the Government's
role in fuelwood production, namely creation of a policy environment that
encourages private production and conservation rather than direct
production by the FD, provision is made for only a limited number of
Government plantations in environmentally fragile areas.
6.06    U5ider the new project, nurseries initially would be established on
a temporary basis until the farmers' response is sufficient to justify
their upgrading to permanent nurseries. Establishment of temporary
nurseries requires only low cost traditional bush-material houses for the
nurserymen, a shed for tools, and materials and fencing. Thereafter,
upgrading would entail additional investments in more permanent houses for
nurserymen, improved storage facilities, and water tanks. The new
nurseries are phased in gradually over a period of three years and the
initial production target is relatively modest, around 50,000 &eedlings per
nursery in the first year of operation. A pilot extension scheme is
included to try to determine whether a workable arrangement with the
Agricultural Extension Service can eventually be developed. This provides
for six pilot extension units to be set up in areas with acute fuelwood
shortage. In addition, provision is made for a small unit at the FD
headquarters to develop training materials for farmers and extension staff
and to strengthen the existing publicity unit and existing Forestry
Extension Unit.



-23-
ANNEK I
TabLe 1
NRDP II WOOD NOW PCr (rEDLT 992-A)
PRBCr azN  wUM
Table 1: Nrseria - SeedLtrgs Production and Dlstributim
1980/81    1981/82    1982/83    1983/84    1984/85    1985/86 1986/87
Number of m.seres                   80         82         84         87         88         88      88
'0Q0) seedlivgs
Target Production                8,000 2/   3,700 3/   2,700 3/   3,000 3/   5,900 3/   7,5003/ 8,000 3/
Production 1/                    2,605      1,747      2,044      2,658      5,089      8,539  13,439
ProductLon as a S of target        32%        472        75%        892        862       1142    168,L
FRrryover                           -       1,749        919        574        112        574    1,579
Total before deatbs            2,605      3,496      2,963      3,232      5,201      9,113  15,018
Deatbs/ojllks - Nbmber             470        700        401        342        503        640   1,139
- Perc(18)                        (20)       (14)       (11)       (10)        (7)      8
Total available                2,135      2,796      2,560      2,890      4,698      8,473  13,879
Sal  - NuMter                     386       1,783      1,813      2,443      3,672      6,035  10,402
- Percent4e                  (15)       (51)       (61)       (76)       (71)       (66)    (69)
Free Issues and a                   -         94         173        335        452        859   1,405
Stock left in nurseries          1,749        919        574        112        574      1,579   2,072
1/  Tncllitri, from  1982/83 onuards, prodution fron additional 10 temporazy oarseries.
W2  Or&ignl appraisal target of 100,000 see&MUws per mursery per arom.
3   Fbsised targets follcuizg Bsk serzisiomn sissians.



-24-
ANNEK I
Iable 2
N1P II WOOD ROM PRWECT (QEDfr 992-MAI)
PRWECI CaglCN IU WR
Table 2: Seedling Production Cost
1980/81   1981/82   1982/83   1983/84   1984/85   1985/86   1986/87
-                 ^ ~~~~~~000)               .
I.    qale
Direct expnes                           81.0    110.7       92.7     95.0    144.7    193.7        287.7
Depreciatio - Fixed Asets                13.5     34.7      26.6      40.0     27.7      15.2       14.2
- UNrseay Sites              2.0       3.1      2.8       3.0       3.3      2.5        -
- o4edrhsd Allocation       42.5     41.3      25.8      30.0      48.3     60.1       93.8
Total Expenses                        139.0    189.8    147.9    168.0    224.0    271.5         395.7
U. Revbsxs (seedling)                         6.4      19.0      18.8     25.0      35.6      56.2     145.1
IM. Ptofit (los)                           (132.6)  (170.8)  (129.1)  (143.0)  (188.4)  (215.3)   (250.6)
--<mber in 000)
IV. Plants Sold/Issues
Plants sold                            386    1,782    1,813    2,444    3,672    6,035            10,402
Free issues                              -         -         -      335       452       859         1,405
Total                                386    1,782    1,813    2,779    4,124    6,894            11,807
0 (ib/ling)---
(Tanbala/Seedlig
V.  Uhit Cost of Sales plus Issues
Direct expenses                          21.0      6.2       5.1       3.4      3.5       2.8        2.4
Depreciation and Oehiad                 14.5       4.4       3.0      2.6       1.9       1.1       0.9
Total Unit Cost                       35.5      10.6       8.1      6.0       5.4       3.9        3.3



-25-
ANN  I
Tsble 3
MAIM
NRDP II WOCD E-Y  JEM t (CDIT 992-H)
ERWECT aErtaN REE
Table 3: La Autrity Plantations - locatio  and  tasig of IuplmentatiOn
Plnting Seasc                  Appral *
Location of Plantations                                                             otal  Estimates
1981/82 1982/83 1983/84 1984/85 1985/86
(ha)
T. Urban Plantatio
Notbern region (Karonga, 3 sites)    24.2    27.4    77.5   140.8      -       269.9     300
natral region (Kasungu, 3 sites)    78.7    89.9    80.9   107.0       -       356.5     300
Southern reglon (Znbe, 6 sites)     71.3    79.0   109.0    75.0       -       334.3     300
Sub-total (12 sites)              174.2   196.3   267.4   322.8      -       960.7     900
II. Rural Plantation
Northern region (Karovga, 4 sites)    51.4    61.0    99.5   113.6     -       325.5     300
(Nkbata Bay, 2 sites)  -      -       12.3    64.3    70.4    147.0         -
Central region (Lilongwe, 4 sites)   87.0    81.0    83.5    72.0      -       323.5     300
(Kaungpu, 4 sites)    72.4    65.5    80.2    86.0      -       304.1     300
Southern region (Blantyre, 5 sites)   60.2   100.0    82.3   100.0     -       342.5     300
(Zo,ua, 5 sites)     59.2    79.0    75.0    94.0       -       307.2     300
Sub-total (24 sites)              330.2   386.5   432.8   529.9    70.4  1,749.8   1,500
TOTWL (36 sites)                  504.4   582.8   700.2   852.7    70.4  2,710.5   2,400
WEAL BY RFELON
- Northemn reglon                    75.6    88.4   189.3   318.7    70.4    742.4       600
- Central region                    238.1   236.4   244.6   265.0      -       984.1     900
- Sohern region                     190.7   258.0   266.3   269.0      -       984.0     900
TUL                             504.4   582.8   700.2   852.7    70.4  2,710.5   2,400
* SR foresm annual plantiz  for eadi plantation wuild be at the rate of 75 ha per amnum fran the
secocd thuuh the fifth year of the Project.



-26-
ANNER I
Table 4
NIMP n WM   i    ROEN= (FDIT 992-A)
PFIC  aM M     REECr
Table 4: Central Govermenit PlantatiGs - Iocatlmn and fb    of lple ttfotin
Plantug Season                        Apprassal2/
locatimL of Plmntat1m                                                          ilta  Etimtes
1981/82  1982/83  1983/84  1984/85  1985/86
(ha)
I.  Nwthenn Reglo                  -        -        -        -        -         ^         -
II. a 
llamIem     (1 site)        379.8    708.4    812.3  1,179.3      -     3,079.8   3,000
DOba         (2 sites) 1/     -       230.8    652.0   694.5       _     1,577.3       -
Sub-total   (3 sites)      379.8    939.2  1,464.3  1,873.8      -     4,657.1   3,000
m. sa Reg
Blantyre     (7 sites)       271.1    645.8    875.2  1,163.7    117.0   3,072.8   3,000
(11 sites)     450.0    850.0  1,030.0    770.0     70.0   3,170.0   3,000
Sub-total   (18 sites)     721.1  1,495.8  1,905.2  1,933.7    187.0   6,242.8   6,000
TIrAL       (21 sites)    1,100.9  2,435.0  3,369.5  3,807.5    187.0  10.899.9   9,000
1/  leplail  O    pantatinm.
2/  SAR foresm annual plantlin rate of 450 ha in the seard year and 850 ha In each abeqFtmnt year, In
each plantation.
'C



TI~ ~       I XI .'  
4 w 1    w a t
z   :flhI 



-28-
ANNU I
N DP II ZfD 12YR~E  (C~r 912~)
anr n}azrmt wir
Tbbe 6: Bdb1i by' Tyij,   trtied w te pn !!t
Woo     &u      Fmsx         local    R4pl    AS1odral
Udldir           Bm         Sb    Dhru        AirL           Fmatx    Dsoqutl noau       T
Dlvlakm    Usdt  EPLatatkes   PtatatmDLVlslxw    Iiguerim
lb-    Type B          4        -                               -          -                    4
c           2        2         -           -         3          3          -        10
D           4        3        11           3         3          3          -        27
E           4        5        26           9        ao          3          -        67
F           3        1        14           -         5          1          -        24
MrAl                 17       1         51         12         31         10         -.0
TraitwAel lHs          -        -        301         54         8          -         83       446
0ff1le  *o             1        1         5           -         3          -          -        10
S       re RxMI/       -        -         8          21         1          -         81       111
ower1bm                -        -         4           -         -          _          _        4
/ s   -  2        3           -         -          -          -         5
ter kie                -        -         4           -         -          -          -         4
j  1ermp Hm            -        -         2           -         -          -          -         2
1t  TnBritu gnu seed, laIEP stre-mu adl falsbe



-29-
AN=X I
Tabh 7
qM
NW IIn :i  E       n r (Crr 99W)
We 7: Plait adI Ved.e BRduini uz    te P det
TYP        Rv~Wy Shil D*zbwt  A±hdity Fbmtzy lwlqmuit  etafl  Tnf tial gemt   up
Dtvisim  Wit Plaitaigx  PlwaWticxw WNf    Div1sio~m  ?lueries Rrdwe NWP t WKEE
FourllLm &Um stf                                  l      lLtEim
P .~   w I  .                                                          .    . _   .       
w-mn                  1      1       -        -       2        -        -       4     9        4
iiea drive hit    -          -       -         -       3        -        -       3     -       -
-xrie  pd&W            1     -       4         -       3        -        -       8     9      22
pldew                  1     -       -         -       -        6        -       7     -       -
g,10M N   fi     L    m 1    1       --                         -        -       2     -       3
irar1e(7t)             -     -       4         -       -        -        -       4     -       10
Trc8 (35 bp)           -     -       3         -       -        -        -       3     -       -
1:8bmcs (65 IV)        -     -       1         -       -        -        -       1     -       6
¶fraflazs              -     -       4         -       -        -        -       4     -       6
'H~ioKIYS                     1     -       12       13       1        -        -      27    29      75
BICYu                  -     -       -         -       -        -      169     169   100     225
-     -       4         -       31/      -       -       7      -       1
sa vrae-   -    -                              -    3           -       -    3   -    -
ML hb                  -     -       -         -       -        -        -       -     -       2
I/  RzseFtwp          1m



-30-
AN= I
MALAWI
NRDP II WOOD ENERGY PROJECT (CREDIT 992-MAI)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table 8: Road Construction
Local Authority Plantations                District           km
-     Rural                              Blantyre            5.0
Kasungu            4.7
Lilongwe           2.0
Karonga           11.3
Zomba              3.0
Sub-total       26.0
-      JUrban                            Kasungu            12.1
Karonga            3.0
Zomba              6.4
Sub-total       21.5
Total L.A.P.    47.5
Central Government Plantations             Lilonswe           35.0
Blant,re          79.7
Zomba             90.5
Dowa              23.1
Total C.G.P.   228.3
TOTAL          275.8



-31-
ANNEK I
Table 9
MALAWI
NRDP II WOOD ENERGY PROJECT (CREDIT 992-MAI)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table 9: Wood Energy Division - Number of Posts Filled
Number or Posts
Grade     SAR   Filled   Vacant
Assistant Chief Forestry Officer           P6            1       1
Senior Forestry Officer                    P8            3       3
Senlor Accountant                          P8            1       1
Planning Officer                           PO            1       1        -
Personnel Officer                          PO/CEO        1       1        -
Chief Forester                             CTO           3       3        -
Senior Forester                            STO           7       7        -
Senior Executive Officer                   SEO           1       1        -
Senior Assistant Accountant                SEO/acc.      2       1        1
Forester                                   TO           26      24        2
Building Supervisor                        TO            3       2        1
Executive Officer                          EO            3       3        -
Building Foremen                           STA           3       3        -
Clerical Officer                           CO           29      24        5
Clerical Officer Accountant                CO/acc.      l,      18        1
Forestry Assistant                         TA           55      55        -
Copy Typist                                D6            2       2



-32-
~~~~WM~~~A                                    
AIWW  II
NOP D: WXD E     NW  (        r M    )
TMe 1: Ma1 Poc osts In zImut Tams I/
W982/81  1981W&      83  1983/84   94/85   95/86  186/87  1987/88?/ ,.
OK,a0
1r_t S
Paitl Nem                           155.7    33.3      6.0    21.2       4.2      0.6     1.6    47.6    270.2
IlD Athi i      Platatkx             17.3   175.1    77.3       3.1      3.4      2.3    17.9    76.4    372.8
03trel Goveom Flatetws              141.2   561.5   651.9   318.3    1D0.1    17.7    10.5   310.8  2,142.0
Wood Eumsy DiLVim                   304.5   737.8   478.0   121.5    61.3    15.4    65.5   302.0  2,086.0
Cuhmoal Mals                          -        3.7     0.5      -        -       -        -        -        4.2
aEtE   xttf                          24.3      4.4    38B.8    11.4    72.0    26.5    42.7    89.1    579.2
Ithld wXxa  mY Iu istme am"ts    643.0  1,515.8  1,522.5   475.5   271.0    62.5   138.2   825.9   5,454.4
atail oLrseries                     9.4   101.9    90.2    96.6   165.6   213.4   287.7   248.0  IV7.8
Y1t1 Aht inity patat*dm               4.0   115.3   289.2   187.3   288.2   213.3   281.8   289.8   1^68.9
(rtra1 (bQenem'z Plantatkxu          58.3   378.9   783.0   785.0   960.9   663.8  1,(2).1   858.5  5,518.5
1mb EauY Divlaitxi                   96.9   380.6   567.7   658.5   749.4   751.4   839.8   542.7  4,S87.0
()urul Tria1l                         -        3.6     3.5      0.1      -       -        -        -        7.2
BW   Sb* yb1It                        -      107.0   18D.7   176.5    92.5    57.8   103.5    50.7    768.7
Tal W,eJt f gI    C              253.6  1,0873  1,9143  1,904.0  2,256.6  1,899.7  2,5M2.9  1,989.7  13,83B.1
NUW m  Pre-Tt3 _ t                    -       -       248.2    83.8      -       -        -        -       332.0
VE I1 mr3/                            -        -       -        -        -       -       197.1  2,445.6  2,642.7
nl*~ FRal FfFsimy f}ojat Et          -        -        -        -       -        -        -      635.9    635.9
Fmtr1H2  Ift Hdc                      -       -        -        -       _        _      560.0      -       560.0
Tal Other  bts                      -        -      248.2    83.8      -        -      757.1  3,081.5  4,170.6
lDLL Eff   M1 WOOD):            896.6  2,603.1  3,685.0  2,463.3  2,527.6  1,962.2  3,428.2  5,897.1  23,463.1
EUL BMWXar SF0(WBXD):3/   1,067.7  2,769.3  3,30.7  2,002.7  1,696.4  1,1213  1,749.1  2,57.8  16,3B5.0
1/ DIlB aw  gLveLi in kmu IV, Whss 1 to 6.
Z ?atf     In 86/87 pims.
w  w1    , Wxlh,, St-ten= QMItald, StxlIH.
4/ E9K   s r     r freeax fIascl yr am gbml In Wile 2.



-33-
ANNEX II
Tables 2a & 2b
MALAWI
NRDP II WOOD ENERGY PROJECT (CREDIT 992-MAI)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table 2a: MK/US$ Exchange Rates
Year            Exchange Rate I/         Fiscal Year 2/       Exchange Rate
(MK to US$)                                  (MK to US$)
1980                 0.8121               1980/81                  0.84
1981                 0.8953               1981/82                  0.94
1982                  1.0555              1982/83                  1.09
1983                  1.1748              1983/84                  1.23
1984                  1.4134              1984/85                   1.49
1985                  1.7191              1985/86                   1.75
1986                  1.8611              1986/87                  1.96
1987                 2.2431               1987/88                  2.27
1988 (January)       2.4700
Table 2b:  Inflators/Deflators, 1979/80 - 1986/87
Consumer Price      Financial 2/  Consumer Price
Year                Index 1/           Year            Index        Inflators  Deflators
(1980 = TOO)
1979                  84.0           1979/80            88.0          2.47       1.00
1980                  100.0          1980/81           102.9          2.11       1.17
1981                  111.8          1981/82           114.6          1.90       1.30
1982                  122.8          1982/83           127.0          1.71       1.44
1983                  139.4          1983/84           146.4          1.48       1.67
1984                  167.3          1984/85           171.7          1.26       1.96
1985                  184.9          1985/86           191.4          1.13       2.19
1986                 210.9           1986/87           217.2          1.00       2.47
1987 (Jan - April)   236.1
1/   Source:  International Financial Statistics (IMP- Jan. 1988)
2/  From April 1 - March 31.



-34-                                           AR   I
T1a 3
MUP               lmJK  (am  9)
¶1l1e 3: Tht ftoject Ct In Qait 1986/87 ftr1 1/
0:zrpmts                 1983/81  1981/82  153 1983/8.   M84875 185/86  1966/87  1987/88         T.ial
WO)
L      1neba  Obst 2a
- BI-hdl !ierud                3.5    63.3    10.3    31.4          5.3     0.7      1.6    47.6       488.7
- 1nca1 Aithtyplatns            36.5   332.7   132.2       4.6      4.3     2.6    17.9    76.4        6T2
- (mtrd Qwa=em Platatfxu  297.9  1,066.8  1,114.7   471.1    163.9    20.0          10.5   310.8    3,455.7
- Mbod    V Dlvmi              642.5  1,401.8   817.4   179.8    77.3    17.4    65.5    32.0    3,503.7
- Chmm als                       -        7.0     0.8      -        -       -        -        -          7.8
- lni, Sbai                     51.3      8.4   52h1      16.9    90.7    29.9    42.7    89.1         857.1
9Al:               1,356.7  2,880.0  2,603.5   703.8   341.5    70.6    18.2   825.9    8,920.2
IL Qmm:kg        2/
- 1tai 1Izer1es                199.2   193.6   154.3    143.0   2OL7    241.2    37.7    2480         1,675.7
- load Aithity Pmlmu             8.4   219.2   494.5   277.2   363.1   241.0   281.8    39.8          2,175.0
- OmtbL Gyemit P1aztt1m    123.0   719.9  1,338.9  1,161.8  1,210.7   750.1  ,OYZ).l   85L5           7,183.0
- Wood auW Dvliim              204.5   723.1   970.8   974.6   944.2   849.1   839.8   547            6,0A8
- auromv Trials                  -        6.8     6.0      0.1      -       -        -        -         12.9
- BMuWy                          -      203.3   309.0   261.2   116.6    65.3   103.5    50.7    1,109.6
91rtzd:             535.1  2,065.9  3,23.5  2,817.9  2,843.3  2,146.7  2532.9  199.7    18,5.0
m.Othw (bt 2/
- NWM IE f B4MOSUIt              -       -      424.4   124.0       -       -        -        -        54B.4
- VE IE                          -       -        -        -       -        -      197.1  2,445.6    2,642.7
-   b        Firl Effcy ftoj     -       -        -        -        -       -        -      635.9      635.9
- Forestry Q    t Bxk            -                                          -      560.0      -        560.0
mLm         aml:      1,891.8  4,945.9  6,301.4  3,645.7  3,184.8  2,7.3  3,42.2  5,897.1   31,512.2
1/  Faca  uD xxuRt fgz  In arrat tetInto I9W amstat prlm are given In Td1e 2b.
2/ y                   Inarrat        aegivzin1Tbe 1.



-35-                                         /REx I
NWP 1I WXD DM   Mr (CM=T 99I)
1Te 4aea: Sdule ef Fathat  vem s A i Dl               s 1/
Mk                                                                                                        Achl as
Flsma                        EatInMtl Dn1                                                      Eaax        a Z of
yaw      Qnrte EKtig   (jnrter   Arnit                    Qntewr    aMni    ambit:ie                       EstInAe
(MV00x)          ~         ~(UB$')                         (cu000)                   'M00)
1980/81   S ra*i  198D       40D
Dlober 1980        40D
rdI 1 981         810                               323.2
Jwe 1981           8W0    2,400        2,40D        601.9      925.1        925.1    (1,474.9)        39
1981/82   Stter l981         8WD                              620
Danihr 1981        aW                               176.9
ud 1981            930                              868.6
Jw  1982           90      3,4W0       5,W          663.0    2,328.9      3,254.0    (2,5%6.0)       56
192/83   SilleI  1912        80D                              781.9
Domer 1981         800                              814.8
!Mkdi 1983         8W                               463.6
Jm  1983           800    3,M0         9,WOD        794.3    2,854.6      6,1(W.6    (2,891.4)       68
1983/84   S     r 1983       600                              701.6
193r 9      6W                               315.1
Hbrh 1984          600                              368.4
jzm L984           6W0    2,400       11,400        205.4    1,590.5      7,699.1    (3,700.9)       68
1984/85   Sqtawr 1984        5W                               349.2
l~nuter 1984       5W                               377.6
MEmd  1985         40D                              283.8
Jure 1985          400    1,800       13,ZJD        375.4    1,386.0      9,CB5.1    (4,114.9)       69
1985/86   Setembr 185       m3                                241.0
19ter 1985         300                              159.6
adh 1986             -                              23.1
June 1986            -      600       13,W3         104.7      798.4      9,883.5    (3,916.5)       72
1986/87   Sqteiber 1986        -                              a)5.0
Dieinbr 1986         -                              467.2
Hbzih 1987           -                              28Z6
Jk   1987            -       -       13,80W         323.6     1,V8.4       11,161.9   (2,638.1)      81
1987/88   Sqtember 1987        -                              446.3
1Exibter 19i7        -      -        13,8W        1,612.J     2,095.1     13,221.0    (579.0)        96
Mwdh 1988 I/         -                              347.4
Jbn 19881g           -      -        13,8W          231.6     2,638.1     13,800.0        -          100
1/ FEtme



-36-                                     AMU
TaeT4b:    E
Total tal                   tim            Gtr1t
T    nm         (MA)           (aO                (a
iK (CWax 0)                   XK caxD)
23,463.1        19,967.1       3,496.0              14.9



-37-
t II hWD8 tB0 PROJECT (CREDIT 992-441
PBJBCT COMLETrIOtt REP
?.bl. 6   Credit Disburaee.nt bw Cetorv
Ori;n l        t   ef £tdit                 2nd 21               Up to          il9n                                          *- u S
C t   OC;iorRe.ie,on.             St/12/07            June d              Total                Alloction
-  ---   -   --  ------   ----  ----   zU#t"tOO----!    -------------------
111M.9"MI, 9 " 5160                    160                 170                  8i8                                    1i6                 91
6.Vhicles A Equipment    00                   so                  98                  so                 8                     71                77
C  Op*rstina Cost        a6"0                 580                 710                  643                87                   680                96
II.  D;-trie A T- Cnnei I
,vrt-k.                200                 200                 270                 24E                  -                   243                sO
. Vhilel. & Equipamnt   28                     28                  80                  89                                       47                94
C. Operating Cons.         88                 8s8o 6067                                                   44                   931               106
III.           ;l*fltStiOf~9                                    1,216                1.170                 -                 1,170                97
B.Vehicles & Equipment,  260                a0m                  616                 49                 33                   882                a5
C  Operating Cost.      2.6BO               8,66°               2,850               2,678                129                 2,604                98
IV. MIfIROW&Oa                                                                                                   
B Vehicle. a Equip_nt   40                    -                   -                   -                    -                   -                   -
C  Operating Cots         80
on         r a          1,000               1,000                1,S00               I 196                 -                 I.196                92
Db Vehicle. & Equipent  210                   210                 640               1.403                124                 1.82                162
C.  WprtnCet               8                   3                2.030                1.804                90                 1.894                78
0.: ltaf-ft SIsre       1,M                 1.120                 798                 586                 30                   618                7?
VI. Cheroal Trials Studie.  1S0                    1SO                  20                   7                  -                     7                36
v    nI. lo . I    r           2C0                 200                 S30                 322                  2                   324                98
B. Vehiclel  a Equipent   100                 100                  70                  07                 7                     94               134
C  Operating Costs        SO                  600                 280                 246                  9                   255               102
0. Consultant Service.   260                  260                 875                1.231                61                 1.292               147
VIIIU P III Pre-Investment  400                    400                 260                 29                   -                   250               10O
IX. Uml.locntod              1.860               1.860                 -                   -
AWD TOTAL          18,C0               1S.6O 13.600                            13.S21              879                 13.800               100
V After CCoC withdrawal.
V/ Una I Iocted credit *meuint of U1S61.60.000 hoe been distributed preoortionately to .*rious ceteorie..



-38-                          ANNEX III
Table I
MALAWIv
NRDP II WOOD ENERGY PROJECT (CREDIT 992-MAI)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table 1: Estimated Wood Production
1/                        1/
CG Plantations            LA Plantations             Woodlots
Area                     Area                     Area Z/                     Total
Project Year  Planted     Production    Planted     Production    Planted    Production 3/   Production
ha     10Rh; m- Solid    ha       '000 V  Solit    ha        '000 mi           000 in3
1             0          0             0            0          154            0             0
2          1,101         0           504            0          751            0             0
3         2,435          0           583            0          794            0             0
4          3,369         0            700           0         1,111           0             0
5         3,808          0           853            0        1,650            0             0
6            187         0            70            0        2,758            5.0           5.0
7                        0                          0                        24.4          24.4
8                        31.0                      14.2                      25.8          71.0
9                       68.7                       16.4                      36.1         121.2
10                       95.0                       19.7                      53.6         168.3
11                      107.4                       24.1                      96.1         227.6
12                        5.3                        2.0                      31.9          39.2
13                        0                          0                        33.7          33.7
14                       49.5                       22.7                      47.2         119.4
15                      109.6                       26.2                      70.1         205.9
16                      151.6                       31.5                     122.6         305.7
17                      171.4                       38.4                      26.3         236.1
18                        8.4                        3.2                      27.8          39.4
19                        0                          0                        38.9          38.9
20                       42.9                       19.7                      57.8         120.4
21                       95.0                       22.7                     101.5         219.2
22                      131.4                       27.3                      24.4         183.1
23                       148.5                      33.3                      25.8         207.6
24                        7.3                        2.7                      36.1          46.1
25                        0                          0                        53.6          53.6
26                       39.6                       18.1                      89.6         147.3
27                       87.7                       21.0                       0           108.7
28                      121.3                       25.2                       0           146.5
29                       137.1                      30.7                       0           167.8
30                        6.7                        2.5                       0             9.2
TOTAL        10,900      1,615.4       2,710         401.6      7,218        1,028.3       3,045.3
1/ Assumptions for calculation of wod production from OG and LA plantations: rotation of six years
witb one seedling and three coppice rotations. A MAI of 4.7 m3/ha is assumed in the first
rotation. Subsequent rotations are assumed to have MAIs of 7.5 m3/ha, 6.5 m3/ha and finally
6 m3/ha.
2/ Assumption for estimatlon of hectares planted In woodlots: 2,500 seedlings per hectare.
3/ Assumptions for calculation of wood production from woodlots: rotation of five years with one
seedling and three coppice rotations. -MAI as follows: First rotation   :  6.5 m3/yr/ha
Second rotation  :  8.5 m3/yr/ha
Third rotation   :  7.0 m3/yr/ha
Fourth rotation  :  6.5 m3/yr/ha



-39-
Table 2
MW
SMWP II WOD ENRY PMIC  (EMT 992-NAI)
PROJECr CoMETETN REPOR
Table 2: Stunpae Fee Calojlatios: IA and OG Plantations
0Dsts
t Project   smait 1/  Opeatig I/  Total  Diswoted                           Disoouted
Season     Year       Costs          Cbsts        Cbsts    at 127    Yield 2/ 3/  Yield at 12%
WOKO6O)                                      (3000)~
1980/81       1           334           131          465                   -
1981/82      2          1,399           939        2,338                   -
1982/83      3          1,247         1,833        3,080                   -
1983/84      4            4,-1        i,439        1,915                   -
1984/85      5            168         1,574        1,742                   -
1985/86      6             23           991        1,014                   -
1986/87      7             28         1,301        1,330                   -
1987/88      8            386         1,148        1,534                  45.3
9             -           230          230                  85.1
10             -           230          230                 114.8
11             -           230          230                 131.4
12             -           230          230                   7.3
13             -           230          230                   -
14            77           230          307                  72.2
15             -           230          230                 135.8
16             -           230          230                 183.1
17             -           230          230                 209.7
18             -           230          230                  11.6
19             -           230          230                   -
2             n77          230          307                  62.6
21             -           230          230                 117.7
22             -           230          230                 158.7
23             -           230          230                 181.7
24             -           23D          230                  10.0
25             -           230          230                   -
26            77           23D          307                  57.8
27             -           230          230                 108.6
28             -           23D          230                 146.5
29             -           230          230                 i67.8
30             -           230          230                   9.3
TDTAL                                                         9,151    2,017.0            292.8
Stumpage fee: 9,151/292.8   MK31.3/m3 solid (aquivalent to N21.9/h3 stadKed)
1/  Detaisl are given In Table 3, Anrex II. Note replacmn tt of vehicles in Yr 8 and every 6 years
tbereafter but ooly 20Z applicable to the project. OperatLqg costs frao  year 9 onwards are
estimated ro nm at 20% of prevlaus figure.
2/ Yleld asw. te1rrs are as folliows:
First rotation -  4.7  m3/ha/year
Soonnd rotati-on- 7.5 m3/tha/year
Third rotatimn    - 6.5   3tha/year
Fburth rotation - 6.0 O3/ha/year
31 Assuming a six-year rotatimn. Plantlig started durii the 1981/82 season.



-40-                                           A___ m
Tk1e 3
KU UW WOOD   MO  (M 9M24M)
Po        aVAu-  REWt
Tbl.e 3: Fetinrd alSDOd ad pole pmlctlt  and Value
LA ad G Pla: tions
Plantig  Pvojec         Ams Plaitd I/              Pgoictin       UEdt Prkc                 (kss Vali of Pdukticu
Seamn  '~,r    UmlwxDl d        ls    21a   Rablwod 2/ 1b.1 3/    Riebmod 4/ Mmi 5/  Rlwc             %les    Tadl
(ba)                          OOD(0)  (O)    0&3 sol)   uxt)          OI(K OMD)
IS0/81      1         -        -           -      -          -          -        _             _         _        _
1981/82     2       963.0   642.0    1,6(5       -           -          -        -             -         -        -
l82/83      3      1,810.8  1,2U7.2    3,018      -          -          -        -             -         -        _
1983/84     4      2,441.4  1,627.6    4,069     -           -          -        -             _         _        _
1984/85     5      2,796.6  1,854.4    4,661      -          -          -        -             -         -        -
195/86      6        154.3   102.8       257     -           -          -        -             _         -        _
7         -        -          -                  -          3.9      1.0                     -       -
8         -        -          -     27.2       578          4.1      1.0          112      578      690
9         -        -          -      51.1    1,086          5.1      1.0         261      1,086    1,347
10         -        -          -     68.8    1,465           5.9      1.0         406     1,465    1,891
11         -        -          -     78.9    1,678           6.7      1.0         S29     1,678    2,207
12         -       -           -      4.4        93          7.7      1.0          34        93      127
13         -        -          -      -           -          8.9      1.0           -         -       -
14         -        -          -     43.3    1,156          10.3      1.0         466     1,16    1,602
15         -        -          -     81.5    2,173          1.9       1.0         90      2,173    3,143
16         -        -          -    109.9    2,93D          13.6      1.0       1,49      2,93     4,425
17         -        -          -    125.8    3,356          15.3      1.0       1,925     3,356    5,281
18         -       -           -      6.9       185         15.3      1.0         106       185     291
19         -        -          -      -           -         15.3      1.0           -        -        -
20         -        -          -     37.6       642         15.3      1.0         575       642    1,217
21         -        -          -     70.6    1,2)7          15.3      1.0        1,080    1,207    2,287
22         -        -          -     95.2    1,628          15.3      1.0        1,457    1,628    3,085
23         -        -          -    109.1    1,864          15.3      1.0        1,669    1,864    3,533
24         -        -          -      6.0       1(B         15.3      1.0          92       103      195
25         -        -          -      -           -         15.3      1.0           -         -       -
26         -        -          -     34.7       642         15.3      1.0         531       642    1,173
27         -        -          -     65.2    1,207          15.3      1.0         938     1,207    2,25
28         -        -          -     87.9    1,628          15.3      1.0       1,345     1,628    2,973
29         -        -          -    10D.7    1,864          15.3      1.0        1,541    1,864    3,4(5
30         -        -          -      5.6      l1(          15.3      1.0          86       103      189
I/  k is smmal tiat 40% of tlu totaA plairo ams iaid be               5/ Wel%W ite1 a ir Prk2 calultbAl ai foUlIci:
f,Or vDle jxmtfrm.                                                                    Prie           Ld
2/C  Of RaE lwa  Pm&zt   as caladai In Tabl  I and 2                                    of pcJ,      M
3/    w     Fl^aopd     a  Dll:
EYrt nnI   -  900 P"/he                                             6 andAl          0.14        10
Ssxrd zuatim - 1,800 poles/ha                                     6-8 an             0.21        10
MAM mtatlm  - 1,00D poles/ha                                      12-14an   "        0M8         30
FErtl uxatim  - 1,00  pole/tu                                     1-2) acm           1.15        2)
4V  SIR       Wood amu Paiject - pSojeterlW siV   rad  i                22-24 an           14          20
1986 prim.                                                               cm "         2.0D         10



-41-                        ANNEX III
Table 4
MALAWI
NRDP II WOOD ENERGY PROJECT (CREDIT 992-MAI)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table 4: Financial Rate of Return
Project                            Gross Benefits 2/
Year        Costs 1/   Fuelwood        Poles       Total       Balance
-------   (MK 000)                       --------- - --------
1             465            -            -           -         (465)
2           2,338            -            -           -       (2,338)
3           3,080            -            -           -       (3,080)
4           1,915            -            -            _      (1,915)
5           1,742            -            -           -       (1,742)
6           1,014            -            -            -      (1,014)
7           1,330            -            -           -       (1,330)
8           1,534          112          578         690           844
9             230          261        1,086       1,347        1,117
10             230          406        1,465       1,871        1,641
11             230          529        1,678       2,207        1,977
12             230           34           93         127         (103)
13             230            -            -           -         (230)
14             307          446        1,156       1,602        1,295
15             230          970        2,173       3,143        2,913
16             230        1,495        2,930       4,425        4,195
17             230        1,925        3,356       5,281        5,051
18             230          106          185         291           61
19             230            -            -           -         (230)
20             307          575          642       1,217           910
21             230        1,080        1,207       2,287        2,057
22             230        1,457        1,628       3,085        2,855
23             230        1,669        1,864       3,533        3,303
24             230           92          103          195          (35)
25             230            -            -           -         (230)
26             307          531          642       1,173           866
27             230          998        1,207       2,205        1,973
28             230        1,345        1,628       2,973        2,743
29             230        1,541        1,864       3,405        3,175
30             230           86          103          189          (41)
Financial Rate of Return:  7.41
1/   Investment and operating costs, details are given in Table 2.
2/   Details are given in Table 3.



-42-
mumm
N*P H WIZD RiX   RrE  (GNr 992K)
TIe 5: Fmmoduc Pet1im   o Planstia
~~~~~~~~Cg3l                                      pet    of    E E f_ P
VaIuEI at   Til1d                Valued at    Titia              Vab.Ai at    TDrn1
ftect E =M1   c        03  ( IBtf  IK         I't       (OstCf       K        Nat        0t¢t         E           Nt
*yea     oam"   I/   ia        2/  Vall 3/  Bwao      am. 4/  Vahe 3/ Bmtz               le        V;alu 3/   & s
1       465             -            -      (465)        -           -       (465)                    -       (465)
2      2,354            -            -    (2,34)                           (23)           -                 (2,354)
3      3,126            -            -    (3,126)        -           -     (3,126)        -           -     (3,U6)
4      2,OM2            -            -    (2,002)                    -     (2,O)          -           -     (2,412)
*5     1,876            -            -    (1,876)        -           -     (1,876)        -           -     (1,876)
6      1,150            -            -    (1,150)                                                           (1,150)
7      1,466            -            -    (1,466)        -           -     (1,466)        -           -     (1,4--'
8      1,670         1,586        2,164      494        726       1,3V.      (366)       620       1,198      (C
9        366         2,979        4,065    3,699      1,369       2,455     2,089      1,165       2,Z51     (1,
10       366          4,011       5,476     5,110      1,83       3,3U2      2,936     1569       3,04      (2,4
11       366          4,6W0       6,278     5,912      2,107      3,785      3,419      1,799      3,477     (3,:
12       366           257          350       (16)       117        12)       (156)      100         193       (1
13       366             -            -      (366)        -           -       (366)        -           -       (_
14       443          2,2M4       3,690     3,237      1,156      2,312      1,869       987       2,143      1,700
15       366          4,751       6,924     6,558      2,176      4,349      3,983      1,858      4,031      3,665
16       366          6,407       9,337     8,971      2,934      5,864      5,498      2,596      5,436      5,070
1   17   366          7,334      10,690    10,324      3,359      6,715      6,349      2,868      6,224      5,858
18       366           4G2          587       221       184         369         3        157         342        (24)
19       366             -            -      (366)        0           -       (366)        -           -       (366)
2)       443          2,192       2,834     2,361      1,004      1,616      1,213       857       1,499      1,056
21       366          4,116       5,323     4,957      1,885      3,092      2,726      1,610      2,817      2,451
22       366          5,550       7,178     6,812      2,542      4,170      3,8n4      2,171      3,799      3,433
23       366          6,361       8,225     7,859      2,913      4,777      4,411      2,487      4,351      3,985
24       366            390         453        87        160        263       (103)       137        240       (126)
25       366             -            _      (366)        -           -       (366)        -           -       (366)
26       443          2J073       2,665     2,22        926        1,568     1,125        791      1,433        99D
27       366          3,801       5,008     4,642      1,741      2,948      2,592      1,487      2,694      2,328
26       366          5,125       6,753     6,37       2,47       3,975      3,6M9      2,004      3,632      3,Z6
29       366          5,871       7,735     7,379      2,689      4,553      4,187      2,296      4,160      3,794
30       366            326         423        63        150        253       (113)       i2         231       (135)
ERL, 16.3%                       EM  10.4%                         M- 9.24
1/ Fhlal    nts + Pktal Okst (Mt 0haE) a pLq fo  prtw1ty ost ofd.
2/ Rbmo   vabiled at ccat cf 1mme: M 58.3/m3.
3/ fTx,d  valus of pDIs (ftu T1ae 3).
4/ _m1wx vaunt at cst cf dwi1: WK 26.7/u3.
5/ Ruswood vabFb   at ost f deWetbi of id iBa s Ft: i   ( 22.8/m3.



-43-
.W= IV
Table 1
MRIP II WOM ENERY MJECT (aREDIT 992-MAI)
PRDECT CO4K=REK
Table 1: NCrseries  bists In Current Tenm
Catgory       1980/81  1981/82  1982/83  1983/84  1984/85  1985/86  1986/87  1987/88 1/   Total
-(IIC'OOO)
invest  t costs
Roads                     -        0.6      -         -        -        -        -        -           0.6
Bridges                   -        0.6      -        -         -        -        -        -           0.6
Water Supply              -        -         1.2      -        -        -        -        -           1.2
bisnrg                   98.7     24.7       3.2    (0.3)      3.6      -        -        -         129.9
Store lAldigs             -        0.2      -         0.6      -        -        -        -           0.8
WbhEVs and Garages        -         1.0     0.2       -        -        -        -        -           1.2
Other b1ldirs             -         1.2     -         1.8      0.6      -        -        -           3.6
Vebieles                 11.0      -        -        19.0      -        -        -       47.6        77.6
Offic Eupient             9.6      -        -         -        -        -        -        -           9.6
Field Fquipmet           36.4      0.8      0.3       0.1      -        0.6      1.6      -          38.9
Exrtsicm Alds             -        4.2      1.1      -         -        -        -        -           5.3
Ibtal lnvestenat Costs  155.7    33.3      6.0     21.2      4.2      0.6      1.6     47.6       270.2
(M('OXD)
Cperakin Oosts
Forestry Qperation - labor 94.4   65.7      41.1     36.6    102.6    141.5    165.7    176.9       824.5
overhead - ersonmel       -        9.1      25.1     32.6     13.1      2.8     23.0     16.6       122.3
- Office         -        0.1      0.1      0.1       0.3      0.2      0.4      2.7         3.9
MaintenErce Costs         -        0.4      -         0.3      1.7      0.4     14.5      7.2        24.5
! Mtor Vehicles Expenses  -        19.8     14.8     17.8     31.3     17.0     54.4     37.7       192.8
Field Inputs              -        6.8      9.1       9.2     16.6     51.5     29.7      6.9       129.8
Total Operatitg Costs    94.4    101.9    90.2     96.6    165.6    213.4    287.7    248.0       1297.8
ICTAL NURSERJI  C0S6S   250.1    132.2    96.2    117.8    169.8    214.0    289.3    295.6       1568.0
I/ Fatimated.



-44-
ANNEX IV
Table 2
MP fl WXD M         FEM=  (aUr 9    )
Talile 2: Iocal Aulsity P   l      mEt - CQus in 0ent Tevns
C(3l;ry          1980/81 1981/82 L983 1983/84 1984/85 B985/86 1986/87 1987/88/ Ikal
&,als                        0.5    2.6    9.1    4.0    1.3    1.1    -          3.4      22.0
&rJid                        -       8.1    -       0.4    0.1     -       -      -        8.6
BerhD11s                     -       0.2   (0.1)   -       -       _       _      -         0.1
Ihter &ijly                  -       2.7    0.1    -        -      -       -      -         2.8
Eleidaty                     0.2    -       -       -       -      -       -      -         0.2
HFkixg                       -     145.8   56.8   (3.2)   0.9    -         -      -       199.4
Qffls                        -       0.8    -       -       -      -       0.4    -         2.1
StoreBild1xg                -       1.0    0.9    -       -       -       0.6    -        2.5
Wdsm ad Qshw                 -       -      0.9    -        -      -       -      -         0.9
OtberliUll                   -       4.2    3.3    1.5    0.5    1.2    0.2    -           10.9
Per, %       &=s & tsimct    -       0.5    -       -       -      -       9.8    -        10.3
FPrebdeut                    -       -      2.3    0.4    -        -       0.2    -         2.9
Vxeicles                     13.0    1.8    -       -                      -     70.0      8.8
Ofc EFqApmut                 -       -      0.1    -       0.1    -        2.6    -         2.8
FFied EApea                 3.6    6.5    0.3    -        0.5    -        -      3.0      13.9
Fire Outo1FEijin~it          -       -      2.5    -       -       -      -       -         2.5
FKtOsskEAids                 -       -      0.3    -        -      -       -      -         0.3
Hzmaeb,ld Rralbze            -       0.6    0.5    -       -       -       -      -         1.1
OEffre REiture               -       0.3    0.3    -       -       -       4.1    -        4.7
Tta itiwesmi a3ts          17.3  175.1   77.3    3.1    3.4    M3    17.9   76.4    372.8
ocestry Ometim  - IaW        3.2   85.3  197.6  140.2  216.0  168.5  194.4  200.5  1,205.7
Omh%1  - FeRwxmd              -     14.3   18.4    &0    14.5   21.0   28.4   27.9    132.5
- Off1ce             -       -      0.4    2.0    1.8    5.0    9.1   15.4        33,7
MaWmawie (bsts               0.4    0.5    2.0    0.5    0.9    2.9   11.4   12.8          31.4
moto VdweJ    E              0.1   10.4   15.5   22.9   19.9   13.6   25.7   17.6    125.7
FIlauJputs                   0.3    4.8   55.3   13.7   35.1    2.3   12.8   15.6    139.9
lla Crt1g Opem             4.0  115.3  289.2  187.3   288.2  213.3  281.8  289.8  1,668.9
1UNL IA HANWB GMS    213    290.4  366.5  190.4  291.6  215.6  299.7  366.2  2,041.7
I/FBtVlnt



-45-
ANNEX IV
Table 3
NMr H WO  R M R           Er ( Mr 992+1)
Tsble 3:  Cmtz1 Gkuemt Plaitatm Oupj!   - (bo  In Qtrr    TO=
cesry             980/8  1981/8a  9a2/81   19a3/84 1984/85 1985/86 1S86/87 197/88 1/   ¶za
Rks                          0.1   17.8   26.4   38.1   30.0    0.1          -      -         112.5
1idp                         -       11.9    3.8     5.3    3.0    1.9    0.3        -         26.2
UBrxdks                      -       2.3    -        8.8     5.5     -       -      -          16.6
twer Sxi1y                   -       14.1   22.5   32.9   14.7    0.1        -       1.6       85.9
-eIarlcity                   -       1.0    1.3    16.0    0.5    1.2    1.5    3.6            25.1
Itabqg                       -      42D.3  383.1   193.6   55.1    8.1       -       -       1,060.2
Offim.                       -       10.9   64.2    10.2   12.1      -       0.5    -          97.4
SxeB dikbl                   -       3.3   18.1    6.8    2.2        -       -       1.3       31.7
wxk*l4q8 waxGin              -       17.0   17.3    3.5    1.7       -       -      -          39.5
Otblr Eligs                  -       0.6    1.6    2.5    0.4    0.8    3.3    1.7             10.9
Fwes       m & rmrvretim    0.4      -       0.2    0.2    0.6    0.5    1.6    -               3.5
FirdbLRyasi                  -       3.7   (2.3)    1.2      -       1.6     -      -           4.2
=aSiiclf"}                  89.2     -      48.3    0.2    0.2    -          -     300.6      438.5
obidle Plamts                37.4    15.7   15.9     -       -       -       -       -         69.0
bcEsi1 Sttixumy              -      35.3     -       -       -      -       -       -          35.3
Offie tFAIpmat               -       -       2.6    0.4    0.4    2.1        -      -           5.5
Felda Eqiplamt               14.1    4.1    6.1    0.3    -          0.3    2.4    1.1         2&4
Fire Qztml FqMat             -       -      27.1     -       -       -       -      -          27.1
Hbmld Eintmtume              -       2.1    1.9    0.2       -       -       -      -           4.2
OffieB mnl"±r                -       1.4   13.8   (1.9)    3.7       1.0    0.9    0.9         19.8
M13al Tlsmit Cbets        141.2  561.5  651.9   318.3   133.1   17.7   10.5  310.8    2,142.0
ForEsty Qeratrn -a          56.1   38.1  403.7  523.5  671.4   4268   68.2  554.9    3,387
Cuebed - 1Ruxxn1e            0.5   18.3   90.2   63.9   93.1  105.8   126.2   1027            607
- Office            -       -        1.8    6.4   12.6    7.7   17.3   11.9           57.7
Iatsoarmre Cst               -       -       0.6    2.6    12.4   15.0   93.5   65.8          189.9
Mo=   idcles BqEe             1.7   50.7   64.2   100.2  149.9  106.7   141.9  103.8          719.1
Fleidd  puts                 -     171.8   2.5    8B.4   21.5    1.8   33.0   19.4            55.4
¶Itl qwetirg OtsD           58.3   378.9  783.0  785.0  960.9  663.8 1,020.1  858.5    5,5905
mmL ON. HMDIUI MM           199.5   90.4 1,435.3 1,103.3 1,091.0  681.5 1,030.6 1,169.3    7,650.5
1/



-46-
ANNEX IV
Table 4
NMP II mm I- Km  (alNr 99ME)
Tabe 4: Wbd Eug  Dvivskm Omv.zt - (sIu O.amt T.s
(hIxY       M198/81 1981/s /W83 198/84 1984/85 1985/86  96/87 L987/881/  Total
WOWer 9L,'               0.4    4.1    0.2       -       -       -      -       2.0         6.7
EIs±rldty                -       0.6    5.0    0.3       -      -       -      21.2        27.1
EhsiI                   66.7  634.6  443.2   58.9    1.4    5.8         -       -       1,210.6
(Offies                  -      32.5    1.8   22.0   10.5       -       -       -          66.8
Sbxe bi-                         3.6    3.0    0.5       -      -       -       5.4        12.5
T.E!liQihqpB/Gbm3        -       -       0.8     -       -       -       2.3    -           3.1
0t&lr T ldtfips          -       2.1    0.2    0.2       -      -       0.6     -           3.1
1moas and-                       -       -       -      -       4.0     -       -           4.0
Vebricies             ZBLO      3.4    0.3   17.8      -        1.3    -     229.6       48D.4
NThbbe FlatS             -      26.8    0.2      -       -              -       -          27.0
0dfiDs q4uwmIt           2.6    7.6      6.0    5.0   42.7    2.0   54.6   29.2           149.7
FieLd Fquipmit           0.3    2.0    2.3    -          -      -       5.4    6.8         16.8
F1zbe Cntn1 fpdp5t       -       0.3     --          -       -          -       -           0.3
Thiaui1n Aids            -       0.2    0.5   15.5    0.2    -          0.7     -          17.1
HblDuld Fmnitume         -      10.2   10.3    0.2    0.2        -      -       -          2D.9
Off mRnfrutns            6.5    9.7    4.2    0.6    5.0    0.8    1.9    7.8              36.5
L]tyaiad iRireatkzs   -          0.1     -       0.5    1.3    1.5    -         -           3.4
Tboal                 304.5  737.8  478.0  121.5   61.3   15.4   65.5   302.0    2,086.0
Chedha   - Fazoxxmel    80.1   266.4   397.9   466.9  523.8  555.3  515.8  295.7        3,101.9
_ OFFice        6.4   18.2   34.4   61.9   49.1   59.8   82J6    68.9            381.3
Mnb*txHw   0bts          -       0.5    1.2    2.2   11.9    6.3   35.8   a).9             78.8
Mtoor Vdel1Ms Eb3se    10.4   87.8   125.8  125.9   162.6  13.3   174.6   15O.4           966.8
ield lripts              -       7.7    8.4    1.6    2.0    0.7   31.0    6.8             58.2
Ttd3 Opartitg Cots    96.9   380.6   567.7   658.5  749.4  751.4  839.8   542.7    4,587.0
MMr& IW nivI   O1MS 401.4 1,118.4 1,045.J  780.0   810.7  766.8   WM5.3  8WA.7    6,673.0
I ~    ~     /F~



-47-
ANNEX IV
Table 5
M
KW II V= EN=  Ku= (a_r 992-+&)
Table 5: Bz Sbxis 0iipxue ts - Oo  in Ozna Twe
CqtrY            L980/81 19818Z 19"3 1983/84 1984/85 1965/86 l986/87 1987/881/ 1Tal
WOOD)
e tridy                     -       -      0.1     04    -        0.8    -         -       1.3
IhsIr  -  -    294.7    7.7   65.3   19.6    -        -    387.3
-      -       -      0.5    0.7   (0.6)   12.3       17.4   30.3
W1~ip~1(k~  -  -  0.5    0.1    0.1    0.9   15.6     5.5   22.7
Fa z   ses    &Dmcatm    -          -      -       -       0.2    3.3    -         -       3.5
Chm,al Kilm                 -       -      0.6    -        -      -       -        -       06
Vbds                        -       -      -       -       -      0.5    -        30.9   31.4
NMe Plat                    24.1    -      -       -              -       -        -      24.1
OfficE ul1um±               0.2    2.1    3.3    1.5    0.5    1.9    9.1          -      18.6
Field Eqipt                 -       0.1    2.5    -        -      -       5.7     29.5   37.8
Thbsit  Aia ds              -       -      -       -       0.8    -       -        -       0.8
Hb|DI1 FzrndUue             -       240    2.0    0.2    2.1    --                 -       6.3
OfloeFumium                 -       0.2    5.1    1.0    2.0    0.1               14.2   14.2
L1b1uyWapd MUcatim          -       -      -       -       0.3        -            -       0.3
bTAl iwbst costs          24.3    4.4  308       11.4   72.0   26.5   42.7       89.1  579.2
Opemir 4om
0AMIVW  - 1eESOar1          -     100.2  16.8  153.3   45.0   36.4   56.9         27.9  580.5
- Ofim              -       3.6    6.6   11.0   2D.3    8.9   15.7         3.5   69.6
Idbiiax  030ts              -       -      -       -       2.2    0.4    3.4       3.2    9.2
Mator c1      q             -       2.5    8.3   11.7   23.8   12.0   21.9         6.1   86.3
Fleld rpxts                 -       0.7    5.0    0.5    1.2    0.1    5.6        10.0   23.1
Iba  0trg Out              -     107.0  180.7  176.5   92.5   57.8  103.5   5X7   76&7
MlL EJ KU1m               24.3  111.4  489.5  187.9  164.5   84.3  146.2    13.8 1,347.9
1/ Fathual



-48-
ANE IV
Table 6
MALAW
NRDP II WOOD ENERGY PROJECT (CREDIT 992-MAI)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table 6: Charcoal Trials - Operating Cost in Current Terms
Components             1980/81  1981/82  1982/83  1983/84  1984/85  1985/86  1986/87  1987/88    Total
(HK'OOO)
Investment Costs
Charcoal Kilns                -        3.3      -        -        -        -        -        -         3.3
Field Equipment               -        0.4      0.5      -        -        -        -        -         0.9
Total Investment Costs      -        3.7      0.5      -        -        -        -        -         4.2
Operating Costs
Forestry Operation - Labor    -        -        0.2      0.1      -        -        -        -         0.3
Overhead - Personnel          -        0.2      0.7      -        -        -        -        -         0.9
- Office            -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -         -
Maintenance Costs             -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -         -
Motor Vehicles Expenses       -        3.0      2.4      -        -        -        -        -         5.4
Field Inputs                  -        0.4      0.2      -        -        -        -        -         0.6
Total Operating Costs       -        3.6       3.5     0.1      -        -        -        -         7.2
TOTAL CHARCOAL TRIALS COSTI  -       7.3      4.0      0.1      -        -        -        -        11.4



-49-
ANNEX V
Page 1
MALAWI
NRDP II WOOD ENERGY PROJECT (CREDIT 992-MAL)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
A SUMMARY OF THE WOOD YIELD SURVEY FOR NRDP II - WOOD ENERGY I PROJECT
Introduction
1.       This paper summarizes the results of a yield forecast survey
carried out by the Forestry Department (PD) and Forestry Research Institute
of Malawi (FRIM) in September 1987. The survey concentrated on a number of
areas, both in Central Government and Local Authority plantations, of
varying ecological characteristics. A total of about 9,500 ha (70X of
total project area) have been surveyed. The results, however, indicated a
much lower Average Mean Annual Increment (MAI) than had been envisaged at
appraisal, 4.7 m3/ha against an estimated 10-14 m3/ha.
2.       Several reasons appear to have contributed to this low
productivity, some of which are highlighted in the survey report. In
addition, some problems arose due to lack of proper planning, since this
was the first time that the Department of Forestry had undertaken such a
large fuelvood/pole plantation program.
Problems Contributina to Lower Yields
3.       Listed below are the main problems affecting each plantation unit
surveyed and probably affecting plantation units within similar ecological
sites.
a) Local Authority Plantations. These plantations were mostly
situated on marginal lanas such as bare hills and areas of low
fertility, as indicated by low farming activities when they
were acquired. This was the only land available for tree
planting in the five districts of Karonga, Kasungu, Lilongwe,
Zomba and Blantyre. The principal problems contributing to the
low productivity of the plantations are considered to be the
following:
i) MHemba (159 ha) (Blantyre): The low MAI for this
plantation of 4.2 m3/ha was blamed on an
inappropriate choice of species and on the droughts
experienced in 1983 and 1986187;



-50-
ii) Namisu (112 ha) (Blantyre): This plantation is
located in a dry area with low rainfall, which is an
important factor contributing to the below average
HAI of 3.8 m3/ha, although poor management is thought
to be the principal cause;
iii) Likangala. Naisi and Mulinda {218 ha) (Zomba):  These
three areas had H&Is of 8.7 m3/ha, 10.2 m3/ha and 6.2
m3/ha respectively which, although above the overall
average of 4.7 m3/ha, are nevertheless below the
project appraisal target of 10-14 m3/ha. This is
attributed mainly to management problems, especially
during the first year after establishment;
iv) NamilonRo (99 ha) (Zomba): The poor MAI of
3.4 m3/ha achieved on this plantation is due to the
difficult physical characteristics of the terrain,
i.e. a high incidence of rocky outcrops and thin soil
in some areas, which permanently affect tree growth;
v) Mbalame and Chimvuwo (242 ha) (Lilongwe): The
problems associated with low MAIs for these
plantations of 3.6 m3/ha and 5.4 m3/ha respectively
were mainly poor tending and, at Chimvuwo,
inappropriate choice of species.  Gmelina arborea,
near Chimvuwo, is doing very well;
vi) Chipokosa and Mchezi/Chiuta (338 ha) (KasunRu): The
major problems on these plantations are associated
with poor tending and soil of low productivitys
laterite in the soil hinders root penetration. The
MAIs were found to be 1.1 m3/ha and 4.2 m3lha
respectively;
vii) Ngara and Iphembe (281 ha) Karonaa): The
productivity of Ngara is low due to waterlogging in
low lying areas and termite attacks in the upland.
These problems, together with poor tending,
contributed to a low XAI of 2.2 m3/ha. In the case
of Ighembe, the terrain is more favourable and there
is potential to reach an MAI above 8.7 m3/ha. On
both sites, part of their areas has suffered damage
by fire.
b) Central Government Plantations
i) Thuchila (1,944 ha) (Blantyre): The potential at
Thuchila is high and it is felt that an MAI above
9.5 m3/ha could have been achieved, particularly if
the area were planted to E. tereticornis and
E. saligna.



-51-
ii) Banawe (275 ha) (Blantyre): The main problems
associated with the low MAI of 6.8 m3/ha at this site
are inappropriate choice of species in some parts of
Bangwe, and inadequate tending operations in the
first years after planting;
iii) Matukuta: Naminvanga and Nsuluzi (1,625 ha) (Zomba):
The above sites are located in drier parts of
Machinga and Malosa forest reserve. The MAIs of
4.8 m3/ha and 3.2 m3/ha respectively were due to
inadequate tending operations because of the
ambitious planting target, and fire damage,
especially at Naminyanga and Matukuta;
iv) Katete (3.053 ha) Lilonawe): This plantation was
found to have an MAI of 3.0 m3/ha. the main reasons
apparently lack of weeding and lack of fertilizer
application particularly on the area planted in the
1984/85 season, which represented 113 of the total
area planted. Eucalvptus camaldulensis has also been
found to have a lower MAI than
E. tereticornis;
v) Ngara (1.129 ha) (Dowa): This plantation had the
lowest MAI, at 0.8 m3/ha, which was attributed mainly
to poor management. The area was not weeded properly
and there have been frequent outbreaks of fire. In
some areas, laterite in the soil hinders root
penetration.



-52-
M VH
KMAVI
NiDP II WOWDW EY PRDJCt (CREDrT 992-MAI)
PROJCT COlMPLETION REPlRr
Central Government Plantationa - Present WAod Yieldn and For dc-a. I/
TF-Y ~     ~      *     Survey9    Forecasts                          ------ - -----
Centr i Reoion:      Katate         3,053          1.237          8.0            8.0           So plot. not fertilized, heavy planting
target. during estabi shment. Yeeds.
Ngara           1.129         1.318          0.8            1.0           Soil (laterite), fire, poor manaement.
S    authem. Ruion   Naninyangs       92S          1 238          4.9            8.8           (Eucalyptus C and t were the correct choice.
Fatukut.         250          1.842          4.8            8.8           (anagement is the main problem. Due to weeds
auliuzi           450         1,207          8.2            4.0          arome plots were daunged by firm.
Thuchi la       1,944          1,S80         9.8           12.0           Cultivated and fertilized. Controlled
burning done.
lange.           278           n.s.          6.8            8.8 nS.
Total Area:                     8.02e
MAI Weighted Average  (p)                                     4.7           6.7
1/ Based on yield survey carried out by the Department of Forestry and FRIM in 1987.



-53-
NFtOP 1! WOOD DOR  PROJECT *CRED2r 992-MAfl
PROJECT CONFLETON REPORT
Local Authority Plantations - Present Wood Yield. and Forecasts V
Nnai tI              (.3)_____
~~~~Ti  hAl)    Sur%SX 1987  F~orecasts----
orthern Real: Noale                   98           1,165           2.2           9.0           Tormites, fire, poor tending, water loggin.
Lahebe           18S           1,4v8          8.7          12.0           Overgrow of woed-.
Central Ro;ion:     Chipokooa        2'8           1,846           1.1           2.5           Soil (laterte). Some plots not fertilized.
Nchezi/Chiuta   190            1,8S8          4.2           8.0           Plote not fertilized in the first year.
Mbale            184          1,499           3.6           5.0           Poor mnagent, eucalyptus Cam.
not very productive.
Chiavuwo        100            1,418          5.4           7.0              __
Southern ReAlon:    Mmi  u           112           1,262            8.          65.0           Management, macdo, fire, P8S not fertilized.
Likangala        a8           1,332           8.7          12.0           (Euryptus T. satisfactory. The plots were
NMalid            6           1,128          10 2          12.            acultivated  nd fertilized durin
luind            74           1,389           6.2           7.5           (establishment, Nosi already feilled.
Nawllongo                      1,437          9.4           4.0           Eucalyptu C. not very productive.
Sea  locks not forti lized.
mpeaba           no            n.e.           4.2           5.5           n.6.
Total Area:                      1,449
MA Weighted Avereae (a8)                                      4.7           6.4
1/ Baed on yield eurvey carried out by the Department of Forestry and RIMi in 1987.



U      CCDC Plantations
T                                     XChitipS                                                          KARONGA Districts selected for intensive
~    SWes                                                                  fuetwood /pole plantations
I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~()Wood surplus districts - nurseris
I.                                   I               (S bcgardeta go                                        (DI    Wood deficit districts-nurseries
Protection forest resereens
KILOMETERS 0    20   40             S     100             t                                                                         Proposed protection forest reserves
MltES O   io   40   60   \  >       9               \   Yw                          w     Forest remrves and plintation units
MItES 0  20  40  (sO                                          n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n ~~Protected hillslopes
/      ihdusnbsa                                                            National parks or gooe neserves
P rincipl  grvel and eorth roads
-         -.----.-s--- Railways
.......Steamer routes
River
-'8          Ids ) ,r P      .       -                              0it    Notional capital
*  District adm,inistratiee centers
o 4W>rw                               -  -crw6 District boundaries
Regional boundaries
5                                                                ~         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~internatigonal bounedories
(SIt*tOtBO-              - f55~MALAWA
o NRDP  (WOOD ENERGY PROJECT)
chip.t.                                     (MA'~~~~~~~~~M C~,V
14-                                                                                                                                            14'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-Nyc
o~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~~~~                    ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ A, /,1 G A  aa: 
MO ZAM    1 Q U                                                                           NZA
3r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S
ZANANI IE
IANGOLA 2M /             ALAWIL
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~mT
X~~Ct _                                                ;tV                                                                                                                4



