Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 2625-MAI
MALAWI
PHASE II OF NATIONAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
(WOOD ENERGY PROJECT)
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
February 8, 1980
Eastern Africa Projects
Southern Agriculture Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                                    Malawi Kwacha (MK)
US$ 1.00                                         MK 0.83
MK 1.00                                          US$ 1.20
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)     3                                3.3 feet
1 cubic meter (mi)                               35.3 cubic feet
1 hectare (ha)                                   2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)      2                          0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (km )       =                 0.39 square miles
ABBREVIATIONS
ADD    =     Agricultural Development Division
ADFO =       Assistant Division Forest Officer
ARD          Agricultural Research Department
ARFO   -     Assistant Regional Forestry Officer
CCDC         Capital City Development Corporation
CIDA         Canadian International Development Agency
DA           Development Area
DFO          Division Forest Officer
EDF    =     European Development Fund
EPA    =     Extension Planning Area(s)
FAO/CP =     Food and Agriculture Organization/Cooperative Program
FRG          Federal Republic of Germany
GOM    =     Government of Malawi
IDRC   =     International Development Research Center
KRDP   =     Karonga Rural Development Project
LLDP   =     Lilongwe Land Development Project
LRDP   =     Lake Shore Rural Development Project
MAI    =     Mean Annual Increment
MANR   =     Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources
NRDP   =     National Rural Development Program
RFO    =     Regional Forestry Officer
STO    =     Senior Technical Officer
TA     =     Technical Assistant
TO     =     Technical Officer
SVADP  =     Shire Valley Agricultural Development Project
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
April 1 to March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MALAWI
PHASE II OF NATIONAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
(WOOD ENERGY PROJECT)
Table of Contents
Page No.
I. BACKGROUND ...................                                                    1
A.    Project Background .................       ..1................ 
B.   The Agricultural Sector ..............         ..1.............. 
C.   The National Rural Development Program ...............                    3
D.    Government Services ..................................                   4
II.  THE FORESTRY SUB-SECTOR ...................................                     6
A.    Resources         ................................. .                    6
B.   Institutions ........................ .                                   6
C.   Production and Marketing   , , ...7............. 
D.   Development Objectives and Strategies ........... ....                   9
III. THE PROJECT ...............................................                    11
A.    General Description ......           ............................       11
B.   The Project Area .................... ,......,.,,,.....                 12
C.    Detailed Features ...................            .................      13
D.   Project Costs ........................................                   20
E.  Financing                 ...........                                     ......... O..   20
F.   Procurement .........  o       .....................                     21
G.    Disbursements  ....... ...............         ...................      21
H.   Accounts, Audit and Reports             .     . .........                23
I.    Environmental Impact .-............................                     24
IV.  ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT ..............................                     25
A.   General Aspects ...... ..*.          .......   .... .., ,.   ...         25
B.   Management of Project Components ....................                    25
C.    Training and Extension Service .-              ..................       26
This report is based on the findings of an IDA appraisal mission to Malawi
in March/April 1979, composed of Messrs. T. N. Baddar, N. Brouard, and
B. Zegge (IDA). Mr. D. Hughart (IDA) visited Malawi in May, 1979 to
evaluate the need for a rural energy utilization study.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contenst may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Page No.
V.   PRODUCTION, MARKETS AND PRICES ............................              28
A.   Production .......        ....................................      28
B.   Markets .......... . ...... ... ..... ...................          30
C.   Prices ...............................................             34
VI.  BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION .....          ...........................    36
A.   General            ..............................................  36
B.   Financial Returns . ....................................           36
C.   Economic Returns ..        ....... . .. . ............. *o-  o  .... ...* ..*  37
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS .........   ooo-  .....           42
Supporting Tables
Table 1   Annual Cost by Component
Table 2   Project Costs by Component/Expenditures
Table 3   Financial Rate of Return - Forestry Department
Table 4   Financial Rate of Return - District and Town Council Plantations
Table 5   Financial Rate of Return - CCDC Plantations
Table 6   Economic Rate of Return
Table 7   Government Cash Flow
Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File
Chart No. 20456 IBRD
Map No.   14336 IBRD



I. BACKGROUND
A. Project Background
1.01      In 1978, the Government of Malawi (GOM) requested that the Bank
consider financing the first phase of a wood energy program to meet the future
demand for fuelwood and building poles. The potential for a wood energy
project was first identified in February 1978, when a Bank mission visited
Malawi and held discussions with the Ministry of Agriculture and Natural
Resources (MANR). Assistance to the GOM in the preparation of the Project was
provided by the FAO/CP. The Bank's Regional Mission in Eastern Africa (RMEA)
provided support and guidance during identification and preparation. This
report is based on the findings of a Bank appraisal mission which visited
Malawi in March/April 1979, comprised of Messrs. T.N. Baddar, N. Brouard, and
B. Zegge (IDA). Mr. Hughart (IDA) visited Malawi in May 1979, to evaluate the
need for a rural energy utilization study. The Project would constitute the
first phase of a long-term program aimed at developing forest resources to
strengthen the country's traditional energy resource base.
B. The Agricultural Sector
1.02      Malawi has a total land area of 9.4 million hectares, of which
36% is considered to be of arable quality. The land is very varied topo-
graphically with extensive areas of plains, escarpments, plateaux and
mountain massifs in each of the three regions. The altitude ranges from 50 m.
to 3000 m. above mean sea level. Soils are relatively fertile, and the fairly
reliable rainfall permits the cultivation of a variety of food and cash crops.
However, only 2.9 million hectares are estimated to be under cultivation at
present. Forest reserves occupy 9% of the total land area, while urban and
infrastructure areas and National Parks account for 11% each. Of the remaining
33% of total land area presently unused, 60% is estimated to carry natural,
woody vegetation. 82% of the total land area is held under customary tenure
and is termed Customary Land. Freehold or leasehold land accounts for 2%,
while 16% is held as public land.
1.03      The population of Malawi is currently estimated at 5.9 million
(based on the 1977-census) with an average growth rate of 3% per annum.  Over
92% of the population is rural with a population density of 59 persons per
square kilometer. Although the average national farm holding is estimated at
2.56 ha, the average cultivated farm size is 1.66 ha per family of 5 persons.
At this level of cultivated farm holding, arable land (3.4 million ha) could
sustain a population of 10.2 million. At present growth rates, this would be
reached in the quinquenium 1995-2000, when all available arable land would be
completely taken up. This also assumes that farm production has first claim
to arable land. Consequently, land conservation and maintenance of soil
fertility through introduction of improved techniques, inputs and afforestation
has become increasingly important. Thus, the only land available to forestry
development is the remaining 3.1 million hectares of natural woodland which is
considered unsuitable for agricultural production. However, part of this land



- 2 -
has already come under crop production in face of increasing demand for
land coupled with improved technologies in land husbandry. In the long term,
agricultural production and forestry development might compete for the unused
Customary Land.
Crop Production
1.04      Malawi's agricultural production derives from two subsectors:
smallholder agriculture and estate agriculture. The smallholder subsector
accounts for 85% of all agricultural production, and meets the country's
demand for food staples (maize, beans, groundnuts, sweet potatoes and rice),
while providing agricultural raw materials for industry (cotton and fire-cured
tobacco) and some export surplus. The export surplus from this subsector
comprises nearly 40% of all agricultural exports. Smallhold*er output is esti-
mated to have been expanding at about 3% p.a., in real terms (equal to the
rate of population growth) in recent years. Better performance by the small-
holder subsector has been constrained by (a) low incentives provided by low
producer prices to smallholders; (b) transfer of a workforce equivalent to
140,000 persons and 470,000 ha of the best cultivable land to the estate
subsector; and (c) limitation of smallholder participation in the production
of high-value, high-cost agricultural export crops by government regulation
(tobacco and tea). On the other hand, recent performance of the estate
subsector has been spectacular, averaging 10% p.a., in real terms since
1973. Overall, the estates contribute 15% of the total agricultural produc-
tion in the country, but account for 60% of all agricultural exports. Estate
production is mainly centered on flue-cured tobacco, burley tobacco, tea and
sugar.
Livestock
1.05      The livestock population consists of about 837,000 cattle, 770,000
goats, 200,000 pigs and 100,000 sheep. The cattle herd is estimated to grow
at 5% p.a., and contains over 2,000 grade dairy animals. Most cattle are
found in the less densely populated central and northern regions, although
some are in the Shire Valley. They are raised by traditional methods and they
are considered by farmers as a source of wealth rather than as commodities for
sale. Consequently, overstocking is becoming noticeable in some areas and is
likely to get worse unless the current average annual take off rate of 9% to
10% is substantially improved in selected problem areas. Goat is an important
source of meat in Malawi as are pigs and chickens which are found in many
households. Most of the organized pig and poultry production is, however, in
the hands of large commercial producers who mainly supply the urban markets.
Malawi still imports most of its dairy requirements, though recent progress
in local production has been impressive. New projects are being developed to
increase the production and processing of dairy products.
Development Strategy
1.06      The Government's aim has been to maintain self-sufficiency in food
staples, expand agricultural exports significantly and improve rural incomes.
Given the limitation on high quality land available for new cultivation, and
the increasingly high cost of reclamation on marginal lands or lands exhausted



- 3 -
by continuous cultivation, the main emphasis of current agricultural policy
is on a sustained rise in productivity. It has attempted to provide a growth
climate for both smallholder and estate production.
1.07      Improvements in smallholder productivity have been so-ught through
two different approaches. The more general approach has concentrated on a
gradual improvement of extension, land husbandry and farmer training services
throughout the country; these efforts have been supported by small, low-cost
rural development projects and by special activities and programs such as
ox-training, dairy improvement, and tea development (usually funded by the UK
or by UNDP). The second approach has been based on the introduction, since
1968/69, of considerably more expensive and management intensive integrated
development programs in four specific areas. These are: the Lilongwe Land
Development Projects (LLDP I, II, and III; IDA Credits 113, 244, and 550),
Shire Valley (SVADP I and II, and the Consolidation Phase III, IDA Credits
114, 363 and 823), Karonga (KRDP I and II, IDA Credit 282, and Third Window
Loan 1286) and Lakeshore Rural Development Project (LRDP), formerly funded by
the Federal Republic of Germany (1968-74) and now assisted by the European
Development Fund (EDF). All of the above programs are characterized by the
provision of infrastructure (roads, markets, water and health facilities,
etc.) institution of land improvement and conservation measures, improved
extension and other services, and provision of credit facilities. These four
comprehensive programs - which are concentrated in the more densely populated
areas - cover areas with one million persons, or 20% of Malawi's population.
Despite this emphasis over the last ten years, the increases in smallholder
marketed production have been disappointing both nationally and on a project
basis. Between 1971 and 1978, the value of smallholder officially marketed
production grew at about 3.0% per annum, compared with 10% per annum in the
estate sector (para. 1.03).
C. The National Rural Development Program
1.08      In the mid-1970's, it was realized that such an intensive level of
investment as occurred in the major projects, could not be replicated in the
rest of the country if all the rural population was to be reached within a
reasonable time. A rethinking of the strategy was therefore undertaken,
resulting in the subsequently formulated policy of the National Rural Develop-
ment Program (NRDP), to provide a more extensive level of services to a larger
population concentrating resources on the more immediately productive aspects
of agricultural investment. NRDP is intended to extend and consolidate
various development programs over the entire country, and is specifically
designed to increase the level of smallholder production through the provision
of agricultural inputs and farm services; particular attention being paid
to increasing the efficiency and scope of extension, input supply, marketing
and credit services. Under the NRDP emphasis is placed on improved productivity
from already cultivated areas; attention is also given to soil conservation,
watershed management, and afforestation.



1.09      The MANR is responsible for the implementation of the program.  The
Central Services and management capability of MANR are strengthened to serve
the needs of the program. MANR Headquarters and the field organization have
been restructured; instead of three regional agricultural areas plus four
major projects, the country has been divided into eight Management Units
(Karonga, Mzuzu, Kasungu, Lilongwe, Salima, Zomba, Blantyre, and Shire) each
administering one Agricultural Development Division (ADD). On average, each
ADD is divided into five Development Areas (DAs), each covering an average of
about 25,000 farm families.
1.10      The program envisages a 15-18 year development period for each
Development Area, divided into four phases. The activities would start with
a two or three year preparatory phase. This would include land and agro-
economic surveys, followed by detailed physical and economic planning; the
establishment of agronomic trials where necessary; construction of essential
additional staff housing; allocation of new extension staff; and construction
of additional water sources, marketing facilities, rural roads and health
posts. The next phase, tentatively called extensive phase, would be imple-
mented over a period of about five years and would include investments in
production related items such as improved extension and training, marketing,
supply of inputs and credit. During the following five-year intensive phase,
more attention would be given to increasing research and introduction of new
crops and processing technologies; intensification of cropping programs;
opening up of new areas where available for settlement; land conservation and
consolidation; animal husbandry; and the construction of new roads. Finally,
the areas would enter a consolidation phase, which would involve a continuation
of more intensive development, further improvements to social infrastructure,
especially education and health; and may also include the development of rural
industries. In practice, there will not necessarily be a clear dividing line
between activities in each phase. In September 1977, the Government requested
the assistance of IDA, EDF, UNDP, United Kingdom (UK), the Canadian Inter-
national Development Agency (CIDA), and the Federal Republic of Germany (FRG),
to finance the first phase of the program. In addition, as part of the
long-range objectives for NRDP, it asked the United States Agency for Inter-
national Development (USAID) to help strengthen the country's Agricultural
Research Service. As a result, a joint appraisal with IDA, EDF, UK and CIDA
personnel took place in November 1977, and NRDP I was approved by the Board
in November 1978, (Credit 857-MAI).
D. Government Services
1.11      The Ministry of Agriculture and National Resources' major activity
is the provision of services to the agricultural sector. It is also respon-
sible for fisheries, water resources, national parks, geological surveys and
forestry. There are two Deputy Secretaries one of whom is responsible for
the implementation of the agricultural program which operates through three
departments: Department of Agricultural Development (which provides farmer
services and supervises land use planning, settlement schemes and irrigation
programs throughout the country), Animal Health, and Research; the other
Deputy Secretary is responsible for all programs dealing with natural resources
such as forestry and wildlife.



-5-
Agricultural Extension
1.12      Crop and animal health extension are important services provided
to farmers by the Government. However, the effectiveness of the extension
services was questioned in view of the recent performance of the smallholder
subsector which indicates, among other things, that extension efforts have
provided nominal stimulus to agricultural development. This has led MANR to
restructure its extension services by instituting a geographical unit approach
based on ecological principles consistent with administrative boundaries and
upon a size related to both areas and population density. These Extension
Planning Areas (EPA's) are as uniform in terms of physical resources as
possible. They total 180, covering the whole country. They are, in turn,
grouped together for administrative purposes into Development Areas of which
there will be about 40 when NRDP is fully implemented. Currently, there is
about 1 field extension worker (Technical Assistant) to 1,700 to 2,400 far-
mers, depending on the area. The field worker carries out individual farm
visits and, in some instances, establishes farmer groups for extension teaching
and credit. He is supported by divisional supevisory staff and specialist
staff at divisional and regional levels. In the project areas (Lilongwe,
Karonga, Shire Valley and Lake Shore) the level of extension staff in touch
with the farmers and the supporting specialist and training services have been
greatly increased.
Farmer Training
1.13      Training facilities for farmers and their wives have become increas-
ingly available in recent years. Three levels of training are provided: Farm
Institutes, Divisional Centers and Day Centers. There are three Farm Insti-
tutes at Mbelwa (Mzuzu), Likuni (Lilongwe) and Thuchila (Blantyre) with a
total capacity of 500 farmers per annum for courses lasting two to three
weeks. There were 16 Divisional Centers operating in 1979, which conducted
courses of one to two weeks' duration for about 17,000 farmers and wives in a
year. All centers have demonstration gardens, plots or farms. Day Centers
consist of a room at an EPA field office, used for day courses to farmers and
wives. The courses are centered on specific topics of current interest or
importance. The number of these centers varies annually as some are upgraded
and transformed to specific projects or new ones are constructed.
Agricultural Research
1.14      Agricultural research is carried out by the Agricultural Research
Department (ARD) of MANR, the Faculty of Agriculture of the University of
Malawi and the Tea Research Foundation (an independent organization focusing
on tea research). The University at Bunda College of Agriculture carries out
its own research or does so on behalf of MANR. Its main contribution todate
is in the field of bean and livestock research. The ARD is a full-time
research department with national responsibilities covering all crops and
livestock. Administratively, agricultural research is organized on the basis
of research stations which, in turn, are subdivided into sub-stations and
district sites. Scientifically, research is organized under research projects
based on crops or disciplines. The link between research and extension has so
far been weak.



-6 -
II. THE FORESTRY SUB-SECTOR
A. Resources
2.01      About 50% of Malawi's land area is covered by what is generally
classified as forest land. About 20% of the forest land is national parks
and game reserves, 20% forest reserves and protected hill slopes and 60%
natural woodland on customary land. The forest resources on customary land
are completely unprotected and are disappearing fast. Apart from small areas
of montane and sub-montane rain forest, most of the forests are "miombo" wood-
land, dominated by the Brachystegia/Julbernardia/Isoberlinia association.
They yield limited quantities, but excellent quality of fuelwood and a small
number of crooked poles. The mean annual increment (MAI) from woodland on
customary land is lower than from forest reserves due to greater stand de-
gradation from combined effects of high population pressur e and livestoc.
Average MAI's for the whole country are estimated at 1.2 m /ha and 0.8 m /ha
for forest reserves and customary land respectively.
2.02      A recognition of the need to conserve and supplement indigenous
forest resources has led to the development of an afforestation program in
Malawi. At present, about 72,400 ha are under exotic forest reserve planta-
tions of which about 49,000 ha belong to the Viphya Pulpwood Project. About
700,000 ha of indigenous forests are gazetted as forest reserves or protected
hill slopes. In addition, a total area of 258,000 ha of indigenous forest is
proposed for forest reserves which would bring the total area under gazetted
forest reserves to nearly 1 million hectares. Only forest resoruces within
gazetted areas are under management, while forest resources on customary
land are under no control. Traditionally, fuelwood and poles have been and
are obtained free of charge from customary land or by license from forest
reserves. Pressure on these reserves is increasing rapidly, and there is a
real danger of overcutting, which could lead to increased soil erosion and
degradation, siltation and floods, and general ecological instability.
B. Institutions
2.03      The Department of Forestry in MANR has overall responsibility for
forest development, protection and conservation, and forest products. With
the exception of small areas of private forest plantations totalling about
2,200 ha, all plantations are owned by the State through the Department of
Forestry. Indigenous forest resources occurring on non-gazetted Customary
Land are under the responsibility of traditional authorities headed by the
Chiefs. There are also about 800 ha of District Council Forests.
2.04      The Department of Forestry is headed by the Chief Conservator of
Forests and has five divisions. The Forests Division is responsible for
the administration and management of both, plantations and protected forest
reserves. The Management Services Division is responsible for education and



- 7 -
training, research and provision of technical services to the Department
of Forestry. The Forest Industries Division is responsible for sawmilling
activities in state-owned mills, seasoning, manufacture, preservation treat-
ment and the sale of all timber products from sawmills. The Viphya Pulpwood
Division is responsible for all forest operations affecting the Viphya Project;
planning, establishment and general management of pulpwood plantations and the
proposed Wood Energy Division which was recently established to be responsible
for present and future fuelwood plantations together with forestry extension.
2.05      Forestry Research is formally done by the Forestry Research Insti-
tute (FRI) which has six sections dealing with silviculture, pathology,
entomology, tree breeding, soils and Viphya Forest Industrial trials. FRI
has already embarked on a rural fuelwood research project, supported by the
International Development Research Center (IDRC) of Canada, with special
reference to:
(a)  identify the most suitable species for establishment
in the major climatic zones in the country;
(b)  identify the most suitable species for afforestation
at the village and individual level;
(c)  identify appropriate methods of establishing and managing
adopted species;
(d)  educate and inform the public on matters of practical
afforestation.
2.06      Forestry Education is provided by the Malawi College of Forestry,
which carries out all training of staff for the Technical Officer, Technical
Assistant, Forest Ranger and Nurserymen grades. At the Technical Assistant
level, the college offers a general forestry certificate course of two year
duration. Since 1975, the number of students taken annually has been increased
form 30 to 40. At the Technical Officer level the college offers an 18-month
diploma course open to those who have successfully completed the general
forestry certificate and who have been subsequently employed by the Department
of Forestry. The certificate affords an in-service promotion opportunity to
Technical Assistants on successful completion. In addition, there are special
training courses for nurserymen and forest guards, and refresher courses for
the technical staff. The capacity of the college is being further extended by
the Department of Forestry and the training courses for nurserymen is being
intensified to cater for the needs of the Project.
C. Production and Marketing
2.07      Malawi's forestry is not highly developed in terms of the range
of forest products it produces. The major products are sawn timber, veneer,
plywood, poles and fuelwood. Annual production of industrial roundwood from



-8 -
3
both state and private forests is about 85,000 m , of which about half consists
of softwood from state plantations. The wood is locally processed into sawn
timber, veneer and plywood which are largely absorbed by the domestic market.
Exports of forest products are negligible, and hence do not contribute to the
country's export earnings.
2.08      No reliable figures for fuelwood and poles production exist.  Esti-
mates of potential supply of fuelwood and poles from several sources are based
on a recent survey carried out by the Department of Forestry. These sources
are: sustained yield from indigenous forests in gazetted and proposed
reserves, sustained yield from indigenous forests on customary land, clear
felling in gazetted and proposed reserves where conversion to plantations is
planned, district council forests, plantations and sawmill residues. The
supply estimates are potential in as much as many of the sources are not
presently managed on a sustained yield basis nor wholly harvested or used.
For 19F7 it was estimated that the potential supply was approximately 8.8 mil-
lion m . An analysis of the demand reveals that the countrV s total fuelwood
and poles consumption in 1977 was estimated at 11 million m per annum of which
86% was fuelwood (para 5.09) and the rest was building poles (para35.13).  There
is therefore an apparent general deficit for 1977 of 2.2 million m . The anal-
ysis further reveals that 14 districts (out of a total of 24) are at present in
deficit supply3ranging from 1.6 million m per annum in Lilongwe District to
0.05 million m per annum in Chickwawa District. From the size of the present
deficits it could be concluded that the lack of wood products must be causing
extreme distress in some of the deficit supply areas. However, the potential
supply figures are based largely on sustained yield from uncultivated customary
land and forest reserves, neither of which is yet under sustained yield manage-
ment.  That extreme distress has not so far been experienced indicates that
demand is being met by destruction of forests on customary land. Future pro-
jections show that the situation is likely to deteriorate further over the
following three decades since all but one of the districts at present in
surplus supply will have moved into deficit (para 5.14).
2.09      The forestry sub-sector accounted for about 3% of the agricultural
GDP in 1978, (current prices), while its contribution to total GDP in the
same year was about 0.8%. Thus, in terms of its economic contribution, the
forestry sub-sector is insignificant. However, official data on the value
of forestry products do not adequately reflect the important role played by
the indigenous forest resource in providing fuelwood, building poles and minor
forest products to meet the rural population's basic needs. This is probably
so because on Customary Land both fuelwood and poles are obtained free for
the individual's own domestic use.
2.10      Similarly, the contribution of the forestry sub-sector to Government
revenue is small, mainly because over 98% of the total consumption of forestry
products is obtained free of charge and the royalties levied on wood for
commercial purposes are nominal. In 1977/78, revenue obtained from forestry
products accounted for only 0.7% of total Government revenue. At the same
time, Government expenditure on the development of the forestry sub-sector
has declined from 6.8% of total development expenditure in 1974/75 to 3.0%
in 1977/78.



- 9 -
2.11      There is no single organization responsible for the marketing of
fuelwood and poles in the country. Instead there is a large number of indi-
viduals involved in the marketing of fuelwood and poles at sales points in
urban and semi-urban areas in the country. These individuals must obtain
licences and pay fixed stumpage rates for cutting wood (para. 5.16).
D. Development Objectives and Strategies
2.12      The role played by the forestry sub-sector in the Malawi economy
is understated largely because official statistics on the value of forestry
products do not adequately reflect the important role played by the indigenous
forest resource in providing fuelwood and building poles to the rural population.
Thus, in view of rising prices of fossil fuel derivatives and the desirability
of remaining less dependent on such non-renewable sources of energy, and the
relative high cost of developing alternative sources of energy (e.g. electricity),
the Government of Malawi is anxious to encourage the development of forest
resources (which is renewable and relatively cheaper) to strengthen Malawi's
permanent energy resource base.
2.13      Estimates of existing supplies and of present consumption have
been made for all categories of forest produce and projections of supply and
demand to the end of the century have been prepared.  At present consumption
rates, the demand for fuelwood and poles is expected to double in 25 years,
while existing supplies would have virtually disappeared, even in areas where
at present there is a substantial surplus. Ave5age yields from clearfelled
natural woodlands vary from roughly 30 to 100 m /ha, and the mean annual
incremenS (MAI) of the forests and woodlands of Malawi as a whole is less
than 1 m /ha, while that of forest plantations is 10 m /ha to 15 m /ha. It
is clear therefore, that if the projections are correct, either large-scale
tree-planting will have to be resorted to, or else alternative sources of
energy will have to be found, or a combination of both.
2.14      At present, there is little hope that alternative sources of energy
will be made available at prices which the population in general can afford to
pay. Rural electrification is unlikely to materialize because of relatively
high costs associated with its establishment. Imported fossil fuels are
getting increasingly prohibitive and scarce, and are a drain on foreign
exchange. Limited coal deposits of poor quality occur in the north of the
country, but they have not been exploited as yet and transport costs may prove
to be excessive. Solar energy, biogas, and other small-scale units are still
at the experimental stage. No cheap and plentiful alternatives exist for
poles in house building. For all these reasons, the only practical solution
appears to be to establish fuelwood and pole plantations as fast as possible
in order to try to guarantee supplies of the traditional products in the
future. The proposed future prices for fuelwood produced in the country
(para 5.17) would be beyond the means of the majority of the population. It
is clear that each rural household would have to grow its own woodlot in order
to supply its domestic needs. Though the present size of the average holding



- 10 -
(2.56 ha) in the country as a whole is adequate to provide enough land for
cultivation (1.66 ha on average), for a woodlot (0.40 ha) and for dwellings,
there are many farmers who might find it difficult or impossible to devote
enough land to tree-planting. In such cases woodlots would have to be sited
on unoccupied (preferably non-agricultural) communal land as close as possible
to the farniers concerned. At the same time, attempts would be made to effect
savings on wood energy uses, both in the home and in industry, and studies
will take place to develop and promote alternative sources of energy.
2.15      Malawi's first long-term forestry development objective would
be the improvement of fuelwood and building pole supplies to both the rural
and urban population for domestic and commercial use by (a) establishing rural
nurseries to provide seedlings of fast growing species to farmers for establish-
ment of woodlots, and (b) establishing tree plantations in wood deficit rural
areas and near main urban centers. This would help to shield the majority of
the population with low incomes from the inevitable rise in fuelwood prices in
the future as the indigenous forest resource continues to dwindle, and might
eventually remedy the disequilibrium between demand and natural supplies in
deficit areas and urban centers.
2.16      A second long-term objective would be the introduction of management
of forest resources on Customary Land and the intensification of management
in gazetted forest reserves. This is only feasible if it is carried out
simultaneously with the establishment of tree farming woodlots and tree
plantations. The introduction of forest management would help to eventually
remedy the decline of natural forest on Customary Land, thus preventing
further environmental destruction, and improving substantially wood produc-
tion as well as producing more revenue from sales of wood and wood products.
2.17      A third development objective would be to promote a viable forestry
development through appropriate legislation and pricing of forest products.
At present, forestry legislation is not effectively executed because of severe
budget constraints which make it impossible for the Department of Forestry to
recruit and train adequate staff and for the available staff of District
Councils to effectively carry out their policing and extension tasks in areas
outside Forest Reserves. The current pricing of forest products is not based
on cost recovery and very little revenue is generated from the sale of wood.
Current royalties and timber sales are sufficient to cover annual recurrent
expenses of the Department of Forestry, but fall short of covering the Depart-
ment's development expenditure which is largely financed by budgetary alloca-
tions from the country's Treasury. The revenue from royalties and timber
sales accounted for only 27.8% of the Department's expenditure in 1977/78.
Through appropriate pricing of forest products the country's forestry sub-
sector should be capable of generating enough revenue to cover its recurrent
and developmental needs and thus become financially self-reliant and viable.



- 11 -
III. THE PROJECT
A. General Description
3.01      The proposed Project would be the first Bank Group financing in
the Malawi forestry sub-sector and would form the initial phase in a program
to meet the demand for fuelwood and poles. It would provide for intensive
development involving the establishment of forestry plantations and farmers'
woodlots in five deficit districts and for a farmers' woodlots program in
the remaining districts. It would be carried out over five years and would
consist of the following:
(a) A pilot program for the establishment of a national network
of 88 nurseries to be operated by the Forestry Deparment for
the production of seedlings (mainly Eucalyptus) for sale to
the public, who would be encouraged to grow their own woodlots
in order to be as self-sufficient as possible in fuelwood
and poles. The establishment of these nurseries would be
preceded by a systematic survey of wood deficit areas and
villagers likely response to an accelerated seedling produc-
tion program.
(b) Establishment of fuelwood and pole plantations for sale
of forest produce to meet mainly the commercial and indus-
trial demand:
(i)  300 ha in each of five deficit districts, namely:
Blantyre, Kasungu, Karonga, Lilongwe, and Zomba
(total 1,500 ha), to be operated by the District
Councils; and 300 ha in each of the three urban
centers, namely: Kasungu, Karonga, and Zomba
(total 900 ha), to be operated by the Town Councils;
(ii) 3,000 ha in each of three districts, namely:
Blantyre, Lilongwe, and Zomba (total 9,000 ha), to
be operated by the Forestry Department; and
(iii)  1,500 ha within the boundaries of the city of
Lilongwe, to be operated by the Capital City
Development Corporation (CCDC).
(c) Strengthening of the Wood Energy Division with responsibility
for coordination, direction and control of all matters
relating to Project implementation and other similar projects.
(d) Charcoal production trials to investigate improved methods
of production and marketing of charcoal.



- 12 -
(e) Establishment of an Energy Unit to investigate more efficient
use of wood energy, consequent savings in fuelwood usage levels
and alternative sources of energy.
(f) A pre-investment phase in preparation for NRDP III.
B. The Project Area
3.02      Five districts were selected for intensive activities under the
Project:  Blantyre and Zomba in the Southern Region; Lilongwe and Kasungu in
the Central Region; and Karonga in the Northern Region.  Of the remaining 19
districts, less intensive activities (nurseries and farmers' woodlots) would
be pursued in 16 districts, 6 in the Southern Region (Chiradzulu, Machinga,
Mangochi, Mulanje, Thyolo, and Mwanza); 7 in the Central Region (Dowa,
Mchinji, Ntchisi, Dedza, Ntcheu, Nkhotakota, and Salima); and 3 in the
Northern Region (Chitipa, Mzimba, and Rumphi).
3.03      The country is topographically very varied, from the low lying
flat plains of the Lower Shire Valley (below 200 m) in the south, through the
escarpments bordering the Shire Highlands and Lake Malawi, to the peneplains
of the Central Region and the high plateaux of Mulanje, Zomba, Viphya, and
Nyika mountains (up to 3000 m). Except on steep mountain and hill slopes or
where soil depth is a limiting factor, topography by itself is not a serious
constraint to tree growing, though it may impose limitations on harvesting
and extraction. Tree planting is usually carried out on soils which are
considered too poor for agricultural use, and naturally the poorer the site,
the poorer the yield. However, apart from waterlogged or extremely rocky
sites or steep slopes, the soils are generally sufficiently fertile for
successful tree growing.
3.04      The climate is greatly influenced by Lake Malawi (about 580 km
long and 50-80 km wide), altitude and topography. At the southern tip of the
Great Rift Valley, Malawi is exposed to maritime climate influences crossing
Mozambique, with easterly to south-easterly prevailing winds from the Indian
Ocean. Rainfall is seasonal, associated with the intertropical convergence
zone, and falls mainly in summer, from November to March in the south and into
April in the north. At high elevations winter precipitations occur and are an
important factor for tree growth; there are no arid areas in Malawi. Two main
types of climate influence tree planting: (a) areas with a mean annual rain-
fall of 800 mm to 1,000 mm and a mean annual temperature of 20C to 250C;
these areas may be roughly divided according to altitude (from 200 m to
1,000 m and above 1,000 m) and are generally suitable for Eucalyptus tereti-
cornis and Eucalyptus camaldulensis; and (b) high elevation areas above
1,500 m, with a mean annual rainfall exceeding 1,000 mm and a mean annual
temperature below 20C which are generally suitable for Eucalyptus grandis.
Generally, the climate is favorable to tree growth in Malawi, the main
constraint being the degree of water stress caused by the length and severity
of the dry season.



- 13 -
C. Detailed Features
(a) Nurseries
3.05      The main thrust of the Project would be directed towards encouraging
farmers to plant their own woodlots either on their own individual holdings
or communally in groups on customary land outside their individual holdings
in order to be self-sufficient in fuelwood and poles for their domestic needs.
To achieve this, a national network of nurseries would be established to
provide seedlings for sale to the public at cost price. A total of 88 nur-
series would be established and managed by the Wood Energy Division of the
Forestry Department, each producing about 100,000 seedlings per annum from
year 2 onwards. In addition, the nurseries producing seedlings for the five
rural and three urban district plantations would also be able to sell about
100,000 seedlings per annum each to the public from year 2 onwards.
3.06      It is clear that the demand for fuelwood and poles would continue
to be far in excess of current supplies with demand steadily increasing with
the growth of population (para 5.15). Present prices do not reflect the real
value of wood and are bound to increase sharply as this natural resource
becomes more and more scarce, thus putting it eventually beyond the means of
the average rural householder. The ideal solution would be for most rural
households to have their own small woodlots to supply their needs of fuel-
wood and poles. Although farmers' acceptance of planting their own woodlots
has not been seriously tested, there is sufficient evidence to show that the
rural population is becoming increasingly aware of this shortage. Forestry
staff in all three regions of the country have reported an increasing demand
for seedlings. Nevertheless, due to the pilot nature of this component, it
was designed with sufficient flexibility so as to adjust readily to farmers'
responses. Every attempt would be made to locate nurseries in high demand
areas; however, nurseries would be easily relocated if the demand for seed-
lings in certain areas is not forthcoming. Moreover, to facilitate the
availability of seedlings to the farmers, nurseries would transport the
seedlings in bulk to villages within a radius of 15 kilometers on appointed
days prior to and during the planting season; the cost of transport has been
included in the cost of seedlings. In addition to planting, production and
sale of tree seedlings, supplies of tree seeds would be made available so that
small farmers would be able to raise such seedlings on their own homesteads
following the successful experience developed in other East African countries.
3.07      The exact location of the woodlots would vary according to the size
of the farmer's holding and land availability on, or as near as possible to,
his holding.  Obvious tree planting sites would include boundary lines and
land unsuitable for agriculture, but shallow soils and badly-drained sites
should be avoided. There is increasing evidence that in situations where
free-ranging goats and other livestock pose a threat to woodlots, small
farmers are more likely to protect trees that are sited close to their own
homesteads and most of the output from which would be utilized for



- 14 -
domestic consumption. It is estimated that the annual domestic needs for fuel-
wood and poles per3household is 4.2 m , based on average annual consumption
per head of 0.85 m and an average family size of 5 persons. To produce such
a volume of wood regularly requires an area of 0.4 ha assumi3g a national
mean annual increment (MAI) on farmer woodlots of about 10 m /ha. The area
required would obviously be smaller if either the consumption per head is
lower or the MAI is higher, or both. The number of trees which should be
planted to produce such a sustained yield would depend on the spacing adopted.
It is anticipated that a close spacing of 2m x 2m would be used, equivalent
to an initial stocking of 2,500/ha. Such a spacing would ensure an adequate
stocking and an adequate volume production even if half of the trees planted
were to fail. An average household would therefore have to plant about 1,000
seedlings to meet all its domestic fuelwood and poles needs. The annual
seedling production of a nursery would therefore be sufficient for the plant-
ing of 40 ha of woodlots, or approximately the equivalent of the annual
domestic needs of 100 households.
3.08      The main species to be planted are Eucalyptus:  Eucalyptus grandis
at high elevations and where the annual rainfall exceeds 1,000 mm, and Euca-
lyptus tereticornis or Eucalyptus camaldulensis at low elevations and where
the annual rainfall is lower than 1,000 mm. All these species grow well and
fast, and coppice readily over a period of 30 years or so. Small quantities
of other species (e.g. Gmelina arborea) might also be produced, though their
yield is much lower than that of Eucalyptus and they are much less suitable
for use both as fuelwood and as poles. It is expected that farmers will come
to realize that Eucalyptus are in every way preferable to Gmelina. Planting
stock would be raised in black polythene tubes (para 5.03). Suitable termi-
cides such as aldrin would be applied in the nursery 1/; three nursery appli-
cations prior to planting out should ensure adequate protection against
termites in the field, especially if the tubes are not removed and fresh soil
is not allowed to come into contact with the seedlings. Farmers would have
to follow the planting instructions carefully to ensure a good survival rate
and reduce termite damage. Forestry extension services would be provided by
the nurserymen, the Wood Energy Division and the agricultural extension
services of MANR (paras 4.04-4.07).
(b) Fuelwood and Pole Plantations
3.09      Fuelwood and pole plantations would be established by the District
Councils and Town Councils, the Forestry Department and CCDC to cater for the
needs of the commercial and industrial sector and some of the affluent urban
dwellers. It is intended that these rural and urban councils (including CCDC)
would get involved in the afforestation program and would be given sufficient
incentives (para 5.20) to ensure their active participation in a program that
is of national importance. Details of these plantations are as follows:
1/   Although aldrin has been banned by some countries as an insecticide used
in large-scale spraying, in the U.S.A., the Environmental Protection
Agency does not object to its use in nurseries prior to planting out.



- 15 -
(i) District and Town Council plantations: Eight plantations
(five rural in Blantyre, Kasungu, Karonga, Lilongwe, and Zomba;
and three urban in Kasungu, Karonga, and Zomba) of 300 ha each
would be established and operated by the respective District
Councils and Town Councils with technical assistance
being provided by the Forestry Department. These fuelwood
and pole plantations would be on customary land allocated
for this purpose and planting would be at the rate of
75 ha per annum from the second through the fifth year
of Project implementation. Each unit would have a nursery
producing 200,000 seedlings per annum of which half would
be required for the planting program and the other half
would be available for sale to the public (para 3.05).
Each nursery would have a nurseryman responsible for all
nursery operations and for the sale of surplus plants
to the public. During the off-season, when no nursery
operations are in progress, he will assist in extension
duties. Casual labor would be employed during the active
nursery season only. A site of about 0.5 ha should suffice
for the nursery and buildings. The planting spacing
will be 2.75 m x 2.75 m, representing an average initial
stocking of 1,330 stems per hectare. One seedling and
three coppice rotations each of eight years would be
adopted. The plantations would be protected against
fire throughout their life. Some protection against
grazing may also be required in certain areas during the
first year or two of establishment. The establishment of
the plantations would be the responsibility of the District
and Town Councils Forest Rangers. The annual planting area
would not necessarily be a single block of 75 ha, but may
be divided according to land availability and distributed
all over the District in order to ensure that the produce
would be as close to markets as possible.
(ii) Forestry Department plantations: 3,000 ha of fuelwood and
pole Eucalyptus plantations would be established in each
of the three districts of Blantyre, Lilongwe, and Zomba;
a total of 9,000 ha within selected forest reserves at
an annual planting rate of 450 ha in the second year and
850 ha in each subsequent year. As far as possible the
planting sites would be concentrated depending on land
availability, for ease of management and protection and
would be chosen close to the markets to minimize transport
costs.  The species, planting spacing, rotation age,
silviculture and coppice management will be the same as
for the district and town council plantations (para 3.12).
The establishment of the plantations would be the respon-
sibility of the Wood Energy Division of the Forestry
Department, the executing agency of the Project.



- 16 -
(iii) CCDC plantations: The Capital City Development Corpora-
tion (CCDC) was established by Act of Parliament in 1968,
to develop Lilongwe as the national capital of Malawi;
the Government endowed the Corporation with freehold title
to the designated areas of approximately 20,000 ha. The
corporation is charged as agent of the Government to
administer and supervise the orderly construction, develop-
ment and maintenance of the capital city. Apart from
environmental considerations which have been given a high
priority in all aspects of the city planning leading to
the establishment of a Landscape Department which currently
produces over 200,000 trees, plants and shrubs each year
and maintains all parks and open spaces, it was considered
of equal importance that CCDC should utilize some of the
land within the city boundaries for the establishment of
fuelwood and pole plantations to meet the ever increasing
demand from the commercial and industrial sectors as well as
from the urban dwellers. 1,000 ha of forest plantations of
which 90% is Gmelina have already been established. Under
the Project, an additional area of 1,500 ha of fuelwood and
pole plantations would be established within the designated
capital city boundaries. The technical package for the new
plantations would be the same as for the rural and urban
district plantations and Forestry Department plantations.
The existing small nursery of Alisuamde would be expanded
to a capacity of 400,000 plants per annum which would be
sufficient for an annual planting program of 300 ha. The
plantations would be operated by the Forestry Section of
the Landscape Department of CCDC.
3.10      In summary, the planting program over 5 years would include 2,400 ha
in district and town council plantations; 9,000 ha in forest reserves and 1,500
ha in Lilongwe CCDC plantations. In addition, the seedlings produced by the
nurseries for sale to the public are sufficient to plant about 3,800 ha per
annum by farmers either individually or in groups on customary land, a total
of about 15,000 ha over a four-year period beginning with the second year
of Project implementation. No difficulty is foreseen in the allocation of
customary land by the traditional authorities for farmer woodlots. Land for
forest reserve plantations has been earmarked but not fully demarcated and
a large part of the land for district and town council plantations has been
identified.  The approval of the traditional authorities appears to be the
main single factor that influences the availability of land for Project
plantations. Land for CCDC plantations in Lilongwe is available within the
city boundaries and is held freehold. In some cases compensation may have
to be paid. To ensure the availability of land for Project purposes, the
written approval of the traditional authorities for the allocation of land
required for project plantations would be a condition of disbursement for each
individual plantation.



- 17 -
(c) Wood Energy Division
3.11      A Wood Energy Division has been established within the Department
of Forestry of the MANR to be directly responsible for Project implementa-
tion and to direct, coordinate and control all matters relating to wood
energy. At headquarters it would consist of three senior forestry officers,
a planning officer, a financial controller, accounting personnel, a senior
forester responsible for extension work and supporting administrative and
clerical staff. Responsibility for all project work initially will devolve
through the three Regional Forestry Officers (RFO) in each of the three
administrative regions: North, Central and South who would each be assisted
by a professional officer especially responsible for wood energy (Assistant
Regional Forestry Officer, ARFO) and supporting staff. Further devolution of
responsibility would be to a Senior Forester at each Agricultural Development
Division headquarters, who will coordinate all Project and NRDP forestry
activities and Forestry Department District staff.
3.12      A wood energy extension service of three units, one for each Regional
Forestry Office would be set up with responsibility for extension work through
publicity (e.g. films) and advisory activities. These facilities would be
operated in conjunction with the existing agriculture film production and
extension unit of MANR.
(d) Charcoal Trials
3.13      Charcoal is not a traditional fuel of any importance in Malawi.
Until recently, fuelwood has been readily accessible all over the country
within reasonable hauling distances, and this has not encouraged the develop-
ment of a charcoal industry. However, some charcoal is produced in Chikwawa
and Dedza Districts and in a few places in the Northern Region, though on a
small scale and using traditional earthen kilns. With the opening up of
Forest Reserves for forestry development and large-scale conversion of cus-
tomary land to agriculture, especially in tobacco-growing areas, large quan-
tities of indigenous fuelwood are becoming available, often at great distances
from markets. Charcoal burning would be a rational way of dealing with this
new situation, as charcoal can be economically transported at much greater
distances than fuelwood. The traditional method of charcoal burning is
wasteful and inefficient, and more modern methods would be investigated. A
provision of MK 100,000 is made for charcoal trials to be carried out by the
Wood Energy Division of the Forestry Department into methods of production,
investigation into marketing, promotion, and consumer acceptance of charcoal.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that detailed plans for the study
would be prepared by the Forestry Department by December 31, 1980 and agreed
with IDA prior to initiation of the study.
(e) Energy Unit
3.14      The magnitude of the future energy requirements in Malawi is such
that it can be seriously questioned whether wood can and should provide the
only source of energy. Therefore, an Energy Unit would be established within



- 18 -
the Planning Division of MANR to carry out a variety of studies required
for the planning of possible future wood energy projects, investigating the
possibilities for reducing wood consumption through improving utilization
efficiency and developing other renewable energy resources. The unit would
work with other ministries and institutions in developing designs and fabri-
cation techniques for cooking stoves, large-scale wood combustion devices
such as tobacco curing barns, biogas units and solar heaters suitable for
widespread use in Malawi. A great deal of research has been done on these
technologies elsewhere, and experimental stoves, biogas units, and solar
water heaters have been built at one or another of the three campuses of the
University of Malawi.
3.15      The technological work to be done by the Unit is expected to com-
plement and extend these efforts by concentrating on putting into practice what
is known theoretically and has been demonstrated within University confines.
The technicians to be recruited for the Unit should be either University
diplomates or persons who have completed apprenticeships and have practical
experience with materials and fabrication techniques involved in
the technologies with which they will be working. It is important that these
technicians should be able to work effectively both with the University
faculty, consultants, and Unit Management in developing and testing suitable
designs and with extension agents and the public in demonstrating the cons-
truction and use of the units, monitoring the acceptance and performance of
the units in the setting for which they have been designed, and in determin-
ing reasons for lack of acceptance or poor technical performance. It is
anticipated that several design-test-demonstration-failure-diagnosis-redesign
cycles will be needed before successful stove or biogas designs are developed.
Detailed plans for the Energy Studies would be prepared by MANR and would be
submitted to IDA by December 31, 1980 for approval. Assurances to this effect
were obtained at negotiations.
3.16      A survey team has been included to give the Unit the capacity
to collect and process data on fuelwood collection and use and other subjects
that are required for planning future wood energy projects and to assist in
the development of appropriate technologies. The main task of the survey team
would be to update and refine the description of the geographic pattern of
wood scarcity and abundance. The team would also be used to collect data on:
(a) traditional tree harvesting systems and their effects on forest yields;
(b) the relationship between deforestation and agricultural productivity; and
(c) cooking practices, use of crop residues, availability and use of animal
wastes, availability of scrap metal and artisans of various types and other
topics on which limited amounts of field data collection would be useful in
setting goals for the technological adaptation effort.
3.17      Initial emphasis would be given to those districts where the wood
problem is most acute, such as Lilongwe and Blantyre. It is intended to carry
out an initial pilot survey with an Agro-Economic Survey team in Lilongwe
District during 1979/80. The project would then use the experience of the
pilot to mount further surveys. Close links would also be maintained with the
National Sample Survey of Agriculture which is incorporating wood utilization
questions in its survey.



- 19 -
(f)  NRDP III Pre-Investment Phase
3.18      Until recently, Malawi's approach to rural development has centered
on intensive, integrated projects (para 1.07). The concept of a National
Rural Development Program emerged from discussions within Goverri.aent and with
IDA missions on the impact of the major agricultural projects in Malawi and
the possibility of extending these projects to other areas of the country
(para 1.08). Bank Group operations in Malawi will continue to emphasize rural
development through further investments under NRDP of which Phase III is
proposed to include Karonga/Chitipa third phase and a new rural development
program in Dedza Hills.
3.19      The planning and implementation of rural development projects are
often constrained by a lack of continuity between the two stages. Difficul-
ties in selecting sites for buildings, acquiring sites as public land and then
completing construction, difficulties in recruiting staff and lengthy proce-
dures in tendering for equipment means that implementation may run a long way
behind schedule. The main objectives of the NRDP III pre-investment phase
are first to improve the quality of input data with a view towards improved
quality of planning and secondly to improve the logistics of project imple-
mentation by minimizing delays in the starting period. Improvements have
already been initiated under NRDP I with the establishment of uniform report-
ing procedures, standardized accounting, centralized policy control, a central
evaluation unit and a system of regular review meetings to aid project
monitoring, evaluation and modification. Under the pre-investment phase it
is proposed to ensure timely planning and implementation by:
(a) appointing key project staff one year before project
implementation so that they can contribute to the detailed
planning;
(b) collecting additional base line data in the immediate
year before project implementation; and
(c) providing in-service training of planning and management
staff in techniques of practical performance oriented
planning, including the preparation of annual work plans.
For the pre-investment phase to be successful, it would be important that
key project staff are in post and operational at an early stage. Therefore
it would be a condition of disbursement for expenditures incurred in each
respective DA that the Project Officer is appointed.



- 20'-
D. Project Costs
3.20      Total Project costs are estimated at MK 13.6 million (US$16.3
million) of which MK 4.0 million (US$4.9 million) or about 30% represent
foreign exchange costs.  Details of Project costs are presented in Tables I
and 2 and are summarized below:
Foreign as
Component            Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total   % of total
-------MK'000--------   -------US$ 000-------
Nurseries                    714     158      871     857      190   1,047       18
Plantations:
- Councils                  473      145      618     568      173     741       23
- Forestry Department    2,702   1,200   3,902   3,241   1,440   4,684           31
- CCDC                      514      150      664     620      180     800       23
Wood Energy Division      1,469      730   2,199   1,762       876   2,638       33
Charcoal Trials              58       42      100      70       50     120       42
Energy Studies              321      496      817     385      595     980       61
Pre-Investment NRDP III    200       116      316     240      139     379       37
Total base costs          6,451   3,037   9,488   7,741   3,644  11,385          32
Physical contingencies      645      304      949     774      365   1,139       32
Price contingencies       2,427      691   3,118   2,912       829   3,741       22
Total contingencies       3,072      995   4,067   3,686   1,194   4,880         24
Total Project Costs       9,523   4,032  13,555  11,427   4,838  16,265          30
3.21      Project costs were estimated at prices as of December 1979.  A
physical contingency of 10% was included for all Project costs.  Price con-
tingencies were calculated on a cumulative basis:  for local costs the rates
were 12% for 1980, 11% for 1981, and 10% thereafter while for foreign exchange
costs the rates were 9% for 1980, 8% for 1981 and 7% thereafter. Taxes in-
cluded in Project costs are negligible since virtually all items would be
exempt from import duties.
E. Financing
3.22      Financing of Project costs would be as follows:



- 21 -
MK (million)    US$ (million)    _
Government                         2.1               2.5          15
IDA                               11.5              13.8          85
Total Project Costs          13.6              16.3         100
3.23      The proposed IDA credit of US$13.8 million would be to the Govern-
ment of lIalawi on standard IDA terms. The credit would finance about 85% of
total Project costs, including 100% of foreign exchange costs (US$4.8 million)
and 78% of local costs (US$9.0 million). Government would meet the remaining
MK 2.1 million (US$2.5 million) or 15% of Project costs. Funds for the
District Councils and Town Councils plantations would be passed by Government
to the respective councils as additional budgetary allocations. Funds for the
CCDC plantation would be onlent by Government to CCDC at an interest rate of
not less than 10% repayable over 30 years, including a grace period of nine
years. The execution of a subsidiary loan agreement acceptable to IDA between
Government and CCDC would be a condition of disbursement for the CCDC planta-
tions. The remaining funds would be channelled by Government to the Ministry
of Agriculture as a standard budgetary allocation. Assurances were obtained
at negotiations that the above terms and conditions would be followed.
F. Procurement
3.24      Procurement orders for vehicles, machinery and equipment (US$1.0
million) in excess of US$100,000 would be subject to international competitive
bidding procedures in accordance with IDA guidelines; orders would be bulked
whenever possible. Orders for less than US$100,000 would be in accordance
with local procedures which are acceptable to IDA. Housing and other buildings
(US$4.0 million) to be constructed in accordance with Government standards
acceptable to IDA which, due to their small size and dispersed locations,
would not attract international competitive bidding, would be constructed
either after local competitive bidding or by force account of the Ministry
of Works or MANR as no likely bulking would exceed US$500,000.
G. Disbursements
3.25      Funds from the Credit Account would be disbursed on the following
basis:
(a) 100% of foreign or 90% of local expenditures for house
construction except expenditures by CCDC.
(b) 100% of foreign or 90% of local expenditures for vehicles,
equipment and furniture except expenditures by CCDC.



- 22 -
(c) 100% of foreign or 90% of local expenditures for consultants'
services and studies except expenditures by CCDC.
(d) 100% of foreign or 90% of local expenditures for incremental
salaries except expenditures by CCDC.
(e) 90% of total expenditures for operating costs including agri-
cultural inputs and labor except expenditures by CCDC.
(f) 100% of CCDC expenditures.
3.26      The disbursement percentages for local expenditure have been cal-
culated so as to allow for pressing budgetary constraints and accordingly
reduce Government contribution during the first two years and increase its
contribution in the last three years of Project implementation; this would
not affect total IDA financing as given in para 3.22. As of July 1, 1982,
or when an aggregate amount of US$6.9 million has been disbursed under the
credit, whichever occurs earlier, all local expenditures provided for under
(c), (d) and (e) above would be disbursed at a rate not to exceed 75%.
Disbursements against (b) and (c) would be fully documented as would expendi-
tures under (a) for construction under contracts. Disbursements for civil
works under contract, equipment, vehicles and furniture under (f) would also
be fully documented. Disbursements for construction by force account under
(a) and for local expenditures under (d) and (e) would be made against
statements of expenditure certified by the DFO in charge of the Wood Energy
Division in the Forestry Department. Disbursements for local expenditure for
force account construction, incremental salaries, operating costs and planta-
tion development under (f) would be made against statements of expenditure
certified by the General Manager of CCDC. Full documentation to support
statements of expenditure would be retained by the Wood Energy Division and
CCDC respectively and made available to IDA for inspection in the course of
Project supervision.



- 23 -
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Quarterly          Cumulative
IDA Fiscal Year        Quarter Ending       Disbursements        Disbursements
(US$)               (US$)
1979/80               March 31, 1980
June 30, 1980
1980/81               September 1980               400                  400
December 1980               400                  800
March 1981                  800                1,600
June 1981                   800                2,400
1981/82               September 1981               800               3,200
December 1981               800                4,000
March 1982                  900                4,900
June 1982                   900                5,800
1982/83               September 1982               800               6,600
December 1982               800                7,400
March 1983                  800                8,200
June 1983                   800                9,000
1983/84               September 1983               600               9,600
December 1983               600               10,200
March 1984                  600               10,800
June 1984                   600               11,400
1984/85               September 1984               500              11,900
December 1984               500               12,400
March 1985                  400               12,800
June 1985                   400               13,200
1985/86               September 1985               300              13,500
December 1985               300               13,800
H. Accounts, Audit, and Reports
3.27      Project accounts would generally be maintained in MANR with separate
accounts for each component. In previous projects, accounts have been audited
by the Auditor General and as this arrangement has proved satisfactory to IDA,
this procedure would be followed for the proposed project. CCDC's accounts
are currently audited by independent public accountants. Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that all Project accounts including statements of
expenditures (para 3.26) would be audited by independent auditors acceptable
to IDA (including the Auditor General) and that the audited accounts together
with the auditors report would be submitted to IDA not later than six months
following the end of the fiscal year. Assurances were also obtained that



- 24 -
within six months following completion of the Project or not later than six
months after the closing date the Forestry Department and CCDC would prepare a
completion report on the execution of the project evaluating its successes and
problems.
I. Environmental Impact
3.28      In the early period of forest reservation, a primary concern was
the protection of major catchment areas and the maintenance of a soil cover
on vulnerable sites. Most reserves maintain this function, though instances
occur where encroachment with natural forest destruction has taken place. Due
to the increasing population pressure and the rapid expansion of agriculture,
overcutting and the elimination of natural cover has become common, leading to
soil exposure and increasing run-off. The main impact of the proposed Project
would be to assist Government's efforts to control this process of degradation
by providing additional sources of fuelwood and enforcing long-term policies
and practices to halt or reverse these trends.
3.29      Another area of major concern is the risk involved in the use of
toxic chemicals as a protection against termites. The Project limits the use
of such chemicals to treatment of the planting stock which would be raised in
nurseries in black polythene tubes (para 5.03). Three treatments with a suit-
able termicide such as aldrin would be carried out in the nursery prior to
planting out. Although aldrin has been banned by some countries as an insec-
ticide used in large-scale spraying, in the USA, the Environmental Protection
Agency does not object to its use in nurseries prior to planting out. The
residual life of such an insecticide at 1% strength is about five years which
makes it efficient against termites. Aldrin would be applied by the nursery-
men who would receive special instructions in its proper handling and use.
Moreover, confining the treatment to the seedlings in the polythene tubes
would reduce exposure to health risks to a minimum.



- 25 -
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. General Aspects
4.01      The Forestry Department of the Ministry of Agriculture would have
principal responsibility for the implementation of the Project. A Wood Energy
Division established within the Department would have direct responsibility
for this and other similar projects dealing with wood energy (see chart).
This division would be responsible for the development and operation of a
nationwide network of nurseries and the Forestry Department fuelwood and pole
plantations. It would also recruit and second technical staff to the District
Councils and Town Councils to assist them with the development and operations
of their plantations. The Head of the Wood Energy Division, who would also be
Project Manager, has already been selected from among the senior staff of the
Forestry Department and is well qualified for the task. He would be assisted
in Project implementation within the Wood Energy Division by seven professional
officers, 13 technical officers, and 38 support staff. The nurseries and the
plantations would be operated by the Division in close cooperation with the
regional forestry offices employing 235 persons (excluding labor) of whom 114
are nurserymen. Every effort has been made to keep Project design within the
limitations of the output of newly trained Malawian and existing expatriate
staff. No major difficulty is foreseen in the availability of adequately
trained staff; the Malawi College of Forestry at Dedza is increasing its
intake of students at both Forester and Forest Ranger levels by one third
which can be accommodated without any physical expansion of the available
facilities and would also step up its special training courses for nurserymen
(in the off-season) in order to meet the needs of the Project. However, there
is an acute shortage of adequately trained accounting staff in the country.
Therefore, provision was made under the Project for the recruitment of an
internationally qualified financial controller. Assurances were obtained
from Government that the staff required for the Wood Energy Division would be
recruited within the first year of Project implementation and that a financial
controller with qualifications and experience acceptable to the Association
would be appointed not later than June 30, 1980.
B. Management of Project Components
4.02      Project management at headquarters would be the responsibility
of the Division Forest Officer (DFO) in charge of the newly established Wood
Energy Division who would be responsible to the Chief Conservator of Forests
for the functioning of the division and all its fuelwood and pole plantation
activities, nurseries and extension services. He would be assisted at head-
quarters by two Assistant Divisional Forest Officers (ADFO), a Planning
Officer, a Financial Controller, and Accountant, a Senior Forester (Extension)
and other support and clerical staff. The headquarters staff would work
through the existing structure of RFOs who are responsible for all forestry
activities within their regions. In each of the three regions an ARFO (Wood



- 26 -
Energy) would be responsible to the ADFO (Wood Energy) for all activities
concerning fuelwood and pole plantations, nurseries and extension services.
He would be assisted by a senior forest ranger (extension) who would be
responsible for the operation of the advisory and publicity activities.
4.03      Each plantation would be managed as a separate unit.  Each of the
three forestry department plantations would be headed by a senior forester
(STO grade) assisted by a forester (TO grade), a senior forest ranger (STA
grade), four forest rangers (TA grade) and the necessary support staff of
clerical officers, storekeepers, capitaos, and nurserymen. In each of the
district and town council plantations, two forest rangers (TA grade) and a
nurseryman to operate the nursery and supervise the annual planting program
of 75 ha would be recruited and seconded by the Forestry Department and would
operate under the supervision of the respective councils. The CCDC plantations
would be operated by the Forestry Section of the Landscape Department of CCDC
under the overall supervision of the Chief Horticulturist as Head of the
Landscape Department. The Forestry Section of the Department headed by a
senior supervisor is responsible for establishment and management of all CCDC
plantations of which 1,000 ha have already been established. The nurseries
would be the responsibility of the nurserymen assigned to each; their activi-
ties would be coordinated by the regional offices who would provide extension
service in the nursery off-season.
C. Training and Extension Service
4.04      The introduction of the relatively new technical package of the
Project in Malawi - particularly the raising and planting of Eucalyptus
trees, especially Eucalyptus tereticornis and Eucalyptus camaldulensis,
the use of termicide and the planting of woodlots by farmers - necessitates
planning and training at all levels. The Forestry Research Institute and
the College of Forestry would play a major role in this education and re-
education process. New nursery and plantation techniques are required for
the success of the Project and of the whole program, and although these
techniques are simple to adopt they would require a change. Senior staff
would have to be reoriented before they themselves can adequately supervise,
educate and train the staff under them. Similarly, the technical staff would
need special in-service training, and all the Project nurserymen would be
particularly trained at special intensive courses. The education of the
farmers and technical assistance to them would be provided by the extension
services of the Division, the Department, and the Ministry.
4.05      The bulk of the extension work would be carried out by the nursery-
men, who would devote about half of their time (mostly during the nursery
off-season) to advise farmers on planting and tending techniques, particularly
concerning Eucalyptus. Special attention would be given to choice of species,
soil preparation, planting distance, planting season, protection against
termites, browsing animals and fire, and weeding. The management of woodlots
would be left to the farmers' discretion - cutting according to their needs -
but advice would be given to avoid any gross mismanagement.



- 27 -
4.06      In view of the increasing cost of producing fuelwood for domestic
consumption, the importance of extension work to convince the farmers to
grow their own woodlots either individually or in groups assumes added signi-
ficance. Assistance from agricultural extension staff and community develop-
ment officers would be of great value in reaching the smallholdLr farming
population on a much wider scale. To avoid possible conflict and confusion
among the rural public and field level workers, the work program for all
forestry extension work as it affects village people both within and outside
areas covered by particular rural development projects would be coordinated
with all other extension programs within each ADD. Responsibility for repre-
senting the Forestry Department's extension interest in each ADD would rest
on a Senior Forester (STO grade) assigned to each ADD who would be responsible
to the RFO through the ARFO (Wood Energy) for all technical aspects and for
administrative control of Forestry Department staff in the ADD. The Senior
Forester would be responsible to the Divisional Development Officer for the
execution of a coordinated forestry extension program as agreed for the ADD
and would report to both his supervisors.
4.07      Although the agricultural extension staff would not normally assist
in the enforcement of forestry legislation, the Agricultural Development
Department is keen that its staff should assist and facilitate in every way
possible the realization by the people of Malawi of the importance of conser-
ving existing forest resources by wise utilization practices, to promote the
realization that the rural population will be unable to rely on indigenous
resources for fuelwood and poles indefinitely and that smallholders should
begin now to provide for their future needs by planting their own trees.
Senior foresters are already in place in two ADD's and are funded by the
Agricultural Development Department under other rural development projects;
the remaining six are provided for under this Project. The agricultural and
forestry staff at all levels would maintain liaison on the whole range of
their joint and several responsibilities so as to ensure a full understanding
of each department's policy, objectives and priorities.



- 28 -
V. PRODUCTION, MARKETS AND PRICES
A. Production
Technical Aspects
5.01      Species:  For all plantations suitable Eucalyptus species would be
encouraged, though the planting of other trees (e.g. Gmelina arborea) would
not be excluded, particularly on individual woodlots where there might be a
strong demand for such trees. Eucalyptus grandis (local seed source) should
only be planted at high elevations and where the annual rainfall exceeds 1,000
mm; elsewhere, suitable strains of Eucalyptus tereticornis and Eucalyptus
camaldulensis (Australian seed sources) would mostly be planted. All these
species coppice freely, and would be grown on a rotation of 8 years, with one
seedling and 3 coppice rotations. After 32 years or so, the plantation should
be replanted afresh. However, it is expected that most of the farmer woodlots
would not be managed on a systematic basis, but instead may be cut selectively
according to the needs of the owner, roughly on a 5-yearly coppice cycle,
cuttings being carried out more or less constantly all over the woodlot.
5.02      Nurseries:  A network of 88 nurseries would be established nation-
wide for the production of seedlings for sale to the public. In addition,
eight nurseries would be attached to the district and town council plantations
for production of seedlings, both for plantations and a similar number for
sale to the public. It is estimated that each of these nurseries would produce
an average of 100,000 seedlings annually for sale at a cost of about MK 0.026
per seedling. This also includes cost of bulk transport of seedlings to the
villages on appointed days prior to and during the planting season in order to
facilitate farmers' access to the source of supply.
5.03      Planting:  All the planting stock would be raised in nurseries,
in black polythene tubes 125 mm x 75 mm flat, 150 gauge. An effort would be
made to replicate other successful trials elsewhere of direct sowing into
tubes in preference to transplanting from seed beds. Sowing normally takes
place in September - October. The ideal size of seedlings for field planting
is 18cm-24cm in height. Root-pruning would be carried out regularly to
prevent rooting into the nursery floor. Three treatments with a termicide
(e.g. aldrin) would be carried out at weekly intervals prior to planting out,
in order to ensure saturation of the soil in the tubes. Land clearing would
be carried out manually in all plantations, and would cost on average 100
manday/ha on Forestry Department plantations and on forest reserves; and 25
manday/ha on district plantations because of basic differences in vegetation.
The cost of site preparation would be more than offset by the sale of produce.
The exact planting spots would be pegged ("marking"), and pits 30 cm x 30 cm
would be dug; the pits would be refilled just before planting. Planting
should take place as early as possible in the rainy season which normally
extends from December to March, provided the soil is sufficiently moist, and
should be completed by February at the latest. "Beating up" (the replacement
of failures) would only be carried out if the failure rate exceeds 10% or
if deaths occur in concentrated groups, and should take place, as far as
possible during the current planting season.



- 29 -
5.04      Weeding:  The following weeding schedule would be adopted on planta-
tion: In the first year, 100% manual weeding after planting (3 operations at
43 md/ha per operation). In the second year, 100% manual weeding (2 operations
at 43 md/ha per operation) plus 100% slashing (one operation at 10 md/ha). In
the third year, 100% slashing (2 operations at 10 md/ha per operation) plus
spot weeding (one operation at 6 md/ha).
5.05      Fertilizers:  NPK and borate would be applied in all Eucalyptus
plantations at the rate of 50 g each of NPK and borate per tree, at a total
cost of MK 40/ha for fertilizers. The application of fertilizers would take
place during a dry spell after planting and is expected to cost 20 md/ha.
5.06      Rates of growth:  Until more accurate estimates are available, it
is assumed that MAI of all the Eucalyptus species planted b3 the Forestry
Department and the District and Town Councils would be 15 m 3ha during the
first two rotations (seedling and first coppice crops), 12 m /ha during the
second coppice rotation and 10 m /ha during the third coppice rotation.
Thereafter, the area should be replanted, i.e. after 32 years. The woodlots
would be managed by the individual farmers under a coppice system that would
suit their own convenience and therefore it would be unlikely that these would
be cut in a systematic way on a regular rotation. In practice, fuelwood would
be cut selectively but roughly on a 5-year cycle. This means that after an
initial pe5iod of approximately five years, the farmer would be able to obtain
about 10 m /ha p.a., over 15 years and 8 m /ha p.a., for the following 15
years after which time the woodlot should be replanted.
Output
5.07      Eucalyptus would be planted in all plantations belonging to the
Forestry Department, District and Town Councils and Capital City Development
Corporation as well as in farmers' woodlots. Small quantities of Gmelina
arborea may also be produced on some farmers' woodlots. The total area
planted during the Project period would include 12,900 ha of plantations and
15,000 ha of woodlots. Based on a plantation life of 32 years, including one
seedling crop and three rotations of 8 years each and the rates of growth
mentioned above total production from all project plantations and farmers'
woodlots would be as summarized below:
3
---------------------------------- in '000 m                     --------------------------------
Forestry Dept.  Local Council         CCDC       Farmers      Total
Crop       Plantations      Plantations       Plantations  Woodlots  Production
Seedling crop      1,080             288              180        1,200       2,748
1st coppice        1,080             288              180        1,200       2,748
2nd coppice          864             230              144          960       2,198
3rd coppice          720             192              120          960       1,992



- 30 -
B. Markets
5.08      Total production of fuelwood and poles from the plantations is
expected to be absorbed largely by the commercial market. In view of the
current and growing shortage of fuelwood in areas where the plantations would
be established, no marketing problems are foreseen at the prices envisaged.
On the other hand, fuelwood and poles produced on the farmers' woodlots are
intended to meet the domestic requirements of the individual smallholder. It
is estimated that 92% of the total population is rural for whom firewood is
the major source of fuel for cooking and heating. Even for the urban popula-
tion this pattern also holds, for social and traditional reasons. Alternative
sources such as electricity are totally unavailable to the large majority, and
fossil fuel derivatives,, e.g., kerosene, are becoming too expensive with a
consequent fall in demand. It is therefore inevitable that fuelwood will
remain the major energy form for the foreseeable future.
Demand for Fuelwood and Poles
5.09      At present, major consumers of fuelwood include households, tobacco
curing, institutions (e.g. schools, hospitals, prisons, etc.) and industrial
enterprises (e.g. tea factories, bakeries, brick-burners etc.). Projected
demand for each of these consumers is presented in the following table:
Estimated Fuelwood Demand
(Million Cubic Meters, Solid)
Year   Households 1/   Industrial 2/          Tobacco        3/   Other 4/   Total Demand
Smallholder Estate
1977       4.5               0.4           1.7         2.8            -             9.4
1980       5.1               0.4           1.8         3.0            -            10.3
1985       5.8               0.5           1.8         3.4            -            11.5
1990       6.0               0.5           1.8         3.8            -            12.1
1995       7.0               0.6           1.8         4.2            -            13.6
2000       8.1               0.7           1.8         4.7           0.1           15.4
2005       8.3               0.8           1.8         5.2           0.1           16.2
2010       9.6               0.9           1.8         5.8           0.1           18.2
1/   Based on assumptions that (a) households dependent on fuelwood decline from
95% in 197 to 85% in 2010, (8) initial per capita consumption of fuelwood
of 0.85 m declines to 0.65 m in year 2000 and after.
2/   Based on annual average growth rates of 2.5% and 4% for tea manufacture
and brickburning respectively.
3/   Based on (a) constant flue-cured tobacco growth rate of 2.2% p.a. and
(b) 0.5% for fire-cured tobacco up to 1985 and nj growth thereafter,
(c) dry tobacco leaf/wood ratios of 1 kg:0.093 m , and 1 kg:0.136 m
for fire-cured and flue-cured respectively.
4/   Largely by Government institutions such as schools, hospitals, prisons,
etc.



- 31 -
These projections are based on the following assumptions:
(a)  domessic demand has been based on a nation-wide estimate of
4.5 m per family of five persons per annum at current prices
(para 5.16) and the population would continue to incr,-ase at
the present average growth rate of 2.96% per annum up to the
year 2010;
(b)  that alternative energy sources, e.g. electricity, would only
be available to a minority of the population, mostly in urban
centers;
(c)  fuelwood consumption per household would moderately decline
in the next three decades as a combined result of (i) the
use of more efficient wood-saving stoves; and (ii) increas-
ing awareness of the economic value of wood among the popula-
tion;
(d)  that fossil fuel derivatives, such as kerosene, would not be
perfect substitutes for fuelwood in tobacco curing as their
use would require prohibitively expensive conversions of
traditional burners.
5.103     Total demand for fuelwood 3is projected to increase from about
10 m million in 1980, to over 18 m in 2010, or an average annual increase
of 2.7%. Howeve5, per capita domestic fuelwood consumption is projected to
drop from 0.85 m  in 1980, to 0.65 m3 in 2010, implying a decline of nearly
24% largely because of expected use of wood-saving stoves and the increasing
scarcity of firewood.
5.11      The current and projected demand pattern shows the overwhelming
importance of households and the tobacco industry as consumers of fuelwood,
together accounting for about 96% of the total demand in 1977. This dominance
by the two sectors is projected to persist up to 2010, with the household
demand gaining a slight edge over the tobacco industry whose expansion is
estimated to slow down after 1985. A moderate growth is expected in the
industrial demand, largely as a result of the estimated slow expansion in the
tea production, which is expected to be offset by the more dynamic growth of
the brick-burning industry as a result of expansions in rural school and
health center construction in the country.
5.12      Project plantations would produce fuelwood and poles mainly for sale
to commercial users who include industrial users (tea estates, bakeries and
commercial brick-burners), tobacco estates and commercial tobacco farmers. At
the current rate of commercial consumption of fuelwood and projected demand it
is evident that the estimated annual production of the plantations of about
165,000 m3 would account for only about 5% of the total commercial demand in
any given year. It is therefore necessary to continue to encourage estate
farms to produce a larger portion of their own fuelwood requirements. Gener-
ally, due to limited availability of land, only a few farm estates would



- 32
be in a position to become self-reliant in their fuelwood supply. Moreover,
the total annual production of fuelwood on smallholder woodlots of about
130,000 m would represent less than 3% of total annual household consumption.
5.13      The demand for building poles derives from the fact that the
majority of the population use wooden poles extensively in the construction
of houses, largely because of their low levels of income and the relatively
cheaper price of poles vis-a-vis modern and better building materials
(such as cement bricks or burnt mud bricks). The demand pattern for poles
is dominated by the requirements for the construction of houses and stores,
followed by those for the construction of barns for tobacco curing and live-
stock. With only modest increase foreseen in income levels, this general
pattern of demand for poles is expected to persist over the next three decades.
The projected demand pattern for building poles is summarized below:
Estimated Demand for Building Poles
(Million Cubic Meters, Solid)
Housing lad         Tobacco          Livesto k         Total
Year            Stores-            Barns2            Pens-           Demand
1977              0.99              0.29              0.33            1.61
1980              1.10              0.30              0.33            1.73
1985              1.29              0.31              0.35            1.95
1990              1.49              0.31              0.37            2.17
1975              1.73              0.32              0.39            2.44
2000              1.98              0.33              0.41            2.72
2005              2.31              0.34              0.43            3.08
2010              2.67              0.35              0.45            3.47
1/   An average dwelling unit has 3.j persons, its average life is
5 years, and it contains 2.75 m of poles.
2/   An average tobacco barn cures 130 kg of fire-cured tobacco or 3,17
kg of flue-cured tobacco.  Fire-cured tobacco barn contains 1.65 m
of poles; flue-cured tobacco barn contains 8 m ; pole replacement
period is 10 years.
3/   Based on estimated livestock growth rate of 4% p.a. and cattle pens
growth rate of 1% p.a., pole replacement period is estimated at
5 years.



- 33 -
Supply of Fuelwood and Poles
5.14      Estimates of the potential supply of fuelwood and poles based on
a recent survey carried out by the Department of Forestry show that the total
potential supSly in 1977 was about 8.8 million m3 and is expected to reach
9.0 million m  in 1980  failing gradually over 3the following three decades
to reach 4.9 million m by 1990, 3.7 million m by 2000, and 3.3 million m
by 2010.  These estimates were based on the following assumptions:
(a) sustained yields from indigenous forest in gazetted and
proposed forest reserves will be maintained;
(b) better management of indigenous forests on customary land
will be introduced and successfully enforced;
(c) the proposed Wood Energy Project would be implemented.
These estimates do not include yields from Industrial Forest Reserves. It
must be emphasized that these are potential supply figures to the extent that
they are partially based on sustained yields in presently non-managed resources
on customary land. As the potential supply rests mainly upon the geographical
distribution of present and proposed reserves, their intensity of management
and upon natural woodland or uncultivated customary land the availability of
which is directly influenced by population density and intensity of cultiva-
tion, the supply potential varies widely among districts. It is greatest in
the less populated and agriculturally underdeveloped northern region, and
least in the heavily populated and more agriculturally developed southern and
central regions.
5.15      The present supply/demand situation reveals that in 1977 there was
an apparent general deficit of 2.2 million m3 which is projected to rise
substantial y in the future; it is 3estimated to reach 3 milli sn m  in 1980,
9 million m in 1990, 14 million m in 2000, and 18 million m by the year
2010. Thus, wood would become more and more scarce relative to demand, and
this is expected to trigger increases in prices of wood and wood products
in the country. Despite the apparent deficits in fuelwood supply extreme
distress has not occurred, because the deficits are potential rather than
actual to the extent that the supply figures are based on assumed sustained
yields from indigenous forests on customary land which is not yet under
sustained yield management. In reality, the demand in the deficit districts
is met by forest destruction rather than sustained yields from customary land.
As indigenous forests on customary land cannot be relied upon for the future
as a sufficient source of supply, it is evident that future supplies must be
based on artificially created fuelwood and pole plantations to a much larger
extent than before.



- 34 -
C.  Prices
5.16      At present, fuelwood and poles obtained from forest resources on
customary land are free for domestic use, while the average stumpage price
for commercial use is MK 1.0 (US$1.20) per m . Permits are required for the
cutting of wood in forest reserves and protected hill slopes and nominal
fees are charged.  The stumpage price for plantation fuelwood in foresi
reserves ranges between MK 1.40 and MI 3.30 (US$1.70 and US$4.0) per m .
The average stumpage price for plantation poles is MK 6.60 (US$7.90) per m
Given the present consumption ratios of 85% for fuelwood and 15% for poles,
these3prices would yield a weighted average stumpage price of MK 3.00 (US$3.60)
per m for resources obtained from forest reserves.
5.17      Based on the Project's production targets and using a discounting
rate of 10% (assumed to equal the current interest rate), the average stumpage
prices for both fuelwood and poles which would ensure full recovery of the
costs of production in the various components would be as follows:
(a)  Forestry Department Plantations MK 7.30/mr3
(b)  Council Plantations    MK 5.30/mr3
(c)  CCDC Plantations                  MK 6.80/mr3
It is evident that the Forestry Department Plantations would be the marginal
producers by virtue of their high production costs as a result of high
infrastructure development and overhead costs necessary for the establishment
and operation of these plantations. If the forestry sub-sector is to become
financially viable, then the pricing of forest products, particularly fuelwood
and poles, must be based on the principle that charges should reflect costs of
production. A pricing system reflecting this principle would entail Govern-
ment charging higher prices than those presently levied on all forest products
regulated by Government. 1/ The increasing depletion of forests (para 2.12)
and the resulting scarcity of fuelwood would eventually result in a substan-
tial increase in the value of wood. The level at which prices should be set
to allow for full recovery of costs at the time Project output is marketed
cannot be determined at the present time. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that Government accepts that a charge system reflecting the
principle of cost recovery would be enforced gradually so that a price level
that ensures full recovery of production costs in Project plantations would
have been reached by the time the Project output is marketed. Such prices
(of the marginal producers) should apply countrywide and would have to be
maintaineq in real terms over the Project life. 3(An average stumpage price oj
MK 7.50/m  implies a stumpage price of MK 5.75/m  for fuelwood and MK 17.40/m
for poles, provided the present ratio between the prices of the two products
is maintained.) Assurances were also obtained during negotiations that
1/   Prices were last raised in 1978.



- 35 -
Government and IDA would consult annually on the general pricing policy
affecting the forestry sub-sector giving due regard to social considerations
and the impact a price increase would have on the major users of fuelwood.
5.18      The lack of data on the price elasticities of demand _or fuelwood
makes it difficult to gauge the impact of any price increase on the demand
for fuelwood. Since a large proportion of the total commercial demand for
fuelwood is estimated to occur in the flue-cured tobacco and tea industries,
one could use the impact of such a price rise on the industry's profitability
as a proxy for assessing the price effect on the general demand for fuelwood.
Using 1977/78 actual data of real costs and revenues of a number of representa-
tive flue-cured tobacco and tea estates, model budgets were prepared using
current prices for fuel ood which in the tea and tobacco growing areas command
a high price (MK 3.30/m.). The same models were used to test the effect on
profitability of a significant increase in the price of fuelwood in the
unlikely event of such price being 3increased to the calculated average for
the marginal producer of MK 5.75/m . The data was updated to 1978/79 by the
use of a 12% annual inflation factor.
5.19      In terms of 1978/79 constant prices, the budget analyses revealed
that both flue-cured tobacco and tea estates are generally profitable. Estate
gross profits (before taxation) represent over one third of realizable sales
revenue. The rise of fuelwood prices would increase the share of fuelwood
costs in total costs from 40% to 53% in flue-cured tobacco and 9% to 14% in
tea production in real terms thus reducing the net profit before tax as a
percentage of sales revenue from 47% to 44% in the case of tea and from 30% to
11% in the case of flue-cured tobacco. This would lower the estates' corporate
tax liability base (currently 45% of profits) and would leave a profit margin
of 24% and 6% for tea and tobacco respectively representing an average return
on equity of 25% for tea and 13% for tobacco.
5.20      The revenue from Forestry Department plantations would accrue to the
national budget. The revenue from the district and town council plantations
would similarly accrue to the national budget and would be remitted by the
respective councils to the Central Government who would in turn provide
financial incentives to these councils. It is estimated that a percentage
ranging between 10% and 20% of the sale proceeds of plantation produce should
act as a strong incentive for the councils' active participation in the
Project while ensuring cost recovery to the Central Government (para 5.17).
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that such financial incentives would
be determined by Government in consultation with the Association. On the
other hand, the revenue from CCDC plantations would accrue to CCDC who would
have received the development funds in the form of a loan repayable at 10% per
annum (para 3.23).
1/   The current weighted average stumpage rate of MK 3.0/m3 would require to
be increased by about 10% p.a. over nine years to bring it to the level
that would be required to cover fully the cost of production by the
marginal producer.



- 36 -
VI. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
A. General
6.01      The principal benefit from the Project would be the production
of seedlings from a national network of nurseries each producing 100,000
seedlings annually for sale to the public; sufficient to plant 3,800 ha per
annum. For the average householder to obtain his requirements of fuelwood and
poles at an average price of MK 7.50 per m , the annual cash outlay would be
about MK 40.00 (US$48.00) which would be well beyond his means. The only
solution therefore would be for the farmer to plant his own trees. The major
need is for the mobilization of the rural people to plant trees to meet their
own basic needs. It is estimated that the average household would require to
plant 0.4 ha to cover his own needs. At a planting density of 2,500 seedlings/
ha (spacing of 2 meters), the nurseries' production is sufficient to cover the
average annual needs of about 9,500 farmers. If the Project succeeds in
reaching this number of farmers annually, it would have a significant impact
on the future of this program, even though the numbers reached during the
Project period would represent less than 4% of the total number of households
in the country.
B. Financial Returns
6.02      Financial returns have been calculated for the plantations belonging
to the Forestry Department, District and Town Councils and CCDC. The calcula-
tions presented in Tables 3 to 5 are based on individual plantation models which
assume 1979 constant prices. At an average stumpage price of MK 7.50 (US$9.00)
per m3 the financial rates of the individual plantation components are:
Forestry Department Plantations: 9%; District Council Plantations: 14%; and
CCDC Plantations: 10%. No calculation of financial benefits has been made
for the farmers' woodlots as virtually all wood produced under this program
would be utilized by the farmers themselves to meet their domestic require-
ments. Similarly, no separate financial rate of return was calculated for the
nurseries component as the seedlings would be sold to the farmers at cost.
Sensitivity Tests
6.03      Sensitivity tests of the financial returns were made to consider
(a) the change in wood yield per hectare that would equate the rates of
return with a 12% interest rate on capital; and (b) the change in component
costs that would equate the components' rates of return to the cost of
capital. The results are as follows:



- 37 -
Sensitivity Values of Critical Variables
Component                          Discount Rate       Yield       Component Cost
Forest Department Plantations          12%             +23%            -18%
CCDC Plantations                       12%             +20%            -17%
Council Plantations                    12%             -13.6%          +16%
Both, the plantation components of the Forestry Department and CCDC are
critically sensitive to the yield of wood per hectare. Nearly 23% and 20%
increase in the expected yields of the Forestry Department plantations and
CCDC Plantations, respectively, would be required to make the components
acceptable at 12% interest on capital. In the district and town council
plantations, however, the change in wood yield per hectare is less critical
since a decrease of almost 14% in yield would leave the component still
acceptable, given the 12% interest rate on capital. However, experience in
the existing Forestry Department eucalyptus plantations suggests that the
yields assumed in this Project would be feasible under normal management
practices in Malawi. Both, the Forestry Department plantations and CCDC
plantations would be under experienced management and should, therefore,
attain higher yields than those assumed.
6.04      Similarly, the component cost test revealed that both, the Forestry
Department plantations and CCDC plantations would be highly sensitive to this
factor. In both cases, component costs (in real terms) would have to decrease
by at least 17% to make the component's individual net present values posi-
tive. Again, the District Council Plantations would be less sensitive to
costs because a 16% increase in the component's real costs would leave the
component yet acceptable.
C. Economic Returns
6.05      The economic valuation of the Project's output (i.e. fuelwood and
poles) poses a number of practical problems, largely because fuelwood and
poles are rarely traded internationally. As indicated earlier (para 5.16),
the local market reflects the low private costs of clearing forests at present,
rather than the considerable long-term costs of forest depletion. Moreoever,
the demand for fuelwood and poles is likely to be highly price inelastic,
mainly for two reasons. First, almost 50% of the fuelwood consumption occurs
in the country's tobacco industry, and any use of kerosene or coal would
involve extensive conversions of the traditional burners at enormous costs,
and would thus be resisted by the producers. In the event of wood being
unavailable to fire-cured and flue-cured tobacco growers, the next best
alternative for them would be to shift to the production of air-cured burley
tobacco. Secondly, there is an enormous difference in prices between wood



- 38 -
and kerosene or coal in Malawi. For example, the present kerosene retail
price of MK 0.35/litre is eq ivalent (in terms of heating energy equivalent)
to a price of nearly MK 33/mr of eucalyptus wood; and the Sresent coal price
of MK 123/ton is equivalent to a fuelwood pSice of MK 26/m . These prices
are projected to reach MK 36/m3 and MK 28/m  respectively (in real terms) by
the time the Project output is initially marketed.  Even if it is assumed
that the current wood consumption of approximately 4.5 m3 per family p.a.,
would as a result of dwindling wood resources and increasing prices, drop by
60% to 1.8 m3 per family, p.a., it would correspond to an equivalent use of
about 168 litres of kerosene per family p.a. currently costing MK 59.00.
Similarly 1.8 m3 of fuelwood would correspond to an equivalent heating energy
of approximately 0.4 tons of coal which would cost MK 49.00. These prices
compare with a current fuelwood cost of only about MK 13.50 per family in a
year. Thus, neither kerosene nor coal could be considered, from an economic
point of view, to be realistic substitutes for fuelwood. The Project's wood
output could probably, at the margin, substitute for agricultural residues as
a source of fuel and this could result in increased crop yields or reduced
erosion resulting from increased use of such agricultural waste. However, the
limited use of agricultural waste as a fuel in Malawi would also indicate a
low price elasticity of demand for wood energy.
6.06      In view of this, the economic analysis is based on the assumption
that the domestic demand for fuelwood is price inelastic so that the entire
Project output would simply replace the depletion of forests. Therefore the
Project benefits would consist entirely of replacing forest depletion that
would take place without the Project at a cost which would be significantly
above the financial cost of production (currently averaging about MK 3.00).
The economic evaluation therefore involves a comparison of the Project
costs with the benefits that would accrue from the replacement of forest
depletion. The issue then is to estimate this economic value. For this
purpose, a version of the net present value (NPV) approach to economic analysis
was followed. In this approach, the "turning value" (or cross-over value) of
the costs of producing fuelwood needed to produce a zero NPV at a 15% discount
rate was computed. This "turning value" was then examined in the light of the
information about alternative fuels in para 6.05 above. The specific assump-
tions used in determining the "turning value" for fuelwood are as follows:
(a) a 15% discount rate, which reflects the opportunity cost of
capital in Malawi, was used;
(b)  the cost of unskilled labor was valued at MK 0.35 to reflect
the average economic costs of such labor which is determined by
active demand/supply forces and considering that over 80% of
the Project's demand for labor would occur during the peak
season;
(c) foreign exchange costs and benefits were valued at the official
exchange rate of the Kwacha which is considered to reflect its
appropriate value;



- 39 -
(d)  MK 0.75/m3 was added to the production cost of wood to reflect
cutting, logging and transport costs;
(e)  Project life was assumed to be 36 years, consisting of one
seedling crop and three coppice rotations;
(f)  all directly productive Project operating and investment costs
were included in the calculation of the "turning value".
However, the following costs associated with the Project were
excluded from the analysis:
(i) the pre-investment cost for the preparation
of the National Rural Development Program III;
(ii) the cost of studies on charcoal and on the use
of wood and other alternative sources of energy;
(iii) the cost of land because all land earmarked for
the Project would be unsuitable for agriculture
and is presently lying idle or intermittently
grazed;
(iv) half of the cost of establishing the Wood Energy
Division in view of its institution-building effect.
6.07      The3above assumptions lead to a "turning value" for fuelwood of
about MK 16/m (Table 6). It is clear that this value of fuelwood is far
below the prices of either coal or kerosene (para 6.05). It appears highly
probable that the true economic value of the Project output is considerably
higher than the computed "turning value". A 30% increase in costs, or a
reduction of 23% in yieids of wood would raise the "turning value" of the
output to about MK 19/m . The "turning value" is still lower than the price
of alternatives.  On the other hand, if a discount rate of 12% was used in the3
analysis, the "turning value" of the Project output would drop to only MK 12/mr
6.08      An additional exercise was carried out to ensure that the Project
was economically sound, taking account of the options for using coal and
kerosene by Year 20 if existing Government policies continue. It is not
necessary to assume complete forest depletion ay that date, only that the coal
price, in energy equivalent units, of K 31.0/m will prevail by Year 20. The
domestic demand for wood 3is assumed price inelastic near the current price
level of about MK 3.75/m . The economic evaluation therefore involves a
comparison of the Project costs with the benefits that would 3accrue from (a)
incremental Project output after Year 20, valued at K 31.0/m ; (b) the incre-
mental production made possible by the trees after Year 20 that would be saved
if the Project takes place, valued at K 31.0/m , less the costs of cutting
down and marketing; and (c) the private costs, in shadow prices, saved when
private production declines, trees are valued at zero for this purpose since



- 40 -
they are directly valued under (b) above. Under these assumptions the
Project's economic rate of return would be 14%. Sensitivity tests were
carried out, assuming that the switches to coal would occur by Year 25 and
Year 30 rather than Year 20 and the respective economic rates of return were
estimated at 11% and 9%. It is therefore evident that the Project would
still be acceptable even if price increases or other measures were to slow the
growth in demand resulting in postponement of switching to high cost energy
sources. Moreover, in this evaluation, the benefits of reducing or postponing
depletion were viewed solely from the energy point of view, while in fact non-
quantifiable environmental benefits and the cost of conversions at firm and
household levels might be considerable.
6.09      Both, the least-cost and economic rate of return analyses indicate
that projects which help maintain the forestry stock are likely to be economi-
cally sound. This confirms the judgment of the Government which would probably
undertake other projects of a similar nature if this Project were not undertaken.
Project Risks
6.10      The Project has no unusual risks.  The principal risk relates to
the nursery component. Since the main thrust of the Project is to inculcate
an awareness of the crucial importance of afforestation and rational use
of wood energy among the low income population, the main risk element would
lie with the individual farmer's acceptance of the technical package offered
to him and the speed at which such acceptance would proceed. While this
component accounts for only 10% of total Project cost and would not in any
way jeopardize the whole Project should it fail in its objectives, its success
would be the cornerstone of the Project's long-term achievement. Provision
has,therefore, been made to motivate the farmer to accept the package through
extension work and to make seedlings available to him within reach at cost.
6.11      Wood yields of eucalyptus plantations would depend on the planting
of the appropriate provenance and minimum termite damage immediately after
planting. However, this risk would be minimal because all plantations would
be managed by agencies which have demonstrated over the years a high level of
expertise and accomplishment.
6.12      Delays in Project implementation could result from problems in
recruiting labor during the peak cultivation season and/or slow deliveries
of materials (particularly seeds) and equipment from overseas. Labor housing
has therefore been partly provided for where the labor requirement is large
to act as an incentive for attracting and keeping casual labor. On Forestry
Department Plantations food would be sold to laborers at cost as an incentive
and as a means to minimize absenteeism. Delayed equipment supply would have
minimal effect on physical implementation of the Project because most of the
equipment would not be required for field operations. However, delays in the
supply of seeds would be critical, hence the Forestry Department through the
Malawi Forestry Research Institute has undertaken to place orders well in
advance of the Project's start.



- 41 -
Employment Benefits
6.13      During Project implementation (1980/81-1984/85) a total of nearly
3.5 million mandays of unskilled labor would be required for nursery and field
operations. These would come from neighboring rural villages or townships since
the nurseries and plantations would be established in areas well inhabited. No
problems in the labor supply are foreseen since rural Malawians have generally
demonstrated their desire to work for paid jobs. The Project would thus
provide a source of income, albeit temporary, to the poorer members of the
population. It would also provide permanent employment for over 360 skilled
persons.
6.14      Equally important would be the Project's impact on labor saving and
reduction of women's work in the household. Fuelwood collection is generally
a female task in Malawi, and is increasingly becoming a time-consuming house-
hold chore in many parts of the country where forest resources are rapidly
disappearing. Convenient provision of fuelwood in these areas would therefore
reduce the burden of women's work in the household. Similarly, the Project's
research component would aim at providing households with fuel-saving cooking
stoves and benefit women by reducing the amount of fuelwood they would have
to cut and/or collect. The time saved in both cases would allow women to
increase their participation in directly productive activities (e.g. farming)
or encourage parents to send their daughters to school or permit expecting
mothers to attend health clinics more regularly.
Government Project Cash Flow
6.15      The Government's incremental cash flow is presented in Table 7 and
indicates that its cash flow would be subject to seasonal fluctuations in line
with the nature of the Project. During implementation (years 1-5) the negative
net cash flow represents the Malawi Government's contribution to Project costs.
Thereafter a deficit would only occur during the harvest off-season periods
and would mainly consist of budgetary allocations to meet recurrent costs
associated with the Project as well as debt servicing charges. During the
harvesting years, the Government would realize a substantial surplus resulting
from net operating revenues of the plantations under the Forestry Department
and local councils. A portion of this cash might not necessarily flow into
the Treasury's purse, but may be reflected in corresponding reductions in
annual budgetary allocations. It is thus expected that the Project would
generally be self-financing except during the initial eight years.



- 42 -
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      Assurances were obtained during negotiations that:
(a)  Detailed palns for the Charcoal Trials and the Energy Studies
would be prepared by the Forestry Department and MANR respec-
tively by December 31, 1980, and agreed with IDA prior to
initiation of such trials and studies (para 3.13 and 3.15).
(b)  The financing arrangements would be in accordance with the
terms and conditions outlined in para 3.23.
(c)  Arrangements for maintenance and auditing of Project accounts
and preparation of completion report would be in accordance
with the conditions outlined in para 3.27.
(d)  The staff required for the Wood Energy Division would be
recruited within the first year of Project implementation
and a financial controller with qualifications and experience
acceptable to the Association would be apointed by June 30,
1980.
(e)  Government undertakes to increase the prices of fuelwood and
poles by such annual rates so that a price level that ensures
full recovery of production costs in Project plantations
would have been reached by the time Project output is marketed.
To this end Government and IDA would consult annually on the
general pricing policy affecting forestry products, giving due
regard to social considerations and the impact a price increase
would have on the major users of fuelwood (para 5.17).
(f)  District Councils and Town Councils would undertake to remit
to the Central Government the proceeds from the sale of
plantation fuelwood and poles and Government would in turn
provide financial incentives for the respective councils; such
incentives would be determined by Government in consultation
with the Assocation (para 5.2C).
7.02      The following are conditions of disbursement for the individual
components:
(a)  The written approval of the traditional authorities for
the allocation of land to the plantations (para. 3.10).
(b)  The appointment of the Project Officer in each DA under
the pre-investment phase of NRDP III (para. 3.19).
(c)  The execution of a subsidiary loan agreement between
Government and CCDC (para 3.23).
7.03      Subject to the above agreements and conditions, the Project would
be suitable for IDA financing of US$13.8 million.



Table 1
MALAWI
NATIONAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM II
(WOOD ENERGY PROJECT)
Proiect Cost by Component
(MR '000)
Total            Physical            Price
1980/1           1981/2            1982/3            1983/4           1984/5           Bage Costs      Contingencies    Contingencies
COMPONENT                     Local  Foreign   Local  Foreign   Local  Foreign   Local  Foreign   Local  Foreign   Local  Foreign   Local  Foreign   Local  Foreign                TOTAL COSTS
Nurseries                            180       50      132       27      132        27     138        27     132        27     714       158       71       17      283       41         1,284
Local Council Plantations            52        61      138       43       87       14       99       11       97        16     473       145      48        16      203       30           915
Forestry Department Plantations    616        405      602      190      523      230      473       186     488       189   2,702    1,200      270       121   1,062       308         5,663
CCDC Plantations                     115       55      100       23      100        25     100        24      99        23     514       150      52        15      208        36          975
Wood Energy Division                 419      323      388       162     278       103     192        71     192        71   1,469       730      147       72      513      154         3,085
Charcoal Trials                       -         -       21        30      13        12      12        -       12        -       58        42        5        4       25         8          142
Energy Studies                       151      231       42      106       42       66       42       47       44        46     321       496      33        48      102      101         1,101
NRDP III Pre-Investment Study        173      104       19         6       4         3       4         3      -         -      200       116       19       11       31        13          390
TOTAL COSTS                   1,706    1,229   1,442        587   1,179       480   1,060       369   1,064       372   6,451    3,037       645       304   2,427       691        13,555
February 1980



Table 2
MALAWI
NATIONAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM II
(WOOD ENERGY PROJECT)
Project Costs by Expenditure and Component
(MD '000)
Total
Staff Salaries  Vehicles &  Housing &  Operating  Plantation   Base    Physical              Price
COMPONENT/EXPENDITURE                 & Allowances   Equipment   Furniture    Costs    Dev. Costs   Costs   Contingencies   Contingencies    TOTAL COSTS
Nurseries                                  375             61          120         316         -           872            88            324            1,284
Local Council Plantations                   105             24         153         121         215         618            64            233              915
Forestry Department Plantations             385            211       1,479         359       1,468       3,902           391          1,370            5,663
CCDC Plantations                            66              33          10          53         502         664            67            244              975
Wood Energy Division                        845            169          775        410         -         2,199           219            667            3,085
Charcoal Trials                              38            26          -            36         -           100             9             33              142
Energy Studies                              171            71          167         408         -           817            81            203            1,101
NRDP III Pre-Investment Study               40              36         180          60         -           316            30             44              390
TOTAL BASE COSTS                      2,025            631        2,884       1,763      2,185       9,488           949          3,118            13,555
Physical Contingencies                     202             63          288         176         219        949
Price Contingencies                        665            207          949         579         718      3.118
TOTAL COSTS                           2,892            901        4,121       2,518      3,123      13,555
February 1980



- 45 -
Table 3
MALAWI
NATIONAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM II
(WOOD ENERGY PROJECT)
Financial Rate of Return - Forestry Department Plantations
(MK '000)
Periods        Incremental Costs   Incremental Benefits  Net Incremental Benefits
1              2,167                       -                    -2,167
2              1,264                       -                    -1,264
3              1,097                       -                    -1,097
4                735                       -                    -  735
5-8                619                       -                    -  619
9                619                   2,295                     1,676
10                619                   3,519                     3,000
11                619                   3,519                     2,900
12                619                   3,519                     2,900
13-15                 619                      -                    -  619
16                619                       -                    -  619
17                619                   2,295                     1,676
18-20                 619                   3,519                    2,900
21-24                 619                      -                    -  619
25                619                    1,836                    1,217
26-28                 619                   2,815                    2,196
29-32                 619                      -                    -  619
33                619                    1,530                      911
34-36                 619                   2,346                    1,727
Rate of Return = 9.436%
February 1980



- 46 -
Table 4
MALAWI
NATIONAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM II
(WOOD ENERGY PROJECT)
Financial Rate of Return - District Council Plantations
(MK '000)
Periods      Incremental Costs   Incremental Benefits   Net Incremental Benefits
1                79                   -                        - 79
2               132                   -                        -132
3               158                                            -158
4               177                   _                        -177
5               181                   -                        -181
6               129                   -                        -129
7               103                   -                        -103
8                84                   -                        - 84
9-12                79                   540                        461
13-16                79                                             - 79
17-20                79                   540                        461
21-24                79                                             - 79
25-28                79                   435                        356
29-32                79                                             - 79
33-36                79                   360                        281
Rate of Return = 14.337%
February 1980



- 47 -
Table 5
MALAWI
NATIONAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM II
(WOOD ENERGY PROJECT) _
Financial Rate of Return - CCDC Plantations
(ME '000)
Periods    Incremental Costs   Incremental Benefits   Net Incremental Benefits
1             266                     -                      -266
2             189                     -                      -189
3             152                     -                      -152
4              69                     -                      - 69
5- 8              39                                            - - 39
9-13              39                     270                      231
14-16              39                      -                     - 39
17-21              39                     270                      231
22-24              39                      -                     - 39
25-29              39                     218                      179
30-32              39                      -                     - 39
33-36              39                     180                      141
Rate of Return = 9.973%
February 1980



- 48 -
Table 6
MALAWI
NATIONAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM II
(WOOD ENERGY PROJECT)
Economic Rate of Return Calculation
(MK '000)
Periods      Incremental Costs   Incremental Benefits   Net Incremental Benefits
1              2,167                  -                       -2,167
2              1,264                  -                       -1,264
3              1,097                  -                       -1,097
4                735                  -                       -  735
5- 8                619                   -                       -  619
9                619               3,599                        2,980
10-12                619               5,519                        4,900
13-16                619                   -                       -  619
17                619               3,599                        2,980
18-20                619               5,519                        4,900
21-24                619                   -                       -  619
25                619               2,879                        2,260
26-28                619                4,416                       3,797
29-32                619                   -                       -  619
33                619               2,400                        1,781
34-36                619                3,680                       3,061
The "turning value" for wood would be MK 15.641/m3.
February 1980



Table 7
NATIONAL RURAL DEVEWP0NT PROGRAM II
(WOOD ENERGY PROJECT)
Ge.---ot Project Gash Floe   1
(MKC 000)
PROJECT YEAR                         1        2         3         4         5         6-8         9        10         11-12         13-16          17         18-20         21-24         25         26-28         29-30          31-32         33        .4-Z6
CASH INFLOW
IDA Credit                    2,745      1,897    1,551    1,336    1,342
Plantation Osoocoos:
- Inca) CosoCIls                -          -        -          -        -          -        540         540         540           -           540          540             _          432          432            _              _           360         360
- Poroatey Deport=ent           -          -        -          -        -          -      1,215       2,295       2,295           -         1,215        2,295             -           972      1,836             -              -           810       1,530
CCDC Debot Sevice               -           19        32        46        60        73       73          73         106           95           87            80            66           59          52            43                         -           -
TOTAL CAdH INFLOW                2 745      1916    1 583    1 382    1 402            73    1.828       2,908       2.941           93       1842         2 915             66        1,463       2.320            43                       1.170       1 o890  I
CASH OUTFL(YI
Pro-jct Costs  ./             2,976      2,057    1,650       1,390   1,404       700       700        700          700          700          700          700            700          700         700           700           700           700         700
IDA Credit Debt Se-ite          -           20        35         46       56       66        66         66          155          153          151           150           323          316         312           307            303          300         296
.    v
Cash I-nec-inos to Cosncila   -            -          -         -        -          -        81         81           81           -            81            H1            -            65          65            -              -            54          54
TOTAL CASH OUTFLOW               2,976      2,057    1,685       1.436   1,460        766      047        047          7936         053          932           931         1.023        1 081       1.075         1.007          1.003        1.054       1.850
S30RPLUS/(DEFICIT)                 (231)     (141)    (102)        (54)    (58)    (693)       981      2.061       27005          (750)         910         1.984          (957)         382      1L245            (964)       (1.003)         116         840
1/ Caloolatod io constant tarast
2?  E-clodinog  --rerie- for sale of  -edliog. Which nill bh  sold at coat
3/ Asa-ed 157. of sale proceeds.
Fobr-r-y 1980



- 50 -
MALAWI
NATIONAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM II
(WOOD ENERGY PROJECT)
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
Selected Documents:
1. Wood Energy Project, Preparation Report
2. Wood Energy Utilization Study
3. Wood Energy Unit - Report by D. Hughart
4. Capital City Development Corporation - Preparation Report
5. NRDP III Pre-Investment Phase
6. Summary of Notes on Planting and Managing Farmers' Woodlots (LLDP)
7. Forestry Department Budgetary Allocations 1979/80
8. Forest Act Amendment dated February 2, 1978
9. Government Procurement Procedures
10. A Guide to Successful Tree Growing - issued by the Forestry Department
11. Economic Report 1979
12. Posts and Duties of Wood Energy Division
Data Available:
A. Detailed Cost Tables as follows:
1. Nurseries
2. District and Town Council Plantations
3. Forestry Department Plantations
4. CCDC Plantations
5. Wood Energy Division
B. Cost Recovery Tables (per hectare models)
1. District and Town Council Plantations
2. Forestry Department Plantations
3. CCDC Plantations
C. Other Data:
1. Civil Service Salaries



- 51 -
MALAWI
NRDP 11 (WOOD ENERGY PROJECT)
Forestry Department Organization Chart
Chief Conservator
of Forests
rI
[ Asst. Chief Conservator
of Forests
Forest Division       ViphVa Pulpwood         Forest Industries     |   Wood Energy          Management Services
Project                Division                  Division               Division
Regiona Forestry
Officer (RFOuIl
Regional               Asst. AFO              Asst. RFO               Asst. RFO
Film Unit           Forest Protection     Sawtimber Plantation       Wood Energy
Plantations      Agricultural Development
Divisionsl
l,, Three regional offices, one in each of three administrative regions, North, Central, and South.
World 8ank - 20456






IBRD 14336
_.- .0 ;  <   <  F                  '9              1 r                        .e    a;:JUNE 1979
Lu
a d
2~~~~~~~~~~~2
*  '
-      @  a-u|     =X  X 2    : o  -  3     /
U  0 0 0 0  0  0-                4    -  \                                                                                                Y  =
_~~~~~~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ _EI.c~  \V_K9e) C \0-) 
EW..LJ54 ii'                                                                                                                         - 
Ca~~~~~~~
~~~~~~~~~~ K ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~      ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     ~      ~    ~     ~     1
.I E
fic eo,z * <\?V  3g :/ ; /<2q0 >  



