Documentof
The World Bank                              CorE OPY'
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Repot No. P-2636-MAI
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
FOR A
PHASE II OF
NATIONAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
(WOOD ENERGY PROJECT)
February 22, 1980
This documnt hu a resbited dstrbuton and may be used by redpients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its content. may not otherwise be d isled without World Bank athoriation.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
USED IN THIS REPORT
Currency Unit           =          Malawi KICacha (MK)
US$1.00                            1MK .83
MK1.00                              US$1.20
MEASURES
1 meter (m)      2                  3.28 feet
1 square meter (m2)     =           10.76 square feet
1 kilometer (km)        =           0.62 mile
1 hectare (ha)          =           2.74 acres
ABBREVIATIONS
CCDC      -     Capital City Development Corporation
DEVPOL    -     Government's Statement of Development Policies
FAO/CP    -     Food and Agriculture Organization/Cooperative Program
INDEBANK  -     Investment and Development Bank of Malawi
MANR      -     Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources
NRDP      -     National Rural Development Program
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MALAWI
PHASE II OF NATIONAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
(WOOD ENERGY PROJECT)
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:              Republic of Malawi
Beneficiary:           Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources (MANR),
Department of Forestry
Amount:                US$13.8 million
Terms:                 Standard
Project Description:  The proposed project is the first in a long-
term energy development program aimed at developing
forest resources to strengthen the country's
traditional energy resource base. Specifically, the
project would provide for: (i) the establishment of
a national network of 88 nurseries for production of
seedlings for sale to the smallholders, who would be
encouraged to establish their own woodlots; (ii) the
establishment of fuelwood and pole plantations for
sale to meet commercial and industrial demand;
(iii) the strengthening of the Wood Energy Division
within the Forestry Department of MANR by appoint-
ing key staff and the carrying out of charcoal trials
to investigate possibilities for increased production
and marketing; (iv) the establishment and staffing of
an Energy Unit within the Forestry Department of MANR
to carry out studies of alternative sources of energy;
and (v) a pre-investment phase in preparation for
NRDP III. The project would provide the basis for an
expanded wood energy program by promoting intensive
development of forestry resources and forestry
conservation while strengthening forestry management
and facilitating development of alternative sources
of energy through energy studies.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii. 
Estimated Costs:
US$ Millions
Local        Foreign          Total
1.  Nurseries                       0.8            0.2            1.0
2.  Plantations                     4.4            1.8            6.2
3.  Wood Energy Division            1.8            0.9            2.7
4.  Charcoal Studies                0.1            0.1            0.2
5.  Energy Unit                     0.4            0.6            1.0
6.  Pre-Investment NRDP III         0.2            0.1            0.3
Sub-Total                       7.7            3.7           11.4
Physical contingencies          0.8            0.4            1.2
Price contingencies             2.9            0.8            3.7
Total 1/                       11.4            4.9           16.3
Financing Plan
IDA                                 8.9            4.9           13.8
Government                          2.5             -             2.5
11.4            4.9           16.3
Estimated Disbursements:
IDA Fiscal Year           1981       1982       1983      1984       1985      1986
Annual                  2,400      3,400      3,200     2,400      1,800      600
Cumulative              2,400      5,800      9,000    11,400    13,200  13,800
Rate of Return: 14 percent
Appraisal Report: Report No. 2625-MAI, dated February 8, 1980
1/ Taxes included in project costs are negligible since virtually all items
would be exempt from import taxes.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF MALAWI FOR A
PHASE II OF NATIONAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
(WOOD ENERGY PROJECT)
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit to the Republic of Malawi for the equivalent of US$13.8 million on
standard IDA terms to help finance a Wood Energy Project as Phase II of the
National Rural Development Program (NRDP).
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "Memorandum on the Economy of Malawi" (Report
No. 1677a-MAI) dated September 30, 1977, was circulated to the Executive
Directors on October 10, 1977. A Basic Economic Mission visited Malawi
from May 11 to June 15, 1979 and its report is currently under preparation.
Country data sheets are provided in Annex I.
3.        With a population of 5.6 million (1977 census) and a land area
of about 94,300 sq. km., Malawi is relatively densely populated. Its
main assets are moderately fertile soils, good water resources and climate
favorable to crop production. Unlike its neighbors, Malawi has no known
substantial mineral resources.
4.        Although Malawi has a GNP per capita of only US$180 and has been
identified by the United Nations as one of the world's poorest countries,
its progress since independence, measured against its natural resources,
has been significant. Between 1968 and 1978, GDP at constant prices grew
at an average annual rate of 6.0 percent, domestic investment and savings
increased rapidly, and government finances improved sufficiently to eliminate
the need for budgetary aid. Agriculture, which dominates the economy
(43 percent of GDP and 49 percent of paid employment in 1978), has been
directed at export promotion and attainment of food self-sufficiency
through the encouragement of estates cash crop production and rural develop-
ment schemes. In addition, a steady growth of industry and services has
significantly broadened the economic base. Over the past ten years, real
wages have fallen somewhat while wage employment has increased by nearly
10 percent a year on average.



- 2 -
5.        The continuing success of Malawi's development efforts has been
due in large part to realistic and purposeful planning by the Government.
A Statement of Development Policies (DEVPOL), which provides a general frame-
work for three-year rolling plans, was published in 1971. DEVPOL contains
major economic targets up to 1980 and states as main socio-economic objectives:
(a) raising living standards and productivity in rural areas; (b) achieving
an eight percent average annual real growth of GDP through the parallel
development of smallholder output, estate agriculture and industry; (c) pro-
moting a more balanced regional development; and (d) developing local initiatives
by gradually increasing local participation in the economy.
6.        DEVPOL recognizes the important role of private investment in
development which, it is anticipated, would account for about one-half of
total fixed capital formation over the 1971-80 period.  The Government also
recognizes the role of a healthy private sector in generating foreign exchange
and savings needed to sustain other elements of the development strategy, and
has adopted policies which are intended to attract foreign investors and to
ensure continued rapid growth of the private sector. Trade and payments
policies are liberal; profits are moderately taxed and wages are held down
to favor labor-intensive estates and industries. The modern private sector
has been the leader in economic growth. The output of estate agriculture
increased by 10 percent a year in real terms over the past decade, and
manufacturing rose by eight percent annually.
7.        Since about 90 percent of the population live in rural areas,
rural development is the primary social and economic objective. At present, the
majority of farmers are smallholders on the fringe of the market economy.
Their staple crop is almost exclusively maize, and their principal cash crops
are cotton, tobacco and groundnuts. Until recently, the principal instrument
for increasing smallholder productivity has been relatively intensive, integrated
development projects in specific areas which, when completed, would reach
about 25 percent of the rural population.
8.        In spite of the Government's efforts, however, production from
traditional agriculture has lagged behind that of the estates. Although firm
figures are lacking, indications are that between 1971 and 1976, production
from the traditional sector grew at about 4.5 percent a year compared to about
10 percent in the estate sector. The Government, concerned about this
relatively slow growth, has devised a new countrywide approach to rural devel-
opment. It constitutes a departure from the previous approach in that it



primarily concentrates on providing farm inputs and extension services,
with less emphasis on costly infrastructural investments. The new approach -
the National Rural Development Program (NRDP) - is now the Government's
chief vehicle for smallholder development.
9.        In 1977, a population census revealed that the country's population
grew at 2.9 percent per annum during the past decade. Projecting the same
growth rate for the remainder of the century, Malawi's population will almost
double by the year 2000. This high population growth rate has important
implications for the labor-land ratio.  Malawi's population density, about
136 per sq. km. of agricultural land, already is among the highest in Africa,
and by the year 2000, will rise to 267 people per sq. km. Over 35 percent of
total land area is classified as suitable for cultivation and the available
arable land is already almost fully utilized. The implications of Malawi's
rapid population growth have been discussed with the Government which, at
this time, opposes active population control measures, reportedly for religious
reasons. The Basic Economic Report will further analyze these implications,
particularly in terms of the cost of social services for a rapidly growing
population and the Government's land-use policy. Only about eight percent
of the total population live in urban areas. However, with the diversification
of the economy, urban population is increasing more than eight percent per annum,
in line with the expansion of wage employment opportunities in the non-agri-
cultural sectors.
10.       In 1969, the poorest 40 percent of Malawi's households received
15 percent of the total income; the highest 20 percent received 53 percent
and the top five percent received 30 percent. Since then, the Government
has not conducted a national household income survey, not only because it is
a costly undertaking but also because income distribution has not been a
critical issue in this country with a large subsistence population and a small
modern sector.
11.       In Malawi's 1979/80 - 1981/82 public investment program, 20 percent
of total expenditure is earmarked for agriculture; 16 percent for finance,
commerce and industry; 9 percent for public utilities; 13 percent for social
services; 30 percent for transportation and 12 percent for miscellaneous
investments. Transportation's relatively large share is due to a concentration
of major investments in the next three years.
12.       The country's progress in generating and using domestic resources
has, on the whole, been impressive. Both domestic savings and fixed investment
have risen steadily since independence. Savings, virtually nil in 1964,
were 16 percent of GDP in 1978, and fixed investment rose during the same
period from 8.5 to 29.7 percent of GDP. In general, the Government's fiscal
management has been skillful. By holding recurrent expenditures down while



-4-
expanding revenues, the Government has managed to achieve small budget surpluses.
Nevertheless, the expanding level of development activities would lead to
additional demands for recurrent expenditures, possibly limiting future
government contributions to the capital budget. Consequently, there is need
for stepping up domestic resource mobilization, particularly through taxation.
In response, the Government has increased the company tax, personal income
tax and import duties and excise taxes on some commodities in the 1977/78
budget. Further increases, however, will be needed, both for recurrent expend-
itures as well as to help finance future development. The Government is con-
cerned about the problem and, with Bank assistance, has initiated a study of
the fiscal implications of its development program.
13.       Between 1967 and 1974, Malawi's balance of payments had a healthy
development with exports increasing by seven percent, and imports by six percent,
per annum in real terms. Coupled with a substantial inflow of private and
public capital, official international reserves increased from US$22.5 million
to US$81.8 million over the period.
14.       As a result of a deterioration in Malawi's terms of trade by about
10 percent between 1973 and 1976 and the Government's suspension in 1975 of
organized recruitment of migrant workers for South Africa lowering workers'
remittances, international reserves dipped to US$26.2 million in December 1976.
In response, the Government restrained the expansion of domestic credit and
stemmed the further loss in foreign exchange. In May 1977, the IMF made
available the first credit tranche equivalent to US$6.3 million and a loan of
US$1.8 million from the Trust Fund.
15.       International reserves rose to a record level of US$88 million at
the end of 1977 due to expanding export receipts, particularly from tobacco
and tea and a sharp rise in the net inflow of capital. Imports on the other
hand increased more slowly -- about 20 percent in nominal terms.
16.       However, this recovery was short lived.  Economic performance showed
a mixed pattern in 1978. Real GDP rose by eight percent but, unlike 1977,
the main stimulus for this growth came from the service, transportation and
construction sectors as the rates of growth in the agricultural and manu-
facturing sectors declined. Export earnings fell, due principally to declining
commodity prices, while imports rose sharply reflecting the continuing high
level of government investments. This led to a widening in the trade and
current account deficit, and a deterioration in the overall balance of payments
from a surplus of US$63.0 million in 1977 to a deficit of US$18.4 million in
1978. This deterioration was further exacerbated in early 1979 by a sharp
increase in petroleum prices and transport costs, and in May 1979 international
reserves dipped to a mere US$43 million (less than two months of imports).



-5-
In August 1979, the IMF made available US$12 million from its Compensatory
Financing Facility, which the Government drew down immediately. A Fund
mission visited Malawi at the end of August during which the Government
and the IMF discussed a US$52 million standby program for the following
two and one-half years, which was to limit the Government's budgetary
deficit, the banking systems's lending, both in total and to Government,
and the Government's external borrowing. The IMF Board approved the
program at the end of October.
17.       The expansion of the Government's investment programs has been
assisted by increased public capital inflows on very concessionary terms. The
net contribution from foreign official sources to the financing of public
investment increased from US$17 million in 1967 to about US$66 million in
1977, of which US$9 million was in grant form. The sources have also been
gradually diversified. At independence, Britain was virtually the only source;
by 1977, the British contribution had declined to about 40 percent. Multi-
lateral sources, especially IDA, provided about 40 percent, and a variety
of bilateral sources, notably Canada and the USA, accounted for the remainder.
18.       At the end of 1977, Malawi's external public debt totalled
US$433 million, of which US$283 million had been disbursed. Debt service
in 1977 amounted to US$12.6 million, equivalent to about six percent of
exports of goods and services. At the end of 1977, the Bank's and the
combined IDA/Bank shares in Malawi's disbursed debt were 0.9 percent and 29.8
percent, respectively, and service on the Bank Group debt accounted for
5.8 percent of total debt service. In 1985, the IDA/Bank share in total
disbursed debt is projected to be 45.3 percent and the service on the Bank
Group debt to be 24.5 percent of the total debt service. With the continuing
increase in public investment, external capital inflow is estimated to
increase to about US$120 million by 1985. In the future, some hardening of
the average terms of lending can be expected. However, even if the average
grant element of official assistance were to fall from the 80 percent level
of 1971-75 to, say, about 60 percent by 1985, Malawi's public debt service
obligations still would not exceed ten percent of export earnings in 1985.
Because of the Government's limited ability to mobilize domestic resources
for the pipeline of projects it is able to prepare and implement (para. 12),
external financing usually covers a substantial part of the project cost,
including some local costs when foreign expenditures are relatively small.
Although the Government has steadily raised the domestic share of development
expenditures (24 percent in 1978), new investment is expanding more
quickly than the domestic resource base.



- 6 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MALAWI
19.      Over the past 15 years Malawi has received 20 IDA credits totalling
US$169.4 million and four Bank loans totalling US$29.2 million, of which
two were on Third Window terms. Of the total Bank Group assistance,
US$84.5 million (42 percent) was for agriculture, US$37.8 million (19 percent)
for power development, US$32.4 million (16 percent) for education, US$32
million (16 percent) for roads, US$3 million (2 percent) for a development
finance company (INDEBANK) and the balance of US$9 million (5 percent) for
water supply and to finance feasibility studies for a pulp mill at Viphya.
The first Bank loan to Malawi was made on Third Window terms in June 1976
and the first standard Bank loan in April 1977. IFC's investments in
Malawi consist of a loan of US$6 million made in February 1976 for a textile
mill, another of US$9 million for sugar development in April 1977, and a
US$562,000 equity investment in INDEBANK in July 1979. A summary statement
of Bank Group operations and notes on the executionof ongoing projects are
provided in Annex II. Project implementation has been fully satisfactory.
20.      Bank Group operations in Malawi will continue to emphasize rural
development and agriculture through further investments in the NRDP. A
third phase of NRDP is already under preparation. Other major areas of
concentration include education, water supply, and transportation. In
water supply, project preparation based on a sector study recently under-
taken by the IBRD/WHO Cooperative Program has begun. A fourth highway
project is being prepared which will include extension of the main
north-south spine road as well as assistance for feeder road development.
Finally, the Bank Group is examing possible investments in power, industry
and urban sites and services and health.
PART III - THE FORESTRY SUB-SECTOR
The Agricultural Sector: Background
21.      A review of major economic indicators highlights the important role
of the agricultural sector in the Malawi economy. In 1978, agriculture
employed 85 percent of the working population, contributed about 43
percent of GDP and accounted for 93 percent of export receipts. The land
area consists of three topographically different regions: the northern
mountainous region, the central plateau, and the southern lowland. On the
arable land, soils are relatively fertile and a rairly reliable rainfall
permits the cultivation of a wide variety of food and cash crops. However,
of the total land area of 9.4 million ha, approximately 3.5 million are
considered arable of which about 3.0 million are estimated to be under
cultivation.



- 7 -
22.         bialawi's agricultural production derives from two sources:
smallholder agriculture and estate agriculture. The smalll.Ader accounts for
85 percent of agricultural production including all food staples (maize,
beans, groundnuts and rice), raw materials for industry, and some export
surplus. The 15 percent of total production attributable to the estates
provides 60 percent of the principal agricultural exports - tobacco, tea
and sugar. The Government's development strategy has been to maintain
self-sufficiency in food staples, expand agricultural exports and improve
rural incomes. Given the limited supply of arable land for new cultivation
and the increasingly high cost of reclamation on marginal lands, the main
emphasis of current agricultural policy is on achieving a sustained rise
in productivity on both smallholder plots and estateq.
The National Rural Development Program (NRDP)
23.         The NRDP, initiated in the mid-1970's,wasdesigned to increase
smallholder production over a 20-year period, by improving the efficiency
and scope of agricultural extension, input supply and marketing and credit
services. Emphasis is placed on increased productivity from already
cultivated land with attention to soil conservation, watershed management
and afforestation. The Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources (MANR)
is responsible for implementation of the program. NRDP I (IDA Credit 857-MAI)
is assisting the Government to implement the first phase of NRDP by improving
program management and extension activities and by providing infrastructural,
technical, and financial support to about 90,000 farm families.
The Forestry Sub-Sector
24.         The high population growth rate, density of population on the
arable land and scarcity of unused arable land have focused the Government's
attention on the importance of developing Malawi's land resources to meet
domestic and commercial energy needs. Most of this land, although topo-
graphically varied and unsuitable for agriculture, is covered by indigenous
forests and woodlands which supply fuelwood and building poles to the rural
population, and represent the major source of cooking and heat energy for
over 90 percent of the population. Population pressure on the marginal forest
land is increasing and there is a danger of overcutting of the trees
leading to soil erosion and ecological instability. A recognition of the
need to conserve and supplement indigenous forest resources has led to the
development of an afforestation program as an important part of Malawi's
NRDP. At present, alternative sources of energy are not available at
prices which the population at large can afford. Rural electrification is
unlikely to materialize in the near future because of the relatively
expensive initial investment required. Fossil fuels are scarce and costly to



- 8 -
develop. Solar energy, biogas and other alternative energy sources are
still in the experimental stage. There also are no cheap and plentiful
alternatives for supplying poles essential for house building. In view
of the absence of viable sources of alternative energy and materials for
housing, the Government has decided to establish fuelwood and pole plantations
to guarantee continued supplies in the future.
Current Situation
25.         Around 50 percent of Malawi's total land area  is classified as
forest land. About 20 percent of the forest land consists of national
parks and game reserves, 20 percent forest reserves and protected hill
slopes, and 60 percent natural woodland.
26.         Of the total land area, about 82 percent is held under customary
tenure and is termed customary land. The vast majority of forest land is on
customary held land. Title to all customary land is vested in His Excellency
the Life President and administered by traditional authorities (chiefs and
village headmen) under customary law. Traditional authorities make allo-
cations of unused customary land to farmers based on their family needs for
their personal use. Once the land is allocated and boundaries established,
land rights are protected by traditional authorities if a dispute arises.l/
Once use of the land has been granted, a family is free to plant and harvest
trees for any purpose. On unallocated land there are no rights of ownership
over unplanted trees and these trees can be cut freely for domestic
needs by members of the community. Rights of succession to land are exercised
through the matrilineal system in the central and southern regions in
Malawi and through the patrilineal system in the northern region. Freehold
or leasehold land accounts for two percent of the balance of the total
land area while 16 percent is held as public land.
27. The forest reserves are administered by the Forestry Department of
MANR as protected government land. At present around 700,000 ha of indigenous
forests are classified as reserves or protected hill slopes and about 72,500
ha are exotic forest reserve plantations. In addition, some 258,000 ha of
indigenous forests are proposed to be added to the reserves bringing the
total area under gazetted forest reserves to around 1 million ha. In
contrast to customary held land, a license has to be obtained to cut fuelwood
and poles in the forest reserves.
28.         The indigenous woodland in existing forest reserves and on customary
held land is the principal source of traditional forest products. Altogether
around 3.0 million ha of natural woodland, which is considered unsuitable
for agricultural development, is available for forestry development. The
vegetation varies considerably in both species, composition and products.
1/ Land demarcation leading to entitlement to land rights is being pursued
by the Government, but covers only a small area of the country.



- 9 -
In general, the sustained yield from customary held woodland is lower than
from forest reserves due to greater stand degradation, a result of population
pressure and wildlife. The average mean annual increment is 0,8 m3 ha for
customary held land versus 1.2 m3 ha for forest reserves.
Current Petern of Production
29.       Malawi's forestry sector produces a limited number of forestry
products: sawn timber, veneer, plywood, poles and fuelwood. Annual
production of industrial roundwood from both state and private forests is
about 85,000 m3, of which half is softwood from state plantations. The
wood is locally processed into sawn timber, veneer, and plywood which are
largely absorbed by the domestic market. Exports of forest products are
negligible. Although there are no reliable figures for indigenous fuelwood
and pole  production, recent estimates by the Forestry Department o
potential supplv put it in the region of 8.8 m  million per annum.V  The
country's total fuelwood and pole  requirements are estimated at 11 m3
million per annum, of which 86 percent is fuelwood and the balance building
poles. In 1977, there was a deficit in supply of around 2.2m3 million which is
projected to increase substantially in the future. Analysis further re3eals that 14
districts out of 24 presently run deficits in supply ranging from 1.6 m
million per annum in Lilongwe district to 0.5 m3 million in Chichawa district.
These deficits are indicative of the considerable demand for wood for fuel
and building supplies, which at present, is being largely met by the destruction
of forests on customary held land. As indigenous forests on customary land
cannot be relied on in the future as a sufficient source of supply, future
supplies must be based on artificially created fuelwood and pole wood
plantations.
Role of Forestry Sub-Sector in Economy and Government Support
30.       The role played by the forestry sub-sector in the Malawi economy is
understated, since official statistics do not adequately reflect the important
contributions made by the indigenous forest resource in providing fuelwood and
building poles to the rural population. In 1978, the forestry sub-sector
accounted for only three percent of the agricultural GDP (current prices).
Its contribution to government revenue is small, primarily because 98 percent
of consumption is free, and the royalties levied for commercial purposes are
nominal. Fuelwood, building poles and minor forest products are essential to
meeting the rural population's energy and domestic needs and constitute an
essentially undeveloped resource which can be harnessed for productive purposes.
31.       Rising fossil fuel prices and the desirability of minimizing dependence
on such energy sources coupled,with the relatively high cost of developing
alternative sources of energy (e.g., electricity), have led the Government to
favor developing Malawi's forest resources to strengthen the country's energy
resource base. At present rates, the demand for fuelwood and poles is expected
1/ The supply estimates are potential since many of the sources are not presently
managed on a sustained yield basis nor wholly harvested or used.



- 10 -
to double in 25 years, while existing supplies would have virtually disappeared,
even in areas where at present there is a substantial surplus. Based on
projected supply and demand through the end of the century, a large-scale tree
planting program, particularly in the natural woodland areas, would be necessary
to meet projected demand.
Institutional Framework
32.       The Forestry Department in MANR has overall responsibility for
forestry development, protection and conservation, and for forestry products,
All plantations,except for several small private ones, are owned by the state
through the Department of Forestry. The Department is headed by the Chief
Conservator of Forests who oversees the work of five divisions: (a) Forestry,
responsible for the administration and management of plantations and protected
forest reserves; (b) Management Service, responsible for education, research
and technical services; (c) Forest Industries, responsible for sawmilling in
state-owned mills, and the seasoning, manufacture, preservation and sale of
all timber products from sawmills; (d) Viphya Pulpwood, responsible for all
forestry in the Viphya Pulpwood Plantation; and (e) the newly established
Wood Energy Division, responsible for present and future fuelwood plantations.
The Forestry Research Institute handles research, and the Malawi College of
Forestry trains all technical staff. To meet increasing demand for technicians,
the College has raised its annual student intake since 1975 from 30 to 40 and
plans to expand its capacity further to train nurserymen for the project(para. 45).
Forestry Development Objectives
33.       Malawi's long-term forestry development objective is to expand
fuelwood and building pole supplies for both domestic and commercial use by
establishing: (a) rural nurseries to supply seedlings of fast growing species
to farmers for planting woodlots; and (b) plantations in wood deficit rural
areas and near main urban centers. Expanding supplies in this way would help
offset shortfall in supply in deficit areas and shield the majority of the low
income population from the inevitable rise in fuelwood prices as indigenous
forests continue to dwindle. A secondary objective is to improve and extend
government management of forest reserves. Introduction of forest management on
customary land,along with a program to increase wood production, will help
prevent further destruction to the environment and generate additional revenue
from the sales of wood and wood products. A third objective is to encourage
self-sufficiency through appropriate pricing policies and increased government
support for forestry development. Since current pricing is not based on cost
recovery, little revenue is generated from the sale of wood. In 1977/78,
for example, forestry products accounted for only 0.7 percent of total government
revenue, and royalties and timber sales currently account for only around 28
percent of the Forestry Department's development expenditure. At the same



- 11 -
time, this expenditure has declined from 6.8 percent of total development
expenditure in 1974/75 to 3.0 percent in 1977/78. Budgetary constraints
have prevented the Department from recruiting and training sufficient
staff for carrying out its extension tasks in areas outside the forestry
reserves. Appropriate pricing of forestry products and larger recurrent
budgets will provide enough revenue to cover the Department's recurrent
and development needs and enable it eventually to become financially self-
sufficient.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
34.       The proposed project was identified in February 1978 and prepared
by the Malawi Government with assistance from the Food and Agriculture
Organization/Cooperative Program and the Regional Mission in Eastern Africa.
The project was appraised in March/April 1979. A report entitled "Staff
Appraisal Report, Phase II of National Rural Development Program (Wood
Energy Project)"No.. 2625 - MAI, dated February 8, 1980, is being distributed
separately. Negotiations were held in Washington from January 7-11, 1980.
The Malawi delegation was led by Mr. Sheridan Chirwa of MANR. Annex III
provides supplementary project data.
Project Objective and Description
35.       The proposed project, which would be the first forestry project
financed by the Bank Group in Malawi, would form the initial phase of a
national program designed to meet the demand for fuelwood and poles. The
project would assist the Government over a five-year period to reach its
objectives in the forestry sector by:
(a) establishing, on a pilot basis, a national network of 88
nurseries operated by the Forestry Department for producing
seedlings (mainly Eucalyptus) for sale to the public, who
would be encouraged to grow woodlots to meet their domestic
needs for fuelwood and poles;
(b) establishing plantations to produce and sell fuelwood and
poles for commercial and industrial use;
(c) strengthening the Wood Energy Division within the Forestry
Department by appointing key staff;
(d)  financing studies of improved methods of charcoal production
and marketing to be carried out by the Wood Energy Division;



- 12 -
(e) establishing and staffing an Energy Unit within the Forestry
Department to carry out studies of alternative sources of
energy;
(f) financing pre-investment activities for NRDP III.
Detailed Features
36.       Nurseries.  Eighty-eight nurseries, each producing about 100,000
seedlings per annum from the second year onwards, would be established and
managed by the Wood Energy Division of the Forestry Department. A systematic
survey of wood deficit areas and of villagers likely to respond to an accelerated
seedling production program would precede their establishment. If sufficient
demand for seedlings in a particular area was not forthcoming, the nurseries
would be relocated. The exact location of woodlots,averaging about 0.4 ha in
size, would vary according to the size of the farmers' holdings and land
availability in proximity to the holding. Nurserymen, the Wood Energy Division
and the agricultural extension services of MANR would assist the farmers in
planting and tending the trees.
37.       Fuelwood and Pole Plantations.  To cater for the needs of the
commercial and industrial sector and some urban dwellers, fuelwood
and pole plantations would be established by the District and Town
Councils, the Forestry Department and the Capital City Development Corporation
(CCDC). The planting program would include:
(i) District and Town Council Plantations:
Three hundred ha in each of five deficit districts to be
operated by the District Councils, and 300 ha in each of the
three urban centers to be operated by the Town Councils.
These plantations would be planted at the rate of 75 ha per annu
from the second through the fifth year of project implementation.
Each plantation would have a nursery producing 200,000 seedlings
per annum half of which would be utilized for the planting
program and the other half for sale to the public from year two
onwards. Each nursery's operations and sale of surplus plants
to the public would be handled by its nurseryman. The district
forest rangers would establish the plantations.
(ii) Forestry Department Plantations:
Three thousand ha in each of the three districts to be
operated by the Forestry Department.  Planting, to be carried
out and managed by the Wood Energy Division, would be at the



- 13 -
rate of 450 ha in the second year and 850 ha in each subsequent
year. Planting sites would be chosen so as to minimize
transport costs. Planting methods and management would be
similar to those of the district plantations.
(iii) Capital City Development Corporation (CCDC):
One thousand five hundred ha within the boundaries of the
city of Lilongwe to be operated by the CCDC. The CCDC, estab-
lished by an Act of Parliament in 1968, to develop, administer
and maintain Lilongwe, has set aside land within city limits for
starting fuelwood and pole plantations to meet increasing demand
from the commercial and industrial sectors and urban dwellers.
One thousand ha of forest plantations have already been estab-
lished. Under the project, an additional area of 1,500 ha
of such plantations would be established; these would be
operated by the Forestry Section of the Landscape Department
of CCDC.
38.       No difficulty is foreseen in acquiring the necessary land to implement
the project. Traditional authorities will allocate customary land for farmer
woodlots. Land for the plantations has already been earmarked and is presently
being demarcated, and land for CCDC plantations is available within the city
boundaries. To ensure that land for the project is available when required,
it was agreed that a condition of disbursement would be that withdrawal
applications would be accompanied by a certified statement that written
approvals for allocation of land for plantations have been obtained from
relevant authorities, including traditional ones (para. 3 (a) of Schedule 1
of the draft Credit Agreement).
39.       Wood Energy Division.  A Wood Energy Division has been established
within the Department of Forestry of MANR to be responsible for implementing
the project and for directing and coordinating all matters relating to wood
energy. The project would finance the new division's operating costs,
vehicles, equipment and staff housing (para. 43).
40.       Charcoal Trials.  Small quantities of charcoal currently are
produced in Malawi. To explore possibilities for expanding charcoal
production and marketing, US$120,000 is in the project for the Wood Energy
Division to carry out these studies (para. 41).
41.       Energy Unit.  Given Malawi's sharply growing energy requirements,
the Government is concerned whether wood could and should be the main source
of energy. To pursue this question, the Government will establish an Energy



- 14 -
Unit within the Planning Department of MANR which will carry out studies
for energy planning, including possibilities of reducing wood consumption
by improving utilization and developing other energy resources. Agreement
was reached that the Government would establish by June 30, 1980, an
adequately staffed Energy Unit in the Planning Department of MANR to
carry out energy studies (Section 3.04 of the draft Credit Agreement).
The Unit would work with other ministries and institutions in developing
designs and fabrication techniques for cooking stoves, large-scale wood
combustion devices, such as tobacco curing barns, biogas units and solar
heaters suitable for widespread use in Malawi. The Unit would make use of
the extensive research done on these technologies elsewhere as well as the
findings of the University of Malawi in developing experimental stoves,
biogs units, etc. It would be staffed by qualified technicians, including a
survey team which would collect and process data on fuelwood supply
and consumption, relationships between deforestation and agricultural
productivity and other subjects required for wood energy planning. It
was agreed that the MANR would by December 31, 1980, submit to the
Association detailed plans for carrying out these studies as well as the
charcoal trials, and after having revised its plans to take into account
the Association's comments, the Energy Unit and Wood Energy Division
would carry out these studies with a team of persons whose qualifications and
experience were satisfactory to the Association (Section 3.05 of the draft
Credit Agreement).
NRDP III: Pre-Investment Activities
42.     Bank Group operations in Malawi will continue to support the NRDP
of which Phase III will include Karonge/Chiptipa third phase and a new
rural development project in Dedza Hills. Lack of continuity between the
stages of the NRDP program and inadequate time for preparation are delaying
execution of many rural development projects. Frequently, there are delays
in selecting and acquiring sites for buildings, and completing design work
and detailed planning. To minimize such delays in NRDP III, there would be
a pre-investment phase in which: (a) key project staff would be appointed
in two Development Areas to assist in detailed project planning; (b) in-
service training would be given to planning and management staff one year
prior to implementation; and (c) base-line data in the project areas would
be collected. It was agreed that a project officer would be appointed to
each Development Area as a condition of disbursement (para. 3 (c) of Schedule
1 of the draft Credit Agreement).
Project Implementation
43.       The Forestry Department of the MANR would have overall responsibility
for implementation. The Wood Energy Division within the Forestry Department
would oversee the development and operation of a nationwide network of
nurseries and Forestry Department fuelwood and pole plantations and provide
technical assistance to the District and Town Councils. It would
also recruit and second technical staff to the District and Town Councils



- 15 
to assist them with the development and operations of their plantations.
The Head of the Wood Energy Division, who would also be project manager,
has already been selected from amng the senior staff of the Forestry
Department. Responsible to the Chief Conservator of Forests, he would be
assisted at headquarters by two assistant divisional forest officers, a
planning officer, a financial controller, an accountant, E senior forester
and other support and technical staff. The headquarters staff would work
through existing regional forestry officers, who are responsible for all
forestry within their regions. In each of Malawi's three regions, an
assistant regional forestry officer (Wood Energy) would be appointed to
be responsible for all wood energy, including nurseries and extension
services. It was agreed that during the first year of project implementation,
the Wood Energy Division would be staffed with 59 personnel to include 8
professionals, 13 technical officers and 38 support staff (Section 3.01 (b)(i)
of the draft Credit Agreement).
44.       Each plantation would be managed as a separate unit.  Each of
the three Forestry Department plantations would be headed by a senior forester
assisted by the necessary technical and support staff. In each of the
District and Town Council plantations, two forest rangers and a nurseryman
would be recruited and seconded by the Forestry Department to operate the
nursery and supervise the annual planting program. The CCDC plantations
would be operated by the Forestry Section of the Landscape Department of
CCDC under the overall supervision of the Chief Horticulturist.
45.       No major difficulty is foreseen in the availability of adequately
trained staff which are trained at the Malawi College of Forestry at Dedza.
The College is increasing its intake of students at both forester and forest
ranger levels to provide the necessary personnel. There is, however, a
shortage of adequately trained accounting personnel and a need for a senior
financial controller for the Wood Energy Division. It was agreed that a
suitably qualified financial controller would be appointed by MANR not
later than June 30, 1980 whose qualifications and experience are acceptable
to the Association (Section 3.01 (b) (i) of the draft Credit Agreement).
Training and Extension Service
46.       The introduction of a relatively new technical package, parti-
cularly raising and planting Eucalyptus trees requires that technical and
senior staff learn nursery and planting techniques. To properly orient and
train staff responsible for implementing the project, an in-service
training program has been developed by the Forestry Research Institute
and College of Forestry. Most of the extension work would be carried out
by the nurserymen, who would spend about half of their time advising
farmers on planting techniques. The work program for all forestry extension
work would be closely coordinated by MANR.



- 16 -
Project Cost and Financing
47.       The total project costs are estimated at US$16.3 million of
which about US$4.9 million, or 30 percent, would be foreign costs.
Taxes included in project costs are negl gible since virtually all items
would be exempted from import duties. The proposed US$13.8 million IDA
Credit would finance 85 percent of project costs including 100 percent of
foreign expenditures. The Government would finance the remaining US$2.5 million.
Funds for the District and Town Council plantations would be made available
by the Government as additional budgetary allocations. Funds for the CCDC
plantations would be onlent by Government to CCDC at an interest rate of
not less than ten percent repayable over 30 years, including a grace
period of nine years.  The remaining funds would be channelled by Government
to the MANR as a standard budgetary allocation. It was agreed that the
Government would allocate the funds annually to the different entities
in the ways described above and would relend under a subsidiary loan
agreement between the Government and CCDC under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association (Section 3.03 (a), (b) and (c) of the draft
Credit Agreement). It was agreed that the signing of a subsidiary loan
agreement b'etween the Government and CCDC would be a condition of
disbursement for the CCDC component (para. 3 (b) of Schedule l of the
draft Credit Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursements
48.       Procurement of vehicles, machinery and equipment (US$1.0 million)
in orders over US$100,000 would be subject to international competitive
bidding in accordance with IDA guidelines; orders would be grouped whenever
possible. Orders for less than US$100,000 would be in accordance with
local procedures which are acceptable to IDA. Contracts for civil works for
housing and other buildings (US$4.0 million) would be constructed in
accordance with Government standards which are acceptable to the Association,
Due to their small sizes and widely distributed locations, however, they would not
attract international interest and would be awarded after local competitive
bidding, or the works would be constructed by force account as no likely
bulking would exceed US$500,000.
49.       Proceeds from the proposed credit would be disbursed on the
following bases: (i) 100 percent of foreign or 90 percent of local
expenditures for house construction, except expenditures made by CCDC;
(ii) 100 percent of foreign or 90 percent of local expenditures for vehicles,
equipment and furniture, except for expenditures made by CCDC; (iii) 100
percent of foreign or 90 percent of local expenditures for consultants'
services and studies except expenditures made by CCDC: (iv) 100 percent of
foreign or 90 percent of local expenditures for salaries, except expenditures
made by CCDC; (v) 90 percent of total expenditures for operating costs,
agricultural inputs, staff salaries and labor for nurseries and plantation



- 17 -
development, except expenditures made by CCDC (disbursements would be reduced
to 75 pe-rent as of July 1, 1982, or when an aggregate amount of $6,900,000
shall have been disbursed, whichever comes earlier); and (vi) 100 percent of
CCDC expenditures. A schedule of estimated disbursements is provided in the
Credit and Project Summary.
50.       In view of the Government's immediate budgetary constraints and
recognizing the Government's commitment to increase its resources to the
project in the last three years of the project, it was agreed to alter
Disbursement Schedule 1 of the draft Credit Agreement by increasing IDA's
contribution to local costs in the first two years of the project and.
correspondingly increasing the GOM's contribution in the outer years of
the project. This adjustment would not increase IDA's contribution to
total project costs.
Project Accounts and Reports
51.       Separate project accounts would be maintained in NjANR, the
district councils and CCDC. It was agreed that these accounts, including
statements of expenditure, would be audited by independent auditors, acceptable
to the Association, and that the auditors' report would be submitted to
the Association not later than six months after the end of the fiscal
year (Section 4.01 (a) and (b) of the draft Credit Agreement). It was further
agreed that the Government would monitor the progress of the project and that
within six months after completion, or not later than six months after the
closing date, the Government would prepare and submit to the Association a full
report on the execution of the project (Section 3.07 (b) and (c) of the draft
Credit Agreement).
Project Outputs and Markets
52.       As a result of the project, around 13,000 ha of fuelwood and pole
plantation would be established. In addition, the seedlings produced for
sale to the public by the nurseries would lead to another 15,000 ha being
planted either in individual or communal woodlots. Eucalyptus would be
planted in all plantations belonging to the Forestry Department, District
and Town Councils, and CCDC as well as in most farmers' woodlots. 1/ Based
on a plantation life of 32 years, including one seedling crop and three
rotations of eight years each and the rates of growth, total production
from all project plantations and farmers' woodlots would be as follows:
1/ Gmelina seedlings would be made available to farmers on a limited basis.



- 18 -
-  in '000 m3             ___________________________
Forestry Dept.  District Council    CCDC        Farmers      Total
Crop             Plantations       Plantations    Plantations  Woodlots  Production
Seedling Crop        1,080             288             180         1,200       2,748
1st coppice          1,080             288              180        1,200       2,748
2nd coppice            864             230             144           960       2,198
3rd coppice            720             192             120           960       1,992
53.       There is no single organization responsible for marketing fuelwood
and poles in the country. Instead, the marketing is carried out in urban
and semi-urban areas by a large number of individual traders who obtain
licenses and pay fixed stumpage rates for cutting wood in forest reserves
and gazetted forests. The total production by the plantations of fuelwood
and poles is expected to be absorbed largely by the commercial market. In
view of the current and/or anticipated shortages of fuelwood in areas where
the plantations are to be established, demand is expected to be brisk. On
the other hand, fuelwood and poles planted on the farmers'woodlots are
intended to meet both the domestic and agricultural requirements of individual
smallholders.
Demand for Poles and Fuelwood
54.       Wood poles are used extensively in constructing houses and tobacco
and livestock barns largely because of its cheaper price vis-a-vis modern
building materials. As no alternative to poles is likely to be cheaply
available, the pattern of demand for wood poles is expected to persist and
increase with the population growth. Firewood is the major source of fuel for
cooking and heating in rural areas, Electricity is not widely available,
and kerosene, the principal alternative fuel, is too expensive for most of
the people. Hence, fuelwood is expected to remain the major source of energy
in Malawi in the foreseeable future. Besides households, tobacco curing,
public institutions, particularly schools, and hospitals and industrial
enterprises such as tea factories, bakeries and brick-burners are the major
fuelwood consrmers.  Total demand for fuelwood and poles, which has grown to
8.8 million m  in 1977, is projected to increase from about 10 million m  in
1980 to 18 million m3 in 2010.



- 19 -
55.        At present, forests in 14 of Malawits 24 districts cannot meet
local demand except by over exploitation (and ultimate destruction of the
forests) rather than cultivation on a sustained yield basis. Moreover,
within 25 to 30 years, all but one of those districts currently able to
meet demand, are also projected to become deficit areas. Thus, with demand
projected to outstrip supply, prices of wood and wood products can be expected
to rise significantly in the future.
Prices
56.        Currently, fuelwood and poles from forests on customary land are
free for domestic use, and the average stumpage price for commercial use is
only US$1.20 per m3. Nominal fees are charged for permits which are required
for cutting wood in forest reserves and on protected hill slopes. Fuelwood
in forest reserves is priced (stumpage) between US$1.70 and US$4.00 per m
and poles average US$7.90 per mj. Given present consumption patterns
(85 percent fuelwood and 15 percent poles), the weighted average stumpage
price for wood from forest reserves is US$3.60 per i3. To promote more
efficient use of wood and to stimulate further forestry development, wood
prices would be fixed at levels which would ensure the recovery of the cost of
wood production. Based on project targets and a 10 percent discount rate,
the average stumpage prices of fuelwood and poles in constant terms would have
to be US$8.76 per m3 on Forestry Department plantations US$6.36 per m3 on
District and Town Council plantations and US$8.16 per ml on CCDC plantations
by the time the project output is marketed. It was agreed that to the extent
that wood prices are determined by the Government, they should be fixed
at levels which would promote an efficient use of wood, stimulate forestry
development and preserve forests while giving due regard to social considera-
tions and to the impact that prices would have on the major users of the
fuelwood. Consistent with these objectives it was agreed that the Government
would gradually increase its wood prices annually, so that by the time the
wood produced under the project is marketed, the wood prices would be
sufficient to recover in real terms the cost of wood produced under the
project and ensure a reasonable return on the funds spent on financing such
costs. It was further agreed that the Government would exchange views
annually with the Association on the general pricing policies affecting
forestry products (Section 4.03 (a), (b) and (c) of the draft Credit
Agreement). The revenue from the Forestry Department plantations would accrue
to the national budget. It was agreed that not later December 31, 1980,
the Government would enter into arrangements with the District and Town
Councils whereby the Councils would transfer to the Government the revenues
accruing to them for the sale of wood produced under the project, and the
Government would ensure the availability of sufficient funds to maintain the
plantations and, in consultation with the Association, provide financial
incentives to the Councils (Section 4.04 of the draft Credit Agreement).



- 20 -
Benefits and Risks
57.        The principal benefit from the project would be the production
of seedlings from a national network of nurseries. Since it would be
beyond the means of the average rural household to purchase its fuelwood
and poles requirements at a yearly cash outlay of about US$48, each farm
family would be encouraged to plant trees to meet its wood needs. The
nurseries' production is sufficient to plant 3,800 ha per annum and meet the
annual needs of about 9,500 farmers.
58. Similarly, the project would help alleviate forest depletion by
sustaining the supply of fuelwood and poles to offset the increasing demand.
Using a 15 percent discount rate (assumed to equal the opportunity cost of
capital in Malawi), the economic price of wood that the user would have to
pay was estimated at US$19.5 per m3. This price would be significantly above
the current price paid by private users for cutting trees in forest plantations
(US$3.6 per m3) but would still be far lower than the corresponding p5ice
equivalents for coal and kerosene of US$33.6 per m3 and US$43.2 per m
respectively. By limiting forest depletion, the project would therefore,
provide protection to the majority of the population against higher and rising
prices of fossil-based energy alternatives. Even under the assumption of
continued forest depletion (associated with constant user price of US$3.6
per m3) which would necessitate a switch to coal after 20 years when complete
forest depletion would occur, the project would still achieve an economic
rate of return of 14 percent. Under the alternative assumptions that the
switches to coal would occur by year 25 and year 30, the economic rates
of return were estimated at 11 and 9 percent. This does not take into
account the non-quantifiable effects of depletion on the environment.
Additional benefits from the project include: (i) strengthening forestry
management; (ii) employment generation during the establishment and operation
of nurseries and plantations; (iii) saving of labor as a result of provision
of fuelwood and fuel-saving cooking stoves; (iv) facilitating Government's
efforts to control environmental degradation and soil conservation; and
(v) initiation of studies to develop alternative energy supplies.
59.        The project has no unusual risks.  The most serious risk is in
the nursery component where the individual farmer's acceptance of the technical
package is crucial. While this component accounts for only 10 percent of
total project cost, its success is important to the long-term development
of Malawi's wood energy program, of which this project constitutes the
first phase. Provision has, therefore, been made to motivate the farmer to
accept the package through extension work.
60.       Delays in project implementation could result from problems in
recruiting labor during the peak cultivation season and/or slow deliveries
of materials (particularly seeds) and equipment from overseas. To minimize



- 21 -
the risk of labor shortages, the project includes housing, where requirements
are sufficiently large, as an incentive for attracting and keeping casual
labor. As an additional incentive and to minimize absenteeism, food will
be sold to laborers in Forest Department plantations at cost. Since delays
in the supply of seeds would have a serious impact on the project, the Forestry
Department through the Malawi Forestry Research Institute will place orders
well in advance of the start of the project.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
61.       The draft Credit Agreement between the Republic of Malawi and the
Association, and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in Article V,
Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
62.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
63.       A special condition for disbursement for the District and Town
Council plantations is securing written approval from relevant authorities,
including traditional ones, for allocating-land for the plantations.  A
condition for disbursement for the pre-investment phase of NRDP III is the
appointment of the project officer in each development area. For the CCDC
plantations the signing of a subsidiary loan agreement between the Government
and CCDC on terms an-d conditions satisfactory to the Association is a
condition for disbursement.
64.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
65.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
February 22, 1980



22..                                        MANNEX I
TAKLE 3A
MALAWI - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUFS (.QUt'SIEI AV'CER I
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. t.M.)               MALAWI                        - RE 0SE RECENT ESTIMJATE)A-
TOTAL           118.5                                                  SAME       SAME    NEXT HICHER
AGRICUL-TRAL     .1.3                                MOST RZCENT    GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME       INCOME
1960  /b   1970 /b ESTIMATE /b      REGION /c  GROUP /d   GROUP /t
GNP PER CAPITA (US5)                 50.0        80.0    180.0           306.1      209.6       467.5
ENERGY CONSU9TT'ON PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       ..       46.0      56.0            80.6       83.9       262.1
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULAION. MID-YEAR (MILL:ONS)      3.4         4.5      5.6
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)  4.0       10.0     20.01/          17.1       16.2        24.6
POPuLATIOT PROrECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEA  2000 (MILLIONS)                     11.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                      31.0
TEAa STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED               2165
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. iM.                      29.0        38.0      47.0           18.4       49.4        45.3
PER SQ. MN. AGRICULTURAL LAND    89.0       113.0    136.0            50.8      252.0       149.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YES.                        40.1        43.9      44.0           44.1       43.1        45.2
15-64 YRS.                        55.$       52.1      53.0            52.9       53.2        51.9
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                  4.4         4.0      3.0             2.8        3.0         2.8
POPULATION GRONTH RATE (PERCENT)
7DTAL                             2.4         2.8      3.1  1/         2.7        2.4         2.7
URBAN                            -5.5       12.7.      18.4  _         5.7        4.6         4.3
CRUDE BlITH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    53.0        52.0     52.0            46.3       42.4        39.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    27.0        22.0      20.0           17.2       15.9        11.7
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE             3.2         3.2      3.5             3.1        2.9         2.7
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)      ..         ..        ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..         ..        ..              ..       12.2        13.2
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71.100)         80.1       90.0      101.0           94.3       98.2        99.6
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                  86.0       103.0    103.0            89.5       93.3        94.7
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)         50.0        54.0     68.4            55.8       52.1        54.3
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       6.0/f       9.0       9.9           17.9       13.6        17.4
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE    41.0       32.0      27.0            22.3       18.5        11.4
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BERTH (YEARS)   37.0       42.0      46.0            47.0       49.3        54.7
INFANT 4ORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            ..       149.0       ..              *-      1O5.4        68.1
ACCESS .0 SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..         ..      33.0            20.3       26.3        34.4
UR3AN                              ..         ..      70.0            53.9       58.5        57.9
RURAL                              ..         ..      29.0            10.1       19.8        21.2
ACCESS TO RECRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..         ..        ..            22.5       16.0        40.8
URBAN                              ..         ..      15.            62.5       6S.1        71.3
RURAL                              ..         ..        ..            13.9        3.5        27.7
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN        35000.0/f  38250.0  48500.0          17424.7   11396.4       6799.4
POPULATION PER XURSING PERSON        ..    16090.0   4570.0           2506.6    5552.4       1522.1
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL 3ED
TOTAL                           940.0A      760.0       ..           502.3    1417.1        726.5
URBAN                              ..       190.0       ..           201.4      197.3       272.7
RURAL                              *'      1520.0       ..          1403.6    2445.9       1404.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED          ..        36.3/h     ..            23.4       24.8        27.5
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              ..         ..        ..             4.9        5.3         5.4
URBAN                              ..         3.4/1     ..             4.9        4.9         5.1
RURAL                              ..         ..       5.0             5.5        5.4         5.5
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                              ..         ..        ..
URBAN                              ..         I.9/S     1.7
RURAL                              ..         ..        ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                              ..          ..       ..              ..       22.5        28.1
'JRBAN                             ..        16.0/i     ..              ..       17.8        45.1
RULRAL                             ..         ..        ..              ..         ..9.9



23                                             ANNEX I
TABLE 3A
M*LAWI - SOCIAL INDICATORS OATA SHE!T
MALAWI                      RERENCE CROLUPS (A.JUSTED AJARACES
AA- NOST RECENT ESTtiATE)
SAME        SAME     NEXT HICWER
10ST RlCENT      GEOCRAPHIC    INCOME       INCOME
1960 /b     1970 lb ESTIVATE /b        REGION '/    R(OUP /d    CROUP to
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ZNROLLNENT RATIOS
PRI.WAy:     TOTAL                 63.0         40.0      56.0             59.0        63.3        82.7
MALZ                  81.0        10.0         ..             64.2       79.1         87.3
FEMALE               45.0         29.0         ..             '4.2       48.4         75.8
SECONDA:   TOTAL                    1.0          2.0      '5.0              9.0        16.7        21.4
MALE                   1.0         3.0         ..             12.0       22.1         33.0
FEKALE                 0.3         1.0         .4 4.4                    10.2         15.5
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (Z Of SECONDARY)    ..           3.0       7.2               7.0        5.6          9.8
FUPIL-TtACHER RATIO
PRimrY                             41.0         43.0      61.0             42.2        41.0        34.1
SECONDARY                          14.0         16.0      21.0             22.9        21.7        23.4
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCEIXT)         ..         22.0J    25.0              20.8        31.2         5 .0
COKSUMPTtON
PASSESCER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATICN                          1.J          2.0       1.9              4.0         2.8         9.3
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          9.0/k       20.0      25.0             44.3        27.2        76.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          0.7           ..        ..              2.9         2.4         13.5
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY CENTRAL
UrTEREST ) CIRCJLATION PER
tHOUSAND POPULATION                    ..           ..       1.8              5.6         5.3         18.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.3            ..       0.4              0.4         1.1          2.5
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      1700.0       2000.0    2300.0
FEKALE (PERCENT)                   38.3        37.8       37.5             31.9        24.8        29.2
A5RICDLTURE (PERCENT)              92.5        89.1       87.0             77.6        69.4        62.7
7NOUSTRY (PERCE4T)                  2.7         3.7        5.0              7.9        10.0        11.9
PAIRTICIPAXION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                48.2         46.9      *5.8             40.8        36.9         37.1
MALE                                 60.3         59.2      58.1             83.9        52.4         48.J
FEIALE                               36.4 .       35.0      33.9             25.6        18.0        20.4
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.0          1.1        1.1              1.2        1.2          1.4
-ICOME DISTRI3UTON-
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOHZ
RClEIVED BY
RIC1.EST 5 PERCENT OF ROUSEHOLDS     ..         29.5        ..               ..          ..         15.2
HItfCEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..         52.9        ..               ..          ..        48.2
LOWEST 20 PERCEtNT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..          5.7        ..               ..          ..         6.3
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..         15.0        ..               ..          ..         16.3
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED A3SOLUTE POVERTY INCCOME
LEVEL. (US$ PER CAPITA)
ULIAN                                ..           ..      81.0            187.6        99.2       241.3
RURAL                                ..           ..      81.0             96.8        78.9       136.6
ESTIKATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..      50.0            138.4        9;.9       179.7
Ul1A*L                               ..           ..      50.0             71.0        54.8       103.7
EStIMATED POPULATION SELOW ABSOLUTE
PVEM   INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URSAN                                ..           ..        ..             34.5        44.1        24.8
RURL                                 ..           ..      8.               48.7        53.9        37.5
"Doc  vailable
llot applicable.
VOTES
s    7b adjusted group averages for each indicator are populetioa-weighted geometric ea.ns, excluding the extreme
values of the indicacor and the eoat populated country in *ach group.  Coverage of countries anong the
indicLtors depends on availabilicy of data and Is not uniform.
/b    Uslace otherwise noted, daca for 1960 r.fer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, betwvoo  1969
and 1971; and for .Mots Recent astiMate. batween 1974 and 1977.
/c  Africa South of Sahara;   /d  Low lncom  (5280 or less per capita, 1976);   /a  Lower Middle Income
?iast-550 per ca7iti, 1976);  71  1962;   /c  1963;  /h  1965'  /1  1967;  /1  1966;  /k  IncludLng
data for Southern Rhodesia and ZAmbia.
Mosct ecent EstimAte of CICP per capita is for 1978.
August, 1979
1/ Differenct from figures used in text which are derived from Malawi's
1977 Census, on which a preliminary report has recently been released.



-24-                                                                    ANNEX I
~Th7PI(1? 8IAL (1XVCATOR8
ots Athuhthe data as  dreawsf toscOOIo.vs generally jugdi.ma  atoiaIead reliable, it should ala he noted that they  w  not be  otm
tlcal  cmprbleteos  of in. inck of steosdardined dsfjtnlioa   and concpts used by. differet co tis. on clleting the data. The date are, nonthaless,
useful to describe order. of mempitude, indloat  trade, and charectarise oenaln major differences between coutries.
The nd.usted group averages for each indicator are pOpslatic..wihted geomtric seas  encudig the ootrme caIn. of the indlc.tor nAd the meot popAated
country in each group.  hoe to lack of data, g9op aesrsges Of all indicators for Capital. Surplus Oil EaWltorte   and of indicators of Access to Water and Encreta
DuspoalI, Houssing, loose, Mstrihutio  and Povrty for other country group. are populaticw-oeighted ge,ometric seane without exclusio  Of the extrem   vl..c sad
the meat poisolated country.  Sic  the Co,eeree of po=otrie. sme:g the indicators deed  o ci1abiItyX ofdtaad isnoat unform   cautin  -aet be exercised
in  citln  aeraseofoe  Inlao   townther.  'hws,  ravenge  are meetly useful no aPro-imtions of   xpcted'  as   hnoaaiatevoe  of M05
indcaor  t    tie   ngth  country and referece groups.
in    RE   tbou.a  eqen..)                                                          Access to Encreta CisPsaa (Perwent of poplto)-ttl uhc   n   ua 
ot,.-Total surface area comprising I-IL area nod inlnd waters.                       Number of people (total  uban, andrua)svehyectadpoa.s
AgrICu.Ltosl -  Maet reCent estimane Of agricultural] area owd teMrarily                  percentages of their repetire poo.laa.ions. turrets. disposal nay iolude
orpeemsstla' for oropa, pasture, eakst and kitchen garden, or to                      the cowllectiow  and disposal, sithor without tr-eatast, Of human ecc-te
lefalloc.                                                                             ad wate-water by water-borne sy oems or the use of pit privies and wuolla
Intlaion
oauumed  y  ameOnnerin  asthod a  Wor~ld Bank Atlas (19,7648 baIs)                                        a   cola   nvriylvl
196, 1970, end 1978 data.                                                               PnuamnprNrigPrw       ouaindivded by rommis of practicing saLe
ERUPTC~SU%flCNPEP CPITi- hriloaumptio  of onmsela.1 ewera                           en   easgaut   ue,patclnoe,ad assistantcus.
(Coa Mndlgh     peroem,  aua  gaad thydro-, nuwlear and geeaouainpedpt] e-  toal, urban, and rural -  PoUlation  'total, urban,
theesel electricity) in kilogem   of coal equ.ivalent pe capits.; 19a60rral  divddb  tI irrepective dueber of Itosp tol.  esaalbei
1970, and 1976 data.                                                                      public and pricate generaLI and speialicod boatpital and rehabilItation.  _etoers
Hospit.as are eaalsm operuesn-tly  taffed bry at least one physoclec.
?PPRW1!ft1 AffD VITAL iTiTISTICS                                                            Etstblishments providing principally custodial care are  ct i.cided. Numb
toa IPpltiow. Mid-Year-   ios)- As of Joly 1; 1960, 1970, and                         hospitals, hwvr, inclde health and  edhci.I centers cot pe-ansetly otaf fed
1977l data                                                                               by sphysicia  -(hot by a nedical aes.istt, our, widnife, etc.) ouhi.   ffwr
Urban, aouato       'cev t of total) -  ai   f urho  to total population;                io-pattent nooindtio   ad provide a Unmited rwnge of nedicab facoLlotia..
difrn   siF   tlow   of urban areas   faffct coearaility Of data               Adnain  prHsi ta   e  -Ttal wubsr of adsxni... to or di-otage- fro.
smeng coutries; i960, 1970, and 1970 data,                                             hospitals divided by the oo-h- of beds.
%Pocultinn ProJ ectics
Pono.gtloip...yarl0  - Csoret Population projentiona are hasd on                   KiuSSi
M      .Zui7eDati-o by ego and sex and their sertality and fertility          Average, Sloe Of houshold (p .a.... per hooehb)-  oa.  ro   and rtra. -
rates. Projection par-ter  for ecrtality rates comprise Of tire                      A household conists of a groP of Ilodici o11ob   cas  ioo  quarer  nod
level  assuing~ hf eepetsncy s.t birth  incesn   with countrya                        their sai. meals.  A hoarder or lodger sa  cr sy loo be  ocluod  in1 the
per capita loce  Ier-I, and female lots eipctancy  tbhlliaing at                      iseodfor ottlOtical purposes.
77.5 years.  The parame,ters forfwrtoiliy eats aln  Dav  tires levels              Averag cober of erwsprtv    -_ octa, urban, and rual1 --iergeuhe
assumin  decline on fert ility accrding to inwm level and pstIof P.erso_ Per roca Iw   l   ran_                            n   ual occophedcovticldeig,
f-silY olsoehog Porfoceawce. Each country is than assiged one Of thes                 res...pectively.  DweIlings vociude t-pereaot otutroad vnooicPr
nine caidiationsX of  croality and fetMil-ity trends for p-jeotton                 Acos... to Electricity (perweto   oelcK.  total urban, act  ural- oo
pupsn                                                                              cetonlcolIngo9  cith eHetr1 diit   living  ou.tesa  pretaoo
stat-~   1.0 -1ii      a stati-cnr  pupula.tion there ie 00 growth                total, urban, and rura  dselliogs  epcle.
sine the bratet is equal to ths death rate, nod also the age
strutr  raa   cansteot. This is achieved only after fertility ratas              EmtATIOK
decline to the rePIacent level of unit net reprodction rats, ohe.                -Adjus-ted fisrolMet Patios
eah gasratios of ns  r-PI-.es itself exactly.  The stationar-y popo-                  Fir  shool ..total saeand female - Cross total  asI. nod resale e-ri-
hatiow  sice wa  estimated ow the basis Of the Projwected characteristics                en or.f,, al  gsa  h rimary Isvi no percectogos of_repetive  P pinoy
of the Population in the year 200, and the rate of decline of fertility                 sholaepopolsticnd; w-sl  includes children aged 6-l y.ear  lot
rate to relceetee.                                                                      adjusted for different lewgtow. Of Priesry education; for co-tries nith
Year stati-wary poplation is reached - The year  hobe  stticoary population               uivra  edu..atiow  enroilmt sy exceed 1(10 portet since woae popils
sloe has been reahed,                                                                   ar  belw or ahoy the cffoi.ia  school age.
P'c itcwlwit                                                                              deeoddry ochool - total sale and female - foaputed to oboe;cco r
Prw.h.-  i-year popultion Per squar  atl.-ter (it0 heotare.) of                    education  ruir-  at losot four peae. of approtr  ceimarp oo- utl-ot;
total ae                                                                                proides genera  onoti..., Ir teacher training   ionrcio             -o popilo
Per 00. Ins ogr1-tcolu1 isod - CnPo.ted no ebve for egicultoa1 land                       usualy of 12 to. 17 yer.is of ago; c.repod              ..e..uv   -re gt-erlly
Pnyalation ARe Strutue  (prcnt-Children (0-lb pest),  Vo.igag.fctiocab enr1leet (Percent of secon.dary, -  oontihon.aI inatotti..t.o iodider
(15-64 peas,  nod retre  (A5 pests ed ovr) us peroetsge  Of mid-yea                      tecboiccl  Idiustrial, or other progoe  chic  operate iodcpeocentlyora
pop,lation; 1,960, 1970, and 197? da.te.                                                  dprmnsooocdyistittions.
-   opulation Growtb Rnte (oreo     oa     usa   rvbv.eeo  oa    i-                        Ppil-teachebr ratio   p rime   and o-odry - Total socdento enrolled in
pear populations for  19-h,150-1   o  1970_77.                                            primery and secondary levels divided by ouaIeoA of t-aoe-  iw tie corn-
Ponolatiu "Growth Ra-te pr      t -  urhut n - dosno al growt  ratew  of ura                 peedinglels
populution_ for 195(1-AC, i95070  an1970-75.                                            Adut literacy pate (percent) - Litnrate nduto 'nile to read and orite, a
Crude dirt!h Oats leer tb-nonsd) - Anssol live birt1hs Per tho-oad of mid-                  aperonogs of total odut populatIon aged 15 Year  and over.
year popobation; 190  i90,ad 197  iota.
Crude Death Rate ~Oer thouno)- dnAl2 deatho Per thoucand of mid-yea                  COglehWyfIie
poplaion  150  190,an  i97 data.                                                 PuegrCr  pctbuadpploo                       - Pacege  crsocprise actoror
tots  eprdutin Nte-  vergecober of daughter- ooe   di  hear                     tenting less tban vigt  ersns  wic. bOs  nu" occ  tsre tg    oioo
inher,  ra =   re ductir 7period if ohe e-perietoen prcoont age-ovii.
specific fertility rates; usully firs-year averages ending is 1960,              -    ai  ecoeope  iuad pobolatlcn) -Adll typeso   oecrsfrri.
i970, snd 19175.                                                                        iroadnctsocecral pbipethuad of Poplto;culdsoi o .cne
FsniyPt.;innin  - boceo.t,ro_ Anwo thousa-ds) - Aocual cobe  Of                           reosi--r In   -tonoica sod in year,  h..nrgitaoc   fru               eoti
Icetr   f irb-to_ntrti devce  unde  -oPie I Of wat ioen  f-tly                    offect; dats for ...vtt peso  map not hoob        snioe s.p b~    ~'.xf--o ccor
plasocig Progrn-t                                                                       bholised licening.
Pomily Planning - Seers pePn feandc                ) -Prcetage of saried               TV Rvoelv-r  (per thousad ppoultoicn~ -IV rciesfor brcdoto  to, g-o-oi
--s  of child-bea rin  uge  15.0; peb)ih uehrth-ontroi devices                          public per thousand  .ou.t.;.olde   nicne fTV recei-critcouctri-
to all as,rried  -osew in em  age grop,                                                 and  o year  when regintratin  of TV sts oscefect.
Nevpacr freuatin (cr icosodpupbaton)    . Sow  the overage corcultioc
FWD dAND IYDTETCI                                                                          of~sl eea   neetonppr,deftoed ashn periodical puhblci-tion
lodenof Fod 9'odutionper  apIt (199-riio) . idew of Per capita               eoe   rmrl   orcodn    eea   eo    ti  ooi dred to or 'd.ily
souiproductiono   l  odcriis   ?rodtrtionoldes owed and                             if it unper  00 leat four times e      et
feed and is on caledr year basis.  Coaledities cover proonry goods                   Cinema dAnu1 Attend-oo cer Cpita cer fea           haed cc the c-ne  of tickets
(e.g. sarnoicetead of suga) shich ace edible and c-tuic cutriens                       tl   uigtepa,  cldn    diocot   r'u-i o.                              o   ot1
(eg   offe  nod tea aer  -oiuded).  Aggvgate production Of each country             omits..
iw based on ationa avrage producer price ceights,.)-CVte    r.                      AIOFRE
Per onpita osepp  of calories (ceroent of renoir-eet)-Cogtdfrn                     lPP        t
energy equi-abotr ofot fund  oppia. available on country per opita                 rtotal lbor Forc  ~(~th uao)- Eocncal   ctv    eros  .oolg aad
pe   a.   vdabr oupplies c-eprise domestic Prediction,  mports Ie.o          forcew  and uneplpe  ht occluding h-urov-, studooto,  tct  lefi-tt
exports, nnd chnesA otoch.  tet ooppIii.es oo lde soleal Teed, oseds,                 in vaious cootri-o are cot c-p-obe..
quantities used in fond proc-osig, wod Iosson on distributict. Require-            Fena'e (Percent) . PsteF lc    force nopercetage of ota.1l.bso   fort.
ments wer  estiatod by FAO based c- Phywiloigical ced  for t-snal                  dgy.   pt)cy_    voc(    lab.or.fre in frasing , for-ty, looting and
activity and health co..sidering ecviro-twol tepera tur, hody ceights,                fishing soperctage cf total inbor fos.
age and se  ointrib-ticn  of pupsoatioc, nod alloing IS p--ot for                   oduetry (perosot; - labo  fcrce it mining,  osrcit   aooatra 
cat.eat houshold level.                                                               electrocoty, cater and ga sPeretage of total labor force
Per aPit supply of proovoc gree  per toy) - Proteos content of Per                   Particicationtt  n         o)-toa    ae Indlte-enl   - ?wrtioipntioo Or
npi ta wet supply of fccd per day. Net oopply of fond in Owfiocu                      oioyae  c            omptedas  ot l, mle  oc   iaeibr  ot   sor
aboe. Neqirsevets for all coutroes  stbihdby USDA provde for *                         etasof total, sole and f-ie  population of cl ages reopectci-:
Micoi-   lowneOf 60 grts  of total proteis Per day and 20 gram  of                    1960, 1970, and i975 data.  These ac  ILo,P. aciclatu   ra"en reflecting
anima  and pulse protein, of thlch 15 grsm  ohso1d he soisal Prteio.                  .O -se  cotutlre of the popu.lstio, and long tine treed.  A few eotinateo
Tthse standards are Ine..r than thooe Of 75 gram  Of total protein and                ace fre  cational Icoroec
PS gram  of uSeal proti  no an averge for the enrld, proposed by fAiO               conoic Deedency Pto-Ratio of population under 15 and hI nod oce  to
in the Third Wbrld Food Survy,                                                       the laou    orei age group of 15-60 fears.
Percpt  rti  upy rnaia  n   us   Protein supply of food
deie  ft   cla.  "'d psoloe  in grsm  Per dyp.               ~lSht
Child (ages 1-u) mortality Pats ~per thousand) -A. iotu  deatho Pee thousand            P.voetSooe Of Private Incon  (botb i cash sod clod) - Received by rioneso
in ae goup        pars  to children in  chi  ago grop; for not devel-              5 peront, vicheet 201 p.eeti, poorest 20 peowc  wo poores  iS percen
opis counrie  dam  derve  folietble.cf hotoseholds.
liE  P,eotaooY at Birth (Year) - Average eber of fear  Of life                       Ect-incod Absolute  PbZerto loom lee-(0  e   aital  -b-ha sd virl 
roes-i.in  no birth; 1950, 19701, nod 1977. data.                                       iboue  oet  icm   lvli  that iscelclhlw                         ici     icei
Infant ?Acrtality Sate pe:r thouan) - dA-..I deaths of ianto under owe                   tutitionaldy sdequate diet PIu  essen..tial too-food requIremets io cot
yea  of age per too- d  ive bitho.                                                      affordable.
Access to Safe Water peront of  -uuati )  itotalurban and rura   -                      Etimated Reistive Poetyt                             -'oelveP1$pe  ia   -uban and rurl-
Smbero   epetoa,ubn  andrra)oP  reasonale  c'soe to cRra:eate    ocry -ooe  es  iwA on-tirdo  avrge per capita
safe eater ouppl  (incldes treated surface eaters or untreated boo                      personal income of the country. irhan leve  in dericed f ro  the ruallee
-notsmnted enter ouch asthat from protected borehles, srn,sith adjustmet for higher cost Of living 10 urhb  arean.
and sanitary enile) as peree-tges of their  -epeotice populations. In                 Estimated Populato   eo    bouePvryIcm  ee   ~ret     ra   n
an  rba  ars apuhlofountain cr stundpoet located not mre thsn                     rua       eco   fpouainubnadrural)hoae btuocor
200 meters fo  a houseas.  he considered as being oithi  reasonable                              ec
noreen of that house  in rura  areas reasonable acreas woud inply
that the housewife or eeners of the ho,uachcld do ant haeto spend a                                                            Ensomic and iocinl Data. Diobico
diPMPrtpricuats part of the day in fetching the fslly. 0-ster needs                                                      Ecae dAl-Ysie nod Projections Dpartmet
August 1979



-25                                ANNEX I
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1978                                  ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%, constant prices)
USS Mln.       X                      1968-77           1978
GNP at Market Prices                1,057.3    100.0                        6.6              5.5
Gross Domestic Investment             316.5      29.9                       8.3             27.5
Gross National Saviags                165.4      15.7                      50.0             11.5
Current Account Balance              -125.3    -11.9
Exports of Goods, NFS                 260.0      24.6                       8.5              5.3
Imports of Goods, NFS                 425.3      40.2                       1.7             55.0
OUTPUT, EMPLOYMENT AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1978
Value Added             Labor Force!/                V.A. Per Worker
US$ Mln.      Z         Thousand        %                 US$           Z
Agriculture                   429.9     43.4          1369        85.2                314.0         50.8
Industry                     175.6      19.0            85         5.3             2,065.8         360.3
Services                      385.6     37.6           152         9.5             2,536.8         397.7
Total/Average             991.1    100.0          1606        100.0               617.1         100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Central Government
K Nln.               Xof GDP
1977/78      1977/78         1974/75 - 1976177
Current Receipts                                     115.7        15.0                 15.4
Current Expenditures                                 108.3        14.0                 10.0
Current Surplus                                        7.4         1.0                  0.7
Capital Expenditures                                  76.5         9.9                  6.3
NOTE:  All conversions to dollars in this Annex are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the
period covered.
l/ Total labor force defined as male population between 15 and 60 years of age plus women actually employed.
not available
not applicable
February 1, 1980



26 -
ANNEX I
COUNTRY DATA - MALAWI
MONEY  CREDIT and PRICESi'                                  1973      1974      1975     1976      1977      1978
(Million K outstanding end period)
Money and Quasi Money                                     84.6    115.7    122.4    121.0    122.7    133.2
Bank Credit to Public Sector                              12.1      20.0      67.4     88.1      44.2     61.9
Bank Credit to Private Sector                             33.0      49.4     56.1      76.5      87.7    122.2
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as Z of GDP                         21.1      23.8      21.4     18.7      23.5     15.9
General Price Index (1970-100)                           119.0    136.1    148.6    165.4    178.7    193.3
Annual percentage changes in:                           9       14.4       9.2      11.3      8.0       8.2
General Price Index
Bank Credit to Public Sector                               9.0      65.3    237.0      30.7    -49.9      40.0
Bank Credit to Private Sector                             -7.3      49.7      13.6     36.4      14.6     39.3
BALANCE OF PAYXIENTS                                                           HERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1976-19781
1974    1975    1976    1977   1978                               USt Min.    x
(Millions US$)                        Tobacco                    94.6     51.6
Tea                       38.4      20.9
Exports of Goodsa  NFS              151.7   179.4   202.6   241.9  260.0    Groundouts                     9.8       5.3
Imports of Goods, NFS               214.1   284.0   266.4   279.1  425.3    Sugar                         19.5      10.6
Resource Balance                    -63.4  -104.6   -43.8   -37.2 -165.3    All Other Conmodities    21.1           11.6
Total              183.4    100.0
Interest Payments (net)             -4.0      -5.4    -5.5    -5.5   -8.8
Other Factor Payments (net)         18.8      17.3   -14.2   -20.0    4.0  EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1977
Net Current Transfers                 5.7      6.1      5.5    23.5   44.8
Balance of Current Account         -41.9    -86.6   -58.0   -37.2 -125.3                                           US$Mln.
Direct Private Foreign Investment  14.9        9.9      8.2    11.1   19.6    Public Debt, incl. guaranteed    433.5
Net MLT Borrowing                                                               Non-guaranteed Private Debc
Disbursements                     37-4      42.3    34.0    56.8  87.5        Total Outstanding & Disbursed
Amortizations                       2.6      2.9      3.3     8.4   11.8
Subtotal                          34.8      39.4    30.7    48.4   75-7  NET DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1977
Other Capital (net)                   1.6    -17.9   -30.1    35.6  31.5                                             X
Increase in Reserves (+)            16.4    -47.1   -38.3    57.9 -18.1
Public Debt, incl. guaranteed       6.1
Gross Reserves (end year)            81.8     65.5    26.2    88.0  69.9        Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Total Outstanding & Disbursed
Petroleum Imports                    17.9     22.9    26.1    21.5  36.0
Petroleum Re-exports                  1.0      -        -       -      _
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                        IBRD/IDA Lending  (December 31, 1979)Mln. US$)
1975     1976      1977     1978                                                    (Inc. Third
us$ -R               .~8861    .913-0    T02-9   .8438                                                        Window)
1 - us$           1.1545   1.0953   1.1075   1.1851                           Outstanding & Disbursed        17.9    110.1
Undisbursed                    11.3       58.4
Outstanding incl. Undisbursed=z-=
29.3    168. 5
I/ iMF, International Financial Statistics, June 1977
February 1, 1980



- 27 -                       ANNEX II
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MALAWI
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of December 31, 1979)
Amount US$ Million
(less cancellations)
Bank
(incl.
Loan or                                               Third
Credit No.   Year   Borrower        Purpose             Window      IDA    Undisbursed
Twelve Credits have been fully disbursed                            81.1
S-17-MAI     1974   Republic of    Transport Engi-
Malawi       neering and Services             2.0       0.23
523-MAI      1975                   Second Highway                  10.0       2.66
590-MAI      1976                   Education II                    11.6       3.15
1286-T-MAI   1976                   Agriculture-
Karonga II           9.2                  1.68
1388-MAI     1977        "/ESCOM    Third Power          9.0                   3.48
1387-T-MAI   1977                   Third Power          8.0                   3.15
711-MAI      1977   Republic of    Water Supply                      7.0       6.98
Malawi
758-MAI      1977                   Third Highway                   10.5       3.22
823-MAI      1978                   Shire Valley
Consolidation                  10.7       6.73
1610-MAI     1979   INDEBANK        First DFC            3.0                   3.0
857-MAI      1979   Republic of    National Rural
Malawi       Development
Programme I                    22.0      20.88
910-MAI      1979                   Education III                   14.5     14.50
TOTAL                              29.2       169.4     69.66
of which has been repaid             -          0.9      -
Amount sold .                        -
of which repaid
TOTAL now held by Bank and IDA 1/ 29.2        168.5
TOTAL Undisbursed                  11.31       58.35    69.66
1/ Prior to exchange adjustments.



28
ANNEX II
B.  STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(as of December 31. 1979)
Investment   Fiscal                 Type of                            Total Held  Total Un-
Number      Year      Obligor     Business    Equity  Loan  Total   by IFC       disbursed
326-MAI      1976       David White- Textiles       -     6.0  6.0       5.5
head & Sons
362-MAI      1977       Dwangwa      Sugar
Sugar        Process-
Corpora-     ing
tion Ltd.                   -     9.0  9.0       9.0           1.8
434-MAI      1979       Invest-      DFC
ment and
Develop-
ment Bank
of Malawi                  0.6     -   0.6       0.6          0.1
TOTAL                      0.6   15.0 15.6      15.1          1.9



ANNEX II
- 29 -
C. BANK PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
Credit No. S-17-MAI Transport Engineering and Services Project; US$2.0
Million Credit of June 13, 1974; Date of Effectiveness;
August 28, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The Project is to help determine the infrastructural requirements
4            and provide technical assistance for the exploitation of the Viphya forest
resources. Necessary transportation studies and the design of the required
transport facilities have been completed. Part of the credit proceeds that
remained were used to assist in putting together a financial package for
the proposed mill. The package is still incomplete, however, and the pro-
posed Project is still being analyzed by the Government. The Closing Date
was extended to June 30, 1980.
Credit No. 523-MAI   Second Highway Project; US$10.0 Million Credit of
December 19, 1974; Date of Effectiveness;
February 21, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The Project consists of (i) reconstruction to two-lane bituminous
paved standard of the Lilongwe-Kasungu road (about 73 miles), including a
bypass around the Lilongwe industrial area and reconstruction of the Ligadzi
bridge; and (ii) a pilot program to improve the development and maintenance
of district roads. Construction works for the main road are complete and
savings of approximately US$3.5 million are currently expected for this
Project component. Results from the pilot program for district roads
improvement and maintenance indicate clearly that the program has been successful
and that it is feasible to extend it to other districts. The savings from the
reconstruction component are being used to extend the pilot program to seven
additional districts; accordingly the Credit Agreement was amended by letter
of June 9, 1978 to include the additional districts and the Closing Date was
extended to June 30, 1982.
Credit No. 590-MAI   Second Education Project; US$11.6 Million Credit
of November 24, 1975; Date of Effectiveness:
February 24, 1976; Closing Date: March 31, 1981
The project provides for the construction of 22 model primary
schools as examples for replication by communities and provides facilities
at these schools for a rural education program; it establishes a new primary
teacher college; adds practical subjects in selected secondary schools with
emphasis on facilities to increase female enrollment.  As costs permitted,the
project scope was enlarged to include computer facilities for the Malawi
Certificate Examination and Testing Board and additional staff housing.
All contracts have been awarded and the project has been substantially completed.
No postponement of the March 1981 closing date will be necessary.



ANNEX II
30-
Loan No. 1286-T-MAI Second Karonga Rural Development Project;
US$9.2 Million Loan of June 24, 1976; Date of
Effectiveness: August 18, 1976; Closing Date:
March 31, 1981
The Project, financed on Third Window terms, consists of seasonal
and medium-term credit to farmers, extension service, market complexes,
health facilities, boreholes and other infrastructural facilities, agricultural
and hydrological research, preparatory investments for the National Rural
Development Programme, and rehabilitation of berthing facilities at Chipoka
Lake terminal. Improvement of Chipoka harbor has started. Although
understaffing hampers implementation efficiency in some parts of Chitipa
district and there have been small cost increases, the Project's progress
is satisfactory.
Loans No. 1388-MAI   Third Power Project; US$25.0 Million Loans and Credit
and 1387-T-MAI        of April 28, 1977; Date of Effectiveness:
Credit 691-MAI        November 11, 1977; Closing Date:  December 31, 1981
The Project assists ESCOM in financing its investment program
to meet increased demand for power. The Project consists of a rock-fill
dam on the Shire River at Nkula, a low-pressure cut and cover conduit,
head-race tunnel, penstock and tailrace outlet system, and a powerhouse
for five 20 MW hydro units, two of which will be installed at this stage.
The Project also provides for consulting services and training. The Government
recently decided to install a third hydro unit (20 MW) due to availability of
external funds and favorable manufacturers' offers for equipment. The
third unit will be financed by EDF, KfW, and CDC. Civil works contracts,
which will be financed by Bank funds, were awarded in 1977, and construction
is generally on schedule.
Credit No. 711-MAI   Blantyre Water Supply Project; US$7.0 Million Credit
of June 3, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: April 18, 1978;
Closing Date: March 31, 1982
Project implementation has slipped, mainly because of delays in
the progress of an ongoing UK-financed Phase IV Water Supply Project, and
due to the Government's decision to revise the scope of the Project, with
the approval of IDA. The revision is based upon the recommendations of
engineering consultants to construct a second water supply line from the
Walker's Ferry waterworks to Blantyre, instead of increasing the supply
through construction of an intermediate pumping station. Tenders have now
been invited for the principal contracts.



- 31 -                           ANNEX II
Credit No. 758-MAI   Third Highway Project; US$10.5 Million Credit of
January 18, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: June 29, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The Project consists of (i) constructing the 53-mile Kasungu-Jenda
road to two-lane bituminous surfaced standard, (ii) strengthening three
short sections of the Zomba-Lilongwe road, and (iii) providing consultant
services for the supervision of (i) and (ii) and for the feasibility and
engineering studies of the Jenda-Mzuzu road. Work is in progress on all
components except (ii), for which tenders will be called shortly.
Credit No. 823-MAI   Shire Valley Agricultural Development Project;
US$10.7 Million Credit of July 7, 1978; Date of
Effectiveness: September 6, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The Project is the consolidation phase of the Shire Valley Agri-
cultural Development Programme and includes extension services to support
increased cotton and foodcrop production, seed multiplication and afforesta-
tion programs, production credit, livestock and fisheries development, health
and potable water supply facilities, a smallholder irrigation development
study and some rural roads. It will provide social and infrastructural
services to about 70,000 families. The Valley attained self-sufficiency in
food crops for the first time in its history in 1977-78. Cotton production
also regained the levels attained in the early 1970s. Guar bean production
is rising rapidly, but groundnut production is declining. The staffing
situation remains critical: ten senior staff (mostly expatriate) will be
leaving before the end of the year upon expiry of their contracts and no
steps have been undertaken to fill these posts. It is also unlikely that
-the Government will manage to fulfill the provision of the Credit Agreement
for employing 97 extension workers by May 1, 1979 (there are now 45).
Credit No. 857-MAI   National Rural Development Programme Project Phase-I
US$22.0 Million Credit of December 21, 1978; Date of
Effectiveness; April 5, 1979; Closing Date:
September 30, 1983
The Project will assist the Government in implementing the first
phase of Malawi's National Rural Development Programme. Over a five-year
period it aims to increase output of maize, groundnuts, fire-cured tobacco
and rice, and expand milk and meat production. It will complete the
consolidation phase of the Lilongwe Land Development Programme. The
Project is being cofinanced with CIDA, EDF, ODM and the Federal Republic
of Germany. The Credit became effective on April 5, 1979 and Project
implementation is on schedule.



- 32 -                          ANNEX II
Credit No. 910-MAI   Third Education Project; US$14.5 Million Credit of
June 19, 1979; Date of Effectiveness: September 4, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The Project will assist the Government in improving and expanding
primary and secondary education, and helping curriculum development,
in-service training and management of education. Major components include
(i) provision of primary schools and textbooks and expansion of primary
teacher training facilities; (ii) improvement and expansion of facilities
at secondary and technical schools as well as secondary teacher training
facilities; (iii) establishment of an Institute of Education responsible
for curriculum development, in-service training, and materials preparation;
and (iv) assistance for the school inspectorates, architectural and engi-
neering services, educational studies and project administration. In
addition to IDA Credit of US$14.5 million, an EEC Special Action Credit
of US$7.5 million was made available for this project. The credit was
signed    June 19, 1979 and the date of effectiveness was September 4, 1979.
Loan No. 1610-MAI    Investment and Development Bank of Malawi Limited;
US$3.0 Million Loan of July 7, 1978; Date of
Effectiveness: November 1, 1978; Closing Date:
July 1, 1983
The Project provides foreign exchange for financing medium-
to large-scale industrial and agro-industrial investments, and will help
INDEBANK consolidate its policies and procedures and develop project
promotion. To date, US$1.3 million has been committed for three sub-
projects and more commitments are expected shortly.



- 33 -                      ANNEX III
MALAWI
NATIONAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM II
(WOOD ENERGY PROJECT)
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
I. Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare                      9 months
(b)  Prepared by                                Government with assistance
from IDA and FAO/CP
(c)  Initial Discussion with IDA                February 1978
(d)  First IDA mission                         March 1979
(e)  Appraisal mission departure                March 1979
(f)  Negotiations                               January 1980
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness             Ninty days after the date
of signature
II.  Special IDA Implementation Action
None
III.  Special Conditions of the Credit
(a) The Government would strengthen the Wood Energy Division and
appoint to it during the first year of the project 59 staff required
to carry out the project (para. 43) except for the financial
controller whose post would be filled not later than June 30, 1980
with a person whose qualifications and experience are acceptable
to the Association (para. 45);
(b) The Government would establish by June 30, 1980 or such other
mutually agreed date, an adequately staffed Energy Unit within
the Planning Department of MANR to carry out the energy studies
of the project (para. 41).



- 34 -                         ANNEX III
(c) The Government would by December 31, 1980, submit to the Association
detailed plans for carrying out the wood energy studies and
charcoal investigations and, after revising such plans to take into
account the Association's comments would carry out the studies
through a person or team of persons with such qualification and
experience and in accordance with a time schedule satisfactory
to the Government and the Association. (para. 41);
(d) The Government would : (i) allocate annually to the District and
Town Councils and to MANR over the project period, budgets equivalent
to the proceeds of the Credit to meet the operating expenditures
of the project during the following fiscal year (para. 47); and
(ii) relend to CCDC under a subsidiary loan agreement, between the
Government and CCDC, under conditions satisfactory to the Association
(para. 47);
(e) The Government, recognizing the importance of fixing wood prices
at levels to recover the cost of producing the wood, would
undertake to: (i) increase the wood prices by such gradual annual
rates so that by the time the wood produced under the project is
marketed, the wood prices charged would be sufficient to recover the
cost of wood production of the Forestry Department; and (ii) ensure
a reasonable return on funds spent on financing such costs. The
Government would also exchange views annually with the Association
on the general pricing policies affecting the forestry products
(para. 56);
(f) The Government, not later than December 31, 1980, would enter into
arrangements with the District and Town Councils whereby the Councils
would transfer to the Government their revenues from the sale of
wood produced under the project, and would in consultation with
the Association, provide financial incentives to the Councils
(para. 56);
(g) Conditions of disbursement would be that: (i) withdrawal applications
under the plantations would be accompanied by a statement from the
Government that written approval for allocations of land for plantations
has been acquired from the relevant authorities, including traditional
ones (para. 38); (ii) disbursements for CCDC plantations would be made
after the Government and CCDC have concluded the subsidiary loan
agreement (para. 47); and (iii) disbursement for the respective
Development Areas under the MANR pre-investment activities would
be made after the Government has appointed a suitably qualified
project officer (para. 42).



IBRD 14336
I-                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JUNE 1979
uJ
V                                                         a~~~~~~~~~i   
cc~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
.~~~~~~~~~~L
V T      )
1,0 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~j  



