CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 314 SE
Development Credit
Agreement
(Second Railway Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 23, 1972


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 314 SE
Development Credit
Agreement
(Second Railway Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 23, 1972


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated        June   23,   1972,   between   REPUBLIC    OF
SENEGAL (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower and the Rdgie des Chemins de Fer du Senegal,
an agency of the Borrower (hereinafter called the Rdgie), respectively, have
requested the Association and the International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development (hereinafter called the Bank) to assist in the financing of the Project
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement;
(B)   By an agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and the
Rdgie (hereinafter called the Loan Agreement), the Bank has agreed to make a
loan to the Rdgie in an amount in various currencies equivalent to six million
four hundred thousand dollars ($6,400,000), on the terms and conditions set forth
in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that the Borrower agree to guarantee
the obligations of the Rdgie in respect of such loan;
(C)   By an agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and
the Bank (hereinafter called the Guarantee Agreement), the Borrower has agreed
so to guarantee the obligations of the Rdgie;
(D)   The Borrower is willing to make the part of the proceeds of the Credit
provided for in this Agreement, which shall be required to carry out Parts A, B,
C, D and E of the Project, available to the Rdgie upon the terms and conditions
set forth hereinafter and in a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between
the Borrower and the Regie (hereinafter called the Subsidiary Loan Agreement);
(E) The Rgie will carry out Parts A, B, C, D and E of the Project with
the assistance of the Guarantor and upon the terms and conditions set forth in
a project agreement of even date herewith between the Association and the Rdgie
(hereinafter called the Project Agreement) and in the Loan Agreement; and
(F)   The Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the foregoing,
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions hereinafter
set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿4
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the following modifications thereof
(said 'eneral Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
As, aciation, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions):
(a)   Section 2.01 (9) is deleted and the following is substituted therefor:
"9. The term 'Project' means the project or projects or program or
programs for which the Credit is granted, as described in the Development
Credit Agreement and as the description thereof shall be amended from time
to time by agreement between the Borroer, the Association, the Bank and
the Regie."
(b)   Section 5.01 is deleted;
(c)   Section 6.02 (b) is deleted and the following is substituted therefor:
"(b) The Borrower or the Rdgie shall have failed to perform any other
obligation under the Loan Agreement, the Guarantee Agreement, the Bonds
(as such terms are defined in the Development Credit Agreement), or the
Development Credit Agreement."
(d)   Section 6.02 (h) is deleted and Section 6.02 (i) becomes 6.02 (h);
(e)   Section 7.01 (c) is amended to read as follows:
"(c) A default shall occur in the performance of any other obligation
on the part of the Borrower or the Regie under the Loan Agreement, the
Guarantee Agreement, or the Bonds (as such terms are defined in the
Development Credit Agreement), or the Development Credit Agreement, or
under any other development credit agreement between the Association and
the Borrower for a railway project, or under any project agreement between
the Association and the Regie, and such default shall continue for a period
of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank or the
Association, as the case may be, to the Borrower and the Rgie."


﻿Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "Loan Agreement" means the agreement of even date herewith
between the Bank and the Rdgie, as such agreement may be amended from time
to time; and such term includes the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated January 31, 1969, as made applicable
to such agreement, all agreements supplemental to the Loan Agreement and all
schedules to the Loan Agreement;
(b)   "Guarantee Agreement" means the agreement of even date herewith
between the Borrower and the Bank guaranteeing the obligations of the Rdgie to
the Bank under the Loan Agreement, as such agreement may be amended from
time to time;
(c)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement of even date herewith
between the Association and the Rgie, as such agreement may be amended from
time to time; and such term includes all agreements supplemental to the Project
Agreement and all schedules to the Project Agreement;
(d)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and the Rdgie pursuant to Section 3.01 (c) of this
Agreement, as such agreement may be amended from time to time; and such term
includes all schedules to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(e)   "Loan" means the loan provided for in the Loan Agreement;
(f)   "Loan Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 of
the Loan Agreement;
(g)   "Bonds" means the bonds provided for in the Loan Agreement;
(h)   "Railways" means the railways owned, operated or administered by
the Rgie and includes all railway property, equipment and materials owned,
operated or administered by the Rdgie;
(i)   "International Traffic Agreement" means the agreement dated
June 8, 1963, between the Borrower and the Republic of Mali relating to
international railway traffic, as the same may from time to time be amended by
agreement of the parties thereto;


﻿6
(j)   "Customs   Agreement"   means    the  Accord   douanier  dated
June 8, 1963, between the Borrower and the Republic of Mali, as the same may
from time to time be amended by agreement of the parties thereto;
(k)   "Railway Convention" means the Convention dated June 8, 1963,
between the Regie and the Rgie du Chemin de Fer du Mali, as the same may
from time to time be amended by agreement of the parties thereto;
(1)   "Statutes" means the Decree No.67-1103 of October 6, 1967,
published in the Journal Officiel No. 3923 of October 21, 1967, of the Borrower,
relating to the reorganization of the Rdgie, as the same may be amended from
time to time;
(m)   "1966 Development Credit Agreement" means the development credit
agreenient dated September 29, 1966 (Railway Project) between the Borrower and
the Association, as the same may be amended from time to time
(n)   "1966 Project Agreement" means the project agreement dated
September 29, 1966 (Railway Project) between the Association and the Regie,
as the same may be amended from time to time;
(o)   "CFAF" means the currency of the Borrower; and
(p)   "Plan of Action" means the plan of action for the improvement of
the operations and financial viability of the Rgie, the specific measures of which
are set forth in Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement, as the same may be amended
from time to time with the agreement of the Bank and the Association.
ARTICLE 11
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to three million two hundred thousand
dollars ($3,200,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed under the


﻿7
Development Credit Agreement; provided, however, that, except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall be made on account of expenditures
in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank (other than
Switzerland) or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, such territories.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit shall be procured pursuant to the provisions set forth or referred to in
Section 2.04 of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1976 or such other date
as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on April 1 and
October I in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each April I and October 1 commencing
October 1, 1982 and ending April 1, 2022, each installment to and including the
installment payable on April 1, 1992 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 17)
of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and one-half
per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the Republic of France is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09. The R'gie is designated as representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the
provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE Ill
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out Part F of the Project and
shall cause the Rdgie to carry out Parts A, B, C, D and E of the Project, with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with sound administrative, financial,


﻿engineering, and railway practices, and shall provide or cause to be provided,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
the purpose.
(b)   Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations
under the Development Credit Agreement, the Borrower shall cause the Rdgie to
perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement and the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement all the obligations of the Regie therein set forth, shall
take and cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities,
services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable the Rgie to perform
such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would
prevent or interfere with such performance.
(c)   The Borrower shall relend the part of the proceeds of the Credit, which
shall be required to carry out Parts A, B, C, D and E of the Project, to the Rdgie
under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and
the Rdgie under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the
Association. The Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall provide, inter alia, for relending
the proceeds of the Credit or the equivalent thereof for a term of twenty-five
years, including five years of grace, at an annual rate of interest of seven and
one-fourth of one per cent (7-1/4%) per annum on the principal amount withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 3.02. (a) In carrying out Part F of the Project, the Borrower shall
by a date not later than December 30, 1972 or such later date as shall be agree'
to by the Association, employ transportation consultants acceptable to the
Association upon terms and conditions (including terms of reference) satisfactory
to the Association.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
take all necessary steps to provide its Direction des Transports, by a date not
later than December 31, 1972, with adequate authority and resources to ensure
transport coordination, including adequate authority and resources to study and
make recommendations regarding the Borrower's investment, pricing and licensing
policies in the transport sector, and to implement, jointly with other agencies of
the Borrower having responsibility therefor, the decisions taken by the Borrower
with regard to the foregoing.
(c)   The Borrower shall, after study of the reports and recommendations
of the consultants referred to in paragraph (a), consult with the Association
regarding the.. decisions that it proposes to take in the light of such recommendations
and the means of their implementation.


﻿9
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall take all necessary steps to ensure that
groundnut traffic within the territories of the Borrower will be allocated between
road transport and rail transport on the basis of the forecast production of
groundnuts and the respective economic costs and service characteristics of these
transport modes.
(b)   In  carrying out the provisions of paragraph (a), except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, the allocation of groundnut traffic within the
territories of the Borrower between road transport and rail transport will be
determined annually in advance by the Borrower's Office National de Coopration
et d'Assistance au Dveloppenent (ONCAD) and the Rdgie, taking account of the
recommendations of the ComitM Directeur des Transports du matMriel et des
produits agricoles.
Section 3.04. Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of Section
3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall make arrangements, satisfactory to the
Association, promptly to provide the Rdgie or cause the Rggie to be provided,
at all times that the Rgie's revenues shall be insufficient for the purpose, with
funds sufficient to enable the Rgie to meet its working expenses, debt interest
and amortization, and to maintain an adequate working capital.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall, promptly as required, take all necessary
steps on its part to enable the Rgie to set and maintain is tariffs at the levels
required under Section 4.04 of the Project Agreement.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall take all action as shall be necessary on
its part to carry out or cause to be carried out the Plan of Action set forth in
Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall take or cause the Rdgie to take such action
as shall be reasonable in the circumstances to facilitate railway operations between
its territories and the territories of the Republic of Mali, in accordance with the
International Traffic Agreement, the Customs Agreement and the Railway
Convention.
Section 3.08. (a) The Borrower shall:
(i)         take all necessary steps to ensure that by a date not later than
July 1, 1973 or such later date as shall be agreed to by the
Association:


﻿10
(A)   not less than fifty per cent (50%) of the indebtedness of the
Rdgie to the Borrower (as defined below) shall be converted
into equity; and
(B)   the balance of the indebtedness of the Rdgie to the Borrower
shall be converted into long term debt of the Rdgie repayable
without interest or other charges of any kind over a term of
not less than fifty years, including not less than ten years of
grace; and
(ii)       furnish to the Association, by such date, such evidence of the
foregoing (including copies of the Journal Officiel of the
Borrower in which are published the applicable laws and decrees
by which the provisions of paragraph (a) are carried out) as shall
be satisfactory to the Association.
(b)   For the purposes of subsection (a) of this Section and subsection (d)
of Section 8.01 of this Agreement, "indebtedness of the Regie to the Borrower"
means all indebtedness of the Rdgie to the Borrower as of December 31,1971,
exclusive of the indebtedness of the Regie under the subsidiary loan agreement
between the Borrower and the R6gie dated September 22, 1966.
ARTICLE IV
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 4.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the performance by the Regie of its obligations under the Project
Agreement, the administration, operations and financial condition of the Rgie and,
in respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible
for carrying out any part of the Project, and other matters relating to the purposes
of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic


﻿11
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its politi-al subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the administration, operations and financial condition of the R dgie and,
in respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible
for carrying out any part of the Project.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform    each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof, the performance by either of them of its obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement or the performance by the Regie of its obligations under the
Project Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE V
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 5.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 5.02. The Development Credit Agreement and the Project Agreement
shall be free from any taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery
or registration thereof, imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect
in its territories.
Section 5.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Association
Section 6.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
or in Section. 6.03 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for the period,


﻿12
if any, therein set forth, then 1d any subsequent time during the continuance
thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice to the Borrower declare
the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable immediately
together with the service charges thereon and upon any such declaration such
principal and service charges shall become due and payable immediately, anything
to the contrary in the Development Credit Agreement notwithstanding.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   The Regie shall have failed to perform any covenant, agreement or
obligation of the Regie under the Loan Agreement, the Project Agreement, the
1966 Project Agreement or the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(b)   The Statutes shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed
or waived, without the approval of the Association, in such a way as to materially
and.adversely affect the conduct of the Regie's operations or its financial condition,
or the ability of the Borrower or the Rdgie to carry out the covenants or agreement
set forth in this Agreement, the 1966 Development Credit Agreement, the Loan
Agreement, the Guarantee Agreement, the Project Agreement, the 1966 Project
Agreement or the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(c)   Railway traffic between the territories of the Borrower and the
territories of the Republic of Mali shall have been substantially interrupted for
other than technical reasons, unless such reasons shall be manifestly beyond the
Borrower's control, or such interruption is the result of necessary measures taken
by the Borrower to safeguard its national independence or the integrity of its
territory.
(d)   Any part of the principal amount of any loan to the Rgie having
an original maturity of one year or more shall, in accordance with its terms, have
become due and payable in advance of maturity as provided in the relative
contractual instruments, or any security for any such loan shall have become
enforceable.
(e)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have
taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of the Rdgie or for the
suspension of its operations.
(f)   An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it
improbable that the Rdgie will be able to perform its obligations under the Project
Agreement or the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.


﻿13
Section 6.03. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 6.02 of this Agreement
shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall
have been given by the Association to the Borrower and the Regie.
(b)   any event specified in paragraph (b), (c), (d), or (e) of Section 6.02
of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VII
Modification of 1966 Development
Credit Agreement
Section 7.01. For the purposes of the 1966 Development Credit Agreement:
(a)   Section 5.02 (b) of the Regulations (as so defined in the 1966
Development Credit Agreement) is amended to read as follows:
"(b) A default shall have occurred in the performance of any other
covenant or agreement on the part of the Borrower or the Rggie under the
Development Credit Agreement or the Project Agreement, or under any loan
agreement between the Bank and the Rgie or any guarantee agreement
between the Borrower and the Bank guaranteeing a loan to the Rgie, or
under any other development credit agreement between the Association and
the Borrower for a railway project, or under any other project agreement
between the Association and the Rgie, whether now or hereafter enter into."
(b)   Sections 5.02 (b) and 5.02 (c) of said Agreement are amended to read
as follows:
"(b) The Statutes shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated,
repealed, or waived without the approval of the Association, in such a way
as to materially and adversely affect the conduct of the Rgie's operations
or its financial condition, or the ability of the Borrower or the R6gie to
carry out the covenants or agreements set forth in this Agreement, the Project
Agreement, the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, any loan agreement between
the Bank and the Regie, any guarantee agreement between the Borrower
and the Bank guaranteeing a loan to the Rdgie, any other development credit
agreement between the Association and the Borrower for a railway project,
or any other project agreement between the Association and the Rgie,
whether now or hereafter entered into."


﻿14
"(c) Railway traffic between the territories of the Borrower and the
territories of the Republic of Mali shall have been substantially interrupted
for other than technical reasons, unless such reasons shall be manifestly
beyond the Borrower's control, or such interruption is the result of necessary
measures taken by the Borrower to safeguard its national independence or
the integrity of its territory."
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 8.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01 (b) of the General Conditions.
(a)   The execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on behalf of
the Re'gie have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and
governmental action.
(b)   The execution and delivery of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement on
behalf of the Borrower and the Regie, respectively, have been duly authorized
or ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental action.
(c)   The Loan Agreement and the Guarantee Agreement have become
effective in accordance with their terms.
(d)   The Borrower, through its Ministry of Finance, shall have delivered
to the Redgie a letter, signed by its Minister of Finance, and with a copy to the
Association, by which the Borrower undertakes:
(i)         effective on a date not later than July 1, 1972, to extend the
maturity of that part of the indebtedness of the Rdgie to the
Borrower (as defined in Section 3.08 of this Agreement) which
is due before July 1, 1973, to July 1, 1973 or a date
thereafter; and
(ii)        effective on a date not later than July 1, 1973, (A) to convert
not less than fifty per cent (50%) of the indebtedness of the
Regie to the Borrower (as so defined) into equity, and (B) to
convert the balance of such indebtedness into long term debt
of the Regie repayable without interest or other charges of any


﻿15
kind over a term of not less than fifty years, including not less
than ten years of grace.
(e)   The Association has received an audit certificate by an independent
auditor acceptable to the Association with regard to the Regie's accounts for its
fiscal years 1968/69, 1969/70 and 1970/71.
Section 8.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 10.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)   That the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Regie, and constitutes a valid and
binding obligation of the Regie in accordance with its terms.
(b)   That the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and the Regie,
respectively, and constitutes a valid and binding obligation of the Borrower and
the Regie in accordance with its terms.
Section 8.03. The    date   November    1,  1972   is  hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections 3.02 (b), 3.03,
3.04, 3.05, 3.06, 3.07, 4.01 (a) and 4.02 (a) of this Agreement and the provisions
of paragraphs (b), (c), (d) and (e) of Section 6.02 and those of paragraph (b)
of Section 6.03 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which
the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date twenty-five years
after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 9.01. Subject to Section 2.09 of this Agreement, the Minister of
the Borrower at the time responsible for finance is designated as representative
of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿16
For the Borrower:
Ministre des Finances et
des Affaires Economiques
Dakar
S6n6gal
Cable address:
Minifinances
Dakar
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
By /s/ Andr6 Coulbary
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Mohamed Shoaib
Vice President


﻿17
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of
the Credit and of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan, the allocation of amounts of such
proceeds to each Category and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be
financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit and of the Loan           % of
Allocated (Expressed        Expenditures
Category               in Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
I.   Track renewal                 6,840,000           100% of foreign
expenditures
and 74% of local
expenditures
 I.  Workshops reha-              1,400,000           100% of foreign
bilitation and                                   expenditures and
equipment                                        74% of local ex-
penditures
III.  Modernization of               190,000           100% of foreign
freight cars                                     expenditures and
(about 1,400                                     74% of local ex-
roller bearings)                                 penditures
IV.  Consultant Ser-                 290,000           100% of foreign
vices and train-                                 expenditures
ing under Part
E of the Project
V.   Consultant Ser-                 240,000           100% of foreign
vices for Part                                   expenditures
F of the Project


﻿18
Amount of the
Credit and of the Loan            % of
Allocated (Expressed         Expenditures
Category                in Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
VI.   Unallocated                     640,000
TOTAL         9,600,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term  "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency, of
any country other than the Borrower; provided, however, that if the currency of
the Borrower is also that of another country in the territories of which goods
are produced or from the territories of which services are supplied, expenditures
in such currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be "foreign
expenditures";
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures for goods produced
in, or services supplied from, the territories of the Borrower; and
(c)   the term "total expenditures" means the aggregate of foreign and local
expenditures.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement;
(b)   payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount represented by
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of any Category would exceed the amount payable net of all such taxes,
such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the Credit or of
the Loan will be withdrawn on account of payments for such taxes; and


﻿19
(c)  in addition, except as the Borrower, the Association and the Bank
shall otherwise agree, and until all amounts of the Credit shall have been withdrawn
or committed, no withdrawals shall be made from the Loan Account except under
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions referred to in Section 1.01 of the Loan Agreement.
4.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the proceeds of the Credit
and of the Loan set forth in the second column of the table in paragraph I above:
(a)  if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amount of the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan then allocated to such
Category and no longer required therefor will be reallocated by the Association
and by the Bank or, after full withdrawal of all amounts of the Credit, by the
Bank, by increasing correspondingly the unallocated amount of the proceeds of
the Credit and of the Loan;
(b)  if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall increase,
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph 1 above
in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such increase,
and a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Association and by the Bank
or, after full withdrawal of all amounts of the Credit, by the Bank, at the request
of the Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the proceeds
of the Credit and of the Loan, subject, however, to the requirements for
contingencies, as determined by the Association and by the Bank or, after full
withdrawal of all amounts of the Credit, by the Bank, in respect of any other
expendtures; and
(c)  if the Association or the Bank shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures
set forth or referred to in Section 2.04 of the Project Agreement, no expenditures
for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit or of the Loan
and the Association or the Bank may, without in any way restricting or limiting
any other right, power or remedy of the Association under the Development Credit
Agreement or of the Bank under the Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower
or to the Rdgie, as the case may be, cancel such amount of the Credit or of
the Loan as in the Association's or the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing
out of the proceeds of the Credit or of the Loan.
5.   Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the third column of the table
set out in paragraph 1 above, if the estimate of local expenditures under Category


﻿20
I, II or III shall increase and no proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan are available
for reallocation to such Category, the Association and the Bank or, after full
withdrawal of all amounts of the Credit, the Bank, may, by notice to the Borrower,
adjust the percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that further
withdrawals under any such Category may continue until all expenditures
thereunder shall have been made.


﻿21
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the completion of certain investments under the
Regie's Third Four-Year Investment Plan (1969/70-1972/73), and the provision of
technical assistance and training. The purposes of the Project are to carry on
the physical rehabilitation of the Rdgie's equipment, to improve its management,
operations and finances, and to improve coordination of the Borrower's policies
in the transport sector. The Project (other than Part F) is to be incorporated in
the Regie's Fourth Four-Year Investment Plan, and consists of the following Parts:
Part A.     Track Renewal.
The relaying of about 175 kilometers of track on the main line from Dakar
to Kidira.
Part B.     Workshops Rehabilitation and Equipment.
The rehabilitation and modernization of the rolling stock and motive power
workshops at Thies, including the acquisition and installation of suitable
equipment.
Part C.    Motive Power.
The acquisition and placing into service of six diesel locomotives.
Part D.     Rolling Stock.
The modernization of about 350 bogie freight cars by replacing plain bearing
axle-boxes with roller bearing axle-boxes.
Part E.     Technical Assistance and Training (the Regie).
1.   The employment of consultants for the following purposes:
(a)   To review and study all aspects of the Regie's train operations,
and to make recommendations for the improvement of such
operations.
(b)   To assist the Regie in the physical rehabilitation, reorganization
and management of the Thies workshops and the training of


﻿22
staff, with a view toward improving rolling stock maintenance
and repairs.
(c)   To assist the Rdgie in the training of staff in regard to the
application of tariffs, and to study and make recommendations
in regard to (i) the organization of the Commercial Division of
the Rggie's Traffic and Commerce Department, (ii) a detailed
revaluation of the Regie's fixed assets, and (iii) the Regie's
accounting procedures.
2.    The provision of training abroad for selected staff of the Regie
regarding specific problems in the operations and management of the Regie.
Part F.     Technical Assistance and Training (Transport Coordination and
Planning).
The employment of consultants to assist the Borrower's Direction des
Transports to study and implement the Borrower's transport coordination
and planning, including the training of planning staff, the improvement of
data collection and investment planning, and a review of the regulatory
system and other relevant systems bearing on the transportation industry.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1975.


