CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 314 SE
Project Agreement
(Second Railway Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
REGIE DES CHEMINS DE FER DU SENEGAL
DATED JUNE 23, 1972


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 314 SE
Project Agreement
(Second Railway Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
REGIE DES CHEMINS DE FER DU SENEGAL
DATED JUNE 23, 1972


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 23, 1972, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and the
REGIE DES CHEMINS DE FER DU SENEGAL, an agency of the Republic of
Senegal (hereinafter called the Rdgie).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith
between the Republic of Senegal (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the
Association, the Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an
amount in various currencies equivalent to three million two hundred thousand
dollars ($3,200,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development
Credit Agreement, but only on condition that the Rggie agree to undertake such
obligations toward the Association as hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and the Regie, the part of the proceeds of the credit provided for under
the Development Credit Agreement, which shall be required to carry out Parts A,
B, C, D and E of the Project, will be made available to the Regie on the terms
and conditions therein set forth;
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (hereinafter called the
Bank) and the Rgie, the Bank has agreed to make a loan to the Regie in an
amount in various currencies equivalent to six million four hundred thousand dollars
($6,400,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Rggie, in consideration of the Association's entering into the
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement


﻿4
and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. The Rdgie shall carry out Parts A, B, C, D and E of the Project
described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with sound administrative, financial, engineering
and railway practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 2.02. In carrying out Part F of the Project, the Rgie shall employ
consultants acceptable to the Association upon terms and conditions (including
terms of reference) satisfactory to the Association.
Section 2.03. In carrying out Part B of the Project, the Regie shall employ
contractors acceptable to the Association upon terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Association.
Section 2.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, all equipment
and materials required for Parts A, B and D of the Project and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, and all works under Part B of the Project,
shall be procured on the basis of international competition under procedures
consistent with the Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits, published by the Bank in April 1972, and in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.05. (a) The Rigie undertakes to insure, or make adequate provision
for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit relent to it by the Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for
such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Regie to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Rdgie shall cause
all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by
the Borrower to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.06. (a) The Rgie shall furnish to the Association promptly upon
their preparation, the plans, specifications, contract documents and work and


﻿5
procurement schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof or
additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b)   The R6gie: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the progress
of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the Borrower, and to
disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall, without limitation upon the
provisions of Section 5.03 of this Agreement, enable the Association's
representatives to inspect the Project, the goods financed out of such proceeds
and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association
all such information as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the
Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit so relent to it and the
goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 2.07. The Regie shall duly perform all its obligations under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Rggie shall not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of
amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any
provision thereof.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of the R6gie
Section 3.01. (a) The Rdgie shall at all times manage its affairs, maintain
its financial position, plan its future expansion and carry on its operations, all
in accordance with sound administrative, financial, engineering and railway practices
and under the supervision of experienced and competent management assisted by
qualified and competent staff.
(b) The Rdgie shall take all such action as shall be necessary on its part
to carry out or cause to be carried out the Plan of Action set forth in Schedule 2
to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. The Rdgie shall at all times operate and maintain the Railways
and promptly make all necessary renewals and repairs, all in accordance with sound
engineering and railway practices.
Section 3.03. The Rdgie shall enter into arrangements satisfactory to the
Association for insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be
consistent with sound practice.


﻿6
Section 3.04. The Regie shall carry out appropriate training programs that
will (i) insure the availability of a sufficient number of competent managerial,
supervisory and technical personnel required in the conduct of its operations; and
(ii) allow for the gradual replacement of foreign technical staff by Senegalese
counterparts.
Section 3.05. The Rggie shall take such action as shall be reasonable in the
circumstances to facilitate railway operations between the territories of the
Borrower and the territories of the Republic of Mali, in accordance with the
International Traffic Agreement, the Customs Agreement and           the Railway
Convention.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Rdgie shall maintain records adequate to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting practices its operations
and financial condition.
(b)   For its fiscal year 1973/74 and thereafter, the Regie's accounts shall
be maintained so as to include a detailed breakdown of income and expenses by
nature, and to provide cost data by types of railway operations.
Section 4.02. For its fiscal year 1971/72 and thereafter, the Rdgie shall:
(i) have its accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income
and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with sound auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after the end of each such year,
(A) certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so audited and
(B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the
Association such other information concerning the accounts and financial
statements of the Rggie and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time
to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Redgie shall
not incur any debt unless the amount of its net cash revenue for its fiscal year
next preceding the date of such incurrence or for a later twelve-month period
ended prior to the date of such incurrence, whichever amount is the greater, shall
be not less than 1.5 times the maximum debt service requirements for any


﻿7
succeeding fiscal year on all its debt including the debt to be incurred. For the
purposes of this Section:
(a)   "debt" means all debt, except debt incurred in the ordinary course
of business and maturing by its terms on demand or less than one year after the
date on which it is originally incurred;
(b)   debt shall be deemed to be incurred (i) under a loan contract or
agreement, on the date and to the extent it is drawn down and outstanding pursuant
to such loan contract or agreement; and (ii) under a guarantee agreement, on the
date the agreement providing for such guarantee has been entered into but only
to the extent that the underlying debt is outstanding;
(c)   the term "net cash revenue" means gross operating revenue from all
sources, adjusted to take account of the Rgie's tariffs in effect at the time of
the incurrence of debt even though they were not in effect during the entire fiscal
year or twelve-month period to which such revenues relate, less all operating
expenses, including adequate maintenance, taxes, if any, and administrative
expenses, but before provision for depreciation and debt service requirements;
(d)   the term  "debt service requirements" means the aggregate amount of
amortization (including sinking fund payments, if any), interest and other charges
on debt; and
(e)   whenever in connection with this Section it shall be necessary to value
in the currency of the Borrower debt payable in another currency, such valuation
shall be made on the basis of the rate of exchange at which such other currency
is obtainable by the Rdgie, at the time such valuation is made, for the purposes
of servicing such debt or, if such other currency is not so obtainable, at the rate
of exchange that will be reasonably determined by the Association.
Section 4.04. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Rdgie
shall from time to time take all such measures, including but not limited to
adjustments of its tariffs, as are necessary to enable the Regie to generate revenues
sufficient to earn in its fiscal year 1976/77 and thereafter an annual rate of return
-of not less than 2% on its net fixed assets in operation.
(b)   For the purposes of this Section:
(i)         The annual rate of return shall be calculated by relating the
operating income for the year in question to the average of the
value of the net fixed assets of the Rdgie in operation at the
beginning and at the end of each year.


﻿8
(ii)        The term  "value of net fixed assets in operation" shall mean
the gross book value of such assets, less the amount of
accumulated depreciation, both as valued from time to time in
accordance with sound and consistently maintained methods of
valuation acceptable to the Association.
(iii)       The term "operating income" shall mean the difference between:
(A)   gross operating revenue accruing from the Regie s services;
and
(B)   the operating and administration expenses, taxes (if any)
and adequate maintenance and depreciation but excluding
interest and other charges on debt.
Section 4.05. Until the Project shall have been completed, the Regie shall
not, without the prior approval of the Association, commit itself to any capital
expenditures not required under the Project exceeding in the aggregate for any
fiscal year of the Rdgie an amount equivalent to two hundred fifty thousand dollars
($250,000) or relating to any individual capital item estimated to cost the equivalent
of one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000) or more.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Association and the Regie shall cooperate fully to assure
that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the Association
and the R6gie shall from time to time, at the request of either party, exchange
views through their representatives with regard to the performance of their
respective obligations under this Agreement, the administration, operations and
financial condition of the Rggie and other matters relating to the purpose of the
Credit.
Section 5.02. The Association and the Regie shall promptly inform each
other of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the performance by either of them
of its obligations under this Agreement, the performance by the Borrower and
the R6gie of their respective obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement,
or which shall increase or threaten to increase materially the estimated cost of
the Project.


﻿9
Section 5.03. The Rgie shall enable the Association's representatives to
inspect all plants, sites, works, properties and equipment of the Regie and any
relevant records and documents.
ARTICLE VI
Modification of 1966 Project Agreement
Section 6.01. Section 2.10 of the 1966 Project Agreement is amended by
the deletion of the provisions thereof and the substitution therefor of the provisions
of Section 4.04 of this Agreement.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 7.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date
upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 7.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and
of the Rgie thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)        the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)       a date twenty-five years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with
its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the
Association shall promptly so notify the Rdgie of this event.
Section 7.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the Development
Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE VIII
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 8.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated


﻿10
by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
For the R6gie:
R6gie des Chemins de Fer du S6ndgal
Thies
S6n6gal
Cable address:
Fersenegal
Thies
S6n6gal
Section 8.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf
of the Rdgie may be taken or executed by the Director of the Rdgie or such
other person or persons as he shall designate in writing.
Section 8.03. The Rdgie shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence
of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the person or persons
who will, on behalf of the Rdgie, take any action or execute any documents required
or permitted to be taken or executed by the Rgie pursuant to any of the provisions
of this Agreement.


﻿11
Section 8.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and delivered in the District of Columbia, United States
of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Mohamed Shoaib
Vice President
REGIE DES CHEMINS DE FER DU SENEGAL
By /s / Andr6 Coulbary
Authorized Representative


﻿12
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement
1.    Except as otherwise provided below, with respect to any contract for
equipment and materials included in Category I, II or III of the allocation of the
proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan as set forth in Schedule 1 to the
Development Credit Agreement, or for works included in Category II of such
allocation, estimated to cost the equivalent of $30,000 or more:
(a)   Before bids are invited, the Regie shall furnish to the Association, for
its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and other
bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures to
be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedure as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence
before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Regie shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of
the bidder to whom it intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the
Association, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation
and comparison of the bids received, together with the reasons for the intended
award. The Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would be
inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in Section 2.04 of this
Agreement, promptly inform the Regie and state the reasons for such determination.
(c)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked.
(d)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of any such contract.
2.    With respect to any other contract for the procurement of items referred
to in paragraph 1, the Rgie shall furnish to the Association, promptly after its
execution and prior to the submission to the Association of the first application
for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of any such contract,
two conformed copies of such contract, together with the analysis of bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the Association shall
reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines that the award of the


﻿13
contract is not consistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in Section
2.04 of this Agreement, promptly inform the Rdgie and state the reasons for such
determination.
3.    For the purpose of evaluating bids for cement required by the Rdgie for
purposes of Part A of the Project and included in Category I of the table set
out in paragraph I of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement, bid prices
shall be determined and compared in accordance with the following rules:
(a)   the term  "Local Bid" means a bid submitted by a manufacturer
established in the territories of the Borrower for cement manufactured or processed
to a substantial extent (as reasonably determined by the Association) in such
territories; any other bid shall be deemed to be a "Foreign Bid";
(b)   the bid price under a Local Bid shall be the ex-factory price of the
cement; and
(c)   for the purpose of comparing any Foreign Bid with any Local Bid,
the bid price under a Foreign Bid shall be the sum of the following amounts:
(i)         the c.i.f. (landed) price of the cement; and
(ii)       the amount of any taxes on the importation of cement into
the territories of the Borrower which generally apply to
non-exempt importers, or 15% of the amount specified in (i)
above, whichever shall be the lower.
4.    Works included in Categories I and III of the allocation of the proceeds
of the Credit and of the Loan shall be carried out by the Rdgie directly.
5.    Procurement of ballast, sand and aggregate required for Part A of the Project
and included in Category I of the allocation of the proceeds of the Credit and
of the Loan may be procured locally by competitive bidding and in accordance
with the Borrower's usual procedures for governmental procurement.


﻿14
SCHEDULE 2
Plan of Action
1.   Introduction
The physical and financial rehabilitation of the Regie has been of concern
to the Borrower.
It is the aim of the Borrower to enable and assist the Regie to carry out
the physical rehabilitation of the Railways and to achieve a sound financial position
that will permit the Rggie, out of internally generated funds, to meet all of its
operating expenses (including adequate maintenance and depreciation) and debt
service obligations, and to make a contribution towards its investment needs. The
Borrower and the Regie intend to implement the following measures with the
objective of enabling the Regie to continue to fulfill its appropriate economic role
in an increasingly competitive environment and to achieve financial equilibrium.
2.    Adjustment of Personnel Expenses
(a)   The Regie recognizes that the proportion of direct personnel expenses
to total working expenses is out of line with that experienced in similar railway
systems. Therefore, the Regie will devise a five-year personnel program
(1972/73-1976/77) which will lead to a gradual reduction of the proportion of
direct personnel expenses to total working expenses, to about 64% by the Regie's
fiscal year 1976/77.
(b)   For purpose of the above, "direct personnel expenses" means total
personnel expenses less pension payments, the cost of training, transport of
personnel, medical services and other fringe benefits, and "working expenses" means
all operating expenses less depreciation and interest on debt.
3.    Tariffs and Rates
(a)   The Regie will set rates and fares in such a way that no rate or fare
shall be set below the incremental cost of providing the relevant service, or so
high as to divert to or fail to regain from other modes of transport any traffic
which the railways are able to carry at the lowest economic cost.
(b)   The Rdgie will introduce modifications to its existing tariff system
in accordance with the recommendations of the Regie's consultants in a report
dated October 1971, and will introduce selective rate adjustments in its tariffs


﻿15
leading to an overall increase in average revenue per ton-kilometer from about
CFAF 5.0 to not less than CFAF 5.5 by the second quarter of the Rdgie's fiscal
year 1972/73.
4.    Uneconomic Branch Lines
(a)   It is recognized that the Regie has branch lines of low traffic density
which appear to make an inadequate contribution toward the overhead expenses
relative to such lines. The Regie will undertake a detailed study with regard to
the economic and financial viability of its branch lines referred to below, in order
to determine whether satisfactory financial results can be obtained by rationalizing
services, or if this is not possible, by partially or totally eliminating some services,
some stations or an entire line. The lines to be studied are the following:
Tivaouane         -     St. Louis
Louga             -     Linguere
Diourbel          -     Touba
Guinguineo        -     Kaolack
(b)   Promptly after completion of such study but in any event by a date
not later than June 30, 1973, or such later date as shall be agreed to by the
Association, the Regie will enter into consultations with the Borrower and the
Association regarding the possible elimination of services, stations or lines found
to be uneconomical or financially non-profitable.
(c)   Should the Borrower deem     it necessary for the Rdgie to maintain
non-profitable lines, stations, or services after June 30, 1973, the Borrower will
reimburse the Regie's losses in respect thereof. A methodology will be determined
and mutually agreed upon between the Regie, the Borrower and the Association
leading to the identification of such losses and the terms of reimbursement.
5.    Depreciation
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Regie will:
(i)         complete the revaluation of its fixed assets by June 30, 1973,
in accordance with the recommendations of the Regie's
consultants in a report entitled "Prix de Revient et Politique
Tariftire" dated October 1971;


﻿16
(ii)        calculate depreciation of its fixed assets on the basis of such
revaluation and in accordance with the rates of depreciation
recommended by the Rdgie's consultants in Annex 3 of the
report referred to in paragraph (i);
(iii)       incorporate such depreciation in its accounts for its fiscal year
1973/74 and thereafter; and
(iv)        revise the value of its fixed assets, and recalculate depreciation
from time to time, in accordance with sound and consistently
maintained methods of valuation acceptable to the Association.
6.    Operations
(a)   The Regie will on the basis of the recommendations of its consultants,
take all necessary steps to improve its operating efficiency and to achieve the
following targets by its fiscal years 1973/74 and 1975/76:
Specific Operating Objectives              1970/71    1973/74   1975/76
Locomotive-km per day per locomotive                286       290        290
in stock
Wagon-km   per day per wagon in stock                70         80        90
Availability of diesel locomotives (%)               70         80        85
Availability of freight cars (%)                     80         85        85
Availability of railcars (%)                         70         85        95
Average load of freight car (other                   18         23        28
than phosphate and service)
Turnaround freight car time per year:
National traffic                               66         80        96
Mali traffic                                   30         40        50
Staff productivity (Traffic units                   171       203        233
per '000 employees)


﻿17
(b)   The Regie will establish a system of control to be agreed with the
Association that will permit prompt evaluation of progress in the physical and
financial rehabilitation of the Railways and in the attainment of the targets referred
to in paragraph (a) above.
7.    Operating Targets
(a)   The Regie will, from time to time, take all necessary steps to achieve
an operating ratio of not more than 100% in its fiscal year 1973/74, 95% in its
fiscal year 1974/75, and 91% in its fiscal year 1975/76.
(b)   For purposes of the above, "operating ratio" means total operating
and administration expenses, tLaxes (if any) and adequate maintenance and
depreciation but excluding interest and other charges on debt, divided by gross
operating revenue accruing from the Rdgie's services.
8.    Railway Investment Program
The Regie will prepare in consultation with the Borrower and the Association
and by a date not later than June 30, 1973, or such later date as shall be agreed
to by the Association, an investment program covering the period of the Fourth
Four-Year Investment Plan 1973/74-1976/77, based on sound technical, financial
and economic criteria aimed at continuing and completing the physical and financial
rehabilitation of the Railways initiated during the Second and Third Four-Year
Investment Plans 1965/66-1968/69 and 1969/70-1972/73.


