Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
g                                   Zl W I - 
Repon No. 8547-EG
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
EQUATORIAL GUINEA
CROP DIVERSIFICATION
AND AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
SEPT14BER 14, 1990
Agriculture Operations
Occidental and Central Africa Department
This docoment has a restneted distlbudtion and may be used by midpiets only in the perfonnane of
their officall dulies. Its contents may not otherw¡ise be disclosed wilhout Woxld Bk autho on.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Curoency Unitt      CFA Franc (CFAF)
US31.0                   =  CFAF 286 aJ
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB    u  Afrícan Development Bank
AES     -  Agricultura Extension Service
BADEA   = Banque Arabe de Developpement Economique en Afrique
BARS    =  Basic Applied Research Structure
BCD     =  Banco de Crédito y Desarrollo
BEAC    =  Banque des Etate de l'Afrique Central*
BIAO    =  International Bank for West Africa
CAMARA  =  Camara de Comercio Agrícola y Forestal
CCCE    =  Ca;sse Centrale de Coopération Economique
CFAF    =  Frane of the African Ftnanclal Community
CL.USA   =  Cooperative League of the United States of America
CRP     =  Cocos Rehabilítation Project
DOCEC   = Dlrección General de Capacitación, Extensión y Fomento Cooperativo
EEC     =  European Economic Commun;ty
EMIS    =  Extens;on Service Manag.ment Information System
EQG     =  Equatorial Guinea
FAC     =  Fonds d'A;de et de Cooperation
FAO     =  Food and Agri¡cu  ure Organization of the Un;ted Nations
FED     =  Fond Europeen de Développement
GTZ     =  Gesellschaft fur Technische Zusammenarboit
IDA     =  International Development Aseociation
IDEPA   =  Instituto de Desarrollo y Promoción Agrícola
IFAD    =  International Fund for Agricultural Dev.lopment
IMF     =  International Monetary Fund
MALFF   =  Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock, Fisheries and Forestry
NGO     =  Non Covernmental Organization
OFA     =  Organización de Fomento Agrícola
OPEC    =  Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
PCR     =  Project Completion Report
PPF     =  Project Preparation Facility
RIC     =  Rehabil;tation Import Credit
SAC     =  Servicio de Ahorros y Crédito
SAL     =  Structural Adjustment Loan
SDR     =  Special Drawing Rights
SuS     =  Subject Matter Specialist
SOE     =  Statement of Expenditure
STCP    =  Spanish Techn;cal Cooperation Program
TAP     =  Technical Asaistance Project
T&V     a  Training and Visit System
UDEAC   =  Union Douaniere des Etate de l'Afrique Central,
UNCDF   =  United Nationa Cooperative Dev-lopment Fund
UNDP    =  United Nationa Development Program
UNICEF  =  United Nations Children's Fund
UNV     = United Nationa Volunteer
USAID   =  United States Agency for International Development
VEW     =  Village Extension Worker
WFP     =  Worid Food Progream
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
el The exchange rato of the CFA Franc (CFAF) is fixed st 50:1 with
the Fr-nch Franc, which is a floating currency.



EQUATORIAL GUINEA                 FOR OmFlCL USE ONLY
CROP DIVERSIFICATION AND AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
DOCUMENTS CONU.JINED IN THE PROJECT FILE             .. .         .1........    ii
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMM4ARY .......................................    iv
1. INTRODUCTION            ................                               .      1
II.  THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR.                                                    3
Main Features                            .                              3
Major Constraints to Growth             .....
Institutional Environment                   . ....    5
Financial Institutions....                                             7
Government Policies and Strategy....                                   8
IDA's Sector Strategy and Experience.                   ...            8
Cocoa Rehabilitation Project....                                       9
III. THE PROJECT .10
A. Project Rationale and Objectives   .               .10
B. Summary Project Description    ..10
C. Project Area   ..11
D.  Rationale for IDA and IFAD Involvement   .           .11
E.  Detailed Description of Project Activities  .           .12
1. Policy Reforms   .                    .12
2. Project Investments   .                 .13
a. Marketing .13
b.  Agricultural Extension and Applied Research .    16
c. Institutional Development .19
IV.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .21
Project Organization and Management   .              .21
Training ....       ..  ...................................    21
Technical Assistance    ..22
Project Planning and Budgeting    .               .22
Project Preparation Facility.                                         23
This report is based on the findings of a joint IDA/FAO-CP appraisal mission
which visited the country from November 8-28, 1989, consisting of Robert
Bronkhorst (Mission Leader), Betty Hanan, (IDA), Jorge Rincón (FA0/CP),
Francisco Linker (Government Advisor), Juan Morelli and Thomas McCarthy
(Consultants). Lorenz Pohlmeier and Guillermo Almada (IDA), Aurel Borlestean
(Consultant) and Marco Cambellotti (IFAD Consultant) participated part-time.
Secretarial support was provided by Florence Dalencour.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. ¡ts contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



(1i)
Y.   PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING ..... ........ * ............. *   23
Cost Estimates ....... *#...... .........* ..   .....   23
Fl anclug ....................................    24
Procurem_nt ..... ....*..........   ..........   25
Project and Cpecíal Accounts            ......   26
Disbursements ............................. ....   26
Accounte and Audíts .............. ............   27
Project Kmpact on MALFF's Budget ......... *.....   27
VI.  PROJECT JUSTIPICATION AND RISKS ...     ..    .......   27
Incremental Production .................27
Overall Benefits .......    . ..............   29
Economlc Rate of Return. .................    30
Project Risks . ........ .....................   30
Euvironmental IUWact    .............             31
VII.   AGREEENTS AND RECOMMENDATION .......................  32
AN,ES
1    Credit
2    Extension Organization and Methodology
3    Applied Research
4    Road and Ferry Rehabilitation and Malutenance
5     Institutional Development
6    Agricultural Development Organization
7    Project Implementation - Organization Chart
6    Teras of Reference for Technical Assistance
9    Economic Analysis
10   Project Cost Sunmary
11    Suumary Account by Project Component
12   Financing Plan by Disbursement Category
13   Implementation Schedule and Supervision Plan
14   Disbursement Estimate
MAN: IBRD No. 22225



(iii)
EQUATOR1AL GUINEA
CROP DIVERSIFICATION AND AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
DOCUMENTS CONTAINED IN THE PROJECT FILE
A.    STAFP WORKING PAPERS
1. Marketing - PAO/CP
2. Agriculture Credit - FAOICP
3. Cooperative Development - Landell Mills Associates
4. Cooperative Development - IDA
5. Agr.culture Extension - Government
6.  Production Data
7. Farm Budgets
8. Economic Analysis
9. Detailed Cost Tables
B.    DOCUMENTS AND REPORTS
1. Bioko Land Utilization Study
2. Etude des possibilites d'exportation de produits agricoles
3. Agricultural Sector Review, Report No. 7928-EG (Green Cover):
October 1989



(iv)
EQUATORIAL GUINEA
CROP DIVERSIFICATION AND AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrover:         Republic of Equatorial Guinea
Beneficiary:      Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock,
Fisheries and Forestry (MALFF)
Amount:           SDR 4.7 million (US$ 6.3 million equivalent)
Terms:            Standard IDA terms. with 40 years maturity
Onlendinz Terms:  11Z from the Central Bank to OPA and 182 (to be modified
yearly, as necessary in consultation with IDA) from OFA to
farmers.
Proiect
Descriptions      The project aims at increasing rural incomes and foreign
exchange earnings by import substitution and promoting
private sector export marketing over a five-year period.
The project will accomplish this through a combination of
policy reforms and investments to: alleviate malnutrition
of the rural population by raising production, strengthening
agricultural research and extension services, and supporting
the organization of farmers and traders, including vomen.
The policy reforms will cover: (a) $mproving price
incentives through reforms of cocoa pricing and the taxation
system; (b) restructuring marketing and input supply systems
of the traditional export sub-sector; and (c) preparing and
implementing programs aimed at removing technical
constraints on higher cocoa output, including uncertainties
over land tenure. Proiect investments wvll comprise three
components:
(a)  marketing, which will depend primarily on private
initiative, wi'1 consolidate and increase the profitability
of traditional export crops, expand markets for food crops
exports, and promote non-traditional exports to new markets;
(b) aRricultural extension and applied research vill furnish T&V
based extension services to farmers supported by demnand-
driven applied research, with the immediate objective of
increasing the availability of diversified food crops for
domestic consumption and export. The component vill promote
better linkages between extension and research and develop
mechanisms to promote a two-vay flow of information between
extension, research and farmers; and
(c)   institutional development will help sustain project
accomplishments by creating incentives for private sector
investment, building national research and extension



(v)
management and traingn8 capabilities, and ensuring that
project activities support farmer and trader organizations
and address the needs of women farmera.
Estimated Proiect Costs
Local    Forelan    Total      2 of
-(US$ million) -             Base Cost
Technical Assistance          0.0        3.7       3.7        24.2
Vehicles                      0.1        0.7       0.8         5.2
Equipment                     0.1        1.7       1.8        11.8
Civil Works                   0.1        1.2       1.3         8.5
Credit                        0.4        0.7       1.1         7.2
Diversification Fund          0.0        0.3       0.3         2.0
Training and StuAies          0.1        1.4       1.5         9.8
Operation and Masntenance    0.9         2.3       3.2        20.9
Incremental Salaries          1.6        0.0       1.6        10.4
Total Base Costs            3.3      12.0       15.3       100.0
Physical Contingencies      0.2        0.8       1.0         6.5
Price Contingencies         0.5        1.2       1.7        11.1
Total Project Costs         4.0       :4.0      18.0       117.6
Financing Plan 1/
Local     Foreian      Total
-(--  US$ million) ------
Government               1.3         0.0       1.3
IDA                      1.1         5.2       6.3
IFAD                     1.2         3.8       5.0
BADEA                    0.0         3.9       3.9
OPEC                     0.4         1.1       1.5
Total                    4.0        14.0      18.0 1/
Estimated Disbursements of IDA Credit
IDA Fiscal Year
91     92     93      94     95     96      97
-----------------(US$ million) ---------------
Annual         0.7 21 1.1    1.3    1.3    1.1    0.7    0.1
Cumulative     0.7    1.8    3.1    4.4    5.5    6.2    6.3
/1 In addition the WFP will contribute US$1.0 million equivalent through ite
"food for work" program.
21 It includes a PPF of US$0.67 million



(vi)
Benefits and Risks
Increasing agricultural exporta is the countrygs only short-term
option for economic recovery. The project will help alleviate rural poverty,
improve nutrition and food security, and raise foreign exchange earnings by
import substitution and by increasing the production and export of traditional
and non-traditional crops. The project will also increase the agricultural
productivlty of rural women, which represent 55Z of the rural population in
the country, and improve land use and soil conservation practices. It vill
build sustainable farmer service institutions ~hile project-financed applied
research and extension activities will contribute to production increases.
Continued quality control and marketing improvements vill ensure improved
cocoa earnings. At the same time, increased exports of diversified crope,
including food crops, will reduce the country's historical dependence on cocoa
exporta. The opening of new markets will create incentives for private
investment by individuals and by small farmer and trader organizations, in
which women vill be heavily represented. Improved land use and agricultural
production practices will support farmer organization &ad help secure women's
access to land. Increased incomes and the production of diversified food
erope vill improve nutrition levels in the country. In the Continental
Region, about 4,000 rural families and on Bioko about 3,000 rural families
vill benefit directly from marketing activities under the project. Improved
technology as a result of strengthened extension service vill benefit, in a
relatively short period, the country's entire rural population of over 35,000
rural families; research resulta in the cocoa sector vill, in the medium to
long-term, benefit the majority of the rural families on Bioko. In addition,
the increase in food production and the direct participation of women in
extension activities will directly benefit women as an important labor force
in crop production and as heads of rural households. Additional benefits viii
derive from the training of local staff and the strengthening of farmer
organizatione.
J4ajor risks will relate to: (a) ineffective extension programa and
lack of coordination of donor-financed extension and applied researchs (b) low
adoption of research findings; and (c) a lack of private sector response to
production and export marketing incentives. Research and extension risks as
vell as the posíille low adoption of research findinga will be reduced by
introducing proven T&V extension methods, adapting those methods carefully to
country conditions, linking research and extension planning to demonstrated
market demand, supporting coordination of extension and research activities
among donor-financed projects and providing technical assistance and training
to strengthen Ministry management capabilities. Both production and marketing
will be further supported by project-financed farmer and trader organization
work. Additional incentives for private initiative vill include the
establishment of marketing information services, the provision of training to
farmer and trader organizatione, and the construction/rehabilitation of needed
transportation infrastructure.
Economic Rate of Return: 21Z
Map: IBRD No. 22225



(vii)
EQUATORIAL GUINEA
CROP DIVERSIFICATION AN> AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
KEY FEATURES OF THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
1. PoDulation                                              Unit    Total
Total (1987 estimates)                                 '000    390.0
Rural as Percentage of Total cl                        '040    224.6
Rural Familles cl                                      '000      34.6
2.  Economic Overview
GNPIHead of Total Population (1987 estimates) b/                n.a.
Agriculture GNP as Z of Total (1988 estimates)           S       58.0
GNP Per Capita (1987 estimates) cl                      UF$    410.0
3.  Land Use
Land Area                                              '000      28.0
Perennial Crops                                       ha '000   65.0
Annual Crope                                             ha     n.a.
4. Outnuts
Timber (1989)                                           m3     185.3
Cocoa (1989190)                                        tons       7.9
Coffee (1988)                                      -   Tons       0.7
5.  InDuts
Copper 8ulphate                                                 n.a.
Lime                                                            n.a.
6.  Trade (1987 estimates) cl
Total Ezports (FOB)                                    US$M     38.7
Of *ich agricultural exporte                         US$1     27.5
Total Imports (CI?)                                    US$M     50.1
Trade Balance                                          US$1     11.4
7. Governnent Exuenditures
Total Government Budget (1990)                        CPAFM  8,028.0
Of which Agriculture                                CFAR     247.0
Percentage of Total Budget                            S        3.0
al Bank Atlas
b/ World Bank estimates
cf Ministry of Economy, Commerce and Plan



EQUATORIAL GUINEA
CROP DIVERSIFICATION AND AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01        Equatorial Guinea, a former overseas province of Spain, became
independent in October 1968. With a total area of 28,000 km2, the country is
situated on the southern corner of the Gulf of Guinea. It consists of two
parts: Continental Guinea (26,000 km2) and Insular Guinea (2,000 km2).
Continental Guinea, named Rio Muni, is bordered by Cameroon to the North and
by Gabon to the South and East. Rio Muni is covered with about 2.2 million ha
of forests, has fragile and highly acid soils, and az equatorial climate with
two short dry seasons. Timber extraction is the principal economic activity
followed by coffee and some cocoa production. Insular Guinea comprises five
islands; Bioko (formerly Fernando Poo), home of the capital Malabo, and four
smaller islands: Corisco, Grand Elobey, Little Elobey and Annobon. Bioko and
Annobon are volcanic islands. Bioko has fertile land and an equatorial
climate, favorable for most tropical crups. Prior to independence, the
Spaniards concentrated on cocoa production which has remained the principal
economic activity on the island. Malabo is situated 250 km from Bata, the
principal city of the coast of the mainland, making communications and
administration difficult.
1.02        When Equatorial Guinea became independent from Spain in 1968, its
per capita income was one of the highest in Sub-Saharan Africa. During the
following 11 years, the country passed through a particularly difficult period
under the dictatorial Macias regime. Following the change of regime in 1980,
the Government has undertaken major efforts to reverse the decline of the
country's economy and to develop political, legal and economic stability as a
basis for the resumption of economic growth. In 1984, Equatorial Guinea
became a member of the Customs Union of the Central African States (UDEAC).
The currency was replaced by the CFA franc in 1985, when the country joined
the Bank of Central African States (BEAC). The Government launched a more
appropriate economic program which emphasized improvements in fiscal and
external debt management, efforts to restructure the financial system,
increases in producer prices to stimulate production and exports, and
abolition of administrative control of consumer prices. In support of the
program, the country benefitted from a 12-month IMF Standby covering the
periou July 1985-June 1986. The Standby vas suspended in December 1985
because of slippages in the reduction of external arrears.
1.03        Joining BEAC and adopting the CFA franc with an appropriate
parity, removed the constraints that an overvalued and inconvertible currency
had placed on the country's trade and payments, while the measures contained
in the economic program began to lead the way for renewed economic growth
against a background of better prospects for financial stability and reduced
pressures on the balance of payments. However, while the introduction of the
CFA franc restored sore degree of incentives to the growers, it could not
redress the previous erosion of cocoa income. The adoption of a convertible
currency as well as the liberalízation of pr'cing and import regulations for
consumer goods led to a rapid expansion in the trade sector, both wholesale



and retail.  On average, value-added of the   rtiary sector expanded by 6.32
in constant prices during this period.  In 1985, consumer prices increased
sharply as a result of the change of currency but have been declining since
then, reflecting the increased availability of imported goods and improvements
in the marketing of food crops.
1.04        While the fiscal and balance of payments equilibria improved in
1985, development was less favorable than envisaged and new domestic and
external arrears emerged. Results in the external sector were also
disappointing. During early 1986 financial imbalances deteriorated and the
deficits in the fiscal sector and overall balance of payments led to further
accumulation of domestic and exter.al payments arreare. Moreover, acute
liquidity problems in the domestic banking system emerged which resulted in
severe financial strains. In a determined effort to reverse the deteriorating
trends in the economy, the Government adopted a policy reform program in mid-
1986 under an IDA-financed Rehabilitation Import Credit (RIC). On the fiscal
síde, during late 1987 and early 1988, the Government took important measures
to improve economic management, especially in the areas of expenditure
control, addressing the crisis of the banking sectúL, investment programming,
and improving the coliection rate for ,tport duties. Reflecting these
efforts, the Government prepared in mid-1988 a Policy Framework Paper (PFP),
which vas approved by the IMF and IDA in December 1988 ')ara.3.08). In
addition, Equatorial Guinea received support from the IMF through a first year
Structural Adjustment Facility (SAF) Program.
1.05        Since the approval of the PPP, the Governnient, IDA and the IMF
have discussed an appropriate macro-economic framework and a medium-term
structural adjustment program covering the period 1990-92. The broad
objective of the program will be to achieve an average GDP growth rate in real
terms of 3.5 to 4 percent per year over the 1990-92 period, while at the same
time containing inflation to an average annual level of 4 percent or less.
The emphasis of the adjustment program is on agricultural-led growth which
should improve rural incomes, and thereby help redre-:s urban-rural imbalances.
The program focuses on improving macroeconomic management (investment and
expenditure programming, domestic resources, and public debt man.gement),
reform of the civil service and public administration, structural changes in
the main agricultural export sectors and institutional changes in the
marketing and pricing systems. The Government believes that the impetus for
economic growth should come from the private sector and intends to create the
necessary conditions to attract on a continuous basis foreign skilled
manpower, capital and technology, as well as to provide appropriate incentives
for domestic investors. Consequently, the focus will be on generating a
favorable environment for private sector activity, withdrawing state activity
from production and trade. together with a public investment program that
emphasizes the rehabilitation of priority infrastructure. During the period
1986-89, the Government has already taken a number of in,portant measures to
promotc appropriate cocoa and forestry policies, restructure its public
investment program and better control budgetary expenditures.
1.06        By creating the right policy environment, the proposed project
will contribute toward filling the gap between current and potential
agricultural production. It will improve agricultural support services, which
have been neglected in the past; develop small farmer organizations as the



- 3 -
major vehicle for lncreasing production; develop market outlets, which will
depend prímarily on private initiative$ and provide unsubsidized credit
services.  The estimated cost of US$18 million will be financed by Governrent,
IDA, the International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD>, the Arab Bank
for Economic Development (BADEA) and the Fund of the Organization of Petrole=
Exporting Countries (OPEC). The project was prepared jointly by the
Governrent, IDA and FAOICP staff. A study on exporte of non-traditional
export crops to neighboring countries vas undertaken under the IDA-financed
Technical Assistance Project. In addition, a Haster Plan of Resource
Utilizstion of the Island of Bioko was prepared with financing from the
Europemn Economic Coumission (EEC).
II. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Main Features
2.01        The main subsistence crops are cassava, cocoyam, plantain, banana,
fruits and vegetables. During the 70s, the country experienced a drastic
decline in food crop production under the Macias regime. Production has
recovered somevhat in recent years and vas estirated at some 137,000 tons in
1985.  It is assumr1 that of this mount about 3,000 tons are exported
informaliy from Continental Guinea mainly to Gabon.  Surveys on the
nutritional status of the population show that their caloric intake is some
35Z below normA daily requirement. The country continues to experience
periodic shortages of basic staples because of occasional erratic climatic
conditions.
2.02        The traditional export cormodities are timber, cocoa arl coffee.
Until 1987, cocoa was traditionally the country's most important agricultural
eommodity despite a drastic decline in production after independence (cocoa
production reached its peak of about 38,000 tons in 1968). Exports during the
19871e8 campaign were 8,200 tone, but decreased to about 6,200 tons in
1988/89, mainly due to adverse weather conditions. Total exports during the
1989/90 campaign reached 7,910 tons, of vhich 660 tone were exported from the
Continental Region.  The second most important export commodity used to be
coffee.  It vas grown mainly by smallholders on some 50,000 ha in Rio Muni and
on about 5,000 ha on 8ioko. Disorganized collection, forced labor, and low
producer prices combined to reduce production from about 9,000 tons per year
in the late 608 to about 700 tons in 1988. Timber, which ie abundant in the
country, has recently replaced cocoa as the most important commercial activity
in the sector. Forestry reserves, cover approximately 1.3 million ha and
represent the country's richest natural resource. About 500,000 ha are being
exploited. After a period of rapid expansion in 1986 and 1987, export volume
increasea by only 52 betveen 1987 and 1988, from 177,300 m3 to 186,200 m3.
2.03       The economy ie based alraost exclusively on agriculture (including
fisheries and forestry). In 1988, the sector accounted for 582 cf GDP and
employed 80Z of the labor force. Total export value was US$31.2 million, vith
timber contributing 602 (US$18.8 million), cocoa 312 (US$9.8 millior), and
coffee 32 (US$0.8 millíon). Paymente under the fisheries agreement with the
EEC are recorded 8s capital tranefers, not exports. As a result, the economy
is sensitive to developments in the international markets for these
comrodities as well as to variatlone in supply. The same le true on the



- 4 -
fiscal side; cocoa and forestry tax receipts, after the virtual disappearance
of cocoa taxes, represented 40Z of fiscal revenues in 1985, and 18% in 1987.
Major Constraints to Growth
2.04        Agricultural performance has been constrained by problems vith
agricultural sector management, institutions, policy analysis and formulation.
Shortages of managerial skills, inadequate remuneration of technical staff and
institutional capacity, have affected the delivery of key public services to
the sector, most importantly extension, research, credit and marketing.
Institutional responsibilities, strategies and policies are not well defined.
In MALFF, there is little evidence of sector or sub-sector planning, mainly
because the staff and resources needed to formulate strategies for the sector
and coordinate the implementation and administration of development plans,
programs and projects are minimal. Data on project status, implementation
schedules and project benefits are not monitored and analyzed to provide
decision makers with management information.  Reductions in the availability
of Government's funds often necessitate cuta in project funding. Without
adequate information on project performance and priorities, decisions on such
cuts are arbitrary. Project investments are generally based not so much on
development strategies as on proposala of external donors, who present
numerous project proposals without duly considering or even knowing the
sector's priorities or goals. This approach has resulted in a variety of
projects, which often are not mutually consistent, and which compete for
scarce local funding and management resources. (UNDP has estimated that 85%
of the investment budget and 552 of the recurrent budget are being financed by
external aid).
2.05        The causes of deficient project implementation capacity are wide-
ranging. They include both external and domestic factors. The country is
faced with a difficult economic policy environment, high energy prices, and
low international prices for its principal exports. These elements are having
profound effects on the national economy. The rapid appreciation of the CFAF
in the late 80s against the US dollar, has eroded the competitiveness of the
country's main agricultural exports. Decreased export revenues have sharply
reduced the Government's ability to sustain local funding leading to severe
cuts in the budget and to inadequate allocations of counterpart funds for
projects. Other major constraints such as severely limited management
capacity, a lack of commitment to project activities, and slov responses to
project implementation problems, have also affected sector performance. Tñese
phenomena are part and parcel of institutional weaknesses. Government
policies, procedures and regulations or lack of them in the areas of pricing,
marketing, procurement and credit have also contributed to poor sector
performance.
2.06        Availability of, and access to banking services and credit are
essential factors to sustain grow-th in the country's agricultural sector.
With only one commercial bank in operation (para 2.15), banking services are
excessively costly and credit is restricted to borrowers with major assets
abroad. Because of lack of informal savings or credit schemes in the country,
smallholders have to seek costly alternative arrangements through large
plantation owners or commercial export firms. Today, the IDA-financed Cocoa



Rehabilitation Project (CRP) ls the only source of formal credit for
independent cocoa producing smallholders (para 2.16).
2.07        Although the Govern=ent has introduced a number of policy measures
(para 1.02) aimed at revitalizing production and exports, the following
pervasive constraints remain: (a) sub-optimal production and processing
techniques; (b) inadequate technologies and dissemination of new technologies
because of weak research and extension services; (c) inadequate incentives for
producers, processors and exporters, including peor pricing policies and an
almost non-existent capacity to market products; (d) inadequate land tenure;
(e) poor maintenance of roads and lack of regular and affordable maritime and
air cargo transport; (f) weak agricultural credit and agricultural education;
and (g) lack of skilled labor.
Institutional Environment
2.08        Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock, Fisheries and Forestry
*MALFF). After a Government reorganization in mid-August 1989, the Ministry
of Agriculture, Livestock and Rural Development was merged with the Ministry
of Water and Forests. MALFF is responsible for overall agricultural,
fisheries and forestry policy, supervision and coordination of development
act'vLties, rural development, cooperatives, research and extension services.
However, as is true for most public institutions in the country, the Ministry
has virtually no equipment, vehicles or funds to support its operations.
Government funding of MALFF's activities is grossly inadequate. In 1990,
MALFF's total budget is CFAF 247 million or 32 of Government's total budgetary
expenditures of CFAF 8,028 million. Of this amount about 60% is allocated to
the capital budget as counterpart funds for externally financed projects.
With the remaining budgetary allocation, MALFF is expected to supervise and
coordinate approximately 20 externally financed development projects in the
agricultural sector with total expenditures in 1988 estimated at CFAF 2,200
million, in addition to its responsibility for overall sectoral strategy and
planning, extension, agricultural training and applied research. Execution of
development tasks is mainly carried out by area-based, donor-funded,
commodity-specific programs. As a result, development options have responded
more to donor preferences and funding availability than to national priorities
and budgetary constraints, and a mix of development approaches with
significant gaps and duplication of efforts has ensued.
2.09        SupPort Services.  While MALFF has primary responsibility for the
provision of the country's national support services, these services are weak.
Individual districts benefit from independent and isolated small integrated
rural development projects funded by various donors, effectively providing
such support services. While this is demonstration of the international
community's interest to support the development of the rural sector, these
efforts are a result of donors' unwillingness to channel resources through
central government services.  These projects are financed by UNDP. UNCDF, FAC,
FED, IFAD, STCP, USAID, GTZ, as well as other small NGOs and religious
organlzations. Most of these projects are located in the Continental Region
where the majority of the population lives. They focus on applied research on
food crops ae well as coffee and small livestock (para 2.12).



2.10        Extension Servíces.  The Agriculture Extension Servíce tAES)
created in 1981 is weak.  Donor-fínanced projecta resort to hlring their own
extension agents in their areas of operations. There are 18 district agencies
(13 in the Continental Region, four on the Island of Bioko and one on the
Island of Annobon) with one extension agent an¿. theoretically, a home
economist and an assistant extension agent.  In reality, the AES has a total
of 22 agents, of which 17 are men and fíve are vomen (home economists).  Thli
gives a ratio of only one extension agent to 1,550 families. The program of
the AES is theoretically vell planned and based on a system of visits aud
demonstrations, through which polyvalent extensíon workers carry specific
messages to farmera and farmer groupe.  In practice, its effectiveness has
been limited because of: fundíng constraints, lack of transport, loose
supervision, lack of built-in training programs, almost no linkage with on-
going applied research activities and lack of women extension workers to
better address food production constraints. At present, the AES receives
limited amounto of financial and technical support through the IDA-financed
Technical Assistance Project, UNICEF, UNIFEN, the Canadian Government and a
Baptist Mission.
2.11        ARricultural Research.  There is no research atation per se or
national policy on research and the country does not have the human resources
necessary to undertake a national research program. Research componente are
included in the varlous agricultural and rural development projects financed
by international agencies.  Their impact remains sub-optimal, however, as each
project works in isolation in its given region and there is little
coordination among projects.
2.12        However, important research work ls being undertaken through the
donor- financed projects in the following areas: (a) triala on cost-effective
methods of treating black pod disease and scuirrel control in cocoa; (b)
introduction of high yielding Robusta coffee clones from Cote d'Ivoire; (c)
introduction of high yielding varieties of food crops such as maize, covpea,
groundnuts, bananas, soybeans and horticultural crops from Gabon and Cameroon;
axnd (d) introduction of improved breeds of voultry and cattle for increased
resistance to disease and improved production.
2.13        Input Supply.  The demand and need for inputs vary extensively
from the island to the continent and from crop to crop. In the rich volcanic
soil of Bíoko, crops grow well without fertilizers. However, under the
island's high humid conditions, cocoa requires substantial protection against
Phytophthora, which causes black pod disease.  It is estiated that in 1987, a
fairly dry year, crop losses due to Phytophthora were 25-352. Due to the low
profitability of the crops, few inputs are used, except for the treatment of
Phytophthora on the laslar. However, in Continental Guinea, with acid soils,
fertilizers ahould be used to improve yields. Drier conditions on the
continent reduce the need for extensive treatment of diseases. Coffee
production on the continent would benefit extensively from fertilizers, and
more importantly, from appropriate treatment of the coffee berry disease and
cor.trol of stem borers, common on abandoned or neglected farms. The FAC-
financed project in Niefang is propagating cuttings from a more resistant
clone. The Calsse Centrale de Cooperation Economique has recently committed
its support to the coffee sub-sector through the flnancing of a project in the
Continental Region.



-  7  -
2.14        Agricultural Education.  In theory, the agricultural education
system in EQG is adequate. There is an Agricultural Training School in
Malabo, operational since 1983 and assisted by the Spanish Technical
Cooperation Program (STCP), which provides two years of specialized training
to individuals who have received high school diplomas. The curriculum is good
but limited on the practical side. In addition, a National School of
Agriculture was constructed in 1987 with financing from the African
Development Bank to provide on a regional basis university level training in
agriculture. After considerable delays because of problems in contracting
STCP-financed teachers, the school finally opened in September 1989. However,
financing of scholarships by donors for students from the region, continues to
be a problem because of the difficulty of targeting scholarship funds for
students in neighboring French speaking countries, who would have to spend
four years in EQG and study in Spanish. A privately operated program on the
continent, sponsored by the Salesian religious teaching order has been
successful in providing practical programs to rural youth in assisting the
youths to reintegrate into farming activities in their villages.
Financial Institutions
2.15        In 1986, the virtual collapse of the banking system left the
economy crippled in all its activities. As a result of mismanagement of
credit and de facto default on numerous outstanding loans, the two commercial
Banks operating after independence, the Credit and Development Bank (BCD) and
Guinextebank became insolvent and are now under liquidation (Annex 1). As of
June 1987, the International Bank for West Africa (BIAO), a private French
commercial bank, opened two branches in the country, but it operates its
credit under strict lending rules. The main borrowers are the comercial
firms, such as cocoa exporting firms and timber exporters, who can offer
assets abroad as collateral. The small and medium size farmers have no access
to this credit.
2.16        ARricultural credit for purchase of inputs for cocoa production is
available to independent cocoa smallholders only through the IDA-financed CRP
(para 2.25) at a present interest rate of 152. This rate has been reviewed
yearly In consultation with IDA and adjusted so as to maintain positive
levels. It is presently positive with price inflation running at about SZ.
Agricultural credit is also available to sharecroppers (parcelistas) through
private cocoa exporting firms at an official rate of 161, but with added
charges that represent an equivalent interest rate of 582 (Annex 1, para 14).
2.17        For coffee farmers, an important constraint to expanding
production is that support services do not exist. In the early 80s, a
UNCDFIFAO-executed project tried to provide credit to cooperatives and
individual coffee farmers. Although under that project a large stock of tools
and equipment was acquired, distribution to farmers largely failed and the
provision of nearly US$0.5 million in agricultural credit to farmers never
materialized. The major constraints in implementing this project were the
weak organization and structure of the participating agricultural
cooperatives, deficient marketing mechanisms, and the lack of counterpart
funding.



Government Policies and StrateRy
2.18        The Government's objectives in the agricultural sector are to
increase the profitabilíty of agricultural production, promote the marketing
and exporte of non-traditional exporte and raise the standard of living of the
rural population. To reach these objectives, the strategy adopted by the
Government and supported by IDA aima at: (a) improving price incentives
through the reform of the coffee and cocoa pricing and taxation systems; (b)
restructuring the marketing and input supply systems of the traditional export
subsectors, (c) preparing and implementing programs aimed at removing
technical constraints to higher cocoa output, including the uncertainties over
land property rights; (d) promoting the production of food crops sad non-
traditional exporte; (e) strengthening snd reorienting extension services to
serve the real needs of farmers; (f) developing on-farm testing of research
results and ensuring better linkages between research, extension and farmers;
and (g) '.mproving investment conditions to attract private investment in the
rural sector.
2.19        The investment strategy so far has been to finance area snd crop
development projects. These projects have their own organizational structures
and little provision has been made for sustaining their activities after
project completion. During the Round Table Conference of Agricultural Donors
held in Malabo in November 1989, MALFF stated that in the future, its strategy
will concentrate on the design of agricultural support service projecta with a
national perspective to ensure a harmonious approach to the provision of
services to farmers and to make them sustainable on the longer term.
IDA's Sectoa  StrateRy and Experience
2.20        Since the present Government came to power and international
assistance to the country was resumed, IDAIs agricultural strategy has been to
revitalize cocoa production and alleviate the critical shortage of skilled
manpower by training of staff. More recently, the strategy has been
complemented through policy analysis and recommendations reflected in the
Agricultural Sector Review. The Sector Review was discussed with the
Government in November 1989. The strategy for the sector vas discussed during
Round Table Conference of the Agricultural Sector. The strategy recognizes
that the country will continue to depend heavily on the agricultural sector
for its growth. It further recognizes that the potential for growth of the
sector is good since the country i9 rich in resources and unburdened by
population pressure. Although traditional exports have fared well over the
years, the world market outlook remains pessimistic for cocoa and robusta
coffee and somewhat stagnant for tropical woods. The strategy, therefore,
recognizes that the country's growth will rely on ita ability to increase
productivity and improve the quality of its traditional exports, as well as to
diversify its exports. With its favorable climate, varied sail conditions and
relatively inexpensive labor, the country has the potential to increase
exports substantially to neighboring countries and Europe.
2.21        Equatorial Guinea has numerous constraints to overcome.
Development must be viewed as a long-term process. Sustainable growth can
only be achieved through investment in human capital. Institutional
strengthening will be required so that basic services could be firmly



established to support the private sector. Basic investments in
infrastructure vill continue to be necessary, particularly for the evacuation
of production from rural areas to local markets and for export.
2.22        In the agricultural sector, IDA i8 financing a Cocoa
Rehabilitation Project and, through a Technical Assistance Project, l8
strengthening the analytical and planning capacity of MALPF, through the
provision of Agricultural and Forestry advisors.  The Five-Year lending
Program includes two agricultural projecte, the Crop Diversification and
Agricultural Services and the Forestry and Environnaent Conservation Projects.
Cocoa Rehabilitation Proiect
2.23        The main objectives of the project are to: (a) alleviate the
constraints which were adversely affecting production of cocoa; (b) establish
the necessary infrastructure to maintain the momentum of development in the
future, and (c) increase cocoa production in the project area and improve
qualíty control of cocoa beans.
2.24        The project has been successful in meeting the first two
objectives and partly the third one.  While the project has been successful in
improving the quality control of cocoa beans, the production targets projected
at appraisal have not been met because of over-optimistic projections
concerning size of holdings and number of participating farmers. The SAR
expected smallholder farms to increase to 5 ha compared to the actual average
size of 2.8 ha. Simílarly, the average size of medium and large estates has
been 50 to 752 respectively of appraisal estimates. The number of
participating farmers has been constrained by the stringent creditvorthiness
conditions established under the project in view of prior experience of poor
loan repayment (Annex 1). In view of these constraints, the targets were
redefined during the mid-term evaluation mission in November 1988.  Total area
to be rehabilitated/intensified was reduced to 3,000 ha or about 50Z of the
SAR projections. These targets are being met and vill probably be surpassed
by about 15Z in 1990191.
2.25        The project has been instrumental in improving the consistency of
the puality of the cocoa exported. At present, 902 of EQG cocoa is classified
as Grade 1, vhile 1002 of the cocoa exported by project's clients is grade 1,
receiving during the 1989190 cocoa campaign a premium in the world market.
This compares favorably with discounte of nearly 102 prior to the project.
The project has introduced an internationally accepted grading system, and
maintained strict supervision of quality control in storage, grading and
shipping. As a result, confidence in the countrv's caiacity to produce aood
ouality cocoa has been restored. In 1989/90, cocoa sales by the project vere
made in the London futures market at prices averaging CFAF 403/kg FOB
equivalent compared to CFAF 360/kg obtained in average by other exporters.
The price paid to project clients was CFAF 366/kg, compared to the official
price of CFAF 300/kg. The cocoa sold bv the pro¶ect was the onlv cocoa which
did not require a subsidy from the STABEX funds. In addition, the project has
been succesaful in establishing a viable credit system in an environment where
credit vas poorly administered and the poor management of credit had brought
the banking system to collapse. ?he project has had an average 982 credit
recovery, which by any standards ¡o a remarkable performance. In addition,



- 1Q -
the project has taken critical steps to bring comercial and credit activities
lnto full self-financing basis. This strategy vill materialize fully under
the proposed project. The project has also limited the declining
profitability per ha among clients despite steeply falling international
prices by reducing production costa.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Prolect Rationale snd Obiectives
3.01        The main objectives of the proposed project vill be to alleviate
rural poverty, improve famíly nutrition and food security. increase food
production, promote local food marketing and raise foreign exchange earnings
by import substitution and by promoting the export of traditional and non-
traditional crops, including food crops. The project vill increase the
agricultural productivity of rural women and improve land use and soil
conservation practices. Expected increases in foad crop production vill
achieve two complementary project objectíves, namely, improving fam family
food consumption snd nutrition levels and increasing the availability aud
varlety of food crops in local markets. By establishing private marketing
systems and building research and extension capabilities, the project vill
address major institutíonal constraints to further agricultural development.
By improving export earnings, the project vill generate the resources needed
to finance future investment and national services.
B.  Summary Proíect Description
3.02        The project aims at increasing rural incomes and foreign exchsuge
earninga by import subst<tution and promoting private sector export marketing
over a five-year period. The project will accomplish this through a
combination of policy reforms and investments to: alleviate malnutrition of
the rural population by raising production. strengthening agricultural
research and extension services, and supporting the organization of farmera
and traders, including vomen. The policv reforms vill cover: (a) improving
price incentives through reformas of cocos pricing and the taxation systemi (b)
restructuring marketing and input supply systems of the traditional export
sub-sector; and (c) preparing and implementing programs aimed at removing
technical constraints on higher cocoa outpuc, including uncertainties over
land tenure. Proiect investments vill comprise three componenta:
(a)   marketing, which will depend primarily on private initiative, vill
consolidate and increase the profitabiiíty of traditional export
crops, expand markets for food crops exporte, and promote non-
traditional exporta to new markets;
(b)   aRricultural extension and apolied research vill furnish T&V based
extension services to farmers supported by demand-driven applied
research, with the immediate objective of increasing the
availability of diversified food crops for domestic consumption
sad export. The component vill promote better linkages between
extension and research and develop mechanisma to promote a two-vay
flow of information between extension, research and farmers;



-  11  -
(c)   institutional development will help sustain project
accomplishments by creating incentives for private sector
investment, building national research and extension management
and trainina capabilities, and ensuring that project activities
support farmer and trader organizations and address the neede of
vomen farmers.
C. Proiect Area
3.03        The project's policy reforms will be national in scope.  Extension
and research activities supported by the project will benefit the entire rural
population of the country. The other investment componente vill cover two
separate project areas, situated respectively on Bioko and in the Continental
Region. On Bioko, the project will continue to develop the cocoa sub-sector
in areas ecologicaily best suited for this crop, while at the same time
promoting a crop diversification program in areas marginally suitable for
cocoa production. On the mainland, the project will focus on developing
production of foodcrops in the Cogo and Mbini Districts, which have a rural
population of some 25,500 persons and cover some 4,700 km2, and establish
marketing channels for exports to Gabon.  These two districts have an
important agricultural production potential and are favorably located in
respect to major food crop consumer markets in Gabon. The project will
support the development of domestic private sector marketing networks and
improvement of a marketing infrastructure, both internal and external by
estabiíshing marketing transport channels from the interior of the mainland
for domestic marketing and for exports to Gabon through Cogo and Akurenam.
D. Rationale for IDA and IFAD Involvement
3.04        IDA.  The project vill be consistent with the Gover=ment's
development priorities and IDA's lending strategy which aims at promoting
sustainable growth through increases in production and export earnings.
Support for export crops, particularly of food crops and other export
diversification crops, will be complemented by policy measures, which vill
create a better policy environment for exports. In addition, IDA is well
placed to help strengthen the extension and research services of MALFF as part
of its Africa Agricultural Service Initiative. The Project will cover an
important part of the country's agricultural development strategy and have a
significant impact on the entire sector.
3.05        Consistent with the strategy presented in the Agricultural Sector
Review, the project will use incentives such as land tenure reforms and rural
credit to increase the profitability of agricultural productivity by: (a)
encouraging farmers to cultivate in the most productive areas instead of
increasing the total area of production; (b) reducing through research the
cost of black pod treatment antd squirrel control; and (c) encouraging
intercropping to reduce costs of veeding and increase revenues from additional
production. The objective of these actions will be that farmers will become
sufficiently productive to profitably produce cocoa without subsidy. At the
same time, and under the crop diversification program, the removal of
subsidies will encourage farmers growing cocoa in marginal areas to diversify
out of cocoa into other crops vith good market prospects.



- 12 -
3.06        IFAD.  In the agricultural sector, IFAD is financing since 1986 an
Agricultural Development Project in the districts of Ebebiyin and Mongomo.
The objectives of the project are to assist Government in increasing the
production of food crops, livestock and coffee; improve family incomes;
upgrade the quality of rural living conditions; distribute agricultural tools,
construct village wells, provide agricultural research and extension, and
train local technicians. The proposed project will benefit from the valuable
experience gaíned by the on-going IFAD-financed project, the on-going IDA-
financed Cocoa Rehabilitation Project and other donor-funded projects. The
project vill provide an opportunity for rationalizing and strengthening
agricultural services including extension, research, input supply, credit and
marketing. The development of emallholder agriculture will depend on the
effective functioning of these services. The focus of the proposed rroject on
food production i8 a prime concern of IFAD, as is its orientation to the rural
poor and women. The rural population and areas to be covered by the project
contain substantial numbers of smallholder farmers, agriculture-dependent poor
whose incomes are substantially below those of urban groups and who have a
high degree of malnutrition. The focus of IFAD's financing in the Continental
Region will be on smallholders, the majority of whom are women, and on Bioko
on the near landless and landless. Consistent with IDA and IFAD objectives,
expected increases in food crop production will achieve two complementary
project objectives, improving farm family food consumption and nutrition
levels and increasing the availability and variety of food crops in local
markets.  Poor nutrit$on levels in the Continental Region are due, in large
part, to the lack of variety in farm family diets and not to absolute food
shortages. The project vill support improved nutrition in the Continental
Region through both quantitative and qualitative improvements in family diets.
Extension service activities, which will focus heavily on communications vith
women farmers, vill include explicit attention to family nutrition
improvement. Poor nutrition on Bioko results from a mix of income and food
availability factors. Bioko income levels will be increased directly by
raising the efficiency of small farmer cocoa production and opening new
markets to increase opportunities for profitable diversified crop production.
As on the mainland, the increased variety of food crops vill improve the
nutritional quality of diets. Similar efforts to encourage improved
nutritional dieta through home economists of the extension service will be
pursued on the Island.
3.07        Project benefits will center heavily on smallholder farmers, both
on Bioko and in the Continental Region. The main project objectives on Bioko
are to make cocoa production profitable for small farmers in areas appropriate
for this crop, and to induce small farmers to diversify out of cocoa in areas
marginal for that crop. Project beneficiaries in the Continental Region
consist entirely of small farmers, food crop producers, the majority of whom
are women.
E. Detailed Description of Proiect Activities
1. Policy Reforms
3.08        In line vith stated Government policies, a set of reforms will be
introduced in the agricultural sector. The Government has indicated ite
agreement to the principles of these policy reforma in a Policy Framework



- 13 -
Paper (PFP) prepared jointly by the Government and the staff of the Fund and
IDA. The PFP outlines the Government's objectives for the medium-term and
reflects agreemente reached between the Government and IDA and the IMF on the
adjustment program. The PFP was approved by the Executive Directors of both
the Bank and the Fund in December 1988. In the absence of a SAL, agricultural
policy reforms which are important to the succesa of the proposed project have
been made conditions in the Development Credit Agreement and vill be
implemented as part of project execution.   Agreement vas obtained at
negotiations that the following poiícy reformas will be implemented by the
project.  The Goverinent in consultation with IDA and IFAD will:
Mi)   continue to review the appropriate level of producer prices before
each cocoa campaign, taking into account world market conditions
and prices prevailing in neighboring countries (para 7.01 (c));
(íi) conduct annual reviews of cocoa export taxes (para 7.01 (d));
(iii) conduct annual consultation on the Public Investment Program (PIP)
for Agriculture (para 7.01 (e));
(iv)  vith the assistance of consultants, undertake a study o_ the land
tenure system of the Island of Bioko with special emphasis on the
rights and responsibilities of sharecroppers and on vays to
overcome obstacles to productivity and production increase (para
7.01 (f));
(v)   strengthen price incentives through reform of cocoa pricing
(reduction of marketing costs) and the taxation system (see (i)
and (ii) above) (para 7.01 (g>); and
(vi)  restructure the marketing and input supply systems of the
traditional export sub-sector, including simplification of export
procedures (para 7.01 (h)).
2.    Proiect Investments
(a)   Marketing Component
3.09        The marketing component will finance the implementation of the
project's marketing strategy aimed at promoting non-traditional commodities to
markets in neighboring countries, mainly Gabon and the export of high quality
cocoa to world markets. The private sector, including small farmera and
traders and the independent Agricultural Development Organization (OFA) (Annex
6), vill be responsible for the achievement of marketing objectives. The
project would create marketing incentives through the provision of marketing
information, assistance in developing OFA capabilities, and help to farmera to
organize themselves in agricultural organizations.
3.10        Export of Cocoa.  By introducing an internationally accepted cocoa
grading system, and strictly controlling its application, the ongoing CRP has
succeeded in regaining Equatorial Guinea's standing as a producer of high
quality cocoa. As a result, above world market prices are again being paid
for Bioko cocoa. The proposed project will continue improving cocoa quality,



- 14 -
emphasizing in particular the importance of cocoa fermentation, and
consolidating the confidence of international buyers in the quality of Bioko
cocoa. The major part of the island's cocoa iS exported by large commercial
firma and 222 of total export volume in 1989 was exported by the CRP.  CRP
achievemento vill be sustained and a basis for further small farmer
development on Bioko put into place by establishing a self-financing
Agricultural Development Organization to provide inputs, credit and savings,
and export marketing services (Annex 6). In addition, the project will
support grading and classification of cocoa produced in the Continental
Region.
3.11        Food crop marketing.  An IDA-financed marketing study carried out
in 1988 confirmed the existence of a lively across-the-border trade of food
crops, such as cocoyam, cassava, plantains, bananas, citrus fruits, etc,
between the mainland of EQG and neighboring countries.  It also identified the
demand for increased exports of those food crops, in particular to Gabon.  The
poor condition of the rural road system and river crossings connecting the
producing areas vith border trading zones, and inadequate transport systems
are the major constraints to further developing this across-the border-trade.
Local marketing and food crop exports will be promoted by financing the
rehabilitation of the Mbini-Cogo and the Evinayong-Acurenam trunk roads, and
the maintenance of rural feeder roads by rural communities through the Food
for Work Program of the WFP.  By removing these constraints in road and
transport systems, including the financing of a ferry to operate between
Akalayong in Equatorial Guinea and Cocoabeach in Gabon, and by supporting
private investment to create a proper trading infrastructure, the project vill
promote an export corridor of non-traditional commodities through Cogo to
Gabon. These actions will complement a similar development action by EEC,
which financed and put into operation in April 1990 a ferry across the Benito
River, thus providing the first link in the proposed export corridor,
connecting Mbini with Bolondo.
3.12        Crop diversification programs on Bioko and project efforts to
increase production on the mainland will be supported by the provision of
marketing information to the extension service and farmera and by market
research aimed at opening new markets for non-traditional export crops,
including crops not currently grown in Equatorial Guinea. Potential markets
exist already for high value exports to the EEC.
3.13        An Agricultural Development Oraanization (OPA) will be established
and managed as an independent, self-financing entity to support small and
medium-size farmer and farmer organizations export marketing, and provide
unsubsidized input supply, credit and savings, and marketing services to all
sectors of the economy with a natural emphasis on the agricultural sector.
OFA will be established on Bioko with representation in the Continental
Region. At negotiationa, the Government and IDA agreed on the draft atatutes,
which are to be approved by Presidential decree. OFA will be constituted
according to the existing laws and banking legislation of EQG. At
negotiations, it was agreed that OPA will be established legally before Credit
Effectiveness (para 7.02 (c)). Credit services currently furnished through
the CRP are the only source of banking services for small farmers on Bioko,
and cannot be replaced in the absence of comercial or other banks able to
serve this demonstrably credit-worthy clientele. Credit activities under the



- 15 -
proposed project vill be expanded to promote diversification by supporting
non-traditional 3xports. At appraisal, it vas determined that properly-
managed OEA credit and savings services vould be self-financing by the end of
PY4 (Annex 1). These services vill operate vithout subsidy, vith
commercially-determined interest rates, and without targeting of credit.
Initial equity and operating capital will be provided by the Government, from
CRP balances. First-time borrowers will be encouraged to purchase equity in
OFA, while established clients vill be required to purchase equity in OFA as a
requirement for further lending, gradually increasing private-sector ownership
of the undertaking. OFA vill develop and operate these services over the
project period, with provision for their eventual transformation into a bank
and/or credit union when conditions are appropriate (Annex 1).
3.14        Por the provision of credit three options were studied at
appraisal:
(a)   establishment of a credit service vithin BIAO-GE.  This
alternative proved unfeasible because of the credit policy adopted
and maintained by this institution (Annex 1);
Cb)   conversion of the CRP Agricultural Credit Departnent (DCA) into an
mApexm bank to serve as the embryonic financial institution to
support a cooperative system. Although this might be feasible in
the long term, it is not so at the moment because Equatorial
Guinea does not, as yet, have a cooperative system on wvich it
could be based. Such a system will first have to be developed aud
this will take several years, probably longer than the expected
project implementation period; and
(c)   establishment of a Savinge and Credit Service <SAC) vithin an
Agricultural Development Organization, to provide these services
and eventually to become the UApexU Bank referred to above.
Credit and savinge services will not be targeted and vill be open
to all eligible clients. This alternative meets the project's
needa, is consistent vith the Bank's criteria, aud vill build on
CRP's excellent credit experience (para 2.25). In addition, it
fill a financial void in the country, and can be implemented
immediately.
3.15        The Saving sand Credit Service will have the following general
characteristics:
(a)   its credit services will be available to those sectors which do
not have access to other credit with a natural emphasis on the
agricultural, forestry and fisheries sectore;
(b)   as far as agriculture is concerned, all farmers vill have acceso
to credit, whether as individuals, groups or cooperatives. The
discipline characterizing CRP's credit operations will be
maintained;



- 16 -
(c)   SAC will be empowered to mobilize rurzl and other domestic
resources through savings deposits ard the rediscounting of credit
operations throt"h BEAC (this facilt .y is at present unused);
(d)   it will apply the borroving and lending ratee currently in effect
in the country, without introducing any distortions or
preferential rates;
(e)   it will be financially viable. require no subsidy, and will show a
profit from the third year of operation,
(f)   in all respecta, it vill comply with the banking legislation of
the country (Decree No. 2, 1987); and
(g)   no additional financial resources will be required for its start-
up capital, since CRP's existing funds will be transferred to the
new entity. In addition, borrowers will be requireW to acquire
OFA shares in order to replace Government equity over time.
(b)   Agricultural Extension and Applied Research Component
3.16        Extension and research will support the production increases
needed to meet export targete while also raising farm family nutrition levels
through increases in the availability of diversified food crops. The project
will promote the gradual integration of extension activities now being
supported by other donors, into the national extension service. This approach
responds to the need to continue extension efforts after individual donor-
funded activities come to a close and to initiate planning for meeting their
recurrent coste. The approach will supp rt the tailoring of extension
planning to specific regional needs, and illow 'lessons learned' in other
donor-funded projects to be applied on a country-wide basis. The T&V approach
which will be used in the project, vill be adapted explicitly and practically
to project needs and country conditions. The T&V approach will be further
adapted to strengthen extension service and farmer aní village ties. The
intensive training and use of village level lanimadores' will be the principal
mechanism for achieving these extension service farmer ties, vhich will be
strengthened further through project-financed cooperation in the promotion of
emall farmer organizatlon and the marketing of increased production. It will
not result in the imposition of a single extension philosophy. Improved
national level extmnsion management vill allow coordinated planning with other
donors and the carefully-staged integration of the wide array of ongoing
extension activities. Efforts vill center on increasing crop production,
ímproving the efficiency of smallholder production, including those of women
farmers, and supporting complementary diversification. T&V will also focus on
the design and management of effective training programs for extension staff
and on the supervision of their field activities, two areas where the T&V
system has proven effective elsewhere.
3.17        Research will get underway to support the production of potential
new, non-traditional exporte as they are identified by market etudies.
Research and extension work vill aleo aim at supporting the production of
crops that could be grown by crganized vomen farmers and at introducing
farming systems that improve ltnd use and soil conservation. The component



- 17 -
vill promote better linkages between extension .nd research, and develop
mechanismas to promote a two-way flow of information between extension,
research and farmers.
3.18        Research and extension services will be the major vehicles to
promote increased production of diversified food crops as a major contribution
of the project to alleviate the problem of malnutrition of the rural
population. The volume of exportable food crops, including tropical fruits,
will increase by some 3,000 tons in PY5, of which about 1,500 tons vill be
produced by some 4.000 smallholders, dominantly women farmers in the Cogo and
Mbini districts, and the remainder by smallholder farmers in the outlying
areas of the Continental Region. To this end, research and extension work in
the Continental Region vill continue supporting and atrengthening ongoing
extension activities successfully undertaken under the IDA-financed Technical
Assistance Project.  This program has assisted farmers in establishing some
120 farmer organizations by the end of 1989 and creating a number of village
shops supplying essential goods and tools needed for production. In addition,
it promotea on a pilot basis an alley cropping system as an alternative to the
traditional shifting cultivation farming system (para 6.18). IDA has
supported these promotional actions by financing a demonstration and training
center in the Bata-Niefang area. Fermers and rural teachera, with the
aseistance of extension agents, have established sore 100 demonstration plots
in rural areas by early 1990. The extension component will continue and
expand this work by: (a) improving production techniques through increased
research triala and improved reszórch-extension linkages; (b) promoting the
transfer of improved production techniques; (c) assisting farmers in adopting
the alley cropping system under closely supervised conditiona and on a pilot
acale; and (d) stimulating and assisting in the establishment of small
individually-owned agricultural production enterprises.
3.19        The target group for foodcrop production in the Continental Region
iill be the poorest segment of the country's population, i.e. the entire rural
population of the Continental Region of some 203,000 people (Annex 2, page 6),
and will aim at increasing the productivity of smallholders, specially women
who are the main producers of foodcrops, and farmers groups. These efforts
vill be complemented by the establishment of an IFAD-financed, Poverty
Alleviation Fund (PAF), which will operate on a revolving basis to provide
advances of not more than 402 of farmer organizations credit requirements.
The target group will be further defined with the outcome of e supplementary
atudy undertaken by IFAD in August 1990, and with the results of a
comprehensive socio-economic census of the rural sector, undertaken with IDA-
financing and technical support in the Continental Region and on Bioko. The
socio-economic census is expected to be Dublished towards the end of 1990.
3.20        The target groups for cocoa production will be about 1,100 cocoa
farmers of whom 952 are smallholders with holdings of about 5 ha or less. The
first taraet Rroup will consist of some 420 farmers, clients of the Cocoa
Rehabilitation Project, currently harvesting about 2,000 ha. Of this group,
400 smallholders are cultivating 1,600 ha of cocoa. They would increase their
production by some 400 tons by improving the yields of their productive
plantations from an average of 600 to 800 kg/ha. The second taraet groun will
include 320 cocoa farmers, presently cultivating about 2,000 ha and supplying
their cocoa to the major cocoa exporting firms. In this group, 275



- 18 -
smallholders are cultivating 1,100 ha of cocoa. They will increase their
production by about 500 tons by improving the yields of their plantations from
an average of 450 to 700 kg/ha. The third tarRet group will consist of
between 340 to 600 smallholders, to be settled in areas ecologically most
suited for ocoa growing, who will increase cocoa production by 1,600 tons, by
rehabilitating some 2,000 ha of abandoned plantations, which at full maturity
would yield 800 kg/ha.
3.21        Cocoa production on Bioko currently occupies some 17,000 ha,
yielding 7,250 tons of dry cocoa beans for export markets in 1989/90. By
increasing the yields of some 4,000 ha of small and medium size farms already
in production and rehabilitating about 2,000 ha of currently abandoned
plantations situated in ecologically well-suited areas, the project will
increase cocoa production and exports by 2,500 tons.
3.22        Consistent with the Government's adjustment program, research and
extension work also vill emphasize crop diversification on Bioko, particularly
on low investment cost activities through the planting of other cash crops
with good marketing prospects in less productive cocoa areas or intercropping
of food crops directly with cocoa production. The project will aim at
diversifying about 1,500 to 3,000 ha out of cocoa. If needed, this goal will
be reviewed and adjusted during project implementation. The project will
utilize the EEC-financed study on land utilization of Bioko (para 1.06), as a
starting point for defining the crop diversification policy where the
following crops with high potential were identified: cinnamon, cinchona,
ginger, nutmeg, black pepper, vanilla, horticultural crops and tropical fruit
crops. A study of the marketing outlook for prospective crops vill be
undertaken at the beginning of PY1, which will help the Ministry in setting
development objectives for crops to be introduced by the extension service
under the crop diversification program.
3.23        The project will also assist the Ministry in defining the above-
mentioned policy, developing an implementation strategy, preparing the actual
crop diversification program, and demarcating areas to be phased out of cocoa
under the program. At the field level, the Ministry will provide agricultural
extension to farmers in selected areas. The project will assist in increasing
farmers's responsiveress towards the crop diversification program. The
program will be supported not only by research and extension, but also by a
diversification fund to be set up under the proposed project to encourage
production of other crops with export potential on less productive cocoa
farmas.
3.24        Applied research activities will see the establishment of a Basic
Applied Research Unit (BARU), with a Plant Propagation Unit. This structure
will emphasize coordination of applied research activities undertaken under
other donor-financed prcjects. In the mainland, the BARU will consist of a
small agricultural experimental center, to be established in Mbini, where
field experimente and applied research will be conducted mainly on food crops
and tropical fruits with good marketing prospects. Its Plant Propagation Unit
will _.ocus in particular on introducing new varieties of food crops and citrus
root stock, establish their suitability under the station's conditions and
follow up by on-farm testing of selected planting material in rural areas.
The agricultural center at Km 13, where alley cropping demonstration plots are



- 19 -
established and farmers are being trained in new farming techniques, will be a
sub-station. The project will initially start to promote technical packages
based on results already obtained by donor-financed projects in the country,
and will develop over time new demand-driven technical packages based on
results of research undertaken by the project and other donor-financed
projects. The major subject matters for research on traditional foodcrops
vill be: (a) introduction of promising varieties; (b) acceptability of new
varieties by farmers and consumers; and (c) development of fast propagation
techniques (Annex 3 para 22). By focusing its attention on introducing higher
yielding varieties and improving current uitinerant" farming practices,
initial increases in foodcrop production will be obtained without farmers
needing to use capital-intensive inputs, such as fertilizers and other
agricultural chemicals. On Bioko, a cocoa experimental farm will be
established, which will ultimately become the research center where
experiments and applied research are conducted. Here, the research program
will focus in particular on black pod and squirrel control, and on introducing
high yielding cocoa clones. A sub-station will be established, which will
focus in particular on testing the suitability oc non-traditional crops to be
introduced under the crop diversification program.
(c)   Institutional DeveloDment Component
3.25        The project will have three explicit national institutional
development objectives. It vill: (a) introduce T&V-based extension services
on a national basis, demonstrate the effectiveness of the T&V approach in
major cultivated areas, and build supporting applied research capabilities;
(b) promote private sector development of internal and external marketing
networks for traditional and non-traditional export crops; and (c) strengthen
the social setting for sector development by supporting the organization of
small farmers and traders and ensuring that project activities reflect the
importance of women in production and marketing.
3.26        These initiatives will complement and strengthen other already on-
going activities including USA"D-assisted efforts to build rural cooperatives,
bilaterally-financed crop production and rural development projects. In
addition, they will complement IDA-supported policy and technical assistance
aimed at increasing private sector investment, diversifying export production,
and limiting public sector expenditures. They will also strengthen the basis
for possible future sector lending by cre&ting conditions for investment in
cooperatives and credit unions.
3.27        Project implementation arrangements have been designed to ach.eve
three institutional development objectives and to support the sustainability
of project achievements.
3.28        National extension service and aDplied research catabilities will
be strengthened in the Ministry's General Directorate for Training, Extension,
and Cooperative Development (DGCEC) by developing the managerial, budgeting,
and training capabilities needed for the continuation of project activities in
the future. Improved management and planning vill link extension and research
planning and investment activities to demonstrated market demand for new crops
or increased production. T&V concepts will be adapted to staffing constraints
and to other local conditions, including the needs of women farmers. Staff



- 20 -
training capabilities vill be strengthened. Extension activities financed by
other donors will be brought gradually into the national system.
3.29        Private sector marketing networks, which will not depend on
Government support, vill be promoted to increase non-traditional as vell as
traditional exports. This will be done firstly by establishing a marketing
information system and assisting small farmer and trader organizations to
supply local markets and support Continental Region food crop exports to
Gabon. Additional market research and investment promotion work vill promote
the growth of other non-traditional exports. Responsibility for small farmer
services will be incorporated into OFA. Specialized technical assistance and
training will permit OFA to manage three tasks without GovernMent
intervention: (a) the provision of unsubsidized credit and savings services
to individual farmers and farmer groups; (b) importing and selling, at a
profit, inputs and equipment needed for cocoa and diversified crop production;
and (c) identifying new markets and exporting crops for commission on farmer's
account.
3.30        Explicit measures to strengthen the social setting for project
activities will include training and assistance for the organization of small
farmers and traders receiving extension and marketing services, vith a
complementary effort to create a legal and policy envirounment conducive to the
creation of formal cooperatives and credit unions in the future. Additional
steps vill be taken to ensure that extension and marketing efforts reflect the
crucial roles of rural women. These will include research on and extension
service support for the introduction of crops and cropping practíces that can
be adopted by organized women, and the introduction of *alley croppingu soil
conservation practices that vill increase also the security of women's access
to land.
3.31        Sustainability will be sought by depending primarily on private
initiative for the achievement of most production and marketing objectives,
thereby avoiding the creation of new Government responsibilities. The
establishment of OFA vill put Bioko small farmer assistance on an
independently-managed, self financing basis. DGCEC-implemented research and
extension activities will be organized to build the managerial systems,
skills, and practical experience needed to continue project activities after
credit closing date. Costs will be limited by developing new research and
extension services only in response to market demand. The project is itself
designed to help buíld the skills and organizations needed for sustainability.
It will be managed from the outset by local professionals, who will have
ultimate responsibility for its successful implementation. Expatriate
technical assistance advisors will work through regular line agencies to
support Ministry managers, thereby avoiding dependence on separate and usually
unsustainable project ímplementation units. Detailed information about
Institutional Development plans is presented in Annex 5.
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Proiect OrRanization and Management
4.01        The research and extension component will be executed by the
DGCEC. On Bioko, credit, input supply, and marketing assistance vill be



- 21 -
managed by OFA. Marketing and supporting farmer and trader organization work
in the Continental Region will be managed also by OFA with the support of an
expatriate UN Volunteer specialist in marketing. No permanent organizational
structure or new Ministry staff will be needed for marketing or farmer
organization $rk in the Continental Region as project personnel will work
with the agricultural delegation in Bata.
4.02        The Ministry of Agriculture will recruit a Project Director
acceptable to IDA and IFAD. An expatriate Project Coordinator and expatriate
Financial Advisor will assist the Director in overall project planning and
management. They vill take direct responsibility for organizational and
management and financial systems development in the DGCEC and in OFA. The
Director General of the DGCEC will be assisted by long and short-term
expatriate advisors in applied research and T&V extension. A General Manager
will be recruited to head OFA. The General Manager will be assisted by
expatriate credit and savings, and marketing and procurement specialists. A
short-term Training Advisor will provide project-wide planning and monitoring
support to help ensure the transfer of managerial and technical skills. More
detailed information on project organization, planning, and monitoring and
evaluation is presented in Annex 7.
Training
4.03        Carefully planned training programs will contribute to
sustainability as well as the achievement of near-term production and
marketing goals.  The Project Coordinator, with the assistance of the Training
Advisor, vill prepare a long-term project training plan to develop technical
and management skills needed in OPA and the DGCEC. Training requirements vill
be incorporated explicitly into the Annual Work Plans of individual expatriate
advisors. A Mid-term Evaluation Review (para 4.10) will assess the capacity
of the national management team to execute their duties without the support of
technical assistance.
4.04         OFA and DGCEC managers, Subject Matter Specialists, and applied
research staff will receive in-service and formal short and long-term training
abroad. Financing will be provided for a total of about eight man-years for
study at specialized institutions acceptable to IDA in, for example,
management and accounting, credit and savings operations, and agronomy. To
ensure their return to Equatorial Guinea, long-term trainees will be required
to sign a contract committing themselves to resume their duties for a period
of three years after the completion of their studies.
4.05        In addition to long-term academic training, about 95 man-months
will be allocated for study tours, internships, and short courses to upgrade
the skills of managers, technical specialists, and extension staff. Examples
of such assistance would include study tours at regional applied research
centers and successful T&V extension projects, visits to cocoa growing and
processing centers; internships or other practical training in marketing and
in research and extension service management; planning and budgeting courses;
and work in farmer and trader organizations.
4.06        Training of DGGEC personnel in applied research, extension, and
farmer organization will pose intensive requirements. Ministry and



- 22 -
Agricultural Training School staff will receive instruction in T&V training
and farmer communications methodology. Current and new extension service
staff will receive formal orientation training in T&V concepts along with
regular on-the-job training and supervision. Basic accounting and management
training assistance vill be provided to farmer and trader groups. A special
program will train village-level animadores*, farmers selected by their
communities to cooperate in extension service activities.  Additionally,
elementary training in administration and accounting will be provided to
members of farmer and trader organizations. Training of extension personnel
was initiated in PYO. Fifteen extension staff benefitted from a one-month
extension course, including field experience vith Cameroonian extension staff
working with the IDA-financed National Extension Project in that country.
Technical Assistance.
4.07        The project will finance 15 years of long-term technical
assistance and five years of support from short-term consultants. Long-term
advisors will include the Project Coordinator, a Financial Advisor, an
Extension and Production Specialist, a Marketing and Procurement Specialist,
and a Credit and Savings Specialist. Short-term asaistance will include
applied research; subject matter-specialists; T&V extension training; farmer
organization and cooperative development; road rehabilitation and ferry
service planning; and monitoring and evaluation. Three U.N. Volunteers will
work in the Continental Region as applied research, extension, and marketing
specialists. A possible extension of the U.N. Volunteer Program vill reduce
future technical assistance costs. The Project Coordinator will be
responsible for the planning and administration of technical assistance
services. Locally-recruited administrative officers will furnish accounting,
financial control, and logistical support. It was agreed at negotiations that
expatriate specialists will have technical qualifications and experience
acceptable to IDA and IFAD and that all posts will be filled for the length of
time required. The completion of contractual arrangements for the provision
of these services is a condition of Credit Effectiveness (para 7.02 (a)).
Terms of Reference for expatriate advisors are presented in Annex 8.
Proiect Planning and BudReting
4.08        The project planning, budgeting, and monitoring process has been
designed as a tool to build permanent Ministry and OFA management systems and
skills.  A Project Monitoring and Management Information System (PMIIS) will
be established to track progress toward production and export marketing
targets, the development of extension and research capabilities, and the
achievement of commercial sustainability for OFA operationa. The system will
provide also information on farmer and trader organization and measures to
address the needs of women. It wvll treat project sustainability as a
separate issue, identifying and measuring progrese toward organizational and
management development goals, and the achievement of training objectives.
4.09        A preliminary PY1 Work Plan, which was discussed at negotiationa
(Annex 7), includes the following major first year objectives: (a) the
initiation of export promotion work in the Continental Region; (b) the
completion of first-year applied research and extension service development
plans; (c) the start of crop diversification work on Bioko; (d) the completion



- 23 -
of a plan for constituting OFA as an independent and self-financing entity;
and (e) the definition and initiation of project training activities.
Additionally, ongoing IDA-financed farmer credit, marketing, and input supply
programs on Bioko vill be transferred to OPA.
4.10        A final PY1 Project Work Plan will be presented for Ministry and
IDA review within four months of credit effectiveness. Proposed Annual Work
Plans and project budgets for succeeding years will be presented to the
Ministry and IDA by the beginning of the fourth quarter of each year. Annual
Work Plans and supporting budgets will be prepared before the start of each
budget cycle by managers in OFA and the DGCEC. Work plans will be reviewed
and revised in collaboration with the Project Director and Coordinator and
then consolidated into an integrated project proposal. Annual Work Plans will
be complemented by separate annual training plans. Training plans will
include courses, workshops and other training activities, numbers of staff to
be trained, and the names and qualifications of nominees for overseas
training. Agreement was obtained at negotiations that not later than October
30 in each year, the Project Director will submit proposed Annual Work
Programs and budgets to IDA for approval (para 7.01 (m)). Reports will be
prepared also quarterly and annually on project activities summarizings (a)
project achievements; (b) comparir3 them with the agreed objectives; and (c)
commenting on key problems and fu1.ure priorities. Governnent will carry out a
mid-term review to assess progress and targets (para 7.01 (n)). Based on this
mid-term review, a joint GovernmentlIDA mission will carry out a mid-term
evaluation. A Project Completion Report (PCR) will be prepared by the
Government within six months of project completion.
Proiect PreParation Facility (PPF)
4.11        A first PPF of US$ 450,000 and a second PPF of US$ 220,000 were
approved in December 1989 and September 1990, to assist Government in carrying
out essential project start-up activities, which will facilitate considerably
the initiation of project implementation once the Credit becomes effective.
V. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
Cost Estimates
5.01        The cost of the proposed project has been estimated at CFAP 5,130
million (US$18 million), of which CFAF 3,981 million (US$14.0 million), or 78Z
i8 in foreign exchange. The estimates are based on prices prevailing in
November 1989; they include US$2.7 million in physical and price
contingencies. Physical contingencies of 10Z have been included on all items
with the exception of technical assistance and local salaries, whose
specifications are clearly established. Price contingencies on foreign costs
are based on the Bank's projections of international price increases (4.92
during 1991 to 1995). Price contingencies on local costs are based on the
Bank's forecast of domestic inflation in Equatorial Guinea (5Z per year 1991
to 1995). Summary project costs are provided in Annexes 10-12 and detailed
cost tables in the Project File (Staff Working Paper No. 9).



- 24 -
Proiect Cost Summary
Foreign
Local     Poreign    Total      Eschange
<(US$ million) -          - 
Marketing                      1.8         6.3       8.1          76
Extension and Research         1.3         2.2       3.5          63
Institutional Development    _0.2          3.5       3.           94
TOTAL BASE COST                3.3        12.0      15.3          78
Physical Contingencies       0.2         0.8       1.0          83
Price Contingencies          0.5         1.2       1.7          70
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS            4.0        14.0      18.0          78
Financing
5.02        Of the total project cost of CFAF 5,130 million (US$18 million),
the IDA Credit of USS6.3 million would finance 782 of foreign exchange costs.
IFAD, BADEA and the OPEC Fund have confirmed their participation in project
financing.   The WFP has also stated it8 intention to participate with about
US$1 million equivalent through its tfood for york' program.  The IDA credit
will finance 802 of technical assistance costs, credit for crop
diversification, 152 of training and studies costs, lOZ of civil works, 1OZ of
equipment costs, 352 of operating costs, and 352 of salary of incremental
local staff. Operating costa will include field travel and subaistence
allowances for staff involved in the project, including extension staff,
operation and maintenance of project vehicles and equipment, office supplies,
training materials, and small inputs such as seeds and fertilizera for
demonstration purposes. IFAD financing vill concentrate on extension,
applied research and marketing activities in the Continental Region and in the
rehabilitation of 2,000 ha of abandoned cocoa plantations on Bioko. In view
of ita financing difficulties, financing from the Government vould be 72 (52
í8 the minimum according to Bank guidelines).
Financin2 Plan
USS Million   Z
IDA                6.3         35
IFAD               5.0         28
BADEA               3.9        22
OPEC Fund           1.5         8
Government          1.3         7
Total             18.0 11    100
/1 In addition the WFP would contribute US$1.0 million equivalent through ite
'food for work0 program.



- 25 -
Procurement
5.03        All goods and services funded under the IDA Credit vill be
procured in accordance with the appropriate IDA guideiínes. Contracts for
vehicles, equipment aud agricultural inputs in excess of US$100.000, totalling
US$2.4 million, vill be awarded through International Competitive Bidding
(ICB) a_.cording to IDA or other cofinancier guidelines as appropriate and vill
be bulked to the extent possible. Contracts between US$50,000 and US$100,000,
totalling US$2.0 million vill be avarded following LCB procedures, which have
been found acceptable to IDA. Procurement for small equipment and civil works
valued at less than US$50,000 and up to an aggregate of US$100,000 will be
procured on the basis of quotations from at least three eligible suppliers.
It is expected that all these purchases will be bulked into packages ot at
least US$50,000. The threshold for prior review of procurement by IDA will be
US$80,000. In the procurement of goods and works, local manufacturers and
contractors may be granted a margin of preference or the applicable customs
duty, whichever is lower. In addition, rehabilitation of extension offices
and feeder roads and routine maintenance works, totalling US$100,000 may be
procured by force account. Operating costs for fuel, vehicle maintenance,
travel, office supplies, local training courses and miscellaneous items will
follow Government procedures acceptable to IDA.   All technical assistance
financed by IDA will be recruited in accordance vith IDA's guidelines.
Purchase of goods and provision of technical assistance financed by other
cofinanciers will be procured according to their guidelines.
Procurement Arrangements
Proiect Element            ICB      LCB     Other      N.A.      Total Cost
(t-___________  -US$ '000>)
Civil Works                 -       1.6       -         -           1.6
-     (0.1)    (0.1)       -          (0.2)
Vehicles                   1.0       -        -         -           1.0
Equipment                  1.4      0.4      0.4        -           2.2
-      (0.2)       -         (0.2)
Technical Assistance        -        -       3.6        -           3.6
_       -       (2.7)      -          (2.7)
Training and
Studies al                 -        -       1.7        -           1.7
(0.2)                 (0.2)
Credit                      -        -        -        1.7          1.7
_       -         -      (0.3)        (0.3)
Incremental Operating Costs          -        -        3.7          3.7
(Excluding Salaries)      -       -         -       (1.4)       (1.4)
Incremental Local Staff    -         -        -        1.9          1.9
-       -         -      (0.6)        (0.6)
PPF Refund                  -        -        -        0.67       0.67
-       -         -      (0.67)      (0.67)
TOTAL                   2.4      2.0      5.7       7.9        18.00
-     (0.1)    (3.2)    (3.0)         (6.30)
Note: Amounts in parentheses concern IDA financing.
Procurement under other cofinanciers' financing will be
made under the cofinanciers' procurement procedures.
al Includes international and local training.



-  26  -
Prolect and Special Accounts
5.04        The Government's contribution to project financing vill be for
credit to be on-lent to project farmers. As such, it vill not derive from
budgetary sources but from existing funds available for credit repaid by
farmers under the credit component of the ongoing Cocoa Rehabílitation
Project. These funds will be channeled through an existing project account in
local currency in BIAO.
5.05        IDA, IFAD, OPEC and BADEA contributions vill be channeled through
special accounts in foreign currency to be opened at a commercial bank.
Special accounts will be managed by the Ministry of Agriculture and used for
categories of expenditure, which the institutions vill finance. At
effectiveness, IDA and IFAD will make initial deposits in their respective
accounts of US$ 250,000 each to constitute a project operating fund equivalent
to about six months of expected disbursemente. The special accounts will be
replenished monthly or vhen they are reduced to one third of their original
amounts, whichever comes first.
Disbursements
5.06        It is expected that the proceeds of the IDA credit (US$6.3
million) will be disbursed over a six-and-one half year period (Annex 14).
The disbursement schedule assumes that the credit vill become effective in
December 1990. The funds are expected to be disbursed according to the
standard disbursement profile for Bank/IDA agricultural projects in the
region. Operating coste of up to US$50,000 vill be disbursed against
Statement of Expenditures (SOEs) to be approved by the Financial Advisor. All
other contracts will be fully documented. Documentation of SOEs will be made
available for review by IDA supervision missions. The IDA Credit will be
disbursed against the following components and categories in the percentages
indicated below:
Dísbursement of IDA Credit
Amount          Percentage
Category                           (US$ million)    Financed bv IDA
Civil Works                            0.1                 1oo2
Equipment                              0.2                 100Z
Technical Assistance                   2.4                 802
Training and Studies                   0.2                1002
Credit                                 0.2                 loo2
Incremental Operating Costs           1.2                  35Z
Salaries for Incremental Staff         0.5                 35Z
PPF Refund                             0.7             Amount due
Unallocated                            0.8
Total                               6.3



- 27 -
Accounts and Audits
5.07        Each project service will maintain separate accounts for their
respective services, consistent with sound accounting practices which vill
reflect fairly, in accordance with international accounting principles, the
overall financial situation of the project. A microcomputer will be used to
record and consolidate project expenditures as well as prepare and monitor the
project annual budget. A consultant vill be recruited to review established
budget, accounting and internal control procedures established under the Cocoa
Rehabilitation Project, to updatelsimplify the existing accounting manual and
to establish, no later than April 1991. a closing balance sheet as of December
1990 for the CRP. Training and follow-up support will also be provided to the
accounting personnel. Project accounts will be audited by a qualified
independent audit firm under procedures satisfactory to IDA and IFAD. Audited
accounts and reporte will be submitted to IDA for review within six months of
the end of each fiscal year. The auditor's report on project expenditures
will include verification that: (a) goods and services had been procured from
member countries of IDA, Switzerland and Taiwan and member countries of IFAD
when applicable; (b) goods had been received or work performed; (c) payments
had been made; (d) all expenditures had been legitimate; (e) the special
accounts had been used appropriately; and (f) will provide an opinion on the
reliability of the SOE procedures and on the proper utilization of goods and
services financed under the project. Agreement to this effect was obtained at
negotiations (para 7.01 (o»).
Proiect ImDact on MALFF's Budget
5.08        Because of its scope, the project will finance an important
portion of the agricultural sector's investment budget. The Government1s
Public Investment Program has earmarked an amount of CFAF 405 million (US$1.4
million) in 1991 for project expenditures. This amount will need to be
substantially increased during 1992. In 1991, these expenditures vould
represent l5Z of MALFF's investment budget. External financing will meet most
of the recurrent costs during the initial years of project implei.entation.
Annual operating costs following the project period are estimated to be CFAF
272 million per annum, or about 102 of the Ministry of Agriculture's
expenditures of about CFAF 2,560 million.   This percentage is reasonable
since the project is expected to generate a net balance of increases in
foreign exchange earnings to the country of about US$3.0 million by year 1995
and increasing to some US$6.0 million by year 2000. It will provide
sustainable agricultural extension, training and adaptive research for 17 out
of the country's 18 districts and it will be the major productive activity on
MALFF. Agreement vas obtained at negotiations for annual consultation on the
Public Investment Program for agriculture (para 7.01 (el).
VI. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
Incremental Production
6.01          The project would have a considerable ímpact on agricultural
production and its distribution both on the Island of Bioko and in the
Continental Region. Production increases would result from:



- 28 -
(a)   the strengthening of the extension system and the provision of
T&V-based extension services to farmers, especially women, to
raise the output of diversified food crops, increase the volume of
exportable food crops, increase the efficiency of cocoa
production, and introduce new, non-traditional export crops. The
extension program will focus extension services through the
approach on smallholder farmers:
(b)   the diversification of production on Bioko. which vill see a shift
out of marginally profitable cocoa into more profitable
diversified food and non-traditional export crops;
(c)   improved applied research capabilities which will identify
appropriste crops and cropping practices for meeting nutritional
requirements of the rural population and new export market
demands, reduce the cost of cocoa production, and transfer this
practical knowledge to the extension service and to farmers;
(d)   strengthened incentives fcr export crop production because of the
ídentification of new markets and increased effective demand from
project-strengthened small trader marketing networks and from OFA;
(e)   aseistance in the organization of small farmers for production and
marketing, help for the development of small trader groups, and
support for the development of OFA; and
'f)   the rehabilitation and maintenance of access roads and marketing
facilities and the establishment of a ferry service from Akalayong
in the Continental Region to Cocoabeach in Gabon.
6.02        As a result of the above activities, the project is expected to
achieve the following targets:
(a)   Food crop sub-sector.  Increased diversified food production would
raise on-farm family nutrition standards. Food production for
export to Gabon of cassava, cocoyam, plantains, bananas,
pineapples, and citrus fruit would increase by some 3,000 tons in
1995 and by about 6,000 tons in the year 2000. A production
increase of 40 to 50Z would come from the Cogo and Mbini Districts
located in the Southwest of the Continental Region, where the
project would focus extension and marketing activities and where
at present, there is no other internationally-funded project. The
other 50 to 602 production increase would originate from the
channelling of exports from other parts of the country through
Cogo, instead of being transported to the main city of Bata where
there is already a periodic oversupply of these crops; and
(b)   Cash crop sub-sector.  Dissemination of improved farming practices
and techniques and the development of on-farm testing of research
results ensuring better linkages between extension and research
would have a significant impact on production of traditional and
diversified export crops. Only clearly profitable farmers would
be supported under the project for the production of cocoa. They



- 29 -
would increase their production by some 2,600 tons by the yaar
2.000. Cocoa farmers working on 1,500 to 3,000 ha of less
suitable or marginal areas would be encouraged to diversify into
alternative food and commercial export crops with a more
attractive marketing outlook. It has been estimated that the
added output of diversified crops on the island of Bioko would be
about 500 tons.
Overall Benefita
6.03        The project will put into place, on a national level, an effective
system to disseminate the results of project-financed agricultural research.
It will coordinate research which other donors have been undertaking in
isolation and will provide better linkages between research, extension and
farmers. The project will mobilize and make effective use o- existing public
sector resources, and existing extension workers, who at present are not able
to operate efficiently because of funding constraints, loose supervision, lack
of built-in training programs, transport and equipment and absence of programs
to assist rural women.
6.04        As agriculture is the mainstay of the economy, increasing
agricultural exports are the country's only short-term optíon for economic
recovery. The main benefit of the proposed project, resulting from the
increased and diversified production of export crops and improved agricultural
support services, will be the positive impact on the country's balance of
payments, food security and nutrition levels, and the increased income of the
ruraI population arising from the expansion and diversification of food and
cash crop production.   The estimated total incremental benefits from the
project would be approximately CFAF 1.8 billion (US$6.3 million equivalent)
per year (in 1989 prices) as of year 10. Of this sum, approximately 70Z would
come from the Island of Bioko and the remaining 302 from the Continental
Region. Other benefits not quantified will come from the Continental Region
through the planned development of physical infrastructure and training.
6.05        It is expected that 7,000 rural family beneficiaries will benefit
directly from all project services, including credit, and would gain an
average increase in income of between 552 and 300Z. The entire rural
population of the country comprising 35,000 rural families, will benefit from
research, extension, infrastructure and marketing services. Their incomes
would increase by about 10.
6.06        Because of its emphasis on private sector initiative in marketing,
the project will see also the development of stronger marketing information
and trading systems and increased private investment in market facilities and
transport.
6.07       Project support for emallholder farmers, including women and trader
organizations, along with support for strengthening the legal and policy
frameworks for formal cooperatives and credit unions, will help establish
conditions for cooperative development work in the future. More details of
estimated benefits are presented in Annex 9.



_ 30 -
Economic Rate of Return
6.08        The assumptions used to calculate the Economic Rate of Return
(ERR) and the sensitivity analysis are explained in Annex 9. Using a project
life of 20 years and the estimated incremental benefits, as summarized in
earlier paragraphs, the ERR to the project would be 21Z (Annex 9).
6.09        A separate analysis of project costs and benefits for Bioko and
the Continental Region shows that Bioko would have an ERR of 282, and the
Continental Region an ERR of 13Z. The ERR for Bioko (cocoa) is relatively
high because the project will benefit from sunk investments (vehicles,
equipment, civil works, credit fund, etc.) under the CRP.
6.10        The project would turn marginal at 102, if the global benefits
fell by more than 25Z or the costs rose by more than 502.  Project activities
on the Island would be less sensitive to changes in income and costs because
of the better results expected and the greater solidity of the assumptions
used to estimate the benefits and costs. Furthermore, Continental Region
project activities would be more social in nature in view of the relative
backwardness there, the greater needs of support to improve living conditions,
and the lower productive potential of the natural resource base.
Consequently, the analysis shows greater sensitivity to benefit and cost
variationa. Project benefits have been estimated in the case of cocoa as the
volume of dry cocoa to be produced, valued at an estimated ex-drier price.
This economic price has been derived from the January 1990 World Bank
Projections of CIP Europe cocoa prices.
Proiect Risks
6.11        The project has no significant technical risks.  Farming
techniques to be employed for cash and food crop production will be supported
by the improved extension service under the guidance of technical assistance
staff. Adoption by farmers of permanent production system techniques in the
Continental Region for the production of food crops has been tested already
through an IDA-financed pilot project (para 3.18) and results have been used
in the design of this project.
6.12        The greatest risks involved in the cocoa sub-sector result from
greater than forecast declines in international cocoa prices, thus
discouraging production and reducing farm income. In view of this risk, the
project has emphasized the reduction of production costs for cocoa, leaving
greater margins with farmers even at reduced international cocoa prices. It
vill also encourage reduction of marginal areas under cocoa cultivation,
increase cocoa productivity (to increase per hectare profit even at reduced
cocoa prices) and will strongly promote crop diversification.
6.13        In addition, the greater emphasis that this project assigns to the
work of adapting and spreading information about new production technologies
vill bring about a high increase in labor productivity, which, it is hoped,
vill tend to increase returns to both sharecropper and individual farmers.



- 31 -
6.14        Other risks are related to land tenure.  Since the early 80s, new
land owners unable to hire or pay available plantation laborers, adopted the
system of sharecropping which is now predominant throughout Bioko.
Sharecropping, while convenient for plantation owners, is rot an optimal
arrangement for farmers since they must take all the production risks without
owning the land. In addition, sharecroppers carry heavy burdens of debt and
find themselves obliged to renew their contracts with the plantation owners.
As they are insolvent, they have little chance to obtain credit elsewhere. A
land tenure study for Bioko is being carried out by consultants, with special
emphasis on the rights and responsibilities of sharecroppers and on ways to
overcome obstacles to aroductivity and production growth. Tn addition, 2,000
ha of plantations located on IDEPA land vill be distributed to small landless
or near landless farmers, following the recommendations of a recently
completed study. This pilot land distribution exercise will be expanded in
the future and will provide useful guidelines for the reallocation of larger
areas.
6.15        Risks associated with the food crops sub-sector in the Continental
Region will center on project dependence on free movement of perishable food
crop exports, vehicles, vessels and individuals to and from Gabon. The
Government ís pursuing diplomatic negotiations with Gabon aimed at ensuring
transhipment facilities from Cogo to Cocoabeach and proper functioning of all
common border passes.
6.16        Risks are aleo related to: (a) ineffective extension programs and
lack of coordination of donor-financed extension and applied research; tb) low
adoption of research findings; and (c) a lack of private sector response to
production and export marketing incentives. Research and extension service
risks as well as the possible low adoption of research findings vill be
reduced by introducing proven T&V extension methods, adapting those methods
carefully to country conditions, linking research and extension planning to
demonstrated market demand, supporting coordination of extension and research
activities among donor-financed projects and providing technical assistance
and training to strengthen Ministry management capabilities. Both production
and marketing vill be further supported by project-financed farmer and trader
organization work. Additional incentives for private initiative will include
the establishment of marketing information services, the provision of training
to farmers and trader organiíations, and the construction/rehabilitation of
needed transportation infrastructure.
Environmental Impact
6.17        As in many other parts of the non-irrigated agricultural world,
food crop production in EQG is still based on traditional slash-and-burn
techniques and on shifting cultivation of agricultural plots. By this
practice, every year extensive areas of forest are burned and new land cleared
for the cultivation of food crops. After the harvest, the plote are abandoned
for periods varying from 10 to 15 years, allowing them to revert to
bushlsecondary forest and to regenerate soil fertility. The system
contributes to destruction of tropical forests. As described in the following
paragraphs, the project vill have a substantial positive environmental impact
by slowing down this process.



- 32 -
6.18        The project will expand the efforts made through a pilot scheme
under the IDA-financed Technical Assistance Project. The pilot scheme has
trained extension agents, smallholders (mainly women), leaders of farmers
groups and teachers of rural schools via the implementation of a p,ermanent
agro-forestryllivestock production model. The pilot project has developed
increased production of food crops and goats for self-consumption and sale.
In expanding the pilot scheme, the project will: (a) improve soil fertility,
through "alley croppingO with leucaena (agro-forestry techniques) and, as a
consequence, the productivity of food crops; (b) provide extension advice on
ways to intensify agriculture, stopping shifting cultivation and controlling
soil conservation; and (c) provide sufficient firewood (leucaena prunings) at
short distances from farms.
6.19         This pilot project has tested farmers' response prior to the
implementation of the proposed project. About 100 demonstration plots have
been established throughout the Continental Region. The response of the rural
population has been positive. About 100 teachers of rural schools and about
30 extension agents and home economists have been trained in the economic and
environmental benefits of the agro-forestry techniques and are establishing
demonstration plots in rural schools. The pilot project financed the
establishment and operating costs of a Technical Training and Demonstration
Center at Km 13 along the Bata-Niefang Road.
6.20        The project's emphasis on agricultural research will be expected
to lead to the introduction of varieties/cultivars, more tolerant/resistant to
pests and diseases, reducing dependence on pesticides and insecticides in crop
production in general, while in cocoa integrated pest control is already being
applied. In addition, the positive results of improved agronomic practices
for the control of black pod in the cocoa plantations, will reduce
significantly the amounts of chemicals used in the production of cocoa. Use
by farmers of improved cocoa dryers needing significant less quantities of
firewood will reduce considerably the amount of firewood utilized by
traditional dryers. In addition, the cocoa trees provide good soil protection
due to their dense cover, while decaying leaves create an excellent mulch.
6.21        The regular farm visits, which are central to the T&V system, vill
provide an effective opportunity for practical environmental training to both
farmers and extension agents in critical environmental areas such as permanent
farming systems (para 3.18).
VII. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01        During negotiations, the following agreements vere obtained:
(a)   promotion of food crop production and non-traditional exports
(para 3.04) - continuous;
(b)   preparation and implementation of programs aimed at removing
technical constraints on improving cocoa production (para 3.05) -
October 1990;



- 33 -
(c)   review of appropriate level of producer prices before each cocoa
campaign (May 31 each year), taking into account world market
conditions and prices prevailing in neighboring countries (para
3.08 (i));
(d)   annual review (July 31 each year) of cocoa export taxes, (3.08
(ii));
(e)   annual consultation (April 30 each year) on the Public Investment
Program for agriculture (para 3.08 (iii));
(f)   preparation of a study of the land tenure system on Bioko (para
3.08 (iv)) - March 1991 and initiation of implementation of
recommendations - June 1991;
(g)   review of adequacy of price incentives through reform of cocoa
pricing and the taxation system (reduction of marketings costs)
(para 3.08 (v)) - July 1991;
Ch)   restructuring the marketing and input supply systems of the
traditional export sub-sector (para 3.08 (vi)) - continuous;
,i)   Government will contract OFP to provide classification and grading
support to MALFF - March 31, 1991 (para 3.10);
CJ)   on-lending will be carried out under the conditions and
creditworthiness criteria outlined as Annex 1, Attachment 1. In
addition, MALFF will hold annual consultations (April 30 each
year) with IDA on the rate of interest charged by the SAC to
farmers to ensure that positive interest rates are maintained);
(k)   appointment in post of suitable key national counterpart staff no
later than three months after the arrival of the respective
technical assistance staff (para 4.07);
(1)   submission of quarterly progress reports; fully detailed annual
progress reports and not later than six months after the credit
closing date, a draft Project Completion Report (para 4.10);
Cm)   MALFF will forward for IDA approval, before October 30 of each
year, annual work programs and budgets, including training plano
for local staff (para 4.10) - October each year;
(n)   Government will carry out a mid-term review not later than
December 31, 1993 (para 4.10); and
(o)   maintenance of project accounts and auditing of the project
accounts, including SOEs by independent auditors and submission of
the audit reports not later than siX months after the close of
each financial year (para 5.07).



- 34 -
7.02        Conditions of Credit Effectiveness wlll be:
(a)   MALFF vill recruit before credit effectiveness all technical
asaistance personnel and key national staff. whose qualification.,
experience and terms and conditions of employment will be
satisfactory to the Association (4.07);
(b)   Government will transfer to SAC fixed, moveable, credit portfolio
and liquid assets, held by CRP's Agricultural Credit Department.
It will further transfer to the Inputs Service of OFA, stock of
goods, held in stores and warehouses by CRP's Input Supply Unit as
well as vehicles and equipment used by PRC (Annex 6, para 19); and
(C)   OFA will be established legally according to the existing laws and
banking legislation of Equatorial Guinea (para 3.13);
7.03        With the above agreements and conditions, the project is suitable
for an IDA Credit of USS6.3 million.



- 35 -                        ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 10
EQUATORIAL GUINEA
CROP DIVERSIFICATION AND AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
Credit
I. Background
institutions
1.          The Republic of Equatorial Guinea is a member of the Central
African Customs and Economic Union (UDEAC) and a full member of the Monetary
Convention established by the Bank of Central African States (BEAC), acting as
the central bank of six countries in the region (Cameroon, Congo, Gabon,
Equatorial Guinea, Chad and the Central African Republic).
2.          Equatorial Guinea has a Comité Monetario N^cional (National
--onetary Conmittee) and a Consejo Nacional de Crédito (National Credit
Council), linked, on the one hand, to BEAC and, on the other hand, to the
Government of Equatorial Guinea. Compared with other countries in the Franc
Zone, Equatorial Guinea has a weak banking sector. The financial system is
made up of a single bank that is still in operation -- the BIAO-GE, while the
other two financial institutions, Banco de Crédito y Desarrollo (BCD) and
Guinextebank are in the procesa of liquidation.
3.          BEAC functions as the bank of issue for Equatorial Guinea and is
responsible for overseeing financial institutions and preparing basic national
accounts. It provides lines of credit for the Public Treasury, banks and, in
exceptional cases, enterprises. It also sets lending rates, while loan
discount rates are the same in all six countries.
4.          In each country, there is a National Monetary Committee
responsible for ascertaining general financing needs. Its activities are
governed by the directives issued by the Board of BEAC.
5.          The National Credit Council prepares studies for guiding credit
policy and distribution and banking organization and methods. The Council is
chaired by the Minister of Economy, Commerce and Plan and BEAC is in charge of
the secretariat.
6.          BCD, a public sector enterprise, vas created in 1972 to serve in
particular the agricultural sector. Although one of its main objectives was
to service small farmers' credit needs, during the period 1980-85 the major
part of its credits went to the commercial sector (56Z), large cocoa
plantation owners (39Z), and only 52 to small farmers. BCD's credit decisions
were often based upon considerations other than commercial viability, while at
the same time it lacked the authority and political clout for successful
credit recovery. In early 1988, the balance of non-recovered credits amounted
to CFAF 2,373 million (valued at that time at US$7.9 million), of which CFAF
1,101 million (46S) was registered as non-recoverable. As a result of its
inappropriate credit policy, inadequate selection of clients, absence of



- 36 -                              ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 10
financial and credit controls, and low credit recovery, BCD went into serious
liquidity problems in 1988, could no longer sustain its credit operations, and
went into liquidation in 1989.
7.          Guinextebank was created in 1979, with the Government of
Equatorial Guinea and the Banco Exterior de España each contributing 50% to
the total share capital of US$1.0 million. The main objective was to finance
the imports of capital goods and consumables and the exports of the major
commodities, including timber. As in the case of BCD, an inadequate credit
policy and credit administration resulted in low credit recovery and
ultimately in bankruptcy. Of the total assets of some CFAF 6,000 million
(US$20 million) to be recovered, 40 to 50% is expected to be written off.
8.          BIAO-GE, a French overseas bank, was established in April 1986.
BIAO has a 51% share, and French management was entrusted with full decision
making authority. The Government of Equatoríal Guinea holds 41%, and local
private investors 82. BIAO operates under strict conmercial terms, and it
offers limited access to the average individual in the country, even for
savings. The minimum deposit required for savings accounts is CFAF 50,000
(US$167) and for companies CFAF 250,000 (US$833). The system favors large
foreign trading houses which can use their foreign assets as collateral to
obtain seasonal credit for their on-lending and marketing activities in the
agricultural sector.
9.          BIAO has only 1,000 accounts, of which 200 are companies (it has
taken on the best clients of the defunct Guinextebank). It charges high
interest rates and high fees for transactions. It maintains a high level of
liquidity to avoid using the Central Bank's line of credit which is tied to
strict conditionalities. BIAO provides short-term loans secured by bank
guarantees or mortgages on assets located abroad. As the only bank currently
in operation, it has monopoly status and limits its activities to risk-free
financial services. It is not interested in financing small or medium-scale
farmers. Since the value of current accounts and savings deposits in early
1990 (CFAF 2,800 million) exceeded the loan portfolio balance (CFAF 2,300
million), it does not discount loans with BEAC. As a result, BEAC has an
unused loan budget for EQG of over CFAF 6 billion.
Agricultural Credit
10.         As noted earlier, small and medium-scale farmers have little
access to institutional credit because: (i) this market is not targeted by
the only bank operating in Equatorial Guinea; (ii) the Agricultural Credit
Department of the Cocoa Rehabilitation Project (CRP) finances only cocoa
production, and currently serves 420 clients with 3,500 ha (21% of the total
cocoa area).
11.         Large-scale farmers are also excluded from institutional credit,
which BIAO basically grants to only three large cocoa export companies. Only
these three companies are able to offer the bank guarantees andlor assets
abroad required by BIAO. These guarantees are in addition to liens placed on
the cocoa itself; this being incorporated into the export documentary credit.



- 37 -                           ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 10
12.         The only source of institutional financing for small and medium-
scale cocoa producers is that offered by CRP. Since the serious crisis
experienced by Equatorial Guinea's financial system in 1985186, which led to
the collapse of two banks (para 2), the CRP has endeavored to establish a
viable credit system which, despite high operating costs and a low rate of
coverage because of the necessarily strict lending criteria, has an excellent
loan recovery rate (98Z). This is a remarkable performance by any standards
and more so in an environnent where credit was poorly administered and the
banking system had collapsed.
13.         The amount of non-institutional (informal) credit available to
small and medium-scale cocoa producers in Equatorial Guinea is substantial.
In the 1987188 cocoa season, informal credit to cocoa producers was between
CFAF 800 and CFAF 1,000 million (USS2.5 million and US$3.2 million), which
probably finances production on some 7,000 to 8,000 ha operated by about 2,700
smallholders and independent producers. These loans are granted by large
cocoa exporting companies and by cocoa buyers. The main sources of the
lenders' financing are loans obtained from BIAO, and their own funds. For
sharecroppers, access to credit is only through their landlords, who supply
them with necessary inputs in return for exclusive rights on harvested cocoa.
Today, many small and medium sized landowners have turned to the three main
trading companies for informal credit, under the same arrangements as
aharecroppers.
14.         This non-institutional credit is costly for small farmers, given
the higher cost of the inputs they receive in the form of credit in kind and
the low price they obtain for the product from the large companies. Taking
these aspects into account, as well as interest rates of 16Z and margins on
inputs and tools of 152 and other surcharges, an IDA mission in February 1988
estimated the real imputed cost of the informal credit to sharecroppers to be
equivalent to an annual interest rate of 582.
II. Future Credit Operations
15.         To continue financing agricultural production, it is vital that a
credit service be established that will continue and improve on CRP's efforts
in this area. To this end, the following options vere studied:
(a)   establishment of a credit service within BIAO-GE.  This
alternative was explored but proved not feasible because of the
credit policy adopted and maintained by this institution;
(b)   conversion of the CRP Agricultural Credit Department (DCA) into an
"Apex0 bank to serve as the embryonic financial institution to
support a cooperative system. Although this might be feasible on
the long term, it is not so at the moment because Equatorial
Guinea does not, as yet, have a cooperative system on which it
could be based. Such a system vill first have to be developed and



-38-                             ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 10
this will take several years, probably longer than the expected
project implementation period (five years); and
(c)   establishment of a Savinga and Credit Service (SAC) vithin an
Agricultural Development Organization (OFA), to provide these
services and eventually to become the "Apex" Bank referred to
above. Credit and savings services vill not be targeted and vill
be open to all eligible clients. This alternative meeta the
project'e needs, is consistent with the Bank's financial criteria,
will build on CRP's credit experience, fills a financial void in
Equaterial Guinea, and can be initiated immediately.
16.         The Government and IDA agreed that under current conditions of a
deficient banking system and non-existence of farmer organizations to
undertake and assume responsibility for procurement of agricultural inputs and
credit operations, the establishment of OFA vould be the most viable and
sustainable option on the short term. SAC would be managed by OFA, which
vould be set up by the project as a single entity to provide the three
services currently offered by CRP, ¡.e. credit, input supply and marketing.
OFA, described in detail in Annex 6, vould be established as an independent
organization, which would operate on an entirely commercial basis, and be
self-financed by PY3.
17.         SAC would have the following general characteristics:
(a>   its credit services will be available to all sectore of the
economy, vith a natural emphasis on the agricultural sector;
(b)   all farmera will haye acceso to credit, whether as individuals,
groups or cooperatives. The discipline characterizing CRP's
credit operations will be maintained;
(c)   SAC will be empowered to mobilize domestic resources through
savings deposite and the rediscounting of credit operationa
through BEAC (this faciity is at present unused);
(d)   it will apply the borrowing and lending ratee currently in effect
in the country, without introducing any distortions or
preferential ratee;
(e)   it will be financially viable, require no subsidy, and will show a
profit from the third year of operation; losses during the first
two years of operation will be financed by the project;
(f)   in all respecte, it will comply with the banking legislation of
Equatorial Guinea (Deocree No. 2, 1987); and



- 39                             ANNEX 1
Page 5 of 10
(g)   no additional financial resources vill be required for its start-
up capital, since CRP's existing funds vill be transferred to the
new entity. In addition, borrowere may be allowed to acquire OFA
shares in order to replace Government's equity.
18.         SAC's paid-in capital vill be CFAF 300 million (the minimum
required by the EQG Banking Law), made up of the portfolio assets, vehicles
and cash of the Agricultural Credit Department, which vas set up by the CRP
within BCD.
Proiections
19.          able 1 shows projected loans and portfolio balances, by economic
sector.  Be ause of the decline in the world price of cocoa, strict criteria
vill be apvlied in the selection of cocoa beneficiaries, accepting only those
who are clearly profitable. In the first two years of the project, therefore,
cocoa beneficiaries are expected to be fewer than the current DCA clients, and
the area served vill be smaller. These reductions will be offset by the
financing of other crops and sectors of the economy and by incorporating other
cocoa growing areas and more productive customers. The overall targets are as
follows:
_____-___-_--__-----_--  CFAF millions -------------------------
Loans                     Balances    Portfolio   Loans
Year        Cocoa        Other                    Cocoa        Other
Production  Sectors    Total         Production  Sectors       Total
0*            300           -          300          300           -          300
1             320          140         460          345          105         450
2             445          255         700          505          195         700
3             540          440        980           640          360       1,000
4             585          615      1,200           655          545       1,200
5             600          800      1,400           560          740       1,300
*     Projected 1990191 position of DCA (established by CRP).
20.         Income and expenditure projections are shown In Table 1 of Annex 6
and are based on the following assumptions:
(a)   the interest rate on loans will be same as that charged by BIAO
for lendirig operations that cannot be rediscounted by BEAC (18Z
p.a.);
(b)   DCA's operating costs are very high at present and will be
reduced, by the following means:



- 40 -                              ANNEo 1
Page 6 of 1Q
(i)   the all-terrain vehicles assigned to credit supervisors vill
be replaced by all-terrain motorcycles. This vill cut fuel
and vehicle depreciation costs by CFAF 14 million (782), and
(ii) salaries of the staff of the input section and their drivers
vill not be charged to SAC, since they do not work on credit
operations. This vill cut coste by CFAF 13 million (412).
(c)   the breakdown of financial costs will change, but they will
maintain their same relative value. Payment of interest on the
value of loans granted (82 to the Government and 42 to BCD) will
be suspended, but a new financial cost on resource mobilization
will be added (11C p.a. for BEAC rediscounts and 6.52 p.a. for
savinga deposita). These are the maximum rates permitted by the
Banking law; and
Cd)   DCA's appropriations and depreciationa allovances will be
maintained: 22 on loans granted for portfolio risk for cocoa
production and 42 for other loans, 302 for motorcycle
depreciation. and 102 for the depreciation of other assets.
21.         The folloving is a sulmary income statement (for details see Table
1 of Annex 6):
Year            Income          Expenditure             Profit (loes)
................... (CFAF millions).
0*                 27                 84                        (57)
1                  38                 63                        (25)
2                  70                 82                        (12)
3                 112                111                          1
4                 143                123                        20
5                 152                133                        19
*     Projected 1990/91 position of DCA (established by CRP).
22.         Table 2 shows a breakdown of projected balances.  A sensitivity
analysis of the income statement based on the assumptions shown below shows
the considerable impact of CRP's present costa, and the need to reduce these
in order to make SAC financially viable (Table 3).



- 41 -                           ANNEX 1
Page 7 of 10
Sensitivitv analvsis of SAC (income statement)
80O
Year             Proiosed      Performance        If operatin~        f activities are
Position         Rate         costs are not cut      delayed one vear
1                  (25)            (27)               (45)                  (61)
2                  (12)            (17)                (32)                 (25)
3                    1              (8)               (12)                  (12)
4                   20               5                  6                     1
5                   19               5                   7                  20
Cumulative           3             (42)                (76)                 (L77
III. FINANCIAL REQUIREMENTS
23.         To generate a loan portfolio of CFAF 1.3 billion, the total value
of loans to be granted during the five-year period vould need to be CFAF 4.7
billion (Table 1). This portfolio would be financed by SAC's capital, savings
deposits and BEAC rediscounts, as shown in Table 2. The annual financing of
this portfolio can be summarized as follows:
Sources of funds for financing SAC portfolio
Source            PY1         PY2          PY3         PY4          PY5        Total
SAC's capital      300         20           30          50           50           450
Savings deposito   50          50           50          50           50           250
BEAC rediscounte  160         180          210          80            0           630
Other liabilities
and Equity          0          0            0           0           14            14
T o t a 1          510        250          290         180          114         1,344
24.         It will be possible to finance these amounts with local funds
deriving from: (i) the initial capitalization of SAC using the loan balance
currently held by DCA in the Cocoa Rehabilitation Project; (ii) SAC's annual
capitalization resulting from the purchase of OFA shares by credit
beneficiaries (a percentage of the value of the loans received); (iii) the use
of a proportion of the savinge deposito mobilized; (iv) the use of a small
proportion of BEAC funds for discounting loans, which are fully available.
External financing will therefore not be required for credit activities.
External financing vill be available through crop diversification and poverty
alleviation funde.



- 42 -                                       A       1
EEIATOR!AL OU!NEA                                         l
CROP DIVERSIFICATION AN AORICULiURAL SERVSCES PROJECT
Table 1. Estimated Loans. Loan                  Avei Pable Fund.
ts^ *iii on>
¡te.                                 -~¡;-                                               - 
PY ^/   PY1         PY2        PY8       PY4        PY5
1.  PROJECT AREA TO BE FRN~NCED (ha)
Rehabí litatlon                               -         ao0        720        "o        m          -
Seasonal Credit
-  Curr.nt Clente PRC       g          8,00       2,800     2,          2,000    2,00         2,00
-  New Client                             -          20e        60       l,000    1,600        2,000
-  Area RohabilItated        k/           -           -        8BO       1,080    1,740        2,040
2.   LOANS (FCFA mIlIion)
Cocoa Reohoblitatien             /            -          70       145         180       6s          -
Cocee CsmrI?n                   e/            800       260       800         410      625          600
Cocoa Mark tnog                               -          70       100         180      260          800
Divereif ic.tlon                                                    u0        100      150          200
Gther Secror                                             ;5       lo          150      200          280
See  Capital for                                                                a       lon
Cooperativeo                 /            -            t         5          10       15           20
TOTAL LOANS                                   8o        4C0       7           880    1.200        1.400
8.   LOAN RECOVERY (FCFA  lilieon)
Coco. Rehabí ¡iltation                        -          -         10          e0      100          180
Coeos Campalgn                                200       275       275         855      470          C65
Coco. Marketing                               -          aS      1O          140      225          276
Divereiflcatlon                               -          -         -           8S       60          180
Other Sectore                                 -          -         64          98      142          196
S~ed Cepital tor
Cooperatlvoe                              -           -          1           2        a            5
TOTAL RECOVERY                                200       810       460         680    1.000        1.00
4.   AVAILABLE RESOURCES
Prevlous Balance                              200       800       450         700    1,00         1,200
New Balaneo                                   800       460       70        1,00    1,200         1,800
!/  Projoted 1990 poeltion for tho A r¡cultural Credit Department (DCA) e*tabliehed by the Coco*
Rehabl ltation Project (PRC) In th Develepm.nt Credit Bank (8C9). The bank lo being liquldated.
b/ Refore te financing for the rehabilltation of 2,040 ha of abandonad ceoco plantatione bolonging te
IDEPA.
c1  Because of tho decl¡no In the lnternational price of coeoa, procecuree for *el.cting boneftiiarles
wl11 be tlghtened e* that only eloerly profettble producere will be eligibl-. For the fist two
years reduction la therefore projected ln the number of b.n.fteiaries (compared to the present number
oft A custmera) *nd In th. ares financed.
#/  Average financing w1ll be CFAF 200,000/ha, including drylng *nd ftuigation oquipm.nt.  The loan perlod
wl11 be seven years, ;nclud;ng ono year a grace.
2/  Average financlng w11l be CFAF 100,00/ha (elght-.onth tero).
f/  Advanc- paymonts on cocoa del;verad tor export (three-month toro).
g/  Estimated demnd for credit for agricultural production other than coeoa.
h/  Estimated d.nnd for credit for transportation, induetry  uid trad.
1/  Loane to Opro-cooporativee' tor proemtíon *nd/or etrangting the etaiehmnt of futuro saving* and
loan cooperativs (f ive-yeer ten.).



- 43 -                                         1*
EATMIALc QINRA
CAV DUMERSIFISOLMN ANO AGRCIºLlUIA. SEIVICES PROJECT
TabIe 2. SavIn. *nd CreIlt Servio.. (SAC)
LEtuatld Balance Sheet
jtra  mi ion>
PYe      Pm         P2        PYa       7Y4       7<8
ASSETS
Safe Depos1t Box/Bank.s                      s e0       20        80         40       40          40
Loan Balance                          u/ 300           460       700      1.~      1.200       1.8*
LAm. Sed DebtY                                (8)      (11)      (28)       (5$)     (80)       (118)
Other Asate                                  26         51        S8         es       70          78
TOTAL ASSETS                                860        610       780      1.lt    1.280       1.80
LTABILITIES
savlns Deposit                      e0                          100        1tO      2a0         260
iEAC D;scount                                 -       las0      840        6tO      en           s0
Other LlabilO.tls                          407        25        a8          86       16          11
TOTAL UABIUTIES                             407       286        477       7t8       848         891
£EIJITY
Subecribed Capital                            -        00         m
Uncalled Capital                                                (280                (2~
Psld-up Capital l 
Fiscal Year ProfIta                          (57       (25)       12          1       20          19
Past Year Prof ¡te                           nd          -        25         n t8
Cumulative Profit                            nd t8?                                   1
TOTAL EQUM                                   (57)      275       288        814      884         458
TOTAL UIAIUTIES AN  ERUIM                   8W         510       70       1.OW    1 230        1.844
ProJectod 1990 position for th- Agricultural Credit Depsrtment (DCA) eablihed by th. Cocos
Rehabilitation Project (PRC) in the Developm.nt Credit Bank (BCD); thlis bank lo being liquidatad.
Balance  and projection., (Table 1.)
l Cumulativ, balance of *nnual appropriations (Table 2).
/ Furnitur., real prop.rty, vehicles snd office equipment.
pj Eutlmted mavinge *nd operating capital of pro-cooperatives *nd ~mil *nd udIscoale cocoa euppl ¡era
(lfl gross value of production financo).
U Uso of 8EAC rediscounto for flnancing a portion of the loan* for coco* production end exporto,
together with other ectorc.
/ Temporary financing of cumulativo losa.  incurred during the *tart-up period (f r,t te oaers).
fi Initially conmisting of a portion of the asuto (loan balance ) of DCA.
S~e lncoe *t*tement (Table 2).



44 _-                                   AEX 1
Pago 10 of 10
E4UATORIAL GUONEA
CROP DIVERSIFCATION AND AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
Table 8. Sensitlvlty An.Iyels Inocs Ste eentt
(CFAF milUIon)
PY1       PY2       PY3        PY4       PYS    Cumulative
Total
A.   IF 80% OF TARGETS ARE MET
Total Incoa                          2a        30        56        os         114      122          412
Total Expenditurog                    ti       57        78        98         109      117          454
Lost Profits                                  (27)      (17)        (8)         6        5          (42)
8.   IF OPERATINO COSTS ARE
NOT REDUCED AS PROPOSE> ANt ARE
MAINTAINED AS UNDER CRP
Total Inco                            s        o 98      70       112         148      162          515
Total Expenditures                    d        83       102       124         187      145          691
Lost Profit.                                  (46)      (32)       (12)         6        7
C.   IF ACTIVITIES ARE DELAYED
BY ONE YEAR
Total Incom                           e/       23        38        70          112      143         M89
Total Exponditures                             84        68        82          111      123          463
Lost Profit.                                  (61)      (25)       (12)          1       20          (77)
/ 20X declina In incom.
/ 20% decline In intereat payeblo to EEAC *nd In reserve tor bad debte because of tho lower value of
loano granted.
c/ Incom. would be es projected In Table 1.
J  Op.rating coste would remain et the DCA level (CFAF 48 *Millon).
/  In the firet year ¡neoa. would consiat only of lnteroet frow soasonal lesna for cocos production.



-45 -                             ANNEX 1
Attachment 1
Page 1 of 2
Eligibility Criteria and Principal Lending Terms for Seasonal
Medium- and Long-term Credit
Eligíbilitv Critería
1.          Operators in all sectors of the economy, who meet the
creditworthiness criteria, set forth in the following paragraphs will be
eligible:
General Creditworthiness Criteria:
2.          SAC will retain responsibility for receiving and evaluating
applications for credit provided by the project. SAC will be supervised by
OFA General Manager, and credits above FCFA 1 million vill be approved by a
Loan Comuittee as is currently done under the CRP. SAC's annual credit
program will be channeled through the Project Director. The Chief of SAC will
train all existing ataff of the Agricultural Credit Department of CRP in the
improved credit processing methods that vill be introduced. He vill also
ensure that credit applications are properly reviewed and approved according
to strict creditworthiness criteria. Such criteria was agreed between
Government and IDA at negotiations. In addition, agreement was reached that
the criteria will be strictly applied as of project inception (para 7.01 (j)).
3.          Within SAC, a Credit Supervision and Monitoring Unit (CSMU) vould
be created with the appointment of seven field supervisors and two clerks
under the responsibility of its national chief. The CSMU will carry out in-
field inspection of the holdings of credit appiícants, leading to a technical
and financial assessment of their creditworthiness. During the growing
season, supervisors will make on-farm visits to monitor the use of loan
proceeds, detect emerging problems and determine whether further disbursements
toward the end of the season would be warranted. The CSMU will intensify
contacts with borrowers to assess expect.d reimbursements.  Two credit cierks
will maintain and update records on each borrower.
4.          Loans will be awarded to creditworthy clients in the form of cash
to cover current expenses such as wages, fuel and locally made goods; and in
the form of credit vouchers which will be redeemed at the SI for imported
goods (fungicide, agricultural tools and equipment). Credltworthiness will be
assessed by SAC, based on the applicant's: (a) status of client's solveney and
his past credit repayment performance; (b) proven farm management or
entrepreneurial capability; (c) ability to repay, based on the farm's or
enterprise's condition and past repayment history; (d) presentation of
adequate collateral; and (e) appropriatenesa of security of land tenure for
the type of loan to be made. For seasonal loans, criteria (a), (b), (c) and
(d) will be stressed, with a claim on the harvested crop accepted as
collateral. Established clients will have to contribute a percentage of total
credit, as determined by SAC, from own proceeds in cash. Por medium- and
long-term loans, fixed assets, including land and buildings, will be required
as collateral. Collateral vill also include group guarantee.



- 46 -                          ANNEX 1
Attachment 1
Page 2 of 2
5.          Loan terus vill be, in principle, as followss  for seasonal
credit: 10-12 monthst for medium-term loans: 7 years, vith one year of grace;
and for long-term loanss 10 years, with one year of grace.  In applying these
terms to any individual case, SAC vill make minor adjustments to accommodate
the specific circuastances of the applicants, in particular, to ensure that
they haye positive annual cash flows.
6.          As agreed during negotiations, all loans vill initially bear an
lnterest rate of 182, covering the folloving costss
Cost Covered bv SAC's Interest Rate
Percentape
Interest due to BEAC                       112
Provision for Bad Debts                     42
SAC's Operational Costs                     32
Total Payable by Borrowers                 182
7.          Thís rate ls 32 higher than the present rate of interest charged
to clients of DCA (152). It is intended to result in a positive interest
rate. The domestic inflation rates in local currency has been estimated at 5S
annually for the next five years. Agreement on the proposed initial rate vas
reached during negotiations. Agreement was almo reached at negotiationa that
the interest rate would be reviewed ansually and, if necessary, modified in
consultation vith IDA (para 7.01 (j)». The setting of the lending rate vill
account for the changes in the domestic structure of intarest rates,
especially as these changes may affect the cost of moneys for SAC. It vill
reflect SAC's cost of administering credit snd it vill be fixed at such a
level compared vith domestic inflation that it vill be positive in real terms.



- 47 -                          ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 6
EQUATORIAL GUINEA
CROP DIVERSIFICATION AND AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
Extension Orianization and Methodolopy
A. Introduction
1.          The Training and Visit Extension System (T&V) is the most suited
for the iaprovement of the agricultural technology in the conditions of
Equatorial Guinea. It vill be adopted by the project in the implementat$on of
the Extension and Research Component.
2.          The principal theme of the project component $e that extension
activities vill need to be managed and coordinated at national level.
Although the technical messages vill vary according to regional conditione,
leaving autonomy and responsibility to the farmers, the methodology of
transmession of the technical messages vill be the same at the national level.
B. Organization
3.          The organizational structure vill take into consideration the
specific characteristice of the country, namely the division of the territory
betveen Insular and Continental Regions vith consequent communication
problems, and the dispersed agricultural population.
4.          The Directorate General for Training, Extension and Cooperative
Development (DGCEC) ls responsible at the national level for all extension
activities in the country. Extension io provided through the Agriculture
Extension Service (AES), wh$ch has Regional Extension Coordinators in the
Insular Region and in the Continental Region. In addition, there are Chiefe
of Cooperative Development in both regions. The implementation of tl
Extension and Research Component vill be the re-ponsibility of the Director of
DGCEC, with support from a technical aseistance specialist and U.N.
volunteers.
5.          At the central level, the Director of DGCEC with the assistance
from the project specialized team vill be responsible for all the extension
activities of the project.
6.          A project extension coordination office vill be located in each
regional capital (Malabo and Bata). Each office vould be integrated by the
Coordinator of ABS, the Cooperative Development Coordinator, a training
specialist and subject matter specialists (< in Malabo and 3 in Bata). The
tasks of this office would be to ensure coordination among the district
agencies and vith the central office; prepare york prograe=, with special



- 48 -                              ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 6
emphasis on training activities; prepare technical messages both for food crop
and cash crops production and ensure monitoring and evaluation of extension
activities.
7.          At the district level (13 districts in the Continental Region ard
four on the Island of Bioko), the offices of AES will have two to four Village
Extension Workers (VEW) according to the size of the population, vith a total
of 33 VEWs in the Continental region, eight in the Insular Region and two on
the Island of Annobon. This vill ensure a ratio of 350 to 880 rural families
per each VEW. Since one of the main objectives of the project is to increase
agricultural production of women farmers, special attention will be given to
reaching women. An important number of extension agents will be womaen. At
the level of each of the four provinces of the Continental Region, there will
be an Extension Supervisor (ES). Each province has from three to four
districts. Each ES will have under his responsibility an average of eight
VEWs. The Island of Bioko would have only one ES.
8.          The extension program will focus extension services through the
approach on the small farmer and women who represent a great proportion of
farmers, while continuing to provide improved extension to medium and larger
holdings producing export crops. Extension efforts will redreas the male
orientation in extension, particularly in terms of which gender is perceived
as the target of extension efforts. It will fully recognize the key roles
vomen play in rural society which may impact upon women's responses to
extension packages, such as food storage, production marketing, cash income
needs for essential items such as clothing, education and nutrition.
9.          To ensure efficiency of the AES, the tasks of the VEWs vill be
complemented by activities of lanimadores, vwho will be local farmers selected
by their communities.  The animadores will work in their own villages and in
one or two neighboring villages. They will receive adequate training through
organized seminars and training sessions throughout the year. Each VEW will
work with four to five animadores, who vould extend the work of the VEW,
making the presence of the project more permanent in the villages. The
project will provide minimal financing assistance for the york of the
animadores. It is expected that this vill be assumed by each communuty after
PY4.
10.         Each VEW vill be assigned a number of families in the area.  The
number vould depend on the prevailing conditions in the area such as
population density, settlement patterns, agro-ecological and production
systems, topography and accessibility.  It le estimated that each VEW can
service around 400 to 600 families, depending on the density of the population
in the area.  The specific area assigned to each VEW viii be determined on the
basis of a detailed review by each VEW during the first year of project
implementation.
11.         To service systematically the farmers in the area, each VEW will
divide his area in eight sectors. In each sector, VEis will organize the
farmers in two or three farmers' organizations and vill select the contact
farmers on the basis of training, leadership, affinity and location. The VEW
will visit eauh sector (and consequently each farmer organization of a



- 49 -                              ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 6
particular sector) on one specific day of each week, once every two veeks. It
ís estimated that during the first year of project implementation, only 30Z to
50Z of the farmers of a sector vill be active members of a contact farmer
group. It ie expected that this proportion will be increased to about 60 to
65Z during PY4. The VEW would work primarily with active members of farmer
organizations, making individual farm demonstrations of the agricultural
practices to be followed during the folloving two weeks. Each visit will
include a limited number of recommendations for the specific farming cycle to
be folloved. Technical messages will be simple, giving particular emphasis to
improvements with low cost of application (permanent farming systems,
appropriate density of plants, weeding, pruning of cocoa or coffee, harvesting
and storage). To reduce risks, the recommendations which will imply
significant differences from present farming production practices will be
demonstrated in a limited area of the farm. Efforts to disseminate farming
systems have already been initiated under a pilot agroforestryllivestock
production model under the IDA-financed Technical Asseistance Project, where
farmers' response ís being tested with encouraging results (para 6.19).
12.         VEWs vill try to involve as many farmers as possible in
discussions and demonstrations, visiting farms of non-contact farmers as
requested.  In regions were vomen are actively involved in the administration
of the farme, VEWs will request male farmers to bring their wives during the
discussions. Major emphasis vould be placed in assisting women to form farmer
groups for the production of food crops.
13.         Each VEW vill devote eight days out of 15 to visit farmer groups.
One day out of 15 will be devoted to programming sessione and to
coordinating/reporting sessions vith the ES. VEUs will attend a two-day
monthly training seminar given by the Subject Matter Specialiste (SMS) at the
provincial level. The last two working days of each two-week period, will be
used to finalize visits to farmers or to specific extension activities.
ProRramíing and SuDervision of the VEWs
14.         The activities of the VEWs will be programmed and monitored by the
ES. Each ES will supervise seven to eight VEWs, programming calendar of
visits adequately to ensure that the visits are made and adequate technical
orientation is given. Each ES will devote eight days in a two-veek period to
visits to the field. ES will participate also in the two-day training
sesesion noted in para 13. One day in the two-week period will be used to
meet with the VEWs, whom he supervises to establish work programs and to
provide orientation and information as required. The remaining days vould be
devoted to provide additional asesistance to VEWs or other extension related
tasks.
Technical Support
15.         It te necessary to strengthen the technical staff at the
provincial and regional levels to ensure a smooth flow of
information/recommendations and appropriate training and technical support to
VEWs. The SMSs vill devote 332 of their time to the training of the VEWs and
ESe, another 332 to field visits to provide technical support to the VEWs, and
the remaining time to improving his own knowledgeltechniques through a



- 50 -                                ~ANNEX 2
Page 4 of O
continuous dialogue with the applied research personnel, making simple
research trials in collaboration with the personnel of the applied research
farms of the Ministry (Mbini and Km 13), and attending training vorkshops and
seminars.
C. TraininR
16.         Three types of training activities vill be programmed:  (a)
orientation and recycling, (b) in-service training, and (c) other training.
Orientation and RecyclinR Training
17.         In July 1990, senior level staff undertook a four-week study tour
in the National Extension Project in Cameroon. Ten days were devoted to
formal training, followed by a three day visit of a research station and two-
veeks participation in extension activities with Cameroonian field staff.
18.         In addition all extension staff will receive in late September
1990, a short pre-project course of five to ten days as an introduction to the
basic elements of the T&V system. More formal training courses will be given
to the SMSs in their individual topic of specialization. The duration of the
courses will vary between one week and four months, according to the
complexity of the subject and would be organized in the country with the
assistance of Subject-Matter Specialists (consultants) or with a formal
training institution overseas, especially in the region. Applied research
personnel vill also receive adequate training in regional research
ínstitutions. SMSs will receive training annually in regional research
institutions. Coordination vith the Cameroon National Extension Project wil
be encouraged in matters of training and applied research.
19.         In view of the lack of systematic training programs of the staff
of the Ministry during the last few years, the DGCEC will organize during the
first six months of project implementation a test to: evaluate the technical
and communication capacity of all the staff (VEWs, the regional extension
team); evaluate the capacity of the staff for the adequate implementation of
the project; and to help design the training programs to be executed in the
short and medium term.
In-service Training
20.         The key training sub-component of the project will be the
continuous in-service training of fíeld stafft
(a)   Monthly traininR sessiona will be organized for the VEWs at
provincial level. This traíning will be organized by the trainina
officers based in the regional offices and directed by the SMS.
Training during these sessions of two or more days vill be
practically oriented and will concentrate on specífic techniques
to be followed during the next monthly period. During these
sessions, VEWs will almo have the opportunity to bring up and to
discuss specific problems identified during the previous four
weeks. Part of the training period will be used In practica].
field work, experimenting with reco mmended agricultural



-51 -                         ANE  2
Page 5 of 6
techuiques. Time vill also be devoted to learning about the
preparation snd use of training material and communication
techniques.
(b)   Quarterl2 Seminare.  These multi-disciplinary five-day seminars
vill be organized by the SMSs and the regional suiervisors.
Frequency, activities aud topics of the seminars will be the key
element in linking extension snd research. The quarterly seminars
vill serve primarily to train the ES and the VEVs, but vill also
play a critical role tos
(M)   review the success of the production recommendations
provided during the previous quarter and the level of
farmers acceptancelresponsiveness;
(ii) select and discuss the recommendations for the folloving
quarter;
(iii) review the program of triale and analyze farmers' acceptance
as vell as suggest subjects for new trials; and
(iv) evaluate the success of the monthly training sessions for
VEWs.
21.         The quarterly seminars vill be organized by the regional extension
coordinating team.  Nonetheless, the techn&il content and the execution of
the seminars will be the joint responsibility of the extension and applied
research staff.  The quarterly seminars vill be given in regional research
centers and in the regional extension coordination offices. Regular field
visite to trial areas vill be organized to review progrese in the applied
research efforts.
Other Trainina
22.         ?he provincial extension staff and the SMSs vill attend annual
training courses in extension and conmunications techniques to improve their
technical training skills. Other types of in-service traiuing will be
provided during project implementation to improve the general technical level
of all the extension and applied research personnel.



- 52 -                              ANNEX 2
Page 6 of 6
Rural Population and Ratio of VEWs Per District
___________________________________________________________________________
DISTRICT                    RURAL         NO. OF      NO. OF   FAMILIES PER
POPULATION     FAMILIES     VEWs         VEWs
---------------------------------_--------------------------------__-------
CONTINENTAL REGION
Akurenam                     7,510         1,155        2            537
Aconibe                      5,770           888        2            412
Anisok                      19,430         2,990        3            925
Bata                        22,160        3,410         3          1,055
Ebebiyin                    28,320         4,357        4          1,012
Evinayong                   15,610        2,402         2          1,115
Kogo                        13,130        2,020         2            938
Mbini                       12,370         1,905        2            884
Micom« seng                 19,500         3,000        3            929
Mongomo                     16,140         2,483        3            769
Niefang                     24,360        3,748         3          1,160
Nsok Nsomo                  12,590         1,937        2            900
Nsork                        5,880           905        2            420
SUB TOTAL                202,770       31,200        33            878
ISLAND OF BIOKO
Malabo                       6,452           993        2            461
Baney                        4,430          682         2            317
Luba                         5,620           865        2            402
Riaba                        2.974           458        2            213
SUB TOTAL                 19,476        2,998        8             348
ISLAND OF ANNOBON            2,400          400         2            200
_________________________________________-_________________________________
TOTAL COUNTRY            224,646       34,598        43            748
11_________________Nat_________________u___________-__e____u____of___1983__
1/ Sourees National Population Census of 1983



- 53 -                         ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 7
EQUATORIAL GUINEA
CROP DIVERSIFICATION AND AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
Applied Research
A.   Introduction
1.         4MALFF has responsibility for applied research and ij expected to
supervise and coordinate applied research undertaken by several externally
financed agricultural development projects with research components. This
Ministry's capability to carry out its own, and to coordinate, monitor,
evaluate and guide donor-financed applied research, is virtually non-existent,
due to lack of financial and trained human resources. Although several of the
Ministry's staff are being seconded to various donor-financed projects to work
as local counterparts in extension and applied research, they are paid
directly by these projects and report to the project managers rather than to
the Ministry.
2.          There is no national policy on agricultural/applied research, and
MALFF has not the financial means and trained human resources necessary to
undertake a national research program. There is also no agricultural research
station where MALFF could concentrate and conduct its research. Applied
research work in Equatorial Guinea is currently undertaken only by externally
financed agricultural development projects vith research components.
B. Donor-financed Applied Research
3.          Equatorial Guinea receives substantial development assistance from
bilateral and multilateral organizations. Its lack of a national
agricultural/applied research policy and program has made it sometimes more a
recipient of ad hoc assistance, rather than assistance based on long-term
development plans supported by policy dialogue with and among donors. As
donors, in general, were unwilling to channel their resources through weak
central government services, they have identified their own target groups and
areas, and formulated their own enclave projects. As a consequence, there is
little coordination among projects and inevitably contradiction and
duplication of efforts.
4.          The most important ongoing development projects with research
components in the agricultural sector are:
-     Technical Assistance Proiect, financed by IDA, providing technical
assistance to strengthen MALFF in its tasks of planning,
formulating and following up projects in various specialized
forestry and agricultural subsectors. Activities have been
financed under this project to revitalize the national extension
service and carry out a socio-economic census of the rural sector
in the Continental Region and in Bioko. In addition, the project
has financed a pilot project to implement an
agrolforestry/livestock production model through lalley cropping".



- 54 -                           ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 7
Cocoa Rehabilitation Proiect, financed by IDA, OPEC, EEC and BADEA
with a credit of US$ 9.3 míllíon, aiming at rehabilitating some
3,000 ha of cocoa plantations on Bioko, supplying agricultural
credit and inputs to cocoa smallholders, and conducting applied
research on integrated pest snd disease control;
Integrated Rural DeveloPment Proiect in Ebebivin-Monpomo, financed
by IPAD with CFAF 750 million, aiming at increasing food crop
production vithin three districts through applied research,
introduction of new low-input cropping technologies, farmers'
group development and ímproved marketing of their produce;
Integrated Rural DeveloDment Proiect in Niefana, financed by the
Fonda d'Aide et Cooperation (FAC) with CPAF 850 million, aimed at
ímproving living conditions of the rural population through
increased food crop and coffee production;
Inteprated Rural Develoiment Proiect near Bata, financed by the
PED with CFAF 420 million aimed at improving production and
marketing of horticultural crops and poultry; and
APPlied/Adaptive Research Prolect at Basile, financed by GTZ with
CFAF 650 million, conducting research on horticulture, poultry,
emall ruminante and village-type agricultural processing.
5.          Important applied research york la being conducted by these
projects, such as:
-     in cocoas:  triala on cost-effective methods of treating black pod
disease snd controlling equirrels;
-     in coffee: introduction of high yielding Robusta coffee clonal
material from Cote d'Ivoire;
-     in food crops:  introduction of high yielding varieties of maize,
cowpea, groundnuts and bananas from Gabon and Caseroon;
-     in livestock:  introduction of improved breeds of poultry and
small ruminante; snd
-     on farminR systems: introduction on a pilot scale of 'alley
croppingl farming.
6.          Resulte have been positive but remain mostly vithin the confines
of the individual project area. Informal contacts have existed between
project managers and MALFF; concrete measures to formalize these contacto were
adopted at the Round Table Cor.ference held in Malabo in November 1989.



ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 7
C. National ApPlied Research System
7.          The proposed project will build MALFF's applied research
capabilities on the Continent and Bioko. It vill link them to market-defined
farmer and extension service needs, and contribute through its applied
research and extension work to improving coordination of donor-funded
activities, introducing crop diversification, promoting export of non-
traditional agricultural commodities, conserving soil fertility and providing
support for women farmers. In addition, the project will assist MALFF in
establishing an agricultural data base, by collecting research data obtained
by donor-funded agricultural development projects.
8.          The first applied research development tasks will be to train a
small cadre of senior officers able to support project activities and manage
an expanding applied research system, and to develop a Basic Applied Research
Unit (BARU), including a Plant Propagation Unit.  BARU will have small
agricultural research centers, one each in the Continental Region and on
Bioko.
The Institutional Framework
9.          The project vill strengthen applied research capabilities in the
Ministry's General Directorate for Training, Agricultural Extension and
Cooperative Development (DGCEC), and link them to extension service needs.
The implementation of the project's extension and research component will be
the responsibility of the Director of DGCEC.
10.         At the national level, the expatriate Project Coordinator will
guide the nationally-focussed T&V development and applied research work.
Production, applied research and extension work will be undertaken by the
Ministry's Agriculture Extension Service (AES), with the assistance from the
expatriate Extension and Agricultural Production Specialist and the expatriate
Marketing Specialist.
ll.         The Ministry vill assign in the Continent three, and on Bioko two
Subject Matter Specialists (SMSs) to BARU, who will liaise closely with the
AES and continue responding directly to the National Director of the AES on
Bioko, and to the Ministry's Regional Extension Coordinator in the Continent.
These staff, specialized in the main technical subjects (tentatively food
crops, fruit and vegetables, cocoa and animal husbandry) will provide the
necessary linkage between applied research, farmers and agricultural
extension. They will directly assist farmers on specific technical subjects,
be directly involved in conducting applied research in the field and
interpreting its results, and assist the AES in elaborating its extension
messages and training its extension agents in applying new technologies.
12.         The project will provide technical assistance to MALFF and
training to its staff assigned to BARU. Training of cadre will be limited
initially to the five aboye mentioned SMSs and focus on basic applied research
concepts and needs. Technical training vill include short-term course work at



- 56 -                         ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 7
appropriate institutions in Africa, such as the International. Institute of
Tropical Agriculture (IITA) in Nigeria. which is specialized in research on
alley cropping farming systems. and practical training at National
Agricultural Research Centers and Cocoa Research Stations in neighboring
countries, such as the Institut de Recherche Agronomique (IRA) in Cameroon.
Complimentary on-the-job training vill be at donor-funded agricultural
development projecte, vith the simultaneous aim to develop and maintain links
between these projects and the national applied research system.
The ADDlied Research Framework
13.         The nature and size of agricultural/applied research to be
implemented in Equatorial Guinea, and the existence of specialized research
institutes in neighboring countries, combined with MALFF'8 limited capacity in
human and financial resources to sustain such servicels activities beyond the
project's horizon, does not justify the creation of an Applied Research
Service.
14.         The proposed BARU, therefore, will be a light organization,
líaised directly with MALFF's Agricultural Extension Service vith a vell-
defined and demand-driven research program. Its research activities will be
integrated into the activities of extension personnel, and farmers will
participate directly and in an early stage in the evaluation and selection
process through farmer-managed adoption plots on their own lands and with
their own means. The on-farm observations and yields vill be recorded by
visiting extension agents and eventually reported back by them to BARU for
analysis, conclusion and recommendations for follow-up actions.
15.         Staffing vill be light as well.  The national managers of
respectively the Research Center-Rio Muni and -Bioko will be assisted under
t project by respectively a qualified junior tropical agronomist and a
-,.ified cocoa agronomist. Linkage with the extension service and farmers
_1 be through the five SMSs, who will receive regular backstopping by
special subject matter consultants.
Research Center in the Continental Re2ion
16.         On the mainland, a part of the Government-owned farm "El King',
located 4 km south of Mbini, or any other farm assigned by the MALFF could be
converted into the Regional Research Center, which main tasks will be to:
-     establish and maintain at the Research Center plant collection
gardens and permanent alley farming demonstration plots;
-     conduct field experimenkts and applied research on food crop and
tropical fruits with good marketing prospects;
-     evaluate and select, in close collaboration with extension agents
and farmers, newly introduced planting material, tested under
local conditions at the Research Center andlor at research-



- 57 -                         ANNEX 3
Page 5 of 7
managed demonstratio3 plots in rural areas, whereafter the
extension service vill follow up by introducing improved planting
material and seeds in farmer-managed adoption plot8;
-     supervise the on-farm tests, monitor regularly farmers' response
to the new introductions, analyze the results of on-farm testing,
and recommend follow-up actions;
coordinate and direct applied research on permanent cropping
systems, in particular alley farming; and
-     coordinate and direct applied research undertaken by donor-
financed projects with a research component.
17.          BARU's Plant Propagation Unit vill focus in particular on
introducing from neighboring countries vell-tested varieties of food crops,
citrus root stock and leguminous seeds, multiplying selected seeds and
planting material, and distributing this material for further propagation to
farmers and farmers' groups.
18.         Staffing of the Research Center will be light. A Manager of the
Research Center vill be responsible for all activities undertaken at the
Center. At the regional level, he vill collaborate annually in the
preparation of the research program with the SMIs and other concerned
extension staff and vill execute this program. He vill establish and maintain
the linkage between applied research (both research- and farmer-managed),
extension service and farmers. At the national level, he vill keep
operational and informative links vith research stations and institutes in
neighboring countries, and be responsible foi coordinating, monitoring and
directing applied research undertaken by externally financed agricultural
development projects with research components.
19.         A permanent labor force of some 10-12 laborers, including a
tractor operator and a driver, will be affected to the Research Center.
Agricultural Training Center
20.         The agricultural training center near Bata at km 13, established
under the IDA-financed Technical Assistance Project, where alley cropping
demonstration plots are established and farmers are being trained in new
farming techniques, will be a sub-station.
Research Center-Bioko
21.         On Bioko, applied research will concentrate on cocoa and crops
suitable to replace cocoa in areas marginal for this cash crop. For cocoa
research, a small part of the IDEPA cocoa plantations will be converted into
the Research Center, while for applied research on agricultural and



ANNEX 3
Page 6 of 7
horticultural crops, including tropical fruits, a sub-station vill be
developed near Basile, where GTZ successfully i8 operating a emall
agricultural/poultrylsmall ruminants project.
D. Subiect Matters for Research
22.         The project vili inltially bulid on the resulta already obtained
by donor-financed projecte, and ,evelop over time, new demand-driven themes of
research. The major subject matters for research vill bes
_     Traditional food cropa.  In this ares the major research themes
will bes (a) introduction of promising varieties, to be tested at
the research centers and on research-managed demonstration plots
in rural areas; (b) acceptability of new varleties by farmera snd
consumers, to be tested in an early stage of Oproduct
developmentm; and (c) development of fast propagation techniques.
-     Fruits and Vegetables.  In fruits, research will focus on those
crops which have a relative advantage of being grown in Equatorial
Guinea for the export market. Tihs will lso spply for
vegetables, although here also the local market, in particular in
Malabo, will be an Limportant factor to consider.
-     Diversification crops.  Research on crops to replace cocoa in
areas marginal for this cash crop on Bioko ls important vithin the
context of the project's diversification program. The major
research theme vill be the introduction of promising crops to be
tested under local conditiona on their suitability as
diveraification crops.
-     Cocoa.  Cocoa applied research will concentrate on control of
black pod disease and squirrels. and on measures to improve cocoa
quality through fermentation. To rejuvenate old plantings, the
demand for new planting material will increase snd introduction of
improved hybrid material to be tested under local conditiona on
Bioko for the production of improved planting material wlll be a
major research theme.
-     Seed and Plantina Material Production.  The Plant Propagation Unit
vill be responsible for the production of stock of improved
commercial and leguminous seeda, and root/tuber crop planting
material.  The original germplasm will be collected and tested
under local conditions at the research centers or other
ecologically suited research fields.  After selection, the Unit
will undertake the first multiplication of improved seeds and lor
vegetative planting material, whereafter selected farmers or
farmers' groups will be contracted to produce improved seeds
andlor planting material for farmers' use.



_ 59 _                            ANN   3
Page 7 of 7
Allel Crow,ing.  This subject matter has been extended
successfully vithin several farmers' groups in Continental Guinea
and favorably accepted both by men and vomen. Alley cropping is
important for environmental protection and could be combined vith
vegetable crops and small livestock husbandry. It vill be a major
tool in gradually changing the traditional shifting and slash-
and-burn farming system into a more permanent one, while
maintaining or improving soil fertility through appropriate crop
rotation and organic mulching. The major research themes vill be
the introduction of leguminous arbustive or tree apecies to be
tested on their suitability under local conditions on the
mainland. and establishing research-managed alley farme in
combination vith tree crops (bananas and plantain.), vegetables
and small livestock.



- 60 -                            ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 6
EQUATORIAL GUINEA
CROP DIVERSIFICATION AND AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
Road and Ferry Rehabilitation and Maintenance
1.           This annex includes: (a) an inventory of the roads being
considered for rehabilitation under the project; (b) a brief description of
the status of these roads; and (c) an estimate of the cost of rehabilitation
and maintenance of the roads under two alternatives: (i) execution by a
private enterprise and (ii) a combination of a private enterprise-Ministry of
Public Works (MPW).
Road network in the Prolect Area
2.           On Bioko, the roads to be utilized by the project receive gome
maintenance and are at present without any major problem. The roads in the
Continental Region, however, are without maintenance and in a precarius
situation.
3.           As an example, the principal Continental Region route servicing
the project, Mbini-Akalayong (66 km), is technically impassable during the
rainy season due to a lack of a road surface layer of laterite over 30 km and
to deficient water drainage. In 1985, a study by BCEOM-France recommended as
a priority the rehabilitation of this route at a cost of CFAF 510 million.
4.           There are three possible solutions for this road:  (a)
rehabilitation and maintenance at an estimated cost of CFAF 525 million, under
the project, (b) rehabilitation and maintenance at the same cost under the
First Mighway Project (circa 1992), if this project could start in 1991. (In
informal discussions, the Equatoguinean Administration accepted the inclusion
of this route in the First Righway Project); (c) temporary works to eliminate
critical points and spread of a thin laterite layer by the MPW (which
possesses the necessary material in Bata). Alternatives (c) assumes two
conditions: (a) MPW comnit itself to perform the works and (b) the cost of
this operation (around CFAF 100 million) would be supported fully or partially
(minimum CFAF 70 maillion) by the project or the WFP Project, because
MPW cannot finance this operation by itself.
5.           According to the information obtained, the Mitomo-Cogo, road
which services the project in a slightly less important way has been cut in
several places since 1985. Ita reopening must be contracted to a private
company at an estimated cost of CFAF 570 million. There are currently no
budget estimates for this route.
Financina of the Rehabilitation and Maintenance of the Roads throuah the WFP
6.           This method of financing, while non-existent in Equatorial
Guinea, has been tried in Ghana and Chad, and could be used to cover part of
the necessary costs. The Resident Representative of the WFP in Malabo,
confirmed that, under the first phase of the Multipurpose Rural Development
Project (NQ 3996/Q) 302 or roughly US$450,000 - CFAF 145 million) of US$1.5
million approximately could be applied to roade affected by the project. This



- 61 -                         ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 6
amount covers the MPW's optional vorks by contract vith the condition that a
solution be found for eround CFAF 350,000 to be applied to buy fuel and
lubricants, spare parte and miscellaneous material. WFP informed the mission
that there could be a solution to this. Approximately US$l00,000 of manpower
costs could be covered through the use of food ratlons.
7.           This solution requires an explanation.  Rehabilitation and
maintenance of laterite roads on a clay foundation are essentially mechanized.
The laterite must be extracted from quarries located from 3 to 10 km avay,
transported, expanded and compacted. Normal maintenance then consists of
running the grader once or twice to eliminate potholes. The only important
manual work involves cutting roadside vegetation (chapeo). This operation is
performed, in Equatorial Guinea, on a regular schedule by the population, as
non-paid community work.
Croesina of the Benito River in Mbini
8.           Because the Sendje Bridge over the Benito river, vill not be re-
opened for another 4-5 years, it was decided to install a ferry at Mbini,
financed by the European Economic Community for approximately US$1.5 million.
The ferry became operational in early 1990. This vill permit the access of
vehicles and material to perform the maintenance of the road Mbini-Akalayong.
Installation of a Ferry between AkalayonR. Cogo and Cocobeach (Gabon)
9.           One of the most important objectives of the project is to
íncrease Equatorial Guinea'e export of agricultural producto to Gabon. To
achieve this goal, a ferry service has been foreseen, and an amount of US$1.3
million reserved for this in the project.
10.          However, before a ferry service is instituted, the following
conditions should be satisfied:
(a) a feasibility study by a maritime expert and a transport
economist should be conducted to establish the type and
installation cost of the ferry, and the transport demand for the
next five years (including a study on the capacity of the emall
and medium maritime transport enterprises (SMEs) existing in the
region);
tb) the opening of this ferry service should not take place until
the road Mbini-Akalayong is paseable and the export agricultural
production is important enough to justify this investment;
tc) at present, there are emall private boats that assure the
transport between Akalayong, Cogo and Cocobeach. Also, there
are soma of a capacity of up to 40 tons available for coast
transport to and from Gabon, Cameroon and Equatorial Guinea.
The private sector should be encouraged to take charge, as the
demand increases, of the transport of these producto. Through
the granting of credits the project could eventually aid
interested SMEs; and



- 62 -                           MINEX 4
Page 3 of 6
(d) epecial arrangements should be negotiated between Gabon snd
Equatorial Guinea to facllitate the transport of agricultural
products towards Libreville. lt appears that there vill be no
particular major problems for this link.



-63 -                            ANNEX 4
Page 4 nf 6
COST ESTIMATE FOR THE REHABILITATION
OF ROAD RESOURCES IN TEE PROJECT AREA
11.          In the Continent
(d)  Roads to consider:
RN 4.     Mbini - Akalayong         =  66 km
RN 3.     Evinayong - Akurenam      =  60 km
RP 1.     Mitomo - Cogo             =  64 km
TOTAL                     = 190 km
(b) Actual status of this networks
RN 4. Mbini - Akalayong
Poor, with very reduced characteristics, three to five meters
wide. Approximately 30 km without laterite and around 70 mud-holes.
There is a thin layer of laterite (5-10 cm) on around 36 km of road.
The road is cut at least ten points after heavy rains. The average
circulation speed is 20 km/h. There has been no maintenance for the
last 6 years.
RN4 3. Evinayong - Akurenam (not visited)
This route has many difficult sections and has not been
maintained but, according to information obtained, it is passable.
RP 1. Mitomo - Cogo (not visited)
This road, according to information obtained, ís in a very bad
condition and is impassable during the rainy season. A small broken
bridge at km 14 cuta the road.
(c)  Rehabilitation and Maintenance Work Costs:
RN 4. Mbini - Akalayong (66 km)
Work by Contract (definitive solution)
Rehabilitation   - 30 km X 12.5 M/km (see BCEOM study) - CFAF 375.0 M
Regrading and
Partial Recharge   36 km X 3.2 M/km  (see BCEOM study) - CFAF 115.2 M
CFAF 490.2 M
or approximately CFAF 7.4 Mlkm
Normal maintenance (by force account)
Regrading (once a year) - 4 years X 66 km X 0.13 M/km  = CPAF  35.0 M
TOTAL = CFAF 490.2 M + CFAP 35.0 M - CPAF 5!.& M



- 64 -                            ANNEX 4
Page 5 of 6
Work by Force Account
Restoration to a provisional state (by elimination of critical
points) by MPW. Transport and Housing crews at Bata.
Elimination of critical points and recharging
with 10 cm of laterite   - 30 km X CFAF 3.25 Mlkm = CFAP  97.5 M
Regrading and compacting = 36 km X CFAF 0.13 Mlkm = CFAF   4.7 M
CFAF 102.2 M
Normal maintenance
Regrading (once a year) - 4 years X 66 km X 0.13 Mikm    CFAF  35.0 M
TOTAL = CFAF 102.2 M + CFAF 35.0 M = CFAF 137.2 M
RN 3. Evinayong - Akurenam (60 km)
Work by Force Account
Regrading               - 60 km X CFAF 0.15 Mlkm         - CPAF  9.0 N
Elíminatíon of
critical pointe         =  5 km X CFAF 3.25 Nlkm         = CFAF 16.3 M
CFAF 25.3 M
Normal maintenance
Regrading (once a year) - 4 years X 60 km X 0.13 M/km  = CFAP 31.2 M
TOTAL = CFAF 25.3 M + CFAF 31.2 M = Cjo^F 56.5 N
NP 1. Mitomo - Cogo
Vork bY Contract
Rehabilitation (minimnum characteristics: 6 m platform,
5 m laterite 15 cm)     - 64 km X CFAF 9.0 M/km          = CFAF 576.0 M
Normal maintenance (by Force Account)
Regrading (once a year) = 4 years X 64 km X 0.13 M/km  - CFAP  33.3 M
TOTAL = CFAF 576.0 M + CPAF 33.3 M = CPAF 609.3 M
12.       On (Bioko)
(a) Roads to consider:
The 60 km of roads affected by the project are located in
the Luba and Riaba regions. The principal acceso roads to the
port of Malabo comprise around 110 km.



- 65 -                          ANNEX 4
Page 6 of 6
(b) Actual status of this network:
In spite of some deterioration, the principal network can
be safely used to transport agricultural produce. The feeder
roads, passable thanks to good soil quality, are in need of
normal maintenance to fill potholes. If volcanic rocks were
transported by truck, manual crews paid through the WFP Program
could do the work.
(c) Maintenance Work Coste (feeder roads only):
Transport of volcanic
material = 4 years X 50 m3/km X CFAF 2000 m3 X 60 km   - CFAF 24.0 M
Manual maintenance
- 4 years X 50 m3 X 50 man-days/m3 X CFAF 600 day   = CFAF  6.0 M
TOTAL = CFAF 24.0 M + CFAF 6.0 M - CFAP 30.0 K
13. Synopsis.
Variant 1   : Execution by the MPW (temporary solution).
Continent           CFAF  227.0 M
Bioko               CFAF   30.0 M
CIFA 257.0 M (approx. US$816,000)
Variant II : Execution by the MPW and by Force Account (definitive
solution).
Continent          CFAF 1271.7 M (including Mitomo-
Cogo)
Bioko              CFAF   30.0 M
CPAF 1301.7 M (approx. US$4.15 M)
Variant III : Execution by the MPW and by Force Account.
Continent          CFAF  662.4 M (vithout Mitomo-Cogo)
Bioko              CFAF   30.0 M
CPAF  692.4 M (appror. US$2.2 M)



- 66 -                     ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 11
EQUATORIAL GUINEA
CROP DIVERSIFICATION AND AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
Institutional Development
1.      The project vill have three explicit national institutional
development objectives. It vill: (a) introduce T&V-based extension services
on a national basis, demonstrate the effectiveness of the T&V approach in
project areas, and build supporting applied research capabilities; (b) promote
private sector development of marketing networks for traditional and non-
traditional export crops; and (c) strengthen the social setting for sector
development by supporting the organization of small farmers and traders and
ensuring that project activities reflect the importance of vomen in production
and marketing.
2.      These initiatives vill complement and strengthen other already
ongoing activities including USAID-assisted efforts to build rural
cooperatives, bilaterally-financed crop production and rural development
projects, and IDA-supported policy and technical assistance aimed at
increasing private sector investment, diversifying export production, and
limiting public sector expenditures. They also vill strengthen the basis for
possible future sector lending by creating conditions f_,r investment in
cooperatives and credit unions.
A.    Extension and ADDlied Research
3.      Extension and applied research work will build the organizational and
managerial framework needed for the adaptation and phased development of
national T&V-based management, staff training, and farmer service
capabilities. Extension activities vill demonstrate the practical
effectiveness of the T&V system while also introducing the new farming
practices needed to achieve the project's near-term production and export
market development goals. The project vill strengthen applied research
capabilities and link them to market-defined farmer and extension service
needs. Extension and research york also vill complement the achievement of
other policy and institutionally-centered project objectives including
improved coordination of donor-funded activities, crop diversification and
export promotion, soil conservation, the creation of incentives for small
farmer organization, and support for women farmers and tradere.
4.      At present, Ministry extension and applied research capabilities are
inadequate to even the most minimal efforts to increase production or farmer
incomes. About five officers with university-level quaiífications are
responsible for the supervision of about 22 extension agents (including five
female home economists), most of whom have only post high school mcertificateu
training. The two regional extension offices, one in Malabo and the other in
Bata, are ill-equipped and almost vithout transport. In addition to limited
staff and logistical support, there are other practical institutional
constraints on the early, full-fledged implementation of a T&V extension



- 67 -                        ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 11
system. The acute lack of country-specific knowledge about effective ways to
meet the needs of women farmers and support small farmer organization figures
prominently in the list of extension management problems that must be resolved
during the project period. Other, more mundane institutional constraints
include a national scarcity of professionals or para-professionals with the
education expected of even Village Extension Workers (VEWs) under a fully-
developed T&V system, unattractive salaries and working conditions, and the
inability of the Government to sustain the recurrent costs of an adequate
extension service. The Ministry undertakes 1lo applied research directly, and
vhat little ia done goes forward under an array of uncoordinated donor-
managed projects, with no formal ties to the Ministry's extension service.
5.      These barriers cannot be removed entirely during the project period.
The project will aim, instead, at achieving four quite realistic objectives
which, taken together, will set the stage for the long-term development of a
sound national extension service. The project will: (a) create the supporting
management and training capabilities needed for the long-term growth of an
effective, T&V-based extension capability; (b) adapt the T&V approach to
conditions in Equatorial Guinea and demonstrate its practical effectiveness;
<c) strengthen applied research capabilities and link them to extension
service needs; and (d) introduce extension service management and monitoring
and evaluation systems that will measure the practical impacts of extension
activities, signal needs for change, and support efforts to secure Government
and donor financing for long-term recurrent costs.
A National T&V Extension System
6.      A first extension service development task will be to train a small
cadre of senior officers able to support project activities and manage an
expanding T&V system. A nucleus of about 13 professionals, including senior
Ministry managers, regional and district officers with responsibilities
analogous to District Extension Officers (DEOs) under a fully-developed T&V
system, and candidates for Subject Matter Specialist (SMS) positions will
receive training in basic T&V extension concepts and in fundamental
organizational and human resource management techniques. Technical training
will include short-term course work in Latin America and practical training in
neighboring countries with successful T&V experience. Staff from the
Agricultural Training School will receive formal and on-the-job instruction in
the management of the training programa required to support an effective T&V
system. Complementary training work will aim at explaining the T&V system and
its objectives to senior Government executives and to the civil administration
in rural areas.
7.      A second project task will aim at defining and initiating a
practical, long term plan for the development of a national T&V system,
including the design of organizational development and staff recruitment and
training programs. Extension-related components of all future Government or
donor-financed agricultural production, applied research, or rural development
projects will be executed within the context of this plan. Project objectives
include training about thirty three extension agenta for the Continental
Region, and about eight on Bioko. A total of eighteen will be new recruits.
One agent on Bioko and four on the Continent will receive further T&V training



- 68 -                         ANNEX 
Page 3 of 11
to allow them to act as Agricultural Extension Supervisors. By the end of the
third project year, the Ministry will have about one trained agent per 670
farm families.
8.      A third task will be to ensure that extension activities reflect the
social setting for agricultural development. Rural women will be consulted
during the design of extension service management systems and extenision agent
and animador training programs. Women vill be recruited into professional
positions in the extension service. The extension services will be organized
and farmer visit scheduling managed so as to induce the development of
informal and formal farmer and village marketing organizations.
9.      Project training programs will be designed to successfully adapt T&V
staff training standards to local conditions and practical needs. Formal T&V
training will be provided at the Ministry's Agricultural Training School (ECA)
which already provides two year, post high school programs for extension
agents. After preliminary testing, Ministry agents already in service vill
undergo intensive T&V orientation and refresher courses. Recommended on-the-
job T&V training standards will be increased to at least two days per week for
at least the first year of service, and field supervision will be more
intensive than is expected in a fully developed T&V system. Working libraries
and audio-visual materials will be made available for regular use by agents.
Performance bonuses vill be paid to agents as they successfully complete
formal and informal programs (including correspondence courses) aimed at
meeting agreed skill levels. Project funds will be used to design appropriate
courses and training materials; purchase equipment and supplies, complete the
development of applied research, training, and demonstration plots; and
refurbish buildings for use in training activities.
10.     Initial extension improvement activities will require the
Ocompression0 of ideal T&V staffing and staff training models. While
competent national professionals probably are available at the managerial
level, and Subject Matter Specialist (SMS) level officers could be recruited
from among already trained agronomists, the Ministry generally will not be
able immediately to recruit and retain staff with the full qualifications
desired for Agricultural Extension Officers (AEOs) and Village Extension
Workers (VEWs) under a fully-developed system. Specially designed and
frequent formal and informal training, along with close supervision and
support from senior Ministry officers and expatriate specialists will be
needed to allow current Ministry extension agents to provide the services
expected from an AEO. Further, these officers will have to assume many of the
responsibilities normally delegated to VEWs under a fully-developed T&V
system. Under these limitations, extension manpower wili need to be targeted
very carefully and the technical content of extension messages limited to
support for very basic improvements in cropping practices.
ll.     The design of T&V training programa and the management of farmer
service work will be facilitated by the fact that early extension service
measages will aim at very simple improvements in farm management and crop
production techniques. Extension work in the Continent, in particular, will
aim at basic changes in farming practices, with little or no need for use of
fertilizers, pesticides, or complex sail and water management technologies.



- 69 -                        ANNEX 5
Page 4 of 11
12.     Simple so8l conservation measures vill be addressed explicitly in the
design of T&V programa.  Recommendations for increasing both marketed and
subsistence production vill support an urgently needed shift avay from slash-
and-burn practices and toward the adoption of etable salley croppingo
techniques, the practicaiíty and acceptability of vhlch has been demonstrated
already by TA project-financed work. (Alley cropping assists algo in
organizing women farmers and reducing their insecurity about accese to land.)
13.     A major adaptive measure, which wlll have the additional benefits of
limiting costs and linking extension activities to rural social structures and
the development of emall farmer organizations, will involve the recruitment
and training of village-based 'animadoresl. These agente would be selected by
their own communities. They will be traíned in the cultivation of food and
non-traditional crops with export potential, in basic alley cropping
production techniques, and in family nutrition. Animadores vill play roles
rather in betveen the *Village Extension Agentse and the Contact Parmersu of
a fully-developed T & V system.  While they vill receive logistical support
and modest remuneration while in training and during the initial years of the
project, they vill not be regular Ministry employees. As experience is gained
with the effectiveness of this approach, and as expected production benefite
become apparent, a few animadores might receive advanced training and be
recruited into regular service. Others vill continue to act as links betveen
the extension service and other farmers in a village, along lines similar to a
Contact Farmer under the T&V system.
14.     Training for extension agents vill be paced to the development of
adequate facilities and the availability of competent training staff, the
design and testing of training programs tailored to local conditions, and
actual project area and other recruitment needs. No more than about 15
extension agents vill undergo extended classroom and fieldwork training during
each of the first tvo years of extension work, vith annual training
capabilities increasing to about 20 agents per year by about the end of PY3.
Extension agent training vill be complemented by supporting courses and
intensively supervised fieldwork programs for animadores, with the objective
of achieving and maintaining an approximate ratio of about five trained and
active animadores for each full time extension agent. Animador training vill
be managed by the extension service, using existing buildings and
demonstration plots developed with ongoing IDA financing. More detailed
extension service development plans are presented in Annex 2.
Demonstration of T&V Effectiveness
15.     Project extension vork vill be based from the outset on the T&V
system. On Bioko, ongoing cocoa extension activities, under the IDA-financed
Cocoa Rehabilitation Project, vill be traneferred to th.- national service.
Crop diversification extension work vill get underway at an early date, in
parallel with the consolidation of cocoa production and the redistribution of
IDEPA plantations to smaller farmers. Intensive T&V orientation programe vill
be provided for the four agents currently working vith the Ministry or CRP on
Bioko. About six additional agente will be recruited and trained. At least
two professionals vill be tra'ned to fi}l cocoa SMS-level positions. Two



- 70 -                        ANNE S
Page 5 of 11
others vill be trained in non-traditional export crop production. Until
additional staff become available, the SMSs aleo will oversee applied research
activities.
16.     The fundamental project objective in Rio Muni will be to create
essential extension service management and training capabilities for long term
development work, provide basic facilities and logistical support for region-
wide services, and demonstrate the practical effectivenese of T&V in project
areas. Full T&V coverage on the mainland will be paced to the actual
development of new export markete, the emergence of small farmer
organizations, the completion of long-term training programs, and the ability
and villinguess of the Govern¡ent to sustain the recurrent coste of a more
fully-developed extension system.
17.     In July 1990, 15 exteneion staff receive" formalland on the job-
training in the IDA-financed Cameroon National Extension Project (Annex 2,
para 17). In addition, most of the extension personnel, including those
working under other donor-financed project vill receive a two-week training
workshop on T&V methodology in late September 1990. About 20 Ministry
extenseon agente vorking in the Continental Region vill receive formal
refresher courses in the Agricultural Training School (ECA) and on-the-job
training in TIV extension methods. Training capabilities vill be used also. to
introduce T&V approaches to extension personnel working in ongoing donor-
funded projecte in the Continent. About four Ministry professionals vill
undertake advanced programe to bring their skills up to the SMS-level. All
SMS staff will be trained in alley cropping and other soil conservation
techniques, and in the production of crops vith regional export market
potential. At least one SMS officer vill be trained in small-scale poultry
and animal health and production.
Applied Research
18.     The project will support the creation of an applied research planning
and management capability and the training of a core group of applied research
officers, some of whom vill serve also as SMSs. Applied research units will
be set up on Bioko and in Nbini in the Continent. Initial work vill center on
introducing and testing improved varieties of traditional and non-traditional
crops imported from neighboring countries. Applied research vill aim also at
strengthening knowledge about alley cropping and other low-cost soil
conservation practices, and at identifying production practices that can be
used by organized farmer groups. The applied research centera will provide
pract;cal training facilities for T&V agente and animadores.
19.     The fundamental institutional objective of this work will be to
ensure that research is linked directly to farmer and extension service
requiremente and, through them, to market signals.  Planning and management
improvement aleo vill provide an ability to identify priorities for and
coordinate and monitor research undertaken in other donor-financed projects.



- 71-                          ANNEX 5
Page 6 of 11
Management and MonitorinR and Evaluation Systems
20.     While technical skills and practical implementation capabilities are
weak, the Ministry's organizational structure is adequate to implementation
needs. The Directorate General for Training, Extension and Cooperative
Development (DGCEC) has a lean management organization vith a Director and
three senior officers responsible for research, extension, and cooperative
development. Equatorial Guinea is a small country, and complex geographical
divisions of responsibility are not needed. Headquarters staff are
responsible directly for the supervision of Ministry services on Bioko. A
small office in Bata, under an Agricultural Delegate supervises activities in
the same three functional areas. The project will seek to maintain these
appropriately simple arrangements.
21.     Ministry competence in sector policy analysis and planning wi'l be
strengthened under an FAO/UNDP project which activities started in early 1990.
IDA project advisors will collaborate with the FAO/UNDP effort to strengthen
?inistry organizational and human resource management skills. The Ministry is
weak in information gathering and management capabilities, which should be
strengthened as a part of the FAO undertaking. While project-financed market
research activities will be limited to problem-oriented work, the development
of regional export market and crop production information systems will support
the development of these capabilities.
22.     A Ministry-wide Extension Service Management Information System
(EMIS) will be put in place to plan, monitor, and evaluate the impact of
extension development activities, and integrate them into other production and
rural development efforts. The EMIS will guide implementation of the long-
term extension service development program and measure the impact of project
activities aimed at adapting the T&V system to local conditions. The system
will be linked tu project export market promotion activities, tying applied
research and extension service training to market demands and facilitating the
monitoring of production increases. The EMIS also will provide a cost-
benefit framework for recruitment and training planning, and for measuring the
practical effectiveness of extension training, the impact and acceptance of
the village-based animadores, and the resulta of extension programs aimed at
meeting the needs of women farmere.
B.   Private Sector Marketing Systems.
23.     The establishment of a supportive environment for the private sector
development of now missing marketing networks for the production and export of
traditional and non-traditional crops will be an explicit institutional
development objective. Tne creation of such an environment is not always
viewed as an linstitutionalo issue. Markets are, however, every bit as much a
part of the institutional landscape of a society as its universities, private
firma, churches, voluntary associations, or government agencies.
24.     The fundamental objective of institutionally-centered work will be to
help generally small, private sector actors to create self-sustaining,
entirely private marketing systems to respond to already identified demande
for food crope in Gabon and to project-financed efforts to identify new



- 72 -                         ANNEX 5
Page 7 of 11
markets for other non-traditional exports, including both food and cash crops.
The project *ill help establish the conditions needed for a private sector
response to these incentives, vithout creating any significant new public
sector responsibilities. Three broad categories of export market development
work vill be undertaken: (a) the regional marketing of food crops currently
produced in the Continent and on Bioko, (b) the identification of new export
crops and markets, and tc) the continuation of small farmer cocoa marketíng
york through a self-financing Agricultural Development Organization (OFA).
Regional Food Cro, Exports
25.     Initial food crop export promotion activities will center on the
Continental Region. Work will focus on meeting already identified demands in
Líbreville markets. Project preparation studies shoved that most traditional
food crops in demand in Libreville already are grown in Equatorial Guinea, and
that prices in the Continental Region are competitive; even after
consideration of currently high transport costs. In addition to
transportation bottlenecks (which the project vill remove), exports are
limited because small farmers see no incentive to produce food crops in
marketable quantities and because traders and truck operators therefore have
no incentive to work in rural areas or to develop trading ties with
entrepreneurs in Gabon. Examples of project-financed measures to break this
vicious circle will include:
(a) establishing a regular schedule for project staff visits to
Cocoabeach and Libreville to gather information on current and
expected near-term demand and prices; meet with Gabonese traders to
determine future needs and inform them about the availability of
Equatorial Guinean produce; and identify potential bottlenecks to
íncreased exports including quality control, and timing and volume
requirements;
(b) initiating a daily radio broadcast program from Bata to inform
individual farmers, farmer and marketing groupp, truckers, and
traders about expected food crop demand and price movements in Gabon
and in intermediate domestic markets; support organized farmer
production and marketing efforts by providing information about the
planned activities of individual truckers and traders; and provide
extension service messages to help farmers increase production;
(c) helping in organizing farmer groups, truckers, and local and Gabonese
traders to develop intermediate collection and marketing centers by
sponsoring meetings among different groups; coordinating with CLUSA;
providing radio broadcast time; identifying and assisting in the
renovation of abandoned warehouses; and providing technical
assistance in quality control, packing, storage and transportation
technologies; and
(d) identifying practical ways to secure trucker and local farmer
participation in the maíntenance of project rehabilitated Mbini-Cogo
export corridor roads, through the 'food for work' programs of the
World Food Program.



- 73                          ANNEX5
Page 8 of 11
26.     The project vill finance the costs of road rehabilitation (Cogo-
Mbini and Evinayong-Acurenam) and a ferry service te provide access to
Gabonese markets, and help gather and coamunicate information about export
opportunities. Actual production and trading increases vill depend almost
entirely on the dynamics of a positive private sector response. The principal
actors will often be rural vomen, usually unorganized and without the capital
needed to make significant investments in stocks or to confront high operating
costa. The IFAD-funded Poverty Alleviation Fund to be established under the
project, vill provide an important tool in overcoming this inítial problem in
funding operations. Other groups expected to play important roles are truck
ownerloperators who often act also as pe ty traders, merchante (again usually
women) in intermediate markets such as Bata, and small Gabonese entrepreneurs
(many of whom have family ties to farmers and traders in Equatorial Guinea).
While it is not possible to predict exactly how they wili respond to new
information and incentives, they are precisely the same groups who have most
often acted to develop new production, marketing and other income earning
opportunities in comparable West African settings.
Non-traditional Export Markets
27.     Non-traditional food and cash crop export promotion planning vill be
undertaken on a national basis with the objectives, first, of diversifying
production on Bioko by providing incentives to move marginal farmers out of
cocoa growing, and, second, building a base for continued agricultural
production increases on the Continent. Or necessity, this work vill have a
longer time perspective than the promotion of mainland food crop exports.
However, some initial support for diversification on Bioko should come from
the succeesful opening of export markets in Gabon because food crop demand
should increase to a level that also vill permit ocean shipments from Malabo.
More structured research, planning and promotion activities will be needed to
develip new markets for non-traditional exporte, including cash crops nov not
produced on a commercial basis. The first task, most probably, will be to
attempt to reopen markets lost since Independence, including high-value fruit
and vegetable exports to regional capitals aud to Spain (and now to the
European Comon Market). A second, longer-term effort will support the
promotion and production of new cash crops for new markets in the region and
elsewhere.
The Agricultural Development Organization - OFA
28.     Traditional as well as diversified export promotion on Bioko wiál be
supported through the establishment of an independent, self-financing
Agricultural Development Organization (OFA). This new entity vill take over
input supply, credit, and export marketing services now undertaken under the
ongoing Cocoa Rehabilitation Project (CRP). Extension responsibilities vill
be traneferred to the Ministry. As a result of the CRP, emall and medium-
size farmers have access to agricultural inputs, tools, and equipment needed
to increase the efficiency of and maintain cocoa production despite falling
world prices. The project also has provided a vehicle for the direct
marketing of their production (about 152 of the national total), raised their
farmgate prices to about 152 above the official price, and reestabli3hed the



- 74 -ANNEX S
Page 9 of 11
international quality premíum for Equatorial Guinean cocoa. Additionally,
vith the faílure of the two national banks, the CRP ls now the only source of
institutionalized credit for emall and medium size farmera on the island.
Credit accomplishments are particularly important, because the service
operates with positive interest rates and solid recovery rates. A separate
organizatioral framework í8 needed to preserve these capabilities to ensure
that recurrent costs are financed internally and because even well-organized
small farmers and tradera vill be unable to operate profitably in the
sophisticated international cocoa market.
29.     The Government has agreed to establish OFA as an independent
organization that vill operate on an entirely commercial basis. The
definition of appropriate legal and organizational arrangements were agreed
upon at negotiations. Government vill convert current CRP obligations into
equity in OFA, the organization vill be structured so as to facilitate the
future purchase of ita capital by farmer and trader cooperatives and private
investora. An integrated financial planning, budgeting, management, aud
control system will be put in place and a staff training program vill be
Initiated.
30.     Input and equipment supply services will be put on a comercial
footing from the outset, and expanded to include profitable ventures in non-
traditional export crops. Sound procurement and inventory control systems
will be introduced. Credit servíces vill be reorganized to encompass savings
as well as credit, and the scope of activities vill be expanded to include any
creditworthy clients in the country. All credit activities will be put on a
comercial basis, vith market-determined positive interest rates, and with no
targeting or allocation of credit. Credit and savings services and record
keeping vill be managed separately from other OFA activities to facilitate
tbeir eventual integration into now missing national commercial and
cooperative banking systems. Technical assistance work in marketing will
focus on identifying a strategy to limit long-term dependence on expatriate
advice and to generate revenues co pay for those that are needed.
C. The Social Setting
31.     Sustained increases in rural incomes in Equatorial Guinea will depend
heavily on farmer and trader organization and on the identification snd
execution 't a sector development strategy that reflects the roles of vomen in
production and domestic and export marketing. The design of the proposed
project reflects the Government's awareness of the importance of these issues
and will help build a more solid base for future work. It does not, however,
sddress them as fully or in as integrated a manner as will be possible ifs (a)
the Ministry and other concerned government agencies had much stronger human
resource and organizational capabilities, (b) more basic knowledge about the
social .etting for sector work, (c) more farmer organization and women-
oriented work were underway, and (d) more project-financing resources vere
svailable.



-75 -                             ANNEX 5
Page 10 of 11
Farmer and Trader Orpanization
32.     With the exception of the recently initiated CLUSA program and the
promising but still informal village farmer organization work started under
the Tecsin. al Assistance Project. there i8 little in the way of small farmer
organizaz on on which to build. Government-supported farmer organization and
cooperative development efforts in Equatorial Guinea have had a turbulent
history. and it is unlikely that the Ministry or other public sector agencies
vill have success with early initiatives to rebuild farmer interest and
confidence. About the most that the Government can usefully attempt directly
in the near term is to establish policy and legal frameworks that are
supportive of essentially independent village-based initiatives, offer CLUSA
and other technical assistance to meet management and accounting training
needs, and design its farmer service and marketing support programs in a way
that will induce farmers and traders to organize themselves. CLUSA already is
undertaking work aimed at meeting these needs, and project activities will be
managed to provide direct support for promising initiatives.
33.     The project will include numerous practical measures aimed at small
farmer and trader organization. Extension activities deliberately have been
designed to serve small groups and their effectiveness will depend heavily on
how well extension agents and animadores can link these services to village-
based farming and marketing organizaticns. Cooperation and coordination with
CLUSA will support small group organization for production, transport, and
m:irketing. U.N. Volunteers in the Continental Region will work directly to
support informal group organization for marketing and transport. OFA will
design its input supply, credit and savings, and marketir.g operations to
provide administrative and cost incentives for small grou. users of its
services, both on Bioko and in the Continental Region and its capital
structure will be designed to facilitate small farmer and cooperative
ownership. Its credit and savings services will be managed so as to allow
them to be Ospun-offl when conditions for cooperative credit union development
are more promising.
34.     Candidates for expatriate extension and marketing specialist
positions will be expected to have practical experience in small farmer and
trader organization. Additional direct support for small farmer organization
will be provided by two short-term experts. One, a specialist in cooperative
organization and management in West Africa, will work with project staff and
CLUSA representatives to strengthen the national legal and policy framework
for cooperative development, train project staff in cooperative development
issues, and assist in preparing the long-term work plans for mezketing and OFA
development activities. A second short-term advisor, with substantial
Technical Assistance Credit-financed country experience in the organization of
small farmers and cooperative, village-based stores will assist in the design
of animador and other extension service training programs and in the
identifications of ways to support amall group marketing activities without
undermining sound T&V management concepts. Both of these advisors will assist
the Ministry and IDA in evaluatíng neede for and the probable practical impact
of more direct cooperative and cooperative banking work, with the objective of
identifying work that could be financed under future lending programs.



- 76 -                          ANNEX 5
Page 11 of 11
Women's Roles in Production and MarketinR
35.     Women farmers and traders play such crucial roles in agricultural
production and marketing in Equatorial Guinea that most project objectives
could not conceivably be accomplished without their full involvement.
Attention to and understanding of the "role of women9 will not be a separate
"project issuen, it will be a basic condition of its success. The project
management challenge vill not be so much to include attention to women as to
ensure that Ministry officers and technical assistance staff act in full
recognition of this simple fact.
36.     Food crop production increases, in particular, will depend on the use
of extension training and management approaches that reflect the dominant role
of women farmers. Proposed training programs and extension programs will
require research on the ability of women farmers to adopt new production
technologies. Women will participate in the planning of extension activities.
Structured interviews and impact monitoring systems will be used to ensure
that proposals for farming system changes or For the introduction of new crops
reflect an adequate understanding of village and family decision-making
processes, competing demands on women's time, male - female divisions of
labor, and possible restrictions on the availability of land for women's use.
Studies also will be undertaken to determine the extent to which gender issues
should enter into recruitment planning for extension agents and SMSs and,
particularly, the selection and management of animadores.
37.     Women often play dual roles in the production and initial marketing
of food crops, taking responsibility for both activities. Traders in
intermediate domestic markets and in Gabon also generally are women. As in
the case of extension, the success of export market promotion work will depend
heavily en the extent to which project activities reflect realistically the
social constraints that might limit the ability of women to respond to market
opportunities, the amount of time that they can devote to these activities,
and the need for gender sensitivity in managing market information service
programs and other efforts to communicate with women. An understanding of male
- female divisions of labor will be particularly important in crop
diversification and IDEPA resettlement efforts on Bioko, where families will
have to reallocate work responsibilities and engage in new marketing
activities.
38.     Small farmer and trader organization and cooperative development work
also will require a sound ur.derstanding of the needs and preferences of rural
women. Major issues that vill need to be addressed by project staff will
include women's preferences with regard to group organization and decision-
making arrangements, possible social constraints on women with management
responsibilities, and limitations on vomen's rights to own and manage assets
and on their access to institutionalized credit. As in the case of extension,
recruitment standards for marketing specialists will aim at identifying
individuals with prior experience with women in production and marketing
projects.



77 -                           ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 13
EQUATORIAL GUINEA
CROP DIVERSIFICATION AND AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
ARricultural Development Organization (OFA)
1. Sunmary and Introduction
1.      Three units vere established under the IDA-financed Cocoa
Rehabilitation Project (CRP): the Agricultural Credit Department (DCA) to
provide credit, the Inputs Supply Unit (ISU) to provide agricultural inputs
and equipment, and the Classification, Grading and Marketing Unit (CGMU) to
furnish classification, grading and marketing services. The DCA vas to
provide institutional support to the Credit and Development Bank (BCD), and
the two other units to the Chamber of Commerce in Malabo (CAMARA).  These
institutional development goals of the project have not materialized fully.
The BCD vent bankrupt and is currently under liquidation and the CAMARA has
severe financial difficulties and is unable to perform its main functions of
exports promotion.
2.        Although credit, inputs supply and marketing services are being run
efficiently under the CRP, it became apparent during project implementation
that these services could not be sustained after the closing date of the CRP
credit (December 31, 1990). This is because of the absence of: (a) viable
public institutions (BCD and CAMARA); (b) commercial banks willing to provide
credit to small farmers and traders; and (c) private sector institutions, such
as farmers' organizations, capable of assuming responsibility for credit and
marketing operations.
3.      The Government and IDA agree that under current conditions, a
separate organizational framevork is needed to preserve input supply, credit
and export marketing capabilities. The Agricultural Development Organization
(OFA) will be established to take over these services. Input and equipment
supply as vell as marketing services vill be put on a commercial footing from
the outset. Credit and savings activities vill be set on a comercial basis,
vith market-determined positive interest rates, and with no targeting or
allocation of credit.
4.      This service-oriented organization will be established as a legal
entity <para 12), and will be managed as an autonomous and commercial
enterprise. It will provide to all sectors of the economy, with an emphasis
on the agricultural sector, unsubsidized credit and inputs, savings
facilities, and marketing assistance. Initial equity and operating capital
for credit facilities will be provided by the Gover=ment from CRP balances.
Over the project period private sector operators will be encouraged to replace
Government's inítial equity. Income and expenditure prcjections (tables 1 to
4) show that after two to three years of OFA'a establishment, OFA will become
financiallv sustainable and operate at a profit.



- 78 -                           ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 13
II. Background
5.      As noted in para 1, under the Cocoa Rehabilitation Project,
capabilities vere built to assist Government in providing agricultural credit
and inputs to cocoa farmers, and in grading and marketing cocoa for exports.
6.      Agricultural Credit.  In 1985, the project-supported Agricultural
Credit Department (DCA) was established, with its main task to on-lend credit
to selected cocoa farmers under supervised conditions. As creditworthiness
was the overriding issue in EQG, DCA's first activities focused on
establishing strict credit procedures and putting in place a system to
evaluate farmers' eligibility for agricultural credit. DCA's accounting and
credit supervising staff vere trained by project-financed expatriate
consultants in applying strict credit criteria, verifying potential clients'
credit records and evaluating the agricultural potential of the clients' cocoa
farmas. After credit approval, credit supervisors, often doubling up as
agricultural extension agents, closely supervised credit through regular farm
visits.
7.      By the end of 1988, most of the national senior staff of the
Agr-cultural Credit Department were trained-on-the-job and overseas, and
expatriate technical assistance reduced. By that time, the CRP had
established a viable credit system and a competent service organization, with
a solid credit portfolio of mainly smallholder farmers, and recovering its
credit at a rate of 982. This is a remarkable performance by any standards,
and more so in an environnent where credit was poorly administered and the
banking system had collapsed. Credit was supplied at a positive interest rate
of 15Z.
8.      Inputs Supply.  A project-supported Inputs Supply Unit (ISU) vas
established to help Government in organizing the purchase, storage, and supply
of agricultural inputs, equipment and machinery. National senior staff were
assisted by an expatriate consultant in establishing appropriate procurement
procedures and inventory control. Staff have received in-service and overseas
training. By the end of 1989, an effective system was largely in place and
the expatriate consultant's contract came to an end.
9.      Cocea Classification, Grading and Marketing. A project-supported
Classification, Grading and Marketing Unit (CGMU) was created to help
Government in promoting cocoa exporte of improved quality. CGMU started
virtually from scratch, as no quality control system was in place, no
communication links existed with the cocoa markets, and cocoa exports were
monopolized by Spanish traders.
10.     With the effective assistance provided by a project-financed
expatriate marketing consultant, an international cocoa classification system
was put in place. The unit has maintained strict supervision of quality
control in storage, grading and shipping. The Unit has been instrumental in
improving the quality of the cocoa exported. At present, 902 of the country's



_ 79 _                           ANNEX 6
Page 3 of 13
cocoa ¡a classified as Grade 1, while 100Z of the cocoa exported by project's
clients is grade 1, receiving during the 1989190 cocoa campaígn a premium in
the world market. This compares favorably vith discounts of nearly lOZ prior
to the project. Telex conuwnications were established with the major world
market cocoa tradera and export licence procedures vere simplified.
11.     The achievements of the CGMU have been remarkable.  Not only did it
restore the world market confidence in Bioko cocoa, it also has broken the
monopoly of the traditional shippers and traders. Currently Bioko cocoa ía
being shipped, by various línes, to a number of mainly North European
countries, including Spain. CGMU is exporting the clients' cocoa on their
behalf directly on the international market and has managed to get
consistently better prices than the traditional exporting firme. Staff of the
unit have received on-the-job aud overseas training.
III. Agricultural Develoiment Organization
12.     OPA will be established to provide the essential services of: (a)
savinga and credit (Savings and Credit Service - SAC); (b) lnputs supply and
distribution (Inputs Supply Service - SI) ; and (c) marketing of traditional
and non-traditional export crops (Marketing Service SC). To ensure the
financial sustainability of OPA, each Service eventually should become its own
profit center, recuperate ita financial start-up losses and conduct ite
affaire vithout subsidy on a commercial basis.
13.     OFA vill be constituted according to the existing laws aud banking
legislation of Equatorial Guinea, upon proclamation of a Government decree by
vhich the Statutes of OFA vill be approved. The draft statutes vere agreed
upon by the Government and IDA during negotiations.
Constitution and Obiectives
14.     At negotiations, the Government and IDA also agreed on proposala for
establishing the organization. OFA vill need to be established legally before
the proposed credit becomes effective towards the end of 1990 (para 7.03 (c)).
15.     OFA vill be an autonomous, self-financing legal entity to be
constituted according to the lavs and banking legislation (Decree no. 2, 1987)
of Equatorial Guinea. Ita main objective vill be to support small and medium-
size farmer export marketing. OFA vill provide unsubsidized input supply,
credit and savings, and marketing assistance to all sectora of the economy
vith a natural emphasis on the agricultural sector. Credit and savings
services, to be managed by the Savings and Credit Service of OFA (SAC), vill
operate vithout subsidy, with commercially-determined interest rates, and
vithout targeting of credit. Initial equity and operating capital for SAC
vill be provided by the Government, from CRP balances. Borrowers viii
purchase equity in OPA as a requirement for further lending, gradually
increasing private-sector ownership of the undertaking.



- 80 -                          ANNEX 6
Pago 4 of 13
16.     Option8 vill remain open to an eventual integration of OFA's Savinga
and Credit Services, vhen conditiona w1il be appropriate, into future national
commercial or cooperatlve banking systems. To facilitate such integration,
SAC's recorde and accounts vill be managed separately from other OFA
activities. Similarly, optiona will exist to either continue operating OFA as
a input supply and marketing oriented enterprise or eventually integrate/sell
off these services to now still missing private-owned and -operated marketing
organizations. In either case, the exclusive marketing arrangements between
SAC and the Marketing Services, (SC) vill remain.
17.     More specifically, OFA will:
(a)  through ite Savinas and Credit Services (SAC):
(i) provide non-targeted credit at market-determined
positive interest rates to all sectora of the economy, which
meet ite strict creditworthiness criteria, beginning with
existing CRP's borrowera;
Cii) mobilize domestic resources through savinga deposíts and the
rediscounting of credit operations through BEAC. whch facility
is currently unused; and
Ciii> conduct any banking service, in compliance vith the
existing banking legislation of Equatorial Guinea);
(b) through ita In»ut Surpipy Service (SI):
li) be demand-driven in ita procurement of inputs and equipment,
(ii) introduce sound procurement procedures, acceptable to the
Government and IDA, and stock inventory control
systems; and
(iii) establish adequate warehouse facilities; and
(c) through ite Marketina Service (SC):
Mi) continue its leadership, established under the CRP, of
promoting traditional exporta, in particular cocoa, and
operating profitably in the sophistícated international
commoditíes market;
(ií) market available cocoa from non-OPA clients, and extend ita
activíties to support exporte of diverslfi.d non-traditional
agricultural cropaí
(íii) strengthen ita commercial and economic information
system by updating exísting computer facilities and
extending direct contacto with potential overseas markets; and



-81-                             ANNEX 6
Page 5 of 13
(iv) continue assisting Government, on a commercial and
contractual basis, in improving the quality of export cocoa
through a strictly controlled grading system, rationalizing
Government export procedures for traditional and non-traditional
commodities, and lowering marketing coste                through
improved te=ms of trade.
18.     OFA will support MALFF vith cocoa grading and clasíification
services.  It will cooperate with the Ministry of Economy, Commerce, and Plan
to rationalize import and export procedures, and where necessary, with any
other institutiona. It will have complete operational flexibility and
autonomy, as authorized by current legislation, to conduct any business,
provide any banking services, and take whatever initiatives necessary for the
achievement of ita objectives.
Financial Framework
19.     Government vill initially fund OFA by transferring to OFA's Savings
and Credit Service, fixed, moveable, credit portfolio and liquid assets, held
by CRP's Agricultural Credit Department, currently valued at some CFAF 300
million. Government vill almo transfer to OFA's Inputs Supply Service, stock
of goods, held in stores and varehouses by CRP's Input Supply Unit, current
value estimated at about CFAP 1,500 million Government will also transfer to
OFA, office warehouse and store facilities (para 7.02 (b)). Assete valuatior.
will be carried out by an independent auditor, acceptable to IDA and according
to Government's procedures at the time of transfer of these assets to CwA.
These fixed. moveable and liquid assets vill then become the property of OFA
and constitute its fully subscribed share capital.
20.     The transfer of portfolio and liquid assets held by CRP's
Agricultural Credit Department to OPA vill ensure the continued effective
utilization of these funds for purposes of the proposed project.
21.     The articles of incorporation cf OFA will specify under which
conditions, and when, utilizera of OFA's services vill be allowed to acquire
OFA ahares, in order to eventually replace Government's original equity and
convert OFA into a private-owned and -operated legal entity.
22.     In order to carry out its tasks, OFA vill have the followvng
financial characteristícs:
(a) market-determined positive interest rates, initially established
at 182 per annum on SAC's loans, to be reviewed yearly, to
finance the recurrent costa of the Savings and Credit Service;
(b) a margin, initially set at 152 of the price of acquired inputs,
machinery and equipment of all types, to be revised
periodically, to finance the recurrent costa of the Inputa
Supply Service;



- 82 -                              ANNEX 6
Page 6 of 13
(c) commissions, initially set at CFAF 4 per kg of export cocoa and
at CFAF 2 per kg for non-traditional exports, for services
rendered by the Marketing Service, including preparation of
export documents and contracts, and
(d) all income and benefits generated by assets belonging to OFA.
MemberahiD
23.     The articles of incorporation will define utder which conditions, and
when, utilizers of OFA services will be allowed to acquire OFA shares and
become memberslshareholders of this entity. All individual or group-organized
persons or private sector legal entities owning or leasing agricultural
enterprises, involved in the agricultural or other sectors of the economy,
will be eligible to become members/shareholders, under conditions and
restrictions defined under above articles.
Organization
24.     The basic atructure of OFA vill comprise three Services (see chart):
(a) the Savings and Credit Services;
(b) the Input Supply Service; aud
(c) the Marketing Service.
25.     OFA will be managed by a Management Team, consisting of OFA's General
Manager and the three Service Managers. The functions of the General Manager
vill be defined under the statutes of incorporation. OFA's managerial and
administrative tasks vill be carried out by the above management team,
consisting of selected national senior staff, who will be supported by an
expatriate Savings and Credit Specialist and a Marketing and Procurement
Specialist. To achieve this latter objective, a qualified expatriate Project
Coordinator and a Training Advisor vill prepare a long-term training plan to
develop technical and management skills needed in OFA. Apart from the Project
Coordinator, additional part-time technical assistance will be provided by the
expatriate Financial Advisor and the Extension and Agricultural Production
Specialist.
26.     OFA's management vill have complete authority, as defined under its
statutes, to recruit, appoint and dismiss its personnel. The recruitment,
nomination and dismissal of OFA's senior management staff, however, vill
require prior approval of its Board of Directors and IDA.
27.     OFA's senior management, including its General Manager, will be
recruited following recruitment procedures, accepted by IDA. Selection
procedures would strictly be based upon technicai¡ and performance criteria.
Selection of candidates, acceptable to IDA, would follow transparent and



- 83 -                          ANNEX 6
Page 7 of 13
standard procedures. To permit an early start of OFA, national staffing of
ite three services and selection of aboye mentioned Savings and Credit
Specialist and Marketing and Procurement Specialist, should be completed
before credit's effectiveness.
28.     OFA's management team will be aseisted by its Board of Directors,
consisting of the Minister of MALFF (chairman), the Minister of Economy,
Commerce and Plan, representatives of group-organized farmera, and
representative(s> of other operators in the private sector. OFA's General
Manager will be a non-voting member and Secretary to the Board. The terms of
office of the Board, its composition and definition of its tasks and duties
other than mentioned earlier, will be defined under the statutes of
incorporation.
Operations
29.     National staffing, and recruitment of the Savings and Credit
Specialist and the Marketing and Procurement Specialist should be completed by
the end of 1990. Provided that the proposed project vill be effective by that
time, OFA's PY1 vill start as of January 1, 1991.
30.     OFA's management team, assisted by above-mentioned specialists, vill
prepare the Preliminary PYI Annual Work Plan, covering the first four months
of PY1, with the following major objectives: (a) establish a management
support system to include quarterly reporting, monitoring and evaluation
procedures, budgeting, procurement and financial controls, and Annual Work
Plan preparation; (b) introduce improved input procurement and inventory
management procedures: and (c) continue small farmer input supply, credit and
cocoa marketing activities.
31.     Sound internal budgeting, accounting and cost-control systems vill be
established. SAC's records and accounts systems will be administered and
managed separately from other OFA Services, so as to facilitate the eventual
incorporation of the Savings and Credit Services into future national banking
andlor cooperative credit union systems, if such systems vere to be developed
vithin the next few years (para 16).
32.     A revised Annual Work Plan for the balance of PY1 will be presented
for the review by the Board of Directors and IDA after the fourth month of
OFA's initial activities. Thereafter, Annual Work Plana for the fol1owving
year will be prepared in the last quarter of every fiscal year.
33.     Similarly, in the last quarter of every fiscal year, individual and
consolidated annual income and expenditure budgets for the following year will
be prepared. This draft budget, will be submitted by the General Manager to
the Board of Directors for review and approval.
34.     In addition, OFA's management wi¿l prepare Quarterly and Annual
Progrese Reports. Full financing reporting, in a format that will meet OCAM
accounting and auditing standards, vill be included with each Quarterly and



- 84 -                            ANNE  6
Page 8 of 13
Annual Report. A monitoring and management infomntion system vill be put in
place that vill track progreso tovard OFA's comercial targets and the
achievement of commercial sustainability for OPA operations.
35.     Within the first quarter of every flscal year, and for the first tlme
in PY2, each Service Msnager vill finalize his Service budget general
accounts, close the previous financial year and prepare the closing statement
of assets to December 31. OFA's General manager vill be responsible for the
preparation of the consolidated accounta. The accounts vill be submitted to
OFA's Board of Directora for review and approval. OFA's records and accounta
for each fiscal year will be audited in accordance vith appropriate auditing
principles by independent auditors, acceptable to IDA within six months after
the end of each year.
Financial Sustainability of OFA Services
36.     Achievement of financial sustainability of OFA's operations should be
OFA's management main task. Efficient management of each income-earning
service, strict control of operational expenditure, and close financial
monitoring vill be conditiona to obtain this objective.
37.     Income and expenditure projectiona for OFA as a whole and for each of
ite services are presented in Tables 1 to 4 of this annex. Projectiona
índicate that after initial losses in the first tvo to three years, each
income-earning service will become profitable. The accumulated losses of CFAP
69 million will be financed under the project. The margins, however, are
amall and close monitoring of the achievement of financial sustainability for
OFA operations will be required. The moment that any one of OFA's services
vill become unsustainable, measures should be taken to either redress that
situation or terminate operations of the relevant service.



- 85-                           NNE  6
Page 9 of 13
EQUATORiAL GEiNV
Croi Diverolfication aud Agricultural Services Proiect
Agricultural Develoument Ora*ni:ation
Orzanizational Chart
Board of
Directors
General
Manager
Accountant and
Control Unit
Savings and                    Input                   Marketing
Credit                       Supply                  Service
Service                       Service



- 86 -NNEXO
,EBUATORAI.L GUINEA                         ra.  O   18
CROP DIERSIFICATION ANO ACRICLTURL SERYICES PROJECT
A.rlcultural Devolo2M_t Oranlzatlon
E timated Income Statemnti
Table 1. Svina and Credit S.rvtc. (SAC)
ate4
PY0 ¡/    PYl       PY2        PY8       PY4        PY5
1.  REVENUES
Intorest  - Coco* Rehab.              b/        -         6        24          40       89           20
Int.rest  - Coco. Cainaplfn           c/       27        28        27          87       48           U4
Intoren0  - Coco. W.rk.tUng           d/        -         8         4           a       11           18
Interost - Coco*
Diver*lfication           b/       -          -         5         12        28          82
Interost  - Other Sectores             /        -         6         9          14       20           25
Interest  - Sed Cpital                 /        -                   1           1        2            2
for Cooperativos
TOTAL REVENUES                                 27        88       7t          112      148          152
2.   EXPENDITURES
Solarls and Emolumento               e/       24        l6         16         18       18           18
Por DemI/travel                       oi        8         a          8          4        4            4
Doctor ,nd medicines                            2         2         2           8        8            8
Toelphono end Telexes                           1         1          1          1        1            1
Equipment Lilntenance                           2         2         2           2        2            2
Fuel                                  f/       11         2         2           8        8            8
Motorcycle loeIng                      /        -         2         2           8        8            8
TOTAL EXPENDITURES                             48        28        28          84       84           84
Lntoroset rat  on osvings Aceounto    1/        -         2         8           5        7            8
Interoet BEAC Dscounto               h/        -         9        19         8u        85           82
Other Intereat                        J        12         -         - 
TOTAL FINANCINO EXPENDITURES                   12        11         22         8S       42           40
pp ropolBon for ad Debts              k/        6        11         17         26       27           88
'eh ilo Deprociation                  f/        7         2          2          2        2            2
Othor Depreciation                     l/       3         S         S           5        6            8
TOTAL APPROPRIATIONS                          1         18        24          82       8S           46
Contingencies                         a/        8         6         8          lo       12           la
TOTAL EXPENDITURES                             84        68        82         111      128          188
Prof It/Lose                                  (57)      (26)       (12)         1       20           19
si  troThba  190  mi tn f) te 2   oe  loav l Cren   t O,pmrt,ntÁDCA)T esbblíeh e  b  tbe Coc
Koft5bIIV.~Io  rrojoc  (rK 1)noU uooomn   rdxun <15w T.Thlsan                  no. nlqu¡eatad.
ki  18X p.a. o*  the loan belance.
E/  18% p.a. on the loan baiance over elght monthe (six-month average).
d/ 13% p.a. on the loan balance over threo months.
In the flrst      tlt   d 1 srtI           e  n ted  b emuse tbe  li    currnt¿, lloeted  o the
sulervisors fl   be troIp    een   stel  a li  bo    nar&wn.                    lly enttd    ,tw   dito
e, erv sorso  lík I De appoln
/    ? tho  t;rs* vear eho 4     1wheldrivo vohíelos eseígned to sup rvtsorn vil be wíthdrawn and replaced
i,y alt. rrah o*  reycees
g/    t motorclwll  b th ovudedon   *dirt.               J  btne                            Te$popry of t .umervisor   uho vilie 
h  otor a?    ror             r o          *en.
J  11  p.a. on the BEAC redtscount balances.  Averago petlod a *ix months.
/  6.sX p.. on balances, payable half-yearly.
P5A putrentl. tto th   ov.rn.ert and 4% p    to SCD on ffio o ns an n'd, *hích tn
sh:rj or           ig    5 ur                         mentt oy M) °ttl íryietd *                    not
prov    any servcesr
k/  2% on thb  valu, of th. lo na granted for cocoa production *nd 4% for oth-r loase.
J 1e% on *other *s4t~.a
l/ 16  on  total expenditures.'



-87-                               m~l ,
-~~~~~~~~Pg 8711; of 18
ELUATORIAL QIIEA
CROP DIRSIFICATIGl AND AGRICULTUAL SERVICES PROJECT
Aprlcultural Dovwloee"t Oranlzation
EstImated Inoe Statement
Tabla 2.  Input   Serv1ce (SI)
(CfA   m Iion)
Item                                                              ------------
PYO       PY1       PY2        PY8       PY4        PYS
1.   REVENJES
Seles   /                                     3890      698       910       1.274    1.588        1.820
2.   EXPENDITURES
2.1 Sales
Purchases  >/                                832        508        774      1.083    1.828        1.547
Sales Margine  £1                              58        80        188        191      234          273
2.2 OPERATING COSTS
Warobouse Rontla                                2         2          2          2        2            2
Salarles  y/                                   18        18         26         26       31           81
maintenance Vehicles                            8         8        12          14       16           17
Fuel/01                                         8         4          6          8        8            9
Electricity                                     2         2          2          a        4            6
Telephone/Tetex                                 2         a         4           6        6            7
Maintenance Bu lIdinge                          S         6          6         lo        10          lo
2.3 Financial Expenditures  2/                      -        17         28         88        44          62
2.3 DEPRECIATION
Vehicles  !/                                    2         2          2          2        2            2
Merchandise                                    17        25        39          64       es           77
Others                                                    8          5          6        8           10
2.4  CONTINGENCIES  j/                              8         9         18         16        20          22
Total Expenditures                            68        98       140         179      217          244
3.    Prof it/Loss                                 (10)       (8)        (4)        12        17          29
/   705 to SAC clients snd 80% to general publlc.
y 855 of sales.
/   15% of marketing margine.
/   Represents 25 of celes (PYB und PYS) - lncludes only local t.aff.
2/  1X pOr onnum in 4 montho over valuo of purchass.
/  65 ovar purchases.
g/  10  *ver expenditures.



-88 -                                  u         o¡x
EQIATORIAL UINEA
CROP DIVERSIFICATZON AND AORICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
Lericulturel Develesm.nt Ora.nlz.tion
Eutlm.t.d Incoa Stoe..mnt
Table 8. U rketIna S rvic (SC)
(CF a     e}in)
PYO      PY1       PY2       PY8       PY4       PYs
1.  REVENUES
1.1 Charg.. for export cervices to cliente
- Cocos 1/                                 2.0 8.6             7.1        9.9    12.7         14.4
- Othor Producto al                          -         -       0.4        0.8      1.2         2.0
2.8                7:        116 M                  . 4
1.2 Charges for export services
to non-cilento   bl                     8.4       8.4       8.4        8.4      8.4         8.4
TOTAL REJENUES                         11.2      14.0      16.9       19.1    22.8         24.8
2. EXPENDITURES cJ
Solare*e                                   S.0       5.0       5.0        6.0      6.0         6.0
Operation & Maintenance of Vehictes        1.0       1.0       1.0        1.0      1.6         1.6
Fuel                                       0.7       0.7       0.7        0.7      1.0         1.0
Electrlclty                                0.t       0.6       0.        0.7      0.7         0.7
T.lephone, Telex, Fax                      0.7       0.7       0.9        1.1      1.S         1.5
Warehouse R.nt&                            8.0       8.0       8.0        8.0      8.0         8.0
Sub-Total                              10i       18.9      11.        18.8
DEPRECIATION
Veh.cleo                                   1.0       1.0       1.0        1.0      1.0         1.0
Oth-r                                      1.0       1.0       1.0        1.0      1.0         1.0
Sub-Total                               Y.1       §l        El         El        nl         n
CONTINGENCIES d/                           1.0       1.0       1.0        1.0      1.6         1.5
Total Expendituro                         18.9      18.9      14.1      1.5    17.0          17.2
Prof t/Loes                               (2.7)      0.o       1.8        8.6      5.8         7.6
S   CFAF 4/Kg to proJect clients since lt includes ldentlfication of asrkete. CFAF 2/kg to other
exportora.
/ CFAF 2/Kg to *l exporters.
A All chargeos (shlpment, transport insurane, toxe, tc) wili be pesced on to ownere of producte.
These expenses havo not been included In the flnoncil projection. bcue they w1i1 be recovered.
It represente 10! of total expenditures.



- 89 -                                ANNX O
Po. al of 18
EQUATOR!AL oUINEA
CROP DVERSICATION AN  ACRICULTURAL sIRVICES f110JEC
Arcleultursl D.velo _ t Oraenlzalton
T*ble 4.  EsetImae  Incom Stete.eat
(CFAF lillion)-
mVI       PY2       PY8       PY4       PYS
1.  REVENUES
1.1 Savlnge mad Credit Servlo  (SAC)  al                 a#         70        112      148         162
1.2 Inputa Suppy Service (SI)         0i                   u        136        191      2a4         278
1.8 Marketing Service (SC)            Él                   14        16         19       22          26
TOTAL REVENUE                                       142       222        822      889         450
2. EXPENW  TURES
2.1 General Ad.lnlstration
en.ra 1 Menagor                                      2.4        2.4        2.4      2.4         2.4
Bookeeper                                            1.2        1.2        1.2      1.2         1.2
Supervisor                                           1.0        1.0        1.0      1.0         1.0
Secreterle«                                           1.8       1.6        1.6      1.6         1.6
Operation *nd Maintenance Vehielos                   1.6        1.6        1.6      1.6         1.6
Fuel *nd OTI                                         0.2        0.2        0.2      0.2         0.2
Telephon., telex, fax                                0.        6.6        0.5      0.5         0.5
SUS-TOTAL                                         8.S        S.S        8.5      8.5         8.5
Vehicles Depr.clation                                 1.8       1.6        1.6      1.6         1.6
Contlagenclos                                       0e9         0.9        0.9      0.9         0.9
Sub-Total                                            1-1.      11.0       I.0      - 11.0  #11
2.2 Expendlitures (SAC) 8/                              63.0       82.0      111.0    128.0       138.0
2.8 ExpendTtures (SI) y                                  98.0     140.0      179.0   217.0        244.0
2.4 Expenditures (SC) É/                                 14.0      14.0      1j.0 1f.0             17.0
SU8-TOTAL                                       175.0    286.0        BC9.0   857.0        894.0
TOTAL EXPENDITJRES                                  186.0    247.0       817.0   B88.0        40U.0
ProfTlt/Loss  d/                                    (44.0)    (2C.0)       5.0     81.0        4C.0
p/ So table 1 (SAC).
%» SO table 2 (SI).
/   Se. table 8 (SC).
OJ The accumulated ¡os*ee durlng the Installation paerlod (PYI *nd PY2) *ould be 'Mnanoed by the Project.



- 90 -                  ANE 7
Page 1 of 10
EQUATORIAL GUINEA
CROP DIVERSIFICATION AND AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
Project Implementation
1.           Thls Annex outlines preliminary project implementation plano.
It describes: (a) the project management strategy; (b) project organization
and technical assistance team staffing; (c) periodic planning, monitoring, and
reporting arrangementst and (d) project start-up arrangements aud a
preliminary first year work plan. Project management organization ¡s outlined
in Table 1. Table 2 presents an expatriate staffing plan and timetable.
Detailed Terms of Reference for long and short-term expatriate advisora, U.N.
Volunteers, and locally-recruited administrative staff are presented in Annex
8.
A. Proiect ManaRement Stratepy
2.           The management approach vill support the achievement of three
inter-related project objectives: (a) the production and marketing target8t
(b) the institutional development goals; and (c) the sustainability of project
achievements.
3.           Management requirements for meeting production, marketing and
institutional objectives are straightforward. They include: (a) the timely
and efficient execution of project activities; (b) effective supervision of
and support for technical aseistance staff and U.N. Volunteers; and (c) the
continued adjustment of project implementation plan* to capitalize on
accomplishments and respond to changing circuastances. These needs will be
met by the assignment of qualified nationale to key project management
positions; the selection of a competent consulting firm, recruitment of
technical assistance etaff in accordance vith the Terms of Reference in Annex
8; a carefully-managed project start-up period; and the use of a project
planning, monitoring, and reporting system taat vill allow timely intervention
when problems aríse.
4.           The achievement of the third objective -project sustainability-
vill require a willingness on the part of the Ministry and IDA to balance the
pace of progreso toward quantitative production and marketing targets against
the need for time to meet training requirements, allow the maturing of
national management skills, and gain the confidence of farmers and tra'era.
Appropriate criteria will be built into Annual Project Work Plans to saaure
progreso toward these objectives and to evaluate project and technical
assistance team performance in teras of their achievement. The following
general project design steps have been taken to help balance near-term output
and longer-term sustainability objectives and to reduce barriera to
sustainability:



- 91 -                        ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 10
(a) the project vill depend heavily on sad will provide incentives for
private sector initiative and investment, thereby limiting needa for
sustalned. long-term Ministry financial support or management;
(b) extension service, applied research, and export promotion work vill
be paced to realistic estimates of market demand for the products
that vill be produced, and project returus should be demonstrably
commensurate vith investmentsi
(c) performance criteria for project extension and marketing work will
reflect the social setting for the project, with en emphasis on
supporting the development of independent, village based farmer
organizations and on ensuring that project activities reflect the
crucial roles of women farmers and traders; and
(d) all project components will include explicit training elements to
ensure that national managerial and technícal skills are sufficiently
strong to sustain project accomplishments without substantial
continued expatriate involvement.
5.           The sustainability of project activities in the Continent, vhere
technical assistance support vill be límited, will receive further special
attention. Much of the Continent's institutional development work, with
particular regard to farmer organization, vill require a longer time frame to
achieve sustainable resulta. From a different perspective, transitory
climatic difficulties or export marketing problema could delay the impact of
fundamentally sound institutional development work by the tect4¡cal aseistance
group. Project management arrangements with the U.N. contemplate one-year
extensions for the three Volunteers in Bata. A longer-term program with
additional volunteers vill be proposed if the Mid-term Review suggests
significant benefits from a continued U.N. Volunteer presence.
6.           Sustainability will depend also on the early development and
full use of national management skills. The project management strategy
maximizes local responsibility for project policy and decision-making, while
still providing for the effective use of expatriate technical skills that are
not yet available in the Ministry or in OPA.
B. Proiect Oraanízation and Staffinu
7.           Overall responsibility for project success will rest, from the
outset, with a national Project Director. He will act on behalf of and answer
to the Miníster of Agriculture, Livestock, Fisherles aud Forestry. The
Project Director vill be responsible for Ministry and OíA compliance vith the
Annual Project Work Plan. He will have authority over extension service
officers and the General Manager of OFA with respect to project-financed
matters. The Project Director and the expatriate Project Coordinator vill
prepare Annual Project Work Plans, for subaisvion to and spproval by the
Ministry and IDA. The Project Director will ensure that the Annual Project
Work Plan include no long-term undertakings that could not be continued
without major expatriate technical assistance support. He vill work vith the



- 92 -                          ANNEX 7
Page 3 of 10
Project Coordinator to redesign any work proposals that did not meet this
criteria.
8.           The Project Coordinator, the Financial Advisor, and the short-
term Training Advisor vill work directly with the national Project Director.
Together, they vill provide him with the professional resources needed to
execute the project vithout creating a new -and financially unsustainable -
Ministry management structure.  The expatriate Project Coordinator vill act as
the principal technical asíistance advisor with respect to the achievement of
institutional development, training, and sustainability objectives. He vill
work directly with the General Manager and the Financial Advisor to ensure
that OFA operations are put on a commercial footing. Export promotion,
extension and applied research vill be integrated under his overall guidance
and direction to secure a national impact and the coordination of other donor
activities. He vill be responsible for ensuring that all project work
reflects the neede of rural women and for incorporating farmer and trader
organization objectives into individual work plano. He will supervise the
activities of all short-term consultants to ensure that their work goes
forward in the context of overall project needs.  The Coordinator vill be also
responsible for ensuring that expatriate staff and U.N. Volunteers complied
with their Annual Project Work Plans, design and manage a project monitoring
and management information system, and meet Ministry and IDA reporting and
communications requirements.
9.           The Financial Advisor vill assist the General Manager of OFA in
putting operations on a self-financíng basis, implementing a long-term
business development strategy, modernizing procurement and inventory
management, and establishing sound internal budgeting, accounting, and cost-
control systems. He vill work with extension and marketing advisors to
identify and promote investment in private sector export marketing
opportunities.  He vill assiet aleo in improving internal extension service
planning and budgeting procedures and in designing an extension service
monitoring and evaluation system.  The Financial Advisor vill have full
responsibility for all project budget planning, accounting, and procurement
activities. No financial commitment could be made or expenditure íncucred
without his explicit agreement. He vill supervise two locally-recruited
Administrative Officers in the use of a project financial management and
record keeping system.
10.          The Training Specialist (short-term consultant) will participate
in Annual Work Plan preparation exercises to ensure that both managerial and
technical training requirements for project implementation and sustainability
are identified and addressed early in the project period. He vill york vith
each expatriate advisor to prepare annual formal and informal training
prograss for local staff, and to cast those plans in measurable termo so that
they could be used in evaluating project performance. He will establish a
separate Quarterly Training Report System to ensure that these plano are
implemented. He will arrange for foreign training programs, assist in the
design of in-country training, and help procure training materials and
equipment.



- 93 -                        ANNEX 7
Page 4 of 10
11.          Production and applied research and extension work will be
undertaken by the Ministry's extension service with assistance from the
expatriate Extension and Agricultural Production Specialist. On Bioko, the
principal direct responsibility of the Extension Specialist, will be to
accelerate crop diversification efforts. He also will continue efforts to
lower the costs of cocoa production and processing, oversee the transfer of
cocoa extension and applied research activities to the Ministry, and supervise
the development of IDEPA plantation land for smallholder use. On the
Continent, he will assist the Ministry's Agricultural Delegation in T&V system
development, applied research management and staff and animador training.
This is a large and complex task, and he will therefore be assisted by senior
short term specialists and by two U.N. volunteers vith advanced training and
experience in extension and applied research. The Project Coordinator will
guide the nationally-focussed T&V development and applied research work.
12.          Two expatriates will work vith OFA.  A Credit and Savings
Specialist will help OFA to extend already sound credit services to other
sec-~or borrowers and introduce complementary savings services. He will work
wita the Project Coordinator and the Financial Advisor to structure OFA credit
and savings services so as to facilitate their incorporation into future
national banking and cooperative credit union systems. He will be responsible
for building a national capability to manage these services by the middle of
PY3.
13.          A Marketing and Procurement Specialist will continue cocoa
exporting work and identify opportunities for OFA aud other private sector
initiatives in non-traditional export marketing. It is unlikely that OFA will
attempt to develop a full range of *in house  international marketing
capabilities. The Marketing Specialist vill be expected to design a practical
strategy for financing the foreign exchange costs of specialized export
services in the future. He will take direct responsibility for export market
promotion and trader organization efforts on the Continent, and be assisted by
one U.N. Volunteer with training and experience in marketing.  In addition, he
vill support OFA import of agricultural inputs and equipment.
C. Prolect Planning. Monitoring and Evaluation and Reporting.
14.          Initial project implementation work will follow the Preliminary
PY1 Annual Work Plan outlined in para 19. A Final PYI Work Plan vill be
presented for Ministry and IDA review after the fourth month of project
activity. Annual Project Work Plans for succeeding years will be presented to
the Ministry and IDA at the beginning of the fourth quarter of each year. The
Project Coordinator will prepare Quarterly and End Of Year Progress Reports
for submission to the Ministry and IDA. The Ministry and IDA will undertake a
mid-term project review to asese progreso of project implementation.
15.          Project reporting and reviews will be supported by a Project
Monitoring and Management Information System that will track progress toward
project production and marketing targete. It will be supported also by the
development of national, T&V-based extension and applied research systems; and
the achievement of commercial sustainability for OFA operations. The system



- 94 -                          AMy~  7
Page 5 of 10
aleo vill provide Information on fanuer and trader organization, cooperative
and credit union development vork, and measures to address the needs of vmaen.
It vill treat project sustainability as a separate iesue, identifying and
measuring progreso toward organizational aud management development and the
achieveiunt of trainng objectives. Full financial report$ng, in a format
that vill meet OCA» account$ng and auditing standardg, vill be $ncluded vith
Quarterly sud Annual Reporte. A preliminary desígn of this Project Icoltoring
and Management Information Systea vill be presented by firms proposing to
provide technical services under the project. A final version vill be
submitted for Ministry and IDA review before the end of the first quarter of
PY1.
D. Proiect Start-un and PYI York Plan
(a) Proiect start up
16.          Effective project uana8gemnt vill require an ability to
incorporate ongoing activities, and to draw effectively on other work
initiated under the Techn$cal Aseistance Project. In the Continent, applied
research and extension activi'ies need to be continued. Marketing and farmer
organization activities need to get undervay to complement and keep pace vith
USAID-financed cooperative development york.
17.          A firet Project Preparation Facility of US$ 450,000 vas approved
on December 23, 1989 and a second PPP of US$ 220,000 vas approved In September
1990. PPF funde are being used for the completion of preparatory studies for
the creat$on of small holdings on IDEPA plantation. appropriate for cocoa
production aud the $nitíation of complementary crop diversification work,
including plane for the provision of extension atd other production aseistance
and the organízation of input supply aud marketing services. These etudies
ehould be prepared before the end of 1990.
18.           To permit an early start of project implementation, selection
of key national staff aud of expatriate techuical assistance viii be completed
before credit effectiveness. They vill includes (a) the nomination of
national cand$dates, acceptable to IDA, for the pos$tions of Project
Coordinator and General Manager of OFA; (b) the evaluation of proposals, aud
tentat$ve selection of a consulting firm to provide technlcal aseistance
servíces; and (c) the formalization of arrangements for the posting of three
Uníted Nations Volunteere.
(b) Prel$iniary PYl vroiect york plan
19.          A revised Pro3ect York Plan for the balance of PY1 viil be
agreed upon after the fourth month of project implementation. The plan
outlined below vill guide project york during the start-up per$od. It
addresses nation-víde and general project managsment preparation york
sepurately fro= early activíties in the Contínent snd on Bioko.



- 95 -                        ANI 7
Page 6 of 10
National proiect activities
(i) securo Hinistry and IDA approval of a long-term T&V extension service
and applied research development plan prepared vith assistance from
short-term specialists;
(ii) establish a Ministry mechanism to coordinate other donor-funded
extension and applied research activities;
(iii) design a T&V extension training currículum and begin to train
agricultural school faculty in ite use, and initiate formal training
programs for extension service managera and Subject Matter
Specialists;
(iv) update export marketing studies, start a radio marketing broadcast
service, begin to identify and publicize investment opportunities,
and establish a planning system to link export promotion, applied
research, and extension service management;
(v) begin programe to address farmer and trader organization needs and
ensure that extension and marketing programs reflect the roles of
women;
(vi) complete a project training plan that wíll build the technical and
managerial skills needed for project sustainability;
(vii) establish a project management support system to include quarterly
reporting, Annual Work Plan preparation, monitoring and evaluation
cycle; budgeting, procurement, and financial cor.trols; expatriate
technical assistance and U.N. Volunteer staff w>rk planning and
performance evaluation; and liaison with IDA;
(viii)  orient and provide housing and logistical support for U.N. Volunteers
upon their arrival; and
(ix)  procure project vehicles and other logistical and support facilities
and equipment.
Continental Renion
(i) initiate food crop marketing activities in Gabon using available
production and transport, begin marketing information broadcasts, and
provide orientation for civil administration and customs officials;
(ii) prepare and begin to implement a food crop production andA marketing
support plan in PY1/PY2 in coordination with U.N. applied tesearch,
extension, and marketing Volunteers;
(iii) provide T&V orientation and refresher training for current extension
service agenta and design and begin training programs for animadores;



-96 -                       A~  7
Page ? of 10
(lv) consolidate cud coutiaue TfP-initiated food crop spplied research and
*lley croppitg deuonstration programn aud
(Y) complete plaualag for road rehabilitation snd the lnitiation of a
ferry gervice to Cocoabeach la Oabou.
Bioko
(1) contliue omall farmer Input uupply, credit, and cocos marketing
activitiesa
(i<) Introduce improved Inpyut procurement aud inventory management
procedures;
(Iii) laitiate allocatioa of ¡DEPA plantation lansde to mmali farmera;
(iv) trausfer CD> extensiou activities to the <iuistry snd provide S&V
orientatiou sud refresher traiulng for current extension service
agente; mad
>v) prepare a mmrketing study aud applied research on potential non-
traditiosal export crops.



MINISTERIO DE AGRICULTURA
PESCA, Y FORESTAL
X~~~~~~~w  I OP AflV
|m CDE lMi D   Y                                                                        ~ION¡t              SE:Id 6I
1~z  05DBfiASSCIi> os |CDS~                                                                                    s<r=  os 1aa        X     6czwE
1   I  H  SS«eN OE snE"sIoi I e9 1 I~~~~~1Mff~
1#CIQi DE CDTAETO Y                                  |DE HA                                   eI                                               I
cVcSZfi0 m                         DE os smvxcxo                                                                                        5 DEDe  D
WOCIOI    y~      ~ ~ CEOCBIG ~AZ
0003
~   ON   DE    V ~ IM              8  ~     DE   Ell ~ 01                                                     s = mm   De                  lo
[ XIM                                 ~A S        S             S                                                  S
-~~SECCION DE CATAS~ Y_   ON DE comp~~~~| 



- 98 -                                  A~  U
Page 9 of 10
EQUATORIAL GUINEA
Table 1.  CROP DIVERSIFICATION AND AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
EeCr wura
OROMIUTZI
____                                                               1
*  Proj -t     -se Servic 
i ~ ~~ *fleVSU    *
1 r~             01    w
FInec      * rm abe a
Mvleo    u   láv.r   u
*  Plellet w            *   lioan 
I  * Eson     *      *       bt_lomun u
*Ceord'seter u            u CerdInter -
Projeel   -t        lsI
Coordluatr        Sp.oI.Ila
!Finw,cole           Creltá A                                                        1
Adíisor          S a                           bIeles   3                 U.11
Off1. latre                                                                   pId
TECHUICAL              AS 2TANCE a
Pro,                                                     O..lio
Aé11sr Uon1s
01< lc. I
TIHIA   ASSAC



99 _                                   ANNEX 7
Page 10 of 10
Table 2. ExKatrtat. Techolnel Amlt4tnee Plsn
|    PY1    PY      PY2       |     PY8                     ¡ P4
1              ¡              ¡.e.ee...e..-------- ----------  ¡n
Long Toro Advisore               1              I                                            1
A.  Project CoordInaO.or         --- --------- ---  ---------                                1    8.5
8. Flnau¡ctal Advisor                         -                             -1               3    8.0
C. Ex«ns n a roduction       ----- -_ ---                          I                               ____ .o
Sp.cl,lt,t                                                 1 I                           1
D. Marketing Specalloe             - ------------                         --                 1      0
E.  Credit;   Savtngs            1                                                                8.0
Sp.cIallst                  ¡               3              ¡              1              3
Sub-Totel Long Tera     ¡               |              1              1              ¡   18.5
Short Term Advtlora             i               3              ¡              |
F. Training                     !           -  I               I              ¡  -                0.75
O.  Coop.rattv.u                1       _              -       ¡      -               1-          0.76
N. Extenslon - SUS               I  _               _-                                        1   0.75
_nd Training                1               1              ¡              1              ¡
I.  Ext nsion and                                _                                                1.60
Cooperatives                |               ¡              1              3              ¡
-J. Aopliad Research            ¡      -        ¡                                                 0.-0
K.  Roads A Ferry                                              i0.26
L. Uon1toring and Evaluation   1                1                 1      _                        0.25
U.  Unallocated                 ¡               3              |    -         |              3   o.ao
Sub-Total Short Tora    3               3              ¡
U.N. Volunteers Contínent                                                                    Hr¡ 
N. AppIted Research                                                            - 1  |  | - -   -   8.0
O. Extenslon                     ¡               ____|_-  - - - - -|                               a.o
P. Marketing                                    -                              -        - - - - -|  a.o
Total Ven ___________   ________                   ____un  ¡     8.0
Total Uan Y.ars Excludlng U.N4. Volunte rs                      20.65



- 100 -               ANNEX 
Page 1 of 14
EQUATORIAL GUINEA
CROPl »IiURSIFICATION AND AGRICULTURAL SERVICES kROJECT
Terms of Reference for Technical Aseistance
Intrcduction
1.      Thmi Annex presente proposed Terms of Reference for all expatriate
project advisory and administrative positions. Termo of Reference vere
prepared as a guide for project planning and for conaulting firms interested
in providing technical assistance services. The project requires expatriate
technical aseistance with the overall mix of skills and experience described
in this annex. Final staffing decisions vill aim at that objective and not at
meeting the precise qualificationa suggested for each position.
2.      The Terms of Reference are organized as follows:
(a)  Long- Term
.i) Project Coordinator
.ii) Financial Advisor
(iii) Extension and Agricultural Production Specialist
Civ) Marketing and Procurement Specialist
Mv) Credit & Savings Specialist
(b)  Short-Term
Ci) Training
*ii) Cooperative Development
(iii) T&V Extension/Subject Matter Specialist
(iv) Extension & Cooperatives
(v) Applied Research
(vi) Infrastructure and Ferry Planning
(c) U.N. Volunteers
(i) Applied Research
(ii) Agriculturist/Extension
(iii) Marketing/Farmer Organization
(d) Project Administrative Officers



- 101 -                      ANEX 8
Page 2 of 14
t            LonR-Term
POSITION Mi):      PROJECT COORDINATOR
Tasks
1.           The Proj3ct Coordinator vould york directly with the Project
Director, who will ar.swer to the Miniscer of Agriculture, Livestock, Fisheries
and Forestry. He wi:.l be responsible for: (a) the achievement of
institutional developLient objectives and the sustainability of project
accompliskments; (b) directing nationally-iocused organizational, management
development, and training objectives in the extension service and in the
Agricultural Development Organízation (OFA); (c) ensuring that OFA is put on a
self-financing basis; (d) supervising the activities of expatriate project
staff; and (e) project planning, administration, reporting, and record
keeping. He will plan and ensure the satisfactory management of U.N.
Volunteer assignments, in collaboration with the UNDP Resident Representative
when needed. He will coordinate oroject management with other Government and
donor-financed activitífs, with a particular emphasis on CLUSA and other small
farmer organization and cooperative development efforts. He will oversee road
rehabilitation and ferry procurement and installation. He will be aseisted
directly by a Financial Advisor and a short-term Training Advisor. Project
Administrative Officers on Bioko and the Continent will assist in internal
project administration, accounting, and record keepinig.
2.           Expected institutional development outputs for which he vill be
responsible will include: (a) the establishment of an overall planning,
management, and training system for the introduction of a national T&V
extension service; (b) the creation of private sector export marketing
networks; (c) the establishment of OFA on a self-sustainable, commercial
basis; and (d) the implementation of extension management and export marketing
promotion strategies that reflect the importance of wumen in production and
marketing and support the development of small farmer organizations and
cooperatives.
3.           Organizational and manaRement development tasks for which he
vill be responsible will include: (a) directing the design and use of
management information and monitoring and evaluation systems in the extension
services and in OFA; (b) supervising training activities to ensure a project-
period transition to full national management of major project activities; and
(c) overseeing the introduction of planning and financial management and
control systems to minimize investment and recurrent costs.
4.           Technical assistance team manaRement responsibilities will
include expatriate project staff planning and recruitment, the supervision of
advisory team activities, and the maintenance of acceptable professional
performance standards.
5.           Proiect administration responsibilities will lnclude preparing
and securing Ministry and IDA agreement to Annual Project Work Plans, the



- 102 -                       ANNEX a
Page 3 of 14
implementation of a project monitoring and management information system, the
submission of quarterly and annual project progreso reports, oversight of
project procurement and inventory management activities, and the supervision
of project budgeting and accounting activities.
Assiagnent
6.           Three and a half years.  Duties vill require work both on Bioko
and in the Continental Region.
Qualifications
7.           The qualifications of the Project Coordinator will include: (a)
at least 10 years of successful experience in agricultural development project
management including in a country with conditions comrarable to those in
Equatorial Guinea; (b) an understanding of Government and IDA sector policy
objectives; (c) substantial project-level experience in management and
organizational development, including work with cooperatives and private
sector firms; and (d) a practical familiarity with the T&V approach to
extension management and small-farmer agricultural production. Formal,
graduate-level training in planning and management-related disciplines, along
with an agriculture or rural development background would be required to meet
Project Coordinator responsibilities. Fluent written and spoken Spanish would
be essential.
Reports: Preparation of an initial report proposing a work plan after six
weeks in assignment.
POSITION      (ui):     FINANCIAL ADVISOR
Tasks
1.           The Financial Adv-sor vill work directly with the Project
Coordinator to: (a) ensure that all project activities respond to market
signals and minimize investmer.t and recurrent costs; (b) assist the General
Manager of OFA and the Project Coordinator in designing an appropriate
organizational structure for OFA; (c) establish financial planning and control
and procurement and inventory management systems to ensure that all OFA
services operate on a comnercial footing; (d) design budget planning an1
accounting systems for the extension service and assist in implementing a
monitoring and evaluation system; (e) supervise Project Administrative
Officers and Ministry accountants in the use of project budgeting, accounting,
and precurement management systems; and (f) aseist in the introduction of a
project monitoring and management information system.
2.           The Advisor will assiet directly in OFA input procurement and
inventory management operations until new systems are tested and staff
training is completed.
3.           The Advisor will assist OFA in identifying and meeting staff
training requiremente in management, finance, and accounting; and execute on-
the-job training programs for OFA officers.



- 103 -                        ANNEX a
Page 4 of 14
4.           The Advisor will assist also the Extension snd Marketing
Specialists in identifying and promoting potential OFA and private sector
export promotion investments.
Assisnment
5.           Three years with third year option review before the end of PY2.
Assignment will require work both on Bioko and in the Continental Region.
Qualifications.
6.           At least ten years professional experience in the design and
implementation of financial planning and management systems for both public
and private sector clients. Demonstrated knowledge of procurement and
inventory management and OCAM accounting and auditing standards. At least
three year's successful project experience in a country setting comparable to
Equatorial Guinea. Graduate training in finance or a related discipline.
Fluent spoken and written Spanish.
Reports: Preparation of an initial report after six veeks in assignment
proposing a work plan.
POSITION (iii):   EXTENSION AND AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION SPECIALIST
Tasks
1.           The Specialist will concentrate on crop diversification efforts
on Bioko, working with the Marketing and Applied Research Specialists to
identify and test appropriate crops for domestic and export markets.
2.           He will be responsible for small cocoa farmer extension
activities, and for their integration into the Ministry extension service. He
vill continue applied research on cocoa production and post-harvest
processing. He will train two professionals to the Subject Matter Specíalist
level. These officers will assume the Specialist's responsibilities at the
end of his assignment. He will design and assist in testing a cocoa
production training program for Ministry extension agents.
3.           He will assist the Director of the Extension Service and the
Project Coordinator in the preparation of plano for the introduction of T&V -
based extension services on a national basis. He vill assist in identifying
and training two non-traditional export crop Subject Matter Specialists, vho
vill work on Bioko. He will assist in designing and executing T&V training
programs for Bioko extension agente and animadores.
4.           He vill oversee land use planning snd the allocation to emall
holdere of IDEPA plantation lands. He vill supervise the provision of
extension services to these farmers.
5.           He will support other project activities as needed, includings
(a) assisting in the design of a planning system for OFA inputs and equipment



- 104 -                         ANNEX 8
Page 5 of 14
import and supply activities, production credit services, and marketing
programs; (b) linking Bioko non-traditional export crop extension
services to market development programa; and lc) supporting the organization
of small farmers to assist in the delivery of extension servi^es and to
facilitate crop marketing.
Assi.nment
6.           Three years.  Assignment vill require work both on Bioko and in
the Continental Region.
Qualifications.
7.           The Specialist will have at least five years of experience in
emall holder cocoa production and post-harvest processing, prior training or
experience in T&V extension systems, at least three year's successful project
experience in a country where conditions are comparable to Equatorial Guinea.
He vill have graduate level training in agriculture. Fluent spoken and
written Spanish.
Reports: Preparation of an initial report after six weeks in assignment
proposing a work plan.
POSITION (iv):    MARKETING AND PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
Tasks
1.           The Specialist vill support OFA cocoa aud non-traditional export
marketing activities and import of inputs supplies and equipaent. To put OFA
services on a fully commercial footing, he vill assist OFA's General Manager
and the Project Coordinator in designing definitive organizational,
management, and staffing arrangemente for the organization. Bis principal
responsibility in this respect vill be to identify and implement a practical
etrategy for reducing OFA's dependence on expatriate technical assistance for
cocoa marketing, the continued cost of which will endanger the organization's
commercial viability. A sustainable solution probably vill require a mix of
measures including: (a) contracting vith international traders or agencies;
(b) intensive formal and practical training for OFA staff; and (c) increasing
marketing service foreign exchange earninga to finance specialized aseistance
in the future.
2.           Related responsibilities vill include: (a) the design of an
input and equipment procurement and supply system that vill tie future
purchases and inventories to probable farmer demand; (b) the development of a
system to estimate credit demands and repayment capabilities; and (c)
supporting general OFA management improvement and cost reduction efforts.
3.           In addition to cocoa-centered work, the Specíalist vill assist
the Ministry in identifying non-traditional export markets for Bioko and
Continental Region farmers, help design complementary cocoa crop
diversification programs, and organize farmera to produce for these markets.
He will assist OFA in undertaking non-traditional export crop production and



- 105 -                          ANNEX 8
Page 6 of 14
promotion directly. when it appeared likely that proposed ventures will be
commercially viable.  He will guide and supervise the work of the UNV
Marketing Specialist and assist in the preparation of marketing related
programs for the Continental Region.
Assigrnment
4.           Three years.  Assignment vill require work both on Bioko and in
the Continental Region.
Quaiífications.
5.           The Specialist vill have at least five years of practical,
preferably private sector experience in international cocoa or other tree crop
marketing, andlor food crop marketing and at least two years project
experience in West Africa in cash crop marketing. He vill have project
experience in farmer and trader organization and cooperative development. A
qualified Specialist probably will have advanced academic training in a
marketing related discipline, but successful practical experience will have a
higher priority. Fluent spoken English and Spanish, with working knowledge of
French.
Reports:  Preparation of an initial report after six weeks in assignnent
proposing a work plan.
POSITION (v):     CREDIT AND SAVINGS SPECIALIST
Tasks
1.           The Credit and Savings Specialist will work with the General
Manager of OFA, the Project Coordinator, and the Financial Advisor to ensure
that legal, capitalization, and organizational arrangements for the
establishment of the organization will support operation of a sound credit and
savings services that could achieve a fully self-financing status before the
end of PY3.
2.           The Specialist will take principal responsibility for
consolidating smallholder credit activities and transferring them to OFA,
where they will be managed from the outset along self-financing, commercial
lines. He will work vith the Managing Director to expand OPA services to
include savings as well as credit, and to serve aríy credit-worthy client. He
will ensure that OFA credit and savings services will use market-determined,
commercially viable rates of interest.
3.           The Speciaiíst will develop and implement training programs to
permit full national management of OFA credit and savings services by the end
of PY3.
4.           The Specialist will study and present recommendations to support
the eventual development of financially viable commercial and cooperative
credit union banking systems, and structure OFA credit and savinga operatione
so that they could be incorporated into such a larger system.



- 106 -                          ANNEX 8
Page 7 of 14
Assigament
5.      Three years.  Asslgnment vill requlre work both on Bioko and in the
Continental Region.
Qualifications.
6.           At least five years of experience in the management of credit
aud savings services. At least three years successful project experience
under conditiona comparable to those ia Equatorial Guinea. Graduate training
in banking or finance. Pluent vritten and spoken Spanish.
Re-orts: Preparation of an initial report after six veeks in aasignment
proposing a work p.an.
(b)          Short-Term
POSITION (i):     SHORT-TERM TRAINING ADVISOR
Tasks
1.           The Trainin8 Advisor vill asslst the Project Coordinator to
ensure that all project activities include sufficient training inputs to allow
their continuation after the project period.
2.           He vill establish vorking contacts vith Spanish language and
other appropríate sources of formal and informal training. assist in planning
and budgeting training activities, asd design a financial aud administrative
support system for foreign tralaing.
3.           He will assist in preparing the long-term Project Work Plan aud
In reviewing Annual Work Plano for PY2 aud PY3 to ensure that training needs
are addressed fully. He vill assist the Project Director, Ministry staff, and
technical asuistance advisora in the identification of specific training needs
and the formulation of academic aud practical training programs to meet
identified needa. He vill desig8 and train expatriate staff in the use of a
Quarterly Training Report system that vill link evaluation of their
professional performance to the achievement of project training needs.
4.           He vill assist in planning T&V tralaing programe, and in
procuring needed training supplies and equipment. He vill work with project
staff to identify and meet project library and periodical requirements.
Asei«n=ent
5.           Short-term assignments during the first four years of project
implementation (9 months).



- 107 -                          ANNEX 8
Page 8 of 14
Qualifications.
6.      A qualified Training Advisor will have graduate level training in
education or other manpower development-related discipline;
a demonstrated knowledge of Spanish-language training centers vith programs in
extension, marketing, credit and other project-related areas, and at least two
years of project experience under conditions comparable to those in Equatorial
Guinea. Fluent written and spoken Spanish.
POSITION (ii):    SHORT-TERM COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT ADVISOR
Tasks
1.           Review past and ongoing farmer and trader organization and
formal cooperative and credit union development efforts and plans to evaluate
their applicability to project needs.
2.           In close cooperation vith CLUSA, study Government policies and
the legal framework for cooperative and credit union development and present
recommendations for their improvement.
3.           Assist Ministry and technical asesistance staff in designing a
project Work Plan that vill support formal and informal farmer and trader
organization.
4.           Assist in preparing work plans  for the U.N. Volunteers assigned
to extension and marketing/cooperative development work.
5.           Prepare training recommendatíons for extension service and
marketing perso=nel, and assist directly in arranging and supervísing visits
to regional cooperative and credit union development projects.
6.           Participate in the Mid-term Project Review taking responsibility
for farmer and trader organization efforts and evaluation of long-ter=
cooperative and credit union development perspectives.
Assignment
7.           About nine months in separate assignments over the first three
project years.
Qualifications
8.           Experience in cooperative development and credit union
organization in countries in the region.



-108 -                          A-  a
Page 9 of 14
POSITION (iii) T&V EXTENSION SPECIALIST (SUBJECT MATTER SPECIALIST)
Tasks
1.           Review current extension training, staffing, and management
arrangemente and assist Histry and technical assistance staff to design a
long-term plan for the latroduction of T&V-based extension on a national
basis.
2.           Study ongoing donor-funded extension activities and prepare
recommendations to incorporate gradually these efforts into the national T&V
development program.
3.           Prepare extension service management training program
recommendations.
4.           Prepare recommendations for Subject Matter Specialist (SMS)
training programe.
5.           Assist in designing extensíon agent and animador training
programs and in their introduction.
6.           Participate in the Mid-term Project Review. taking
responsibility for the evaluation of T&V extension system development efforts.
Assi"nment
7.      About 9 months over the project implementation period.
Qualifications
8.      Agricultural extension experience in IDA-financed extension
development projects in West Africa.
POSITION (iv).    EXTENSION AND SMALL FARMER ORGANIZATION SPECIALIST
Tasks
1.           Assist Ministry and technical assistance staff in continuing
extension, applied research and *alley croppings, soil conservation activities
in the Continental Region, initiated under the Technical Assistance Project.
2.           Assist the Marketing Speciallst in contínuation of farmer and
trader organization efforts including development of village shops
*economatos" for supply of staple goods and agricultural tools.
3.           Prepare a work prograz for Extension Specialist UN Volunteer to
be implemented in between períodic visits to the country.



-109 -                      ANNEX 8
Page 10 of 14
4.           Support project staff and the T&V Extension Specialist in the
design and testing or training programs for extension services llanimadoresl.
5.           Participate in the Mid-term Project Review, taking
tesponsibility for the evaluation of T&V extension system development efforts.
Assipnment
6.           About 18 months over three years.
Qualifications
7.           Prior experience in small farmer organization, extension and
training of extension staff in West African Countries.
POSITION (v),     APPLIED RESEARCH SPECIALIST
Tasks
1.           Review applied research activities and draft a long-term
development plan, including provisions for linkages with regional research
centere.
2.           Assist project staff and the Applied Research U.N. Volunteer in
preparing applied research development plans for Bioko and the Continental
Region.
3.           Assist in preparing training programs for SMS-level agents.
4.           Arrange applied research training visits in neighboring
countries.
5.           Participate in the Mid-term Project Review taking responsibility
for evaluation of applied research activities and revision of long-term
development plano.
Assianment
6.           About six months over project implementation period.
Qualifications
7.           Experience in applied research in countries in West Africa.
POSITION (vi).    INFRASTRUCTURE AND FERRY SPECLALIST
Tasks
1.           Prepare work plan and procurement documents for Mbini-Cogo road
rehabilitation work.



- 110 -                           ANNEX 8
Page 11 of 14
2.           Prepare Terma of Reference for feasibility study and cost
estimates for ferry service, and bidding documento for the procurement of the
ferry.
Assitnment
3.           About three months during first project year.
Qualifications
4.           Civil Engineer vith experience in rural road rehabilitation
under West African conditions, a knowledge of marine equipment and ferry
operations, and familiarity with IDA procurement procedures.
-c)          U.N. Volunteers
Preface
Three U.N. Volunteers vill be asíigned to work vith the project
team. They vill be based in Bata. The Project Director and Project
Coordinator vill take direct responsibility for ensuring the overall
management of their assignments in accordance with an agreement to be signed
with the United Nations. Initial assignments vill be for a period of two
years, vith provisions for extension. andlor the posting of additional
Volunteers for a third year.
Each Volunteer vill be expected to have relevant graduate level
training or equivalent practical experience in his or her area of expertise.
Spanish fluency vill be required before arrival in the country.
The individual Termo of Reference outlined below represent the
overall mix of skills expected of the Volunteers.  Individual assignments
could be modified as long as the overall skill mix is made available.
POSITION  (i)     APPLIED RESEARCH VOL«NTEER
Taske
1.           Aseist in preparing and then execute work plana to further
develop applied research farms on the Continent including a farm in the Mbini-
Cogo area and Km 13 of the Bata-Niefang Road.
2.           Work with the UNV Marketing and Farming Organization Specialist
to identify and begin research on food crops in demand in Gabon and other
regional markets and vith the Agronomist/Extension UNV and related consultants
to ensure appropriate links between extension and research.
3.           Assist in training Subject Matter Specialists (local) in applied
research management, and collaborate in extension agent and 'animador*
training programe.



- 111 -                          NE
Page 12 of 14
4.           Study traditional farmíng patter=s aud the coles of vomen
farmers and identify and test approaches to introduce new cropping practices
that will support both farmer organization antd so8 conservation.
5.           Assist the Ministry to improve the national coordination of
research work funded by other donors. Ensure link between research and
extension and other market-defined needs and implement these programs i¡ the
Continental Region.
6.           Prepare Quarter an annual progreso reporte on work undertaken
under the Applied Research Sub-Component.
Qualifications
Graduate level training in agronomy or a related discipline.
Practical research experience with rainfed food crope. Knowledge of sound
soil conservation practices including alley cropping system of production.
Fluent written and spoken spanish.
POSITION  (ii)    AGRONOMISTIEXTENSION VOLUNTEER
Tasks
(a)  assist the short-terg Extension and Smull Farmer
Organization Specialist in preparing aud executing a plan
to introduce T&V-based extension service in the Continental
Region.
(b) work with the Applied Research volunteer to ensure adequate
linkages between applied research snd extension activities.
(c) help the Ministry in designin8 training programs and
materiale and in training and supervising Subject Matter
Specialists (local), extension agente, and village-based
animadores.
(d) design and test extension approaches that reflect the
importance of vomen in food production and reinforce farmer
organization efforts.
(e)  incorporate soil conservation snd family nutrition
objectives into extension meseages.
(f) assist directly in the provision aud supervision of project
extension services.
(g) assist the Ministry to design a national extension services
development program, introduce T&V management concepts on a
national basis, and coordinate snd integrate extension
activities in other donors funded projects.



-112 -                           NEa
Page 13 of 14
(h) prepare quarter and annual progreso reporte on extension
activities undertaken under the Extension and Research
Component.
Qualifications:
Graduate level training la extension or agronomy. Practical
experience in wmall-farmer extension, preparation of training materiale and
actual training of extension agente and farmere. Working knowledge of the
Training and Visit extension system vill be an advantage. Pluent written and
spoken Spanish.
POSITION (iil). MARKETINGIFARMER ORGANIZATION VOLUNTEER
Tasks
(a) Under the overall guidance of the Bioko-based Marketing
Specialist, market survey work in Gabon, in marketing
broadcast and other communications programe, in planning
long-te=a export promotion work, and in the initiation of
new exporte to Gabon.
<b)  aseist in linking Ministry applied research aud extension
planning to market demand.
(c) support village organization for production, trading, and
the purchase of etaple goode and agricultural tools.
(d) study and test vays to support the organization of rural
women for production and marketing, and to link extension
services to organized farmere.
(e) assiet the short-term consultant in identifying and actirg
on neede for the future development of formal cooperatives
end credit uniona.
(f) prepare quarter and annual progreso report on activities
undertaken.
Qualifications
Training and practical experience in food crop marketing and
farmer and trader organization, preferably including cooperatives and credit
unions. Fluent written and spoken Spanish and working knowledge of French.



- 113 -                            N        a
Page 14 of 14
(d).         Proiect Administrative Officers
Preface
Two Project Administrative Officers vill be recruited locally to
provide internal project mana8gemnt and logistical support on Bioko and iL  the
Continental Region. Project man¿gement support and accounting systems vill be
desianed by the Project Coordinator and the Financíal Advisor, who vill be
responsible for training and supervising the Administrative Officers in their
use. Both officers vill:
1.           Establish secure project support offlces vith clerical,
co=munications, and lopistical support facilities aud persomnel.
2.           Control the use of and ensure the repair and maintenance of
project vehicles and equipment.
3.           Haintain project filing systems.
4.           Maintain project budgeting, accounting, procurement, inventory
and record keeping systems.
5.           Provide administrative and logistical support for U.N.
Volunteers.
6.           In addition to these duties, the Bata Administrative Officer
vill coordinate World Food Program Support for road rehabilitation, provide
direct assistance to XJ.N. Volunteers, OPA staff in the Continental Region, and
the IFAD-funded Poverty Alleviation Fund.
Qualifications
7.           Prior satisfactory experience providing administrative and
logistical support to an internationally-funded technical assistance project.



- 114 -             ANNEX 9
Page 1 of 16
EQUATORIAL GUINEA
CROP DIVERSIFICATION AND AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
Economic Analsis
A. Introduction
1.         The benefits that the project will generate are of several types.
On Bioko, the principal economic activity concerns the production and export
of cocoa, which generates over 302 of the country's value of exports. Since
1985, international cocoa prices have fallen steadily to the point where they
are nov 30Z of the real value reached that year. The forecast is for slow
recovery of prices, such that by the year 2000, they vill be only 502 of the
1985 level, in constant value.
2.        In view of this situation, the expectation is for further redu.,tion
of cocoa production on Bioko, vith the resulting negative effects ripping
through the economy. In these circumstances, the project will seek to focus
efforts on areas with the highest potential because of better ecological
conditions. In these places, incentives will be offered, through the
supervised credit program started under the ongoing Cocoa Rehabilitation
Project (CRP), to make the technological changes essential to keep cocoa
exports viable. At the same time, support vill be given to diversification of
farm production for the purpose of starting the development of non-
traditional exports that offer good sales prospects in external markets.
3.        As a result, on Bioko, the short tirm benefits that are easiest to
quantify will come from the added value of cocoa production and the resulting
gains in earnings.  Over the medium and long term, the   nefits will also come
from development of non-traditional exports.
4.        In the Continental Region, the project plans to develop food crops
production for export.  At this time, an estimated 3,000 tons of plantains,
pineapples, citrus fruit and others are transported by different routes to
Gabon where there is a great shortage of supply of these traditional foods for
the human diet.
5.        By means of specific actions, the project will help expand the
exported volume of these goods. The estimate is for 6,000 additional tons by
Year 10. Although this will represent a 2001 gain over present volumes of
exporte, a significant development for the exports of Equatorial Guinea, it
constitutes a emall percentage of what is currently imported to Gabon,
primarily from other countries of the region in general which are farther from
Gabonese consumer centers. If access routes from the Continental Region to
the Gabon border are improved, the cost of imports to supply Libreville will
be lover for products from this region.
6.        In the contirent, the benefits will be of differing types.  First,
the project will start actions aimed at developing an export corridor through
Cogo to Gabon, where the increased food production will be marketed. These
foods are part of the traditional diet in this part of Africa. These benefits



-115-                           ANNEX 9
Page 2 of 16
ln terms of added income can be quantified vith relatlve ease. In addition,
there vill be other medium and long term benef$ts, more difficult to quantify,
that vill relate tos
(a)  establishment of domestic and external marketing channels,
including the organization and development of infrastructure
such as roads, bridges and warehouseb which vill strengthen the
actions that other internationally-aided projects are
undertaken on the malnland region;
(b) strengthening the Extension Service of the Ministry of
Agriculture, resulting in improvemente in production
techniques, establishment of village shops (economatos) and
farmer organizations, improvement of communications in rural
conmunities, and other activities. These vill raise the
standard of living of the rural population and enhance their
opportunities for development; and
*c)  improved coimunications, lowering the costs of transport and
food supply, medicines and others, vith the resulting positive
effects on rural incomes.
B. AssumDtions made in the Analysis
Exchanae Rate
7.        In the economic analysis all prices of tradable inputs and outputs
have been adjusted with a shadow exchange rate to account for the degree of
over-valuation of the CFA franc. The estimated over-valuation is 302.
Prices
8.        On the Island, the prices used for labor, inputs and goods are
actual current prices during November 1989, with the exception of the cocoa
price, which is related to the cocoa world market price. The following table
shows movements in domestic prices of cocoa beans for 1990, 1995 and 2000, as
projected by the World Bank in January 1990.



- 116 -                         ANNEX 9
Pasge 3 of 16
Estivr; ed Farm Prices for Cocoa
--Years-----------
1990     1995       2000
(in USS$It
1. Project prices (CIF, NY & London)
(In constant 1985 US$)  11                    690        760     1,130
(In constant 1989 US$)                        950      1,050     1,550
2. Premium for origin       2/                     70        70         70
3. CIF Prices. Europe                          1,020      1,120      1,620
Freight                  2/                    87         87         87
Insurance                21                    20         22         32
Shrinkage                2/                    10         11         16
4. FOB prices. Malabo                             903     1,000      1,485
(In CFAF/kR)
5. Expenses and Fees        21                 284.4      315.0      467.8
Customs duty                                  2.9        3.2        4.7
Ministry of Commerce                           2.1       2.1        2.5
CAMARA                                        2.0        2.2        3.2
Port fee                                      0.9        0.9        1.5
Agency (Besora)                                3.2       3.2        3.5
Maintenance                                    1.0       1.0        1.5
Grading                                       0.5        0.5        0.5
Shipment to port                              1.0        1.0        1.0
Storage                                       3.0        3.0        3.0
Handling                                      7.6        7.6        7.6
Freight to warehouse                          3.0        3.0        3.0
Drying                                       20.0       20.0       20.0
Contingencies                                 7.2        7.3        5.8
6. Farm prices                                 230.0      260.0      410.0
1/   Price projections from World Bank, January 1990.
21   The figures for premiume, commissions, fees, export expenses,
conditioning, storage and shipping of cocoa used here come from real
figures declared by the CRP.



-117 -                            ANNEX 9
Page 4 of 16
9.        As can be seen from this table, these projections vere put in
constant 1989 US$, adding a premium for origin which actually is granted to
cocoa from Equatorial Guinea in buyer markets. Deducting the costs of
insurance, freight and shrinkage to get the FOB price Malabo, and the rates
and expenses for export, conditioning, storage and domestic freight, vill
yield a domestic price to the cocoa producer of CFAF 230, 260 and 410 per kg
of dry cocoa, for the years given. In the economic analysis, these prices
vere adjusted upwards by 30Z to account for the exchange rate over-valuation.
10.       In the Continental Region, the farm-gate prices of the added
producta generated by the project were determined based on November 1989
prices in Equatorial Guinea and Gabon. These are as follows:
Casmava bars         CFAF       15/kg
Pineapple           CFAP       150/kg
Pepper              CFAF       800/kg
Pumpkin             CFAF        80/kg
Plantain             CFAF      100/kg
Citrus               CPAF       80/kg
In the economic analysis, these prices vere adjusted upwarda by 30Z to account
for exchange rate over-valuation.
11.       The prices used for inputs are the market prices in the country for
the last montha of 1989, at which time product prices were also taken. The
analysis of the market prices for the principal supplies revealed that these
prices are at the international level plus costa of bringing them into the
country and distributing them. Again, in the economic analysis, the
importable input prices vere adjusted upwards by 30Z to reflect the exchange
rate over-valuation.
12.       Labor, for its part, vas dealt with differently in developing its
value. On the Island of Bioko, where labor is in short supply, family labor
and sharecropper labor were valued at the 1989 national minimum vage which is
the equivalent of CFAF 500 per day. Seasonal labor, which consists of labor
required during peak periods for agricultural work (phytosanitary treatuent
and harvesting, primarily) vas valued at CFAF 1,500 per day, which is actually
the amount paid to secure vorkers (piece vorkers) during times of highest
demand.
13.       The following table shows the values normally assigned to land and
to labor, and the prices of the major inputs used to produce cocoa:



- 118 -                          ANN    9
Page 5 of 16
Prices of Inputs and Costs of Labor
Item                       Unít             Amount (CFAF)
Land rent                      Rectare              10,000
Purchase of land               Hectare              50,000
Copper sulfate                 Kilogram                260
Lime                           Kilogram                 85
Labor:
- Family                      Day                     500
- Contract                    Daily                1,500
- Sharecropper                Day                     500
14.       The prices of tools (machetes, files, hoes, shovels, sacks, etc.)
used are November 1989 prices in Equatorial Guinea. Labor, for its part, was
not considered a production cost paid in cash since it is primarily family in
nature and has an opportunity cost of close to zero. For the farm models, an
estimate was made of income generated per day of work after determining the
net benefit in cash from the projected activity.
Budgets and Farm Models
15.       To estimate the benefits of the project, three partial budgets vere
prepared for cocoa production systems and these were used to build five farm
models that represent the situation of the beneficiaries on the island of
Bioko. For the mainland, two farm budgets were prepared for food crop
production. Based on these models and the pace of adding beneficiaries to the
project, their figures were aggregated to quantify the project benefits.
16.       The family consumption of the beneficiaries consists of two parts:
one is the amount of foods produced for on-farm consumption (cassava,
cocoyams, plantains, groundnuts, etc.) Their value vas not quantified in the
farm modela, because these are usually raised on non-commercial farms, vith
women supplying the labor. On the mainland, crops for on-farm consumption
sometimes leave surpluses that are marketed. As a rule, mainland crops are
less market-oriented than in Bioko. As a result of this, the labor and tool
requiremento in the Continent were included in the farm models. Nowever, a
value was assigned only to the portion of production that exceeds family
consumption, that is, crops that go to market.
17.       Besides this, it is believed that family consumption is supplemented
by a minimum cash income of approximately CFAF 10,000 per month with which a
family meeta ita needs.
C. BudRets for Cocoa and Foodcrop Production
18.       Por cocoa production on Bioko, Staff Vorking Paper 8 provides the
details on the yields that will be obtained, the inputs and the family labor
requirements per hectare. The three following per-hectare budgets have been
determined:



- 119 -                            ANNEX 9
Page 6 of 16
- Budget 1:    cocoa crop from small, medium and large beneficiary
cliento of the Cocoa Rehabilitation Project;
- Budget 2:    cocoa crop from the new beneficiaries who were not
clients of the CRP;
- Budget 3:    sharecroppers and landless beneficiaries settling in
abandoned cocoa plantations in the most suitable
regions.
19.       Different results are expected depending on the starting condition
of the crop. In the case of the plantations of the ongoing cocoa project
beneficiaries (budget 1), whose yields are expected to be 600 kg/ha in 1990191
(year zero of this project), the planned actions in this project vill boost
the yield to 800 kg/ha at the end of four years (a 33Z gain). For
beneficiaries who were not clients of that project (budget 2), the average
starting yield will be 450 kg/ha, increasing to an average of 700 kglha by PY4
of incorporation (a 56Z gain). The third budget, which assumes abandoned
plantations on the most suitable lands, shows yields that vill go from zero to
800 kg/ha by the fourth year of rehabilitation.
20.       The crop budgets mentioned aboye incorporate the technological
changes which have been introduced under the CRP and will continue to be
implemented under the proposed project. These will result in land production
gains and more efficient labor usage (oving to the effects of less shading,
better fungicide application methods, better plantation management, etc) and a
similar reduction in production costs per hectare by reducing by half the
amount of copper sulfate, lime and water used to control black pod disease.
Similarly, the budget for the plantationa, which will be purchased and
rehabilitated by farmers resettling on the former IDEPA plantations includes
the folloving itemo in the investments:
(a) land purchase costs, using the present system in Equatorial Guinea,
known as the llOZ procedure,'u through which the buyer pays lOZ of
the price as a down payment and the balance in five equal
installments per year, conditioned on rehabilitation of the
property;
(b) the coste of rehabilitating the plantation; and
(c) the individual share for a stationary crop epraying unit, consisting
of one motorized pump, high pressure hoses and other accessories.
Each set, costing some CFAF 2.4 m'llion, vill be shared by ten
farmers each farming 6 ha.
21.       A farm budget was also prepared for food crop production in the
Continental Region, which gives details on expected yields, inputs and family
labor requirements per ha. That crop budget incorporates introduction of
higher yielding cultivare and varieties, and improved farming techniques, and
replanting of low-yielding citrus by improved rootstock. The [mpact of these
measures on production in PYS vould be as follows. Cassava production would
íncrease by 30Z from 8 to 10.4 tonslha; groundnuts and maize production by 40Z



- 120 -                        ANNEX 9
Page 7 of 16
from 600 to 840 kgfha; citrus by 60Z from 3 to 4.8 tonslha at full production;
and plantaina by 67Z from 2.4 to 4 tons buncheslha.
D. Farm Models
22.       Based on aboye mentioned crop budgets, five cocoa farm models and
two food crop farm models vere prepared, to represent the expected evolution
of production by project beneficiaries.
Cocoa Farmers (Bioko):
(a) Model A: smallholder clients of CRP: on an average, these persons
work 4 ha. It has been estimated a total of 400 beneficiary farmers
working under this model. Of the 550 clients of the present CRP, it
is expected that only 400 clients, cultivating 1,600 ha will be able
to keep vorking under the new situation of falling international
prices;
(b) Model B: first project clients, both medium and large (20
beneficiaries), who vill work an average of 20 ha, making a total of
400 ha for the project;
(c) Model C: new smallholder clients, working an average of 4 ha, who
will account for approximately 275 beneficiaries with a total
production area of 1,100 ha;
(d) Model D: new medium and large scale clienta, who operate an average
of 20 ha each. This model vill represent approximately 45
beneficiaries with a production area of 900 ha;
(e) Model E: this model ia for 340 new farmers that the project vill
settle in 2,000 ha assigned by the Governnent for this purpose.
These are abandoned cocoa plantations in the most suitable
locations.
FoodcroD Farmers (Continental ReRion):
(f) Model F: this model will represent 640 foodcrop farmera in the
Mbini and Cogo Districta on the mainland. These farmera cultivating
some 1.90 ha, of which 0.38 ha in fallow, located at various sites,
are maintaining the traditional shifting cultivation system, vithin
which over time they are introducing better yielding andlor higher
remunerative crops.
(g) Model G: thís model will represent 160 foodcrop farmera ln the
districts of Mbinl  and Cogo, who vill transform their 31ash-and-
burn shifting cultivation system into a permanent alley cropping
farming system. Total farm size vill remain 1.90 ha, located in one
block and subdivided in five plots of each 0.38 ha. Annual crops
vill rotate within these plots. To the extent possible, small
ruminante will be integrated within this system. Soil fertility
will be enhanced by the use of leguminous crops, soil mulching,
improved solí conservation and organic manure.



- 121 -                      ANNEX 9
Page 8 of 16
23.       The analysis of the cocoa farm model budgets shows that the level of
family income would vary with type of beneficiary and project year. The range
would be from 36Z to 1,1202 in year one, and from 552 to 140! in year ten,
respectively, as can be seen in the following summary table:
Parm Family Income
(CFAP '000)
Year 1         Year 5      Year 10
Situation without proíect
Cocoa Farmers (Bioko)
Model A  1/                        247             304             665
Model B                            686             974           2,774
Model C  1/                        114             157             427
Model D                             20             236           1,586
Model E  21                        120             240             360
FoodcroP Farmers (Continental Region)
Model F                            103             103             103
Model G                            103             103             103
Situation with the proiect
Cocoa Farmers (Bioko)
Model A  11                        338             554           1,034
Model B                          1,142           2,221           4,621
Model C  1/                        159             450             870
Model D                            244           1,701           3,801
Model E                            141             445           1,450
Foodcrop Farmers (Continental Region)
Model F                            103             281             308
Model G                            100             384             404
Increase of income
Cocoa Farmers (Bioko)
Model A                      91   (36Z)     250  (82)    369  (55Z)
Model B                    456   (662)   1,247 (128!)  1,847  (66Z)
Model C                      45   (392)     293 (188!)    443 (104!)
Model D                    224 (11202)   1,465 (621!)  2,215 (140!)
Model E                     21   (172)      205  (852)  1,855 (5152)
Foodcrop Farmers (Continental Region)
Model F                       0    (02)     177 (173!)    205 (199!)
Model G                      -3   (-32)     281 (273!)    301 (292Z)
11  Includes farm benefits and the allocation which appears as family labor
in the cost figures.
2/  It i8 assumed that the farmere to be settled in new areas would have some
income from alternative activities.



- 122 -                        ANNEX 9
Page 9 of 16
24.       The fígures given in the sumary table <for the situation vith the
project) show that in all cocoa modelo considered, net family income after
financing exceede CFAF 12,000 monthly, which can be considered a threshold
that ensures ability to pay the credits necessary to finance the activities
included in the project to expand the cocoa production. In foodcrop
production on the mainland. the margina are clearly lees and here farm lncome
and production increases vill mainly result from improved planting material
and cultivation techniques.
25.       Furthermore, although the food crops component of the project vill
pertain to the entire mainland area, the expected actions in support of the
extension service of the Ministry of Agriculture and the creation of export
channels through the Bata-Cogo corridor and the Akurenam border aleo include
specific actione located in the districts of Hbini and Cogo. Based on these
planned actions, the estimate is that 502 of the benefits of this component
vill come from these dietricte and the remainder from the other parte of the
country.
26.       For the purpose of quantifying the expected impact of the project on
production and farm income, representative farm models F and G were prepared
for the farmers of Mbini and Cogo.  The folloving sumnary table shows the
major characteristice of those modele, including expected change in land use,
production, labor input, value of sales and income and expenses in cash, as
estimated. The chief distinction between the two modele is that Model F vill
maintain the migratory nature of agriculture in the region while Model G vill
make substantial changes in land use by considering the establishment of
permanent farma as opposed to the traditional migratory system (alley cropping
farme).
27.       As can be seen in the table, the project vill boost the level of
cash income from ite present level estimated at CFAF 100,000 to approximately
CFAP 280,000 to 380,000 by year 5, and to CFAF 300,000 to 400,000 by year 10.
This vill mean an increase of approximately 2002 to 3002 in the net farm
income, by boosting family labor alone from 220 vorkdays per year to
approximately 300 in year 5 and 350 in year 10. As a result, the earning per
day of work will increase from approximately CFAF 460 to CFAF 880 and to CFAF
1,320, in year 5, for modele F and G, respectively.



-123 -                          ANNEX 9
Page 10 of 16
Fooderop Production in the Continental Reaion
Kev Data Farm Model F and G
Year 1           Year 5          Year 10
Model                              P       G        P       G        F       G
1. Land Use (ha)
Caseava                    0.56    0.56    0.76    0.76    0.76    0.76
Plantains                  0.03    0.03    0.11    0.38    0.11    0.38
Annual Food/Cash Crops    0.28    0.28    0.38    0.38    0.38    0.38
Perennial Cash Crops       0.65    0.65    0.27    0.38    0.27    0.38
Fallow Land                0.38    0.38    0.38        -     0.38       -
Total                  1.90    1.90    1.90    '.90    1.90    1.90
2.  Particiíatina Farmers          140       0      640     160      640     160
3. Manual Labordave (LD)
Female                      118      118     169      148     187      163
Hale                         84       84     122      113     151      149
Various                      18       18      29       29      32       28
Total                   220     220      320     290      370      340
4. Production (kg)
Cassava                    2240    2240    3952    3952    3952    3952
Plantains                    72       72     504    1451      297    1244
Annual Pood/Cash Crops      956      956    1451    1573    1451    1573
Perennial Cash Crops        593      593     180      270     972    1368
Total                  3861    3861    6087    7246    6672    8137
5.  Financial Data ('000 CFAF)
Value of Sales              125.4   125.4   297.2   404.0   339.8   458.9
Total Expenditures           22.8    25.0    16.3    20.3    32.1    45.4
Net Farm Family Income      102.6   100.4   280.9   383.7   307.7   403.5
6.  Net Remuneration               466     456     878    1323       831    1222
(CFAFILD)
7.  Incremental Production (kg)    0         0    2226    3385    2811    4276
E.  IncorDoration of Beneficiaries
28.       On Bioko, at the closing date of the credit of the ongoing CRP in
December 1990, the estimated number of beneficiaries vill be 600, working
approximately 3,500 ha of cocoa plantations. The further decline in
international cocoa prices in 1990 lead to a decrease in domestic price in
Equatorial Guinea for the 1990/91 harvest (year O of the new project) from
CFAF 300 to CFAP 250/kg. It is expected that this will lead to more



- 124 -                       ANNEX9
Page 11 of 16
plantations abandoned in areas marginal for cocoa, having yields of 450/kg per
hectare or less.
29.       Because of these circumstances, it ls expected that the area of
former CRP clients will decrease from 3,500 ha in 2990191 to some 2,000 ha in
year 2 (1992/93). In year 2, this will include approximately 400 small
beneficiaries (4 ha each, 1,600 ha together), and 20 medium and large
beneficiaries (20 ha each, 400 ha together).  The farms are represented by
Models A and B, respectively.
30.       On Bioko, the proposed project vill incorporate 320 beneficiaries
(275 small and 45 medium and large), having a total of approximately 2,000 ha
(1,100 ha in small farms and 900 ha in medium and large).  In addition,
ímplementation of the farmer resettlement program on abandoned plantations, in
the most suitable areas, vill benefit approximately 340 more farmers vho vill
be assigned some 6 ha each, which each beneficiary will rehabilitate in two
years. This last sub-component vill help rehabilitate approximately 2,000
hectares of plantations located in one of the most suitable areas for cocoa
production on Bioko.
31.       In the Continental Region, the proposed project vill incorporate 800
direct beneficiaries in the Mbini and Cogo Districts. Of these, 640 small
farmera vill exploit their improved shifting cultivation farms (represented by
farm model F, 1.90 ha each aud together 1,216 ha), and 160 their permanent
alley cropping farms (represented by farm model G, 1.90 ha each and together
304 ha). In addition, some 800 small farmere vill benefit indirectly in other
districts of the Continental Region. The following table shows the pace of
incorporation of beneficiaries into the proposed project.
Incorioration of Beneficiaries
-Y-----_________ Year ---------------
1      2      3      4       5   Total
Cocoa Farmera (Bioko)
Small Parmers, ex CRP                  400     -       -      -      -      400
Medium/Large Farmers, ex CRP            20      -      -      -      -       20
Small Farmers, New Beneficiaries        50     70      80     50     25    275
Medium/Large Farmers, New Benef.        10      10     10     10     15      55
Small Farmers, Resettl., New Benef.    65      65      65     65     80    340
Sub-Total                           545    145    155    125    120   1090
Foodcrop Parmers (Continental Refion>
Small Farmers (Mbini, Cogo)            140    340    320      -      -     800
Small Farmers (Other Distticts)         -     140    340    320      -     800
Sub-Total                           140    480    660    320      -    1600
Total                          685    625    815    440    120   2690



- 125 -                           ANNEX 9
Page 12 of 16
F. Benefits
32.       At the individual farm level, the project vill result in an increase
of net farm family income ranging from 55Z to 515S in Year 10. There vill be
an increase in family labor employment in the Continental Region from
approximately 220 to about 350 workdays per year in PY10, resulting in gain in
income per day of work from CPAF 460 to CFAF 875 and 1323 in PY5 for the two
models considered. Incremental farm income is indicated in para 28.
Other economic activities
33.       In addition to the incremental benefits to be received by the direct
project beneficiaries, other economic activities will be promoted by the
project as a result of the incremental volumes of inputs, services and labor
required and products exported. In addition, starting the savings and credit
service will help channel idle resources into new productive activities that
cannot be established today since there is no source of credit such as the one
this service will create.
34.       The folloving table gives an estimate of the financial benefits from
various project activities. These are estimated at 102 of the incremental
value of the inputs involved, 502 of the additional amount paid to labor
contracted by individual farms and a 102 marketing margin for incremental
exports of cocoa. The marketing margin of exporte means the difference
between the FOB value of the export and the farm-gate value, which represents
the payment for the services mobilized to produce cocoa, specifically,
conditioning, transport, drying, storage and export. In addition, the
following table includes 242 in additional benefits that will come from the
other agricultural, industrial and/or commercial activities which the savings
and loan service will finance.
Estimated Incremental Benefits Generated bv the
Island Component of the Proiect
Year 10
(CFAF Millions)
1. Farm level                             932.8
2. Inputs mobilized                         4.0
3. Contracted labor                        15.0
4. Services to incremental export          15.0
TOTAL                          966.8
G. Economic Rate of Return
35.       The economic benefits of the project have been estimated on the
basis of the farm modelo with prices adjusted to represent economic prices
where appropriate. On the Island of Bioko, the economic analysis include 1002
of projects costa. In the Continental Region, the economic analysis includes
1002 of project coste with the exception of project costa related to roada and
ferry where a 602 of the costs vas included. The reason to consider only 602



- 126 -                       ANNEX 9
Page 13 of 16
of the costs of roada and ferry in the Continental Region i8 that, as
mentioned in paragraph 6, it is impossible to estimate the benefits that
infrastructure works in roads and transshipment, vill generate for the other
economic activities (forest, other projects, etc.).
36.       The economic rate of return to the project estimated on the
foregoing bases vill be 212 (Table 1). Taking separately the benefits and
costs of the project in the two regions, the island and the mainland, the
economic rate of return has been estimated at 28Z and 132, respectively
(Tables 2 and 3). The best expected results on the island relate to the
greater response capacity on Bioko where the on-going Cocoa Rehabilitation
Project has already laid the foundation for the recovery of cocoa production,
even under the adverse conditions in the international market. As for the
Continental Region, the project will start in a relatively backward situation
as far as level of beneficiaries, available technology and training of farmers
and extension agents is concerned.
H. Sensitivity Analvsis
37.       The sensitivity analysis for this project shows that the benefits
will have to fall by more than 252 from the estimated level or the costs
increase by more than 502 for the economic rate of return to fall below 102.
38.       As for the results by region, the sensitivity analysis shows:
(a) on the Island, the benefits vill have to fall by about 502 or the
costs increase by more than 502 for the economic rate of return to
fall below 102. Such changes are not very likely since the yields
expected for cocoa are feasible if the changes in production
technology are implemented and since the low prices used for cocoa,
taken from price projections that are thought pessimistic, are
extremely low. The costs used, on the other hand, have been
estimated on real bases, that is, the experience gained by the CRP
in execution.
(b) in the Continental Region, the sensitivity analysis shows greater
project vulnerability. A 102 rise in expected costs or a lOZ drop
in projected benefits would reduce the economic rate of return to
102. The possibility of occurrence of these circumstances is
relatively high since the project vill start activities in a little
known context where the efficiency of the eventual beneficiaries is
not sufficiently known and where, unlike what occurs on the island,
the quantifiable benefits depend on the start of a flow of formal
exports for which there is no experience. These circumstances make
it necessary that measures be taken in an early stage of project
execution to promote production and develop market opportunities.



EQUATORIAL GUINEA
CROP D~VERSIFICATION ANO AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
TABLE 1. Economic Analysis tor Total Pro. ct
(CFAF Million)
Year                                0        1       2        a        4        6       0        7        8        9    1-20       TOTAL
InvuIent Cost                                9.0  1,487.2   778.8  1,880.0   61.6   242.8          -        -        -       -        -    4,a8s.2
L t  Iwvestaent  Attrlbutablo
To Tertlary Bn.t, (Cont3nent)              0.0    61.8    19.4   269.8        -        -         -        -        -       -        -       8so.8
Total MIt Invtent. Cote                      0.0 1,875.9   7t7.2 1,110.4   561.6   242.8                    -        -       -        -    4,087.9
Recrrent Costa                               8.0   269.0   481.0   719.0   694.8   673.7  0e8.s   66. 7   658.7   065.4    wS6.4   12,686.4
Less Recurrent Costs Attrlbutabl.
To T.rtiary S8notIts (Continent)           0.0    080    10.5    74.7    7s.1    86.4    80.4    86.4    86.4    88.4    88.4    1,661.7
To*ta Ibt Rncurrat Cost~                     0.0   269.0   404.C   644.9    16.7    587.8   582.1   577.8   572.3   S69.0   C69.8   11,142.7
Inor~_ tal ot B     it.           o.8    67.6   214.0   479.8   858.4  1,228.9  1,574.2  1,8BS.2  2,898.4 2,262.4 2,408.4   87,18.e  4
Mit Anuel Cash Flow                          0.0 (1,677.9)(1,887.7)C1,274.0)  (811.9)   898.8   992.1  1,287.9  1,521.1  1,693.4  1,889.4   21,958.2 *
Rato of r0turn u 28.81
SENSITIVITY MNALYSIS
ECONGIC RATE OF RETURN VIS CHANC! IN COSTS AND BENEFlTS
COSTS                                   BEFm
-U8      -75          -08         18          110       125
-80    O.1OlC    U 4TIi0                                       -
-90    0.08815    8.1o8      0.2089      0.2298      0.2589    0.2893
18    0.0827    0.1440      0.1888       0.284       0.2819    0.20
+110  080447    8 1268        01867       0.1896      0.2122    o.2440
*125   080186    0.1829      0.1418       0.1645      0.1808    0.2171
.160  -0.0252    0.8074       0.186"      0.1286      0.1496    O.1788                          *
@: aT"tt.                                                                                                     2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



EQUATORIAL GUINEA
CRW DIVERSIFICATION AND AGRICULTURAL SERtICES PROJECT
TABLE 2. Econom1c Analvyil
LCFAFMIIIIOA)
You rO                                        1            a 8     4        5       6       7        8       9   10-20       TOTAL
1aw..tCo. C0 9.9   68.8   872.9   701.9   182.4   154.9                                     -       -       -       -        -       l,975.8
R@wurrne Cos                               0.0   108.0   294.7   438.1   422.4   401.7   894.5   391.7   386.7  a89.4   a#.o    7,496.2
Incuen%l Nbt Soeita                        0.0    67.0   198.8   880.    624.0   840.2 1.M88.7 1,275.6 1,429.7 1,68.8  1,697.0   2,140.0
N1  Annual Cash FIow                       0.0  (W04.8) (471.8)  (740.3)   19.2   289.6   087.2   88M.9 1,04B.0 1,179.9 1,818.6   16,608.9
Continentl MRR
Ret.. of rern a 27.8X
SENSITIVITY MALYSIS
ECGNGUC RATE OF RETURN VIS 04*140 Di COSTS AN SEEFITS
0.278828     -W9    -76        -90      100      +110
COSTS         -99   a.Ti7   Ef 71                -       -
-95   0.9998  0.2084   0.2044
100   0.0840  0.190C   0.2444   9.;278
*110   0.06C9  0.1687   0.2091   9.2405    0.2797                       .,
.126   0.0182  0.1184   0.1061   0.1987    0.2209
.1W    0.0880  0.0842   0.1070   0.188     9.157 o.                      1 t
oh



aIMtAL NEA
CROP 2!VERSIFICATION AND AGRICULTURAL SEICES PROJECT
TAULE 8. Koi.lc Ansain
Com.;en l Con=t
Yusr                           l9        1       2        8       4        6       a        7       8        9   10-20   TOTAL
Inm%t_nt CusO.                           O.O   873.4   408.7    78.2   389.2    87.9    -          -        -       -        -    2,412.4
La_  Invntm      AtOrlbue bie
To Teri.ry eont1                      0.0    61.8    19.4   2B9.8      -       -                -        -       -        -      8S0.8
To~ l Nbey ~         Co                  0.9   812.1   884.S   40.6   889.2    87.9    -           -        -       -        -    2L962.1
Recunr.n0 CoO                            9.-   101.0   186.8   28M.6   272.4   272.0   272.0   272.0   272.0   272.0   272.0 5,198.2
Lao Recurr CoO AttrbuOble
to Tertiery 8   t1                             9.0    16.5    74.7    78.1    86.4    88.4        6.4    86.4    86.4    86.4  1,651.7
Tot l eob R"ren  Co                      0.0   1M1.o   189.8   211.8   194.8   185.6   16e.$   186.6   166.0   186.0.  16.9  8.64..5
!rcr.ea~   Net B~Ite *                   0.0     0.0    17.7    92.7   232.4   8M2.7   490.6   689.6   668.7   699.1   711.4 10,9U.8    _
NMe Annual Cnuh Flow                     0.0  (918.1)  (586.4)  (527.7)  (881.1)  109.2   #4.9   404.0   478.1   618.5   525.8 5,285.2    t
Rae of roemro u 12.65
SENSTIVIYY AHALYSIS
E!CO»C RATE OF RETWN ViS CmO! N CzStS ANDENEm
COSTS                                BEN£FITS
9.124669     -59     -75      -99     1os    .119    *128    .186
-2.M7-42 -.742 -YE7f4-2  74-.7142  -2.?772  -2.771421
-60  0.1249  0.2082  0.2498  0.271    -         -        -
-75  0.0481  0.1249  O.1611  0.1829  9.2088  0.2818  0.2710
-99  O.O188  9.99   0.1249  0.146e  O.1648  0.1915  0.2818
100  (9.90)e  0.0702  o.194   0.1249  0.14U   0.194  0.2e82
+110 (0.0275C  0.0628  9.086   0.1086  0.1249  0.15l9   0.18?7
*126  (9.067) 0.0281  0.0826  9.9628  0.1018  0.1249  0.1811
o16  (9.1982) <9.9976) 0.0281  &.0481  9.0869  0.0900  0.1249
o 
s:t,rmo.Dw                                                                                                                                 0% ko



EQUATORIAL GUINEA
CROPS DIOERSIFICATION AND AGRICULTURAL SERYICES
ProJ.ct Cost Suimery
FCFA MO                          USe 000                       % Total
__- - ------- - - ------ - - __- --------                           Forelgn       Beo
Local    Fora;gn     Total       Local  Foreign   Total      Exchange      Coste
A. MARKETING                     646650.0  1767186.4  2302656.4     1828.0  8251.6  8079.6            76.8       62.9
8. EXTENSION AND RESEARCH        877680.0  830068.1  1007688.1      1297.4  2238.0  35836.4           62.5       23.1
C. DNSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPNENT      63434.8  981079.2  1044518.6       214.9  8460.1   3685.0           98.9       24.0
TOtal BASELNE COSTS              988514.2 3888243.8 4364768.0        U40.3  11939.6  16279.9          78.1      100.0
Physical Contingenci.s         49973.7  242623.9  292597.6        175.3   851.8  1026.7            82.9        0.7
Price Contingencias           112295.5  870400.6  482696.1        516.1  1178.6  1693.7            89.6       11.1
Total PROJECTS COSTS            148.5  3981680.8  61800S1.7         4080.8 18969.4  18000.2           77.6      117.8
--~~~ - -     -- - -_- -              - --- -          - - -        - -
Valueg Scaled by 1000.0 - 8/28/1990 12:48
o
Io



CR VOMIFICATION  D   R OL
Su~rv Accounti bv        Coqnt
FCFA Me
INSTITUTI                    Phyulcul           Prios
EX ION    CUAL                        Congm,cl.          Co ¡ln npl.
ANO    OEVELO-           - -----------------
MARKETN   RESEM1O<      NT         7.1.1        2t  fise_
1. DIÍESTI COSTS
A. TECHICAL AS8ISTANCE           271429.6  224871.4  66178.2  1881778.2         9.0        8.      e.8   814.0
8. VINICLES                       1868.8         e.8   28962.4   88101.7       16.0    81.1        16.2   188.4
C. EQUIPUENT                     441612.8   48879.4   11178.6  t01436.         18.0   38146.6    12.9   G4822.8
D. CIVIL WCRKS                   248187.1   52181.8   18314.0  89868.6         16.0   6J761.8      8.4   12886.1
E. CREDN?                        31o666.8       L.         0.8  81     *.8     10.0   8168^.6    18.4   42814.4
F. DIVEISIFICATION FUND          7?883.a        0.0        0.8   76688.8         .         0.0    12.2    82e.8
O. WNICLES                        16227.1  186178.8        0.8  131486.1       10.0  1648.1    11.1   1066.7
M. PPF                                0.0        O.8       0.0        *.0       *.e        8.8     8.8        8.8
TeII INVEDS~ENT COStS           1428497.8  440910.1   788742.1  268149.6        8.8  la81"8.9      9.6  244871.2
sI. RECUFRNT COSTS
A. OPERATION MN  MAINTENANCE     448884.1   47892.8   2~87.1  617084.8         18.8   51708.4    17.1   88481.8
e. 951 V9EICLES                  244125.0  98818.8   88091.4  a7n778.8         18.8   87877.8    18.e   12181.4
C. LOCAL SALAIES                 1891SO.0  264481.8   2883.8  482281.8          8.0        0.8    11.8    4841.2
O. Tr.inlng                           0.0   18827.8  239942.8  &8878.2         10.8   89857.8    10.9   48451.2
Totl RECURRET COSTS              874159.1   678.0  881771.4  1778088.6          7.8  129048.7    18.4  2824.9
To.l USELIN COSTS               286.4  1OO?88.1  1044618.5 4864788.0            S.7  282697.8    11.1  48.1
Phytcal Co.tlnge.e.            188961.8   68440.8   W196.7  292697.
Price Cosllng.e.ets            271577.7  116108.1   88816.4  4892.1           6.4   894.1
TeIS  PROJECT COSTS             2788185.4  1178181.8  1190724.C  51831.7        8.8  822481.7      9.4  482.1
T xos                               0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       *.0        1.0    I
For.Ign Exchns,               212818.6  7442.9  1117884.8  8881268.8          8.7  288.7
Ve.. iceed by 188.0  7I14/119   18:58



EQIJATORIAL GUINEA
CROPS DIVERSIFICATIGN AMI ACRICULfURAL SERVICES
Fin.ncnn Plan by Dl1burseunt C.t4gory
USlO
IDA            BDEA            OPEC            IFAD         ¢OVERNNENt
Am.,¡a    %    Amount    S    Alount    X    Amount    X    Aunut         X
A. TECHNICAL ASSISTANC~       2875.6   80.0 6     .0    0.0      0.0    0.0   718.9   20.0       0.0    0.0
8. VBICLES                       0.0    0.0   616.4   60.0   410.8   40.0        0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0
C. EqJIP                       216.3   10.0  1947.0   S0.0       0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0
D. IRAINO AND STUDIES          268.6   16.0      0.6    0.0   670.8   40.0   760.9   46.6        0.0    0.0
E. CIVIL  1t                   1W9.8   10.0  1483.4   90.0       0.0    0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0    0.0
F. OPERATION ANM               1382.7   8S.0     0.6    0.0   896.1   10.0  2172.9   66.0   *0.0    0.0
G. CREDIT                      267.4   16.0      0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0   200.6   12.0  1208.4   72.0
N. INCRENENTAL LOCAL STAFF     602.4   32.0      0.0    5.0      0.0    6.6  1129.6   60.0   1560.6    8.0
1. PPF                         428.4  100.9      0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0
_-  w    --- __ __ _ __ __ _  _i __ __ __            -- - - - -_ _    _-___ __ __ __ ___ __ __ __ __ ___ __ __ __ __
Total Dhorg.mnt                6186.0   84.4  3596.8   22.2  1481.7    8.2  4982.8   27.7  1864.0    7.6
Vala  Salied by 186.0 8/28/1996 12:44
F;



- 133 -                             Annex 13
Page l of 7
EQUATORIAL GUINEA
CROP DIVERSIPICATION AND AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
Imilementation Schedule and Supervision Plan
I.   IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
A.   Preamble
1.   The fcllowing actions to implement the project are defined in
either the Development Credit Agreement (DCA), the Staff
Appraisal Report (SAR), the Statutes of the Agricultural
Development Organization (OFA), or other project-related
documents, such as IFAD's Loan Agreement. To the extent
possible, each action will be identified by its source base.
2.   The Implementation Schedule may be modified from time to time,
if so called for by project development, in a manner
satisfactory to IDA. In the early stage of project
implementation, completion dates are indicated by number of
months after Negotiations (NGB) or Credit Effectiveness Date
(CED); and later by Calendar month dates.
3.   Project implementing agencies are the Ministry of Agriculture,
Livestock, Fisheries and Porestry (MALFF), its Dirección General
de Capacitación, Extensión y Fomento Cooperativo (DGCEC), and
OFA.
B.   Proiect Imilementation
Agency       CMpletion
Task                                  Responsible        Date
(1) ApRointment of Technical
Assistance Staff
(a)  prepare short-list of                    NALFF          at NGB
consulting firms to provide long
term TA, and of letter of invitation
to be sent to these short-listed firms,
(b)  sign contract with selected              MALFF          bef3re
consulting firm providing: (i) a                       or at CED
Project Coordinators (ui) a Marketing
and Procurement Expert; (iii) a
Credit and Savings Expert; (iv) a
Financial Expert; and (v) an Extension
and Agricultural Production Expert
(sections 3.04 (b), 3.05 and 3.13 of
DCA),



- 134 -                          Annex 13
Page 2 of 7
Ic)  nominate the Project Director            MALFF          before
(section 3.04 (b) of DCA),                             or at CED
ld)  employ TA staff, defined under (b),      MALFF          CED + 1
and have them at their duty station,
(e)  enter into contractual arrangements      MALFF          03131191
with the United Nations Volunteers
Program for the execution of Parts
A and B of the project
(section 3.12 of DCA),
(2) Agricultural Development OrRanization (OFA)
(a)  prepare draft statutes of                 MALFF         at NGB
OFA, to be revieved by IDA at NGB,
(b)  establish OFA legally with the           MALFF          before
assets of the former ACD. and of the                   or at CED
input supply unit of CAMARA
(section 3.11 of DCA),
Ic)  nom!.nate OFAIs first General Manager    MALFF          at CED
(section 3.04 (b) of DCA),
Id)  contract Managers of OFA's Services,    OFA              CED + 2
counterpart and other local staff in
adequate numbers (section 3.08 of DCA),
<e)  establish the Rules and Regulations      MALFF          CED + 3
of OFA, satisfactory to IDA and IFAD,   OFA
Proj.Director
Proj.Coord.
(f)  constitute OFA's first Board of          MALFF          CED + 3
Directors in accordance with OFA
statutes (Art. 21 of OFA statutes),
(g)  sign Subsidiary Loan Agreement           MALFF and      CED + 3
(section 3.03 of DCA),                   OFA
(h)  establish the Credit Supervision and    OFA             CED + 3
Monitoring Unit, established within
SAC of OFA (section 3.04 (a) of DCA),
(i)  establish OFA branch in the               OFA           CED + 4
Continental Region
(section 3.04 (c) of DCA),



- 135 -                         mnez 13
Page 3 of 7
(3)  enter into an agreement vith OEA         MAL?F          03131191
for the provision of cocoa
classification and grading support
to MAL?? (section 3.10 of DCA),
(k)  review annually the adequacy of the      MALYF          04130191*
interest rates specified in Schedule   OCA
5 of DCA, and on the basis of the
resulte of such review cause SAC to
adjust interest rates to levels
satisfactory to IDA
(section 4.03 (b) of DCA),
(1)  hold OFA's first Annual                   OFA           12131191
Shareholders' Meeting and elect the
new Board of Directors
<Art. 13 of OPA statutes),
(3) Annual Work Plans. Revorting.
Monitorini and Evaluation
(a)  prepare snd furnish to IDA the           MALP           CED+ 4
PY1 Annual Work Plan                     Proj.Director
for the project and OEA                  Proj.Coord.
<paras 14 and 19, Annex 7 of SAR),       OYA
(b)  put in place a Project Monitoring        MALYY          CED + 4
and Management Information System        Proj.Director
satisfactory to IDA and IFAD             Proj.Coord.
(para 15 of Annez 7 of SAR),             OPA
(c)  prepare and furnish to IDA yearly        MAL?F          10131191*
annual work programs and
budgets, including training plano
for counterpart and other local
staff referred under (J) of this
schedule (section 3.06 of DCA),
(d)  carry out a Mid-Term Review (MTR)        MALF?          12131193
of the project to evaluate project       Proj.Director
performance in respect of ite            Proj.Coord.
objectives (section 3.07 (a) of DCA),   OFA
(e)  carry out a Mid-Term Evaluation on       MAL?F          03131194
the basis of the MTR                     IDA
(section 3.07 (a) of DCA),               IFAD



- 136 -                         Anex 13
Page 4 of 7
(4)  AccountinR and Auditina
(a)  establish and maintain records snd       MALFF           CED + 1
accounts of the project and OlA          Fin. Expert
(section 4.01 of DCA).                   Proj.Director
Proj.Coord.
OPA
(b)  close the accounts and books not         MALFF           02128192*
later than two months after the          Fin. Expert
end of the FY,                            Proj.Director
OFA
(c)  have the records and accounts            MALFP            06131192*
audited by an independent auditor        OFA
and furnish to IDA a certified copy
of the audit report
(section 4.01 (b) of DCA),
(5)  Studies and Surveys
(a)  fur=ish the study on land tenure         MALPF           03/15/91
system on Bioko to IDA for comments
(section 3.09 (a) of DCA), and
(b)  imaplement those recowmendations         MALFP           06130191
agreed upon with IDA
(section 3.09 (b) of DCA).
(6)  Policy Reforma Measures
(a)  review annually the Public               MALPP           04/30191*
Irivestment Program for agriculture       IDA
(section 4.03 (a) of DCA),
(b)  prepare and furnish to IDA for ite       MALF?           05131/91*
approval a formula for the
establishment of cocoa producers'
prices, and put into effect cocoa
producers' prices satisfactory to IDA
(section 4.02 (a) of DCA),
(c)  maintain measures to provide a           MALFF           06131/91*
a system of adequate production
incentives and taxation for
cocoa exports, satisfactory to IDA,
and review annually the adequacy of
such system with IDA
(section 4.02 (c) and (d) of DCA),



Annex 13
- 137 -                       Page 5 of 7
C.   Proiect lmnlementation supiported
bv Short-Term Technical Assistance
1.   Project implementing agencies and staff vw11  be supported by
short-term consultantss
(a)  The Trainina Advisor M  vill assist the Project
Coordinator to ensure that all project activities include
sufficient training inputs to allow their continuation
after the project period,
(b)  The CoODerative Development Advisor Inl viil review past
and ongoing farmer and trader organization and formal
cooperative and credit union development efforts,
(c) The T?' Extension SDecialist (C) vill review extension
train ag, staffing and management arrangements and assist
Mini  ry and TA staff in designing a long-term plan for the
mnt. duction of T&V-based extension on a national basis,
<d)  The Extension and Small Farmer OrRanization Specialist (D)
vill assist Ministry and TA staff in continuing extension,
applied research and *alley cropping'. soil conservation
activities in the Continental Region, initiated under the
IDA-financed TA Project,
(e) The APPlied Research Specialist (E) vill review applied
research activities and draft a long-tera development plan,
including provisions for linkages with regional research
centers and donor-financed agricultural development
projects on the mainland,
<f) The Infrastructure and Ferry Snecialist (fl vill prepare a
work plan and procurement documents for the road
rehabilitation work., and prepare TOR for a feasibility
study and cost estimates for ferry service, and bidding
documents for the procurement of the ferry.
II.  SUPERVISION PLAN
1.        Project supervision by IDA staff vill be demand-driven, and
where poseible be planned around key project activities. During the
initial stage of project development, supervision vill focus in particular
on: (a) establishing OFA, as the major vehicle of project implementation;
and (b) developing action plans for the Continental Region.  In the
folloving stage, supervision vill emphasize the strengthening of the basis
established as result of project activities, vith the support of short-term
consultants.  During the final stage of project development, supervision
vill aim at consolidating project achievements and identifying
opportunities for new activities.



- 138 -                        Annex 13
Page 6 of 7
2.        Missiona vill brief the Mínister of Agriculture and hís senior
staff on arrival. Mission,s objectives of supervision viii be díscuesed
vith ail concerned parties, including counterpart and other senior local
utaff.
3.        FULFF, OFA and the long-term TA staff vill be responsible for
coordinating arrangements for IDA supervision missions, and for providing
information required by missions. The adequate functioning of the Project
Monitoring and Management Information System will be essential for this
purpose. IDA missions concentrating on the implementation of a particular
project component, will be completed by staff or consultants specialized in
that particular field.
4.        The Minister of Agriculture or his Secretary General normally
vill chair the wrap-up meeting, where the mission will discuss ita major
supervision findings and recommendations for follow-up actions, laid down
in its aide-memoire to the Government.
5.        The supervision plan is summarized as follows.
CY             Mission's Objectives          Participants          Sw
90-IV     Review progress in meeting         AFlAGIAFlAA          5.0
conditions of effectiveness;       staff
participate in IDA-organized
seminar on extension.
91-I      Monitor: progreso in staffing      AFlAG/AFIAA          6.0
and structuring OFA; preparing    staff
Work Plan; setting up of the      Consultant (B)        3.0
Project Monitoring and            Consultant (C)        3.0
Management Information System;    (Consultant (D)       3.0
and review: Bioko land tenure
study; PIP for agriculture;
on-lending interest ratee to
OFA's beneficiaries.
91-II     Review: actiona implemented;       AFlAG/AFlAA         10.0
draft PY2 work plana; land         staff
tenure study implementation of    Consultant (A)        3.0
agreed recommendations; and       Consultant (E)        3.0
monitor: project implementation   Consultant (F)        3.0
in the Continental Region.
92        Two supervision missiona, one      APlAGIAFlAA         12.0
concentrating on activities on    staff
Bioko, the other on those in the  Consultants          18.0
Continental Region, vith emphasis (A), (B), (C)
on development of farmer and       (D), (E) and (F)
trader groupes, including women.



- 139 -                         Annes 13
Page 7 of 7
93        Two supervision miesione, one to AYLAGIAF1AA            8.0
coincide with the preparation of  staff
the Mid-Term Review.              Consultants          15.0
(A), (B), (C).
(D). (E) and (P)
94        Two supervision missions, one     AFlAGIAFlAA          10.0
being the Mit-Term Evaluation     and IPAD staff        6.0
Mission.                          FAOICP staff          9.0
95        Two supervision miasione.         AFlAGIAFlAA           8.0
Specialists as       8.0
needed
96        Two supervision missions. of      AFlAG/AFlAA           6.0
which the second one will         staff
discuse the TOR for the PCR       Specialists as        6.0
to be prepared by Borrower.       needed
* - yearly



1ANNEX 14
-     140 -
CROP DIVERSIFICATION AND AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
STARD
IDA FISCAL                                    DISBDURSEN
YTIRA & SDZ3STEIS       ESTIMA?      6.5 YEARS DISBURSE~EN? PROFILE
___--------------                    ...  . ......  .......... ...................................______
lUS $000>)                     US $000)
SuERE. CUHUL PERCZNT.         CUmUL         PERCENS.
_........ _. ... ...  .  __..........  -----  --------
1991 1     555    555       9           62             1
.1    182    737      12         494             8
1992 1     492   1229      20          gas            16
UI    614   1843      30        1666            27
1993 1     614   2458      40         2469            40
I1    676   3134      51        3209            52
1994 I     614   3748      61         3950            64
-U    614   4362      71        4567            74
1995 1     553   4915      80         5123            83
I2    553   5468      89        5493            89
1996 1     246   5714      93         5863            95
rr    m4    elo       97        016             99
1997 1     148   *8       100        o~             100
DISBUFSEMENT ESTnMATE
1*
D      *    * J f,         .    .    .    .    .    .    E
o  onD*4 RnUtX &oo



I1RD 222:
O Douara                             EQUATORIAL GUINEA
EXPORT CROPS AND AGRICULTURA
SERVICES PROJECT
MALA8O                                                                             I Export corridor for food crops
8a¡oer¡ 1  /'~                                                                             Main cocoa production orea
r           /                                                                             -     Exsn sng  sait roaI s
Exslinq iater.te rouds
Luba   (     9     , BIOKO                                                                         Paorneo roads
Boate     te      R                                                                                     Ports
Rocodeno9 |Xt {i Rlobo                                                           +    Airports
l    Xtoka /¡                                                                                   =   Bridges
*    Dstrct Capitais
* National capital
-    -Internationai ooundaries
Note Tne en- -co  .r .o    ,m    . 3
extens on comnoone-t 
Ebolowa   "
CAMEROON
Rio Campo
5;30'
Ebebiy n
~~~ M icormeseng«
,pfami Ken         <                          Bite        i
ANNOBON 1.                                                       Eemefno i                                   Nsoc
page~~~~~~~                 Bata                        i~~~~~~~Nefa2ng    Anio¡
,301 
ohn    {   Senye     ~~R  I     M  \Us   N  I                    Mengjo(     j
9_._              Mbinl       ii                             b     olobot
htAtI       NIG                                                                              Evinoyong                            Asokam
¡J" rsqa t                   CHAD                                 (An;CHe
N;)hjTI GERIA   .(\1                                         A_ <MBvn  
Acaoyong¡
I¡t 't,l)        J v FOOCAS#M                      AkalcyaAFRREP                                             kurenorn
1 E   TOR:Al                       C <O# E¿O*EYCH7ANP¿  15                                                                              1
GUINEA    GAS-I_x>                          .                            0       20      40      60       80
r/   GABONjX,  I MANDYI .                                     1,     o               - o  Ko
IREomnl  ,  -W  i              GABON               o     0      0i0s
MW ,GZA I RE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a CC iM.f O' E*1-. t-.',.  ''',,, s tt <-'O.-;  , __."r*_
ANGOlA                                            1O1
MARCH 19<



