Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.  15066
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
EQUATORIAL GUINEA
CROP DIVERSIFICATION AND AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
(CREDIT 2181-EG)
OCTOBER 23, 1995
Agriculture and Environment Operations Division
Central Africa and Indian Ocean Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit: CFA Franc (CFAF)
Year                              US$1.00
Equivalent
1989                 -            319.0
1990                 -            272.3
1991                 -            282.1
1992                 -            264.6
1993                 -            286.5
1994                 -            555.2
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS
BADEA               Banque Arabe de Developpement Economique en Afrique
CRP                 Cocoa Rehabilitation Project
IDA                  International Development Association
IFAD                International Fund for Agricultural Development
IDEPA               Institute for the Development and Promotion of Agriculture
MALFF                Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock, Fisheries and Forestry
OFA                 Agricultural Development Organization
OPEC                Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
PPF                  Project Preparation Facility
SAC                 Credit and Savings Services
SAL                 Structural Adjustment Loan
SDR                 Special Drawing Rights
SIC                 Input Credit Services
T&V                 Training and Visit System
WFP                 World Food Program
GOVERNMENT OF EQUATORIAL GUINEA
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR O:CIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
EQUATORIAL GUINEA
CROP DIVERSIFICATION
AND AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
(Credit 2181-EG)
Table of Contents
PREFACE....................................................... .
EVAL1UATION SUMMARY ........................1.............................. 
A. Project Objectives.                                                                                               .................................................... 
B. Implementation Experience and Results ..................................................... i
C  Summary of Findings, Future Operations & KeY Lessons Learned ...............                                                                ..................................... iii
PART  1: PROJECT  IMPLEMENTATION  ASSESSMENT ........................................                                                               .......e.e.e.e.e.e................ I
A. Introduction ... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                                                                     . ..        .
B. Statement of Objectives ......................................                                                                                                                      2
C. Achievement of Objectives ...................................... 3
D. Implementation Record and Major Factors .4ffecting the Project ...................................................7
E. Project Sustainabilit' ...................................................                                                                                                        10
F. Bank's Performance ........1........................................... 10
G. Borrower 's Performance ....................................................                                         
H. Assessment of Outcome ...................................................                                                                                                         12
1. Future Operations ................................................... 12
J Key,     Lesso ns Learned .................................................... 12
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE ..................................................... 14
PART III: STAIISTICAI. ANNEXES .....................................................1 6
Table l: Summarv ofAAssessments.   ................................................... 16
A. Achievement of Objectives ..................................................... 16
13. Project Sustainability   ...................................................   .                                                                                             16
C. Bank Performance ...................................................... 17
D. Borrower Performance .....7.............                                     ..  .....................................................................................        17
E.  A ssessm    ent   of   O utcom   e  ............................................................................. ..........................................................  17
T          abl e 2:  Related Bank Loan s/Credits ................................................................... 18
Table  3:  Project Timetable ............. ...........                        ................................                                                             ......... 19
Table  4.  Credit Disbursements.  Cumulative  Estimated  and Actual ..................................................................   20
Table 5: Key Indicatorsfor Project Implementation .                                              .................................................................. 20
Table  6.  Key  Indicators for Project Operation ........................                                   ... ....................................... 20
Table 7. Studies Included in Project .................................................................. 21
Table 8A: Project Costs ................................................................... 21
Table 8B:  Project Financing  ...........................................................                                                                            .......... 22
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits ................................................................... 22
Table  1.0:  Status  of Legal Covenants ............. .....................................................                                                                         23
Table  I1:  Compliance  with  Operational Manual Statements ..................................................................                                                      26
Tahle  12.  Bank  Resources.  Staff Inputs ..................................................................                                                                        26
Table  13: Bank Resources: Missions ..................................................................  27
APPENDIX  A: PROJECT REVIEW  FROM CO-FINANCIER'S PERSPECTIVE ................................................................. 28
APPENDIX B: ORIGINAL DOCUMENT (PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE) ...................................... 30
Ms documnent has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
EQUATORIAL GUINEA
CROP DIVERSIFICATION AND AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
(Credit 2181-EG)
PREFACE
I.    This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Crop Diversification and
Agricultural Services Project in Equatorial Guinea, for which Credit 2181-EG in the amount of
SDR 4.7 million (US$6.3 million) was approved on October 30, 1990 and made effective on July
10, 1991. The credit was closed on November 18, 1994, two years ahead of schedule. The final
IDA disbursement was on September 30, 1994 and the undisbursed balance in the amount of
US$2.3 million was canceled on December 31, 1994. The Project was cofinanced with IFAD
(US$5 million equivalent), BADEA (US$3.9 million equivalent) and OPEC (US$1.5 million
equivalent).
2.    The ICR was prepared by the Agriculture and Environment Operations Division of the
Central Africa and Indian Ocean Department of the Africa Regional Office (Preface, Evaluation
Summary, Parts I and III). This report is based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report, the
President's Report, the Development Credit Agreement, the mid-term review report, project
supervision and progress reports, correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower, and
internal Bank memoranda. A request to prepare Part II was sent to the Government on April 3,
1995; no comments were received.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
EQUATORIAL GUINEA
CROP DIVERSIFICATION AND AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
(Credit 2181-EG)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
A.   Project Objectives
I.    The objectives of the Crop Diversification and Agricultural Services Project (DICSA)
were to alleviate rural poverty, improve family nutrition and food security, increase food
production, promote local food marketing and raise foreign exchange earnings. DICSA was
conceived as a follow-on project to consolidate the achievements of the Cocoa Rehabilitation
Project (CRP) in credit, input supply and market services; to address the production, financial
and institutional constraints within the cocoa industry; and to encourage diversification into
varied crop production.
2.    Direct incremental project benefits were expected to result from  increasing the
productivity and production of cocoa (70 percent) and from intensifying agricultural production
and more remunerative fooderops (30%). These targets would be achieved by substituting
imports and increasing the production and exports of traditional and non-traditional crops,
including food crops. The project would support both investments and policy reforms. Project
investments would be made to: (a) increase the profitability of traditional export crops, expand
food crop exports and promote diversified crops for export to new markets; (b) provide extension
service to farners sustained by demand-driven applied research; and (c) strengthen institutional
development. In order to support the project investments, policy reforms would be instituted in
cocoa pricing and taxation, the Public Investment Program and land tenure.
3.    The main objectives of the project were formulated in order to implement the
recommendations of the October 2, 1989 agricultural sector review. The strategy for agricultural
growth included: (a) increased exports of traditional products (cocoa, coffee, timber); (b)
increased production and diversification of food crop production and marketing; (c)
infrastructure investments, particularly to improve transport; and (d) strengthening public sector
resource management and private sector initiatives. The project encompassed all of these
strategy recommendations; this design proved to be overly complex and unrealistic given the
public sector's limited ability to implement projects.
B.   Implementation Experience and Results
4.    Cocoa production objectives: By incorporating 2,000 ha into new production and by
increasing productivity in about 4,000 ha already under cocoa cultivation, cocoa production was
to increase by approximately 2,500 tons. These cocoa production targets have not been met. At
the November 1993 mid-term review, actual yields were found to be far below projections - an
average of 350 kg/ha - substantially lower than in the first year of the project. Due to low



ii
international cocoa prices, farmers did not apply needed chemical products, nor did they carry
out appropriate cultural practices, causing yields to plummet. In addition, only about 400 ha (of
the 2,000 ha estimated) were actually put into new production. Approximately 340-600
smallholders were to receive legal transfer of property titles to the designated land. However,
implementation became a politically sensitive issue because the resettlement of small farmers
would exacerbate the shortage of labor in the cocoa sector and threaten the viability of the
"sharecropping" system that profited medium and large farmers.
5.    Foodcrop production objectives: The project achieved little substantial increase in the
production of foodcrops. Practically no new crops were introduced because the project focused
too much on cocoa production and experienced delays in establishing the profitability and
suitability of potential food crops and new cultivation techniques.
6.    Credit, input supply and marketing objectives:  The Agricultural Development
Organization (OFA) was to be an independent, self-financing entity to support small and
medium-size farmers. It had two main functions: (a) the provision of credit and savings services
(SAC) to individual farmers and farmer groups on the island of Bioko; and (b) importing and
selling inputs and equipment needed for cocoa and diversified crop production and providing
nmarketing services (SIC). The design of OFA as a public sector institution to provide input,
credit and marketing services and to eventually become a private sector body was flawed and
unsustainable because public sector institutions do not have the incentive to eliminate themselves
through privatization. In addition, the assets transferred to OFA from CRP were overvalued at
appraisal, and thus OFA suffered from extremely limited resources. The end result was a huge
financial loss caused by allocations to cover bad debts, lower than projected financial revenues
and extremely high operating costs.
7.    Bank's Performance: The Bank designed the DICSA project in order to sustain the
achievements of the CRP; however, these achievements later proved to be negligible. All of the
lessons learned during implementation of the CRP were not incorporated into the design of the
DICSA project, including the consequences of declining cocoa prices, cofinancing obstacles,
political interference in project management, and project objectives that were overly complex
and ambitious. Considerable time and effort were expended by the World Bank supervision staff
in guiding project execution and decisive action was taken when serious implementation
problems were detected. However, the complexity of the project made it difficult to adequately
supervise all project components.
8.    Borrower's Performance: The project faced major implementation problems due to the
actions of the Government that included inadequate financial control of project funds, the
ineligible use of agricultural inputs and machinery, carelessness in applying established
guidelines and procedures, weak project administration, delays in procurement, and the arbitrary
appointment of unnecessary and unqualified project staff.



iii
9.    Project outcome: As a result of the fundamental problems discussed above, the Bank
informally suspended disbursements for three months in August 1992 and recommended a major
restructuring of the project in the November 1993 mid-term review. This mission assessed
project status and implementation problems, that included: (a) unmet quantitative production
targets for cocoa and foodcrops; (b) important losses in OFA; (c) little progress by the
agricultural extension and applied research service in arresting the decline in cocoa yield and
rehabilitating cocoa production in areas previously abandoned in Bioko; and (d) a dearth of
baseline data due to the lack of a suitable monitoring and management information system.
Agreements to restructure the project reached between the Bank and the Government were not
successfully implemented and disbursements were suspended on July 11, 1994. The conditions
required for lifting suspension were not fulfilled and the balance of the credit was canceled on
November 18, 1994. The project did not accomplish its major objectives and no sustainable
development was achieved; consequently, the project outcome is assessed to be highly
unsatisfactory.
C.    Summary of Findings, Future Operations & Key Lessons Learned
10.   At the time of appraisal, it was estimated that the Economic Rate of Return (ERR) for the
project would be 21 percent. This ERR will not be achieved as a result of low yields in cocoa
production, delays in introducing crops and appropriate technology to diversify production, as
well as because administrative costs did not decline to match the reduced level of activity. The
project's new ERR is estimated to be close to zero or negative.
11.   Future operations in the agricultural and environment sector could include support for a
natural resource management project to strengthen management of the country's forest resources
and protect their biodiversity. In addition, the diversification and strengthening of agricultural
production still offer potential for economic growth. However, before the Bank could finance
any follow-up projects, the Government would need to address the serious issues that negatively
affected the DICSA project implementation and internalize the key lessons learned from this
project.
12.   The principal lessons learned from the DICSA project can be summarized as follows:
(a)   Learning from  lessons learned:  Follow-on projects must be meticulously
designed to encompass all of the lessons learned from previous projects. The
project should have drawn more from the obvious lessons of CRP, including the
consequences of declining cocoa prices, cofinancing obstacles and political
interference in project management.
(b)   Information management systems:  Satisfactory information and monitoring
systems to track progress in production and implementation targets, as well as
adequate systems for financial reporting must be developed and in place at an



iv
early stage of the project. The fact that DICSA had no information management
systems meant that the project had no statistical data to quantify the achievements
of project execution nor to provide required financial information and accounting
reports.
(c)   Keep it simple: Projects need to be kept simple and in line with the public
sector's capacity. DICSA attempted to implement three separate investment
projects: (a) agricultural extension and adaptive research; (b) rural infrastructure;
and (c) credit, marketing and input supply. The complexity of the project design
required extensive supervision and guidance from the Bank, and overwhelmed the
limited managerial capacity of the public sector.
(d)   Government ownership: The lack of government ownership and commitment
have a detrimental impact on all aspects of a project. The lack of Government
commitment to the successful implementation of this project was evident in that
political interference was frequent in the selection of unnecessary and unqualified
project staff, SAC loans granted to unqualified borrowers, ineligible purchase of
agricultural inputs and machinery from SIC's input supply stores and misuse of
special account funds.
(e)   Secure cofinancing: If the successful completion of project objectives depends on
cofinancing, project appraisal must assure that this cofinancing is secure.
Implementation of two key components in the DICSA project, extension services
and institutional development, depended on financing by OPEC and BADEA.
Little progress was made in the execution of these components largely because
OPEC and BADEA made no disbursements for vehicles, equipment, civil works
and training, due to the accumulation of Government arrears to these institutions.
(f)    Technical assistance management:  Long-term technical assistance should be
avoided, due to its unsustainable impact on local capacity and institutions. The
frequent changes in expatriate consultants employed by the DICSA project caused
serious disruption in project implementation, loss of institutional memory and an
uneven knowledge of policies and procedures. The consultants did not always
give enough importance to national institution building nor to ensuring the
transfer of know-how to their local counterparts.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
EQUATORIAL GUINEA
CROP DIVERSIFICATION AND AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
(Credit 2181-EG)
PART 1:     PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.   Introduction
1.    Equatorial Guinea is comprised of widely scattered territories with different natural
endowments totaling about 28,000 square kilometers; the estimated population is around
400,000. Rio Muni, on mainland Africa, contains about 90 percent of the land area (26,000
square kilometers); the island of Bioko, site of the capital, Malabo, and five other small islands
make up the balance. Bioko is more developed and urbanized than the continental region; and
the dominant economic activity is cocoa production, whereas in Rio Muni it is food crops and
forestry. Agriculture, including fishing and forestry, accounts for over 50 percent of GDP and 60
percent of exports. Following independence in 1968, under the administration of Macias
Nguema, Equatorial Guinea went from having the highest GDP per capita in Suh-Saharan Africa
to a state of economic ruin, social dislocation and administrative paralysis.
2.   In 1979 a change in government resulted in new initiatives to rebuild the economy by
revitalizing agricultural production and exports, as well as re-establishing the social
infrastructure.  A high priority was given to promoting cocoa exports and the Cocoa
Rehabilitation Project (Cr.1548-EG) was identified in January 1981. The CRP was the first
IDA-assisted project in the agricultural sector of Equatorial Guinea, it became effective in July
1985 and was closed in December 1990. The main objectives of this project were to: (a)
alleviate the constraints adversely affecting production of cocoa; (b) establish the necessary
infrastructure to maintain the momentum of development in the cocoa sub-sector; and (c)
increase cocoa production while improving quality control of cocoa beans.  The Project
Completion Report of the CRP, dated December 22, 1992, raised serious doubts as to the
sustainability of the CRP and gave the project an unsatisfactory rating. The major factors that
negatively affected CRP project implementation included declining cocoa prices, low domestic
farmgate prices, unrealistic yield expectations and a project design that did not compensate for
weak supporting services or extremely difficult country conditions.
3.    The Crop Diversification and Agricultural Services Project (DICSA) was identified
during the November 1988 CRP mid-term review. It was conceived as a follow-on project to
consolidate the perceived achievements of the first project in credit, input supply and market
services; to address the production, financial and institutional constraints within the cocoa
industry; and to encourage diversification into varied crop production. The DICSA project was
prepared by the Bank/FAO-CP in collaboration with the Government and appraised by a joint
World BanklFAO-CP mission from November 7-28, 1989. A first PPF of US$450,000 and a
second PPF of US$220,000 were approved in December 1989 and September 1990 respectively,
to assist Government in carrying out essential project start-up activities. The appraised project



2                                          Part 1: Project Implementation Assessment
cost of US$18 million was to be financed by IDA (US$6.3 million), IFAD (US$5.0 million),
OPEC (US$1.5 million), BADEA (US$3.9 million) and the Government (US$1.3 million). The
Government's contribution consisted primarily of assets transferred to DICSA from the
Agricultural Credit Department and Input Supply Unit of the CRP. The project was presented to
the Board on October 30, 1990, was signed on November 21, 1990 and became effective on July
10, 1991. There was a slight delay in establishing credit effectiveness due to difficulties in
specifying the assets of CRP and registering their transfer to DICSA.
4.    Early Bank supervision missions recognized that project implementation was seriously
affected by the lack of strong management, financial control of project funds and discipline in
applying established guidelines and procedures. As a result, the Bank informally suspended
disbursements in August 1992. Although the informal suspension was lifted on October 26,
1992, the project continued to be plagued by the same fundamental problems and as a result an
agreement on project restructuring was reached at the mid-term review in November 1993.
However, the agreed measures were not successfully implemented and disbursements were
formally suspended on July 11, 1994. The Bank notified the authorities that the Credit would be
canceled if progress towards restructuring the project had not been made by September 30, 1994.
The Government appointed a new Director with qualifications satisfactory to the Bank, but did
not fulfill any other conditions required for lifting suspension, and the project was canceled on
November 18, 1994.
B.   Statement of Objectives
5.    The objectives of the project were to alleviate rural poverty, improve family nutrition and
food security, increase food production, promote local food marketing and raise foreign
exchange earnings. These objectives would be achieved by substituting imports and increasing
the production and export of traditional and non-traditional crops, including food crops (SAR
para. 3.01). The project would support both investments and policy reforms. The policy reforms
primarily consisted in: (a) establishing an economically sound system of taxing and pricing
cocoa; (b) conducting annual consultations on the Public Investment Program; and (c) carrying
out a study on the land tenure system on the island of Bioko and implementing the
recommendations of the study, most importantly in the abandoned plantations located on the
Institute for the Development and Promotion of Agriculture (IDEPA) land. In effect, the project
was a sector wide investment operation, because the implementation of more than one project
could not be justified given the country's limited absorption capacity. The project investments
comprised three components:
(a)   Marketing: supporting the increased profitability of traditional export crops, expanding
food crop exports and promoting traditional and non-traditional crops for export to new
markets. In order to achieve increased production and export of food crops, specific
investments were to include the rehabilitation of the Mbini-Cogo and Evinayong-
Acurenam trunk roads, the maintenance of rural feeder roads by rural communities (with



Part I: Project Implementation Assessment                                       3
assistance from the Food for Work Program of the WFP), as well as financing of a ferry
to operate between Akalayong and Cocoabeach in Gabon. The project would provide
marketing information and help farmers establish agricultural organizations.
(b)   Agricultural extension and applied research:  furnishing T&V  based extension
services to farmers supported by demand-driven applied research. The extension and
research component would help: (i) improve production techniques; (ii) promote the
diffusion of these techniques; (iii) assist farmers in adopting the alley cropping system
(para. 13) on a pilot basis; and (iv) support the establishment of small individually-owned
agricultural production enterprises.
(c)   Institutional development: sustaining project accomplishments by: (i) strengthening
the national extension service and applied research capabilities in the Ministry of
Agriculture; (ii) assisting the Agricultural Development Organization (OFA) to provide
unsubsidized credit and savings services, to import and sell inputs needed for cocoa and
diversified crop production, as well as to identify new markets and export farmers' crops
on a commission basis (para. 19) while setting the basis for its privatization; (iii)
providing training and assistance for the organization of small farmers and traders; and
(iv) creating a legal and policy environment conducive to the establishment of formal
cooperatives and credit unions.
C.    Achievement of Objectives
6.    Direct incremental project benefits (SAR, para. 6.04) were expected to result from
increasing the productivity and production of cocoa in Bioko (70 percent) and from
intensification of agricultural production and more remunerative foodcrops in the Continental
region (30 percent).
7.    Cocoa production objectives. The main project objectives on Bioko would be to increase
cocoa production in areas appropriate for this crop, and to induce diversification out of cocoa in
marginal areas (SAR. para 3.03). To achieve these objectives the project would: (a) establish
agriculture credit to purchase inputs to control disease; (b) provide agricultural extension and
applied research to help farmers apply appropriate crop cultivation techniques, control pests and
diseases, and encourage intercropping to reduce weeding and increase production; and (c)
promote land tenure reforms to encourage farmers to cultivate in the most productive areas.
8.    Increased cocoa production was expected to come from three target groups (SAR para.
3.20). The first target group consisted of about 420 former clients of the CRP (400 small farmers
with about 4 ha each and 20 medium/large farmers with about 20 ha each), who were currently
harvesting approximately 2,000 ha and would increase their production by 400 tons through
improving yields from about 600 kg/ha to about 800 kg/ha. The second target group included
320 cocoa farmers, who were cultivating about 2,000 ha and supplying their cocoa to the private



4                                          Part I: Project Implementation Assessment
sector exporting farms. Of these new beneficiaries to DICSA, 275 were smallholders (4 ha each)
and 45 larger farmers (20 ha each). Productivity would increase from 450 kg/ha to 700 kg/ha, or
about 500 tons. The third target group would encompass between 340 to 600 smallholders who
would cultivate abandoned cocoa plantations (IDEPA land) with excellent potential (800 kg/ha at
full maturity) in about 2,000 ha. They would produce about 1,600 tons of cocoa. In total, by
incorporating 2,000 ha into new production and by increasing productivity in about 4,000 ha
already under cocoa cultivation, cocoa production was to increase by approximately 2,500 tons.
9.    At the November 1993 mid-term review the actual yields were found to be far below
these projections - an average of 350 kg/ha - substantially lower than in the first year of the
project. Although cocoa cultivation in Bioko requires high levels of imported chemical inputs,
the island possesses excellent soils and climatic conditions well suited to cocoa production, and
yields had reached 3,000 kg/ha prior to independence in 1968 (and averaged 1,500-2,000 kg/ha).
However, due to continued low international cocoa prices, farmers did not apply needed
chemical products nor did they carry out appropriate cultural practices, and yields plummeted.
10.  In addition, only about 400 ha (of the 2,000 ha estimated) of abandoned plantations
located on IDEPA land were cultivated and harvested. It had been planned at appraisal that
approximately 340-600 smallholders would receive legal transfer of property titles to this land;
indeed, the entire economic justification of the project depended heavily on the rehabilitation of
this fertile cocoa growing area. However, implementation became a politically sensitive issue,
because the resettlement of small farmers would exacerbate the shortage of labor in the cocoa
sector and the viability of the "sharecropping" system that profited medium and large farmers
(often high Government officials).
11.   The mid-tern review warned that, even more serious than the low yields in cocoa
production, was the risk to the entire future of cocoa production in Bioko caused by insufficient
replanting. In the almost 30 years since independence there has been little replanting, and both
CRP and DICSA focused on rehabilitating old trees rather than replanting. Therefore, the cocoa
tree stock is old, the density of trees per ha has declined drastically and production will not be
increased rapidly or sizably, even with improved international cocoa prices. Acknowledging this
threat, a small replanting program was initiated in mid-1993 with the support of DICSA,
European Union and the Spanish Cooperation Agency, but at least five years would be required
to reap any benefits from the replanting.
12.   Foodcrop production objectives. The entire population of the continental region (about
200,000) was expected to benefit from agricultural extension, applied research, improved rural
infrastructure and marketing services. The project would focus on developing production in the
Mbini and Cogo districts, where direct project beneficiaries would include some 4,000
smallholders. Better yielding, higher remunerative crops and the alley cropping cultivation
system (para. 13) were to be introduced. It was projected that by 1995, the volume of exportable
food crops would increase by 3,000 tons and by about 6,000 tons by year 2000. Of this, about



Part I: Project Implementation Assessment                                5
half would be produced by the farmers in the Mbini and Cogo districts, and the rest from the
other areas of the continental region. Exports would be channeled through Cogo rather than
through Bata where there was already periodic oversupply of foodcrops (SAR para. 6.02).
13.   Agricultural extension and supporting applied research would be the major vehicles to
achieve these goals, assisting farmers to diversify their crop production to other export crops and
to import substitutes. The principal subject matters for research included introducing promising
new high-yield crop varieties, developing fast propagation techniques and improving current
farmer practices (SAR Annex 3 para. 22). To increase farrners' productivity the project would
expand the use of the alley cropping system, introduced on a pilot scale under the IDA-financed
Technical Assistance Project (SAR para. 6.18). This approach aimed at changing the traditional
migratory agricultural practiced in the continent with a permanent farming system.
14.   The November 1993 mid-term review team noted that the project had achieved little
substantial increase in the production of foodcrops because too much attention had been given to
cocoa production. In addition, practically no new crops were introduced in the Mbini and Cogo
districts, due to delays in establishing the suitability and profitability of potential foodcrops.
Although a few small-scale farm trials of the permanent alley cropping farming system were
conducted, there remained some questions as to whether this technology was suitable to
conditions in the country. The results of the Technical Assistance Project pilot had proven to be
unreliable and inconclusive, because the working data was never adequately compiled and the
agricultural advisor never completed a final report.
15.   Agricultural extension and applied research.  Throughout the project there were
coordination problems between the expatriate extension and research specialists and the Ministry
of Agriculture in defining responsibilities and in agreeing to project objectives. As a result of
these conflicts, there were serious delays in establishing field trials, testing new crops,
strengthening the T&V system in Bioko and in improving cocoa quality control and yields.
Furthermore, the extension service was hampered by a lack of vehicles. This project element
was to be financed by OPEC (40 percent) and BADEA (60 percent), but Government arrears in
interest payments to both organizations caused significant delays in credit effectiveness and
suspensions of disbursements. In addition, the few vehicles possessed by the extension service
were frequently appropriated by authorities in the Ministry of Agriculture for activities unrelated
to the project. The extension service was also hindered by the lack of a monitoring and database
system to provide baseline data and to evaluate farm production and productivity (para. 28).
16.   Despite these obstacles, there were some encouraging results in the continental region. A
solid T&V system was organized, extension staff were systematically trained, demonstration
plots were established on farmers' land, village farmers ("animadores rurales") were designated
by fellow farmers to work with extension agents, a study to identify more efficient cultivation
techniques was undertaken, and technical guides were written and disseminated.



6                                           Part 1: Project Implementation Assessment
17.   Policy Reforms. In accordance with Government policies and agreements reached with
the IMF and the Bank, the project was to support agricultural policy reforms that would enhance
the objectives of the project. These reforms consisted of establishing cocoa pricing and taxing
systems that would encourage production. The removal of the cocoa subsidy (unsustainable in
any case because of fiscal considerations) would hasten the departure of marginal cocoa farmers,
who would be encouraged to diversify into other crops. The Government also agreed to
complete an annual review of the Public Investment Program. The Bank worked closely with the
Government on these policy issues and all of the legal covenants pertaining to policy reform
were satisfactorily completed. The Bank agreed with Government proposals for 1992 and 1993
cocoa producer prices. In the 1993-1995 Policy Framework Paper it was agreed: (a) to reduce
the cocoa export subsidy by 50 percent for the 1993/1994 cocoa campaign; (b) to substitute the
government guaranteed producer price with a target price that reflected world market conditions;
and (c) to eliminate the export subsidy in the 1994/1995 cocoa campaign.
18.  Infrastructure. No progress was achieved in the building of infrastructure (roads, ferry),
as proposed under the project. Due to arrears in interest payments from the Government to
BADEA, the BADEA credit that was to finance this component did not become effective until
May 13, 1993 and no funds were actually disbursed. The European Union also expressed
interest in financing the roads but, at the time the project was closed, little progress had been
made.
19.   Credit, input supply and market services. The Agricultural Development Organization
(OFA) was to be an independent, self-financing entity to support small and medium-size farmers;
managed and operated mainly by national staff who would be trained and assisted by expatriate
credit and financial advisers. It was to have two main functions: (a) the provision of credit and
savings services (SAC) to individual farmers and farmer groups on the island of Bioko; and (b)
importing and selling inputs and equipment needed for cocoa and diversified crop production and
providing marketing services (SIC). SAC was expected to be self-financing by 1995, on the
basis that OFA would operate without subsidy, with commercially-determined interest rates, and
without targeting of credit. Initial equity and operating capital were to be provided by the
Government from balances existing at the closure of the CRP. At appraisal, the assets to be
transferred to SAC were valued at CFAF 300 million and included both liquid assets and the
credit portfolio; an estimated CFAF 1,500 million in stock and goods were to be transferred to
SIC. First-time borrowers were to be encouraged to purchase equity, while established clients
were to be required to purchase equity in OFA, thus gradually increasing private-sector
ownership of OFA.
20.   The audited financial results for 1991 and 1992 show that the credit and savings service
(SAC) and the input and marketing service (SIC) within OFA have incurred combined losses of
CFAF 272 million and CFAF 284 million; this was much higher than the losses of CFAF 33
million and CFAF 16 million projected in the SAR for those years. These losses were caused by
a substantial reduction in financial revenues due to lower than projected activity under the



Part 1: Project Implementation Assessment                                  7
project, extremely high operating expenditures, and allocations to cover bad debts. Credit
operations were not properly recorded and no reliable financial statements were prepared. Large
loans were granted to unqualified borrowers, including government officials and DICSA staff.
Cases were identified where borrowers profited from selling inputs that had been provided as
credit in kind. There were also instances reported where borrowers sold part of the cocoa crop to
exporters other than DICSA, despite the fact that credit had been granted against the delivery of
cocoa to DICSA.
21.  In addition, the assets transferred to OFA from CRP proved to have been overvalued at
appraisal. The credit portfolio transferred to SAC from the CRP was found to contain a
significant portion of uncollectable loans. The worth of the stock and goods transferred to SIC
from CRP's Input Supply Unit was also overestimated. The CRP Project Completion Report
(para. 1.42) stated that the mismanagement of the input supply purchases during the last two
years of the project had been one of the specific causes for this project's poor performance.
Mismanagement included the procurement of inappropriate inputs, tools and equipment that
local farmers found to be unacceptable. At CRP closing, approximately US$2 million (book
value) of stock remained in warehouses and was transferred to SIC.
D.   Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project
22.   Project implementation started in February 1991, under PPF financing. By August 1991,
all five expatriate technical assistant specialists, the three UN volunteers and the five key
national staff assumed their duties. During the first 8-10 months of implementation, the project
encountered several serious problems, such as: (a) inappropriate use of project's credit funds for
the purchase of non-project related inputs on behalf of the Ministry of Agriculture; (b) improper
payment of non-project related salaries authorized by the same Ministry; (c) unauthorized
restructuring of OFA's Savings and Credit Service (SAC) into a banking institution; and (d)
delay in signing BADEA's loan to the project due to Government arrears to BADEA.
23.   The CRP Project Completion Report identified several transitional problems between the
CRP and DICSA (para 1.47-1.50). First, with no reasonable transition period, the role of the
national counterpart team had been changed from subordinate under the CRP, to one of full
responsibility for project policy and decision-making in DICSA. The project management
organization in DICSA consisted of a national Project Director and Extension Service Directors.
Long-term expatriate consultants reported directly to the national directors and included the
Project Coordinator, Financial Advisor, Extension Specialist, Marketing Specialist and Credit
Specialist. The March 1992 supervision mission recognized that this change in leadership had
been premature and had resulted in management ineffectiveness in the implementation of the
project. Secondly, the performance of OFA (credit, input supply and marketing services) had
been adversely affected by the lack of transition between the departure of the CRP expatriate
team of experts and the DICSA team (para. 39). Thirdly, the OFA had labored under serious
financial difficulties, due to losses resulting from credit arrears from loans granted under the



8                                             Part 1: Project Implementation Assessment
CRP that were transferred to DICSA as assets. The record of the credit component of the CRP in
terrns of arrears, has proven to be much less positive than shown in the Project Completion
Report. Lastly, there were serious problems in reconciling the transfer of financial assets
between the two projects that resulted in delays in replenishing the Special Account.
24.   Although by the second year of project implementation progress had been made in
organizing extension services, establishing two applied research centers and defining a strategy
for internal marketing and exports, the serious implementation problems identified in the first
year had not been resolved. Additional critical problems had developed, mostly related to project
management: (a) the national Project Director proved not to be qualified for that position and
was dismissed by the Minister of Agriculture; (b) the expatriate Project Coordinator, Credit
Specialist and Agricultural Extension Specialist proved to be ineffective; (c) the national Director
of SAC disregarded creditworthiness criteria and authorized the use of credit funds
inappropriately; (d) the Secretary General of Agriculture appropriated the use of project vehicles
for non-project related activities; (e) unneeded staff were nominated to the project by Presidential
Decree or Ministerial Order; and (f) the Financial Adviser authorized the use of IDA's Special
Account funds for the Government promoted coffee marketing program. To convey IDA's
serious concern that the project was not being implemented as envisaged at appraisal, the credit
was informally suspended in August 1992.
25.   Following compliance with measures agreed to by the Government and IDA, the informal
suspension was lifted on October 26, 1992, however serious financial and managerial problems
continued to afflict the project. The May 1993 supervision mission confirmed that three
pervasive problems jeopardized project implementation: (a) severe political interference in the
selection of project staff; (b) the improper concession of credit and the bad record of credit
recovery; and (c) delays in procurement of vehicles for the extension services due to suspension
of disbursements by OPEC and BADEA. In an effort to address these serious implementation
problems, it was agreed to advance the date of the mid-term evaluation mission.
26.   The November 1993 mid-term review was highly critical of project implementation and
predicted that the project would not achieve its major objectives. The mission assessed project
status and implementation problems to include: (a) unmet quantitative production targets for
cocoa and foodcrops; (b) important losses in OFA; (c) little progress by the agricultural extension
and applied research service in arresting the decline in cocoa yield and rehabilitating cocoa
production in areas previously abandoned in Bioko; and (d) the dearth of baseline data due to the
lack of a suitable monitoring and management information system.
27.   Major project restructuring was proposed that included measures to reduce and eventually
abolish the direct public sector involvement through DICSA in the cocoa sector, to emphasize its
role in support of the private sector and to drastically diminish and gradually eliminate OFA.
The project would concentrate its efforts on extension and applied research, land tenure and
titling in the IDEPA pilot area, as well as increasing crop diversification. However, no real



Part I: Project Implementation Assessment                                    9
progress was made to reorient the project and disbursements were suspended on July 11, 1994.
IDA informed the Government of its intention to cancel the credit if the following conditions
were not met: (a) recovery of the loans that had been granted without complying to the agreed
criteria for agricultural credit lending; (b) appointment of the project manager; (c) payments of
all arrears to OPEC; (d) submission of satisfactory project account and audits; and (e)
reimbursement of all ineligible expenses. The Government appointed a new Director with
qualifications satisfactory to IDA, but did not meet the other conditions, and the project was
canceled on November 18, 1994.
28.   Throughout implementation the project suffered from scant reliable accounting and
financial information and no system to quantify the achievements of project execution. A project
monitoring and management system (SAR Annex 7 para. 15) was to be designed to furnish full
budgeting, procurement and financial controls, provide the means to monitor and evaluate key
project indicators, and prepare the annual work plans. The information systems used in CRP
were not transferred to DICSA. The computer programs designed for CRP was prepared for
equipment that became obsolete and the programs were judged to be too complex. The frequent
changes in the DICSA expatriate technical assistance team, caused serious delays in designing
and implementing a new project informnation system.
29.   Due to the lack of a reliable accounting system, the project staff were not able to produce
the financial statements necessary to complete the required annual financial audits. The 1991,
1992 and 1993 audits were qualified and the financial documents for 1994 are not reliable. Price
Waterhouse underlined the weak points of the project accounting system by stating that: "Our
responsibility is not to help the accounting units prepare statements; it is to audit them".
30.   Due to the complexity of the project design, and the public sector's institutional
weaknesses and limited managerial capacity, DICSA continued the same model of dependence
on long-term expatriate technical assistance that had been utilized in the CRP - despite the fact
that the CRP Project Completion Report had concluded that the final results of the expatriate
consultants had been mixed. In fact, 33 percent of the DICSA IDA credit estimate and 50
percent of the actual disbursed credit was for technical assistance. There was a high degree of
turnover among the long-term consultants and individual performance was uneven. Following
agreements reached with the Government after the informal suspension of August 1992, the
Project Coordinator and Credit Specialist were replaced and the Financial Advisor and Extension
Specialist were substituted by United Nations Volunteers.  The new Project Coordinator
voluntarily left the project shortly after his probationary period and the third Coordinator joined
the project in May 1993.  These frequent changes caused serious disruption in project
implementation and continuity, as well as loss of institutional memory and knowledge of policies
and procedures. The expatriate consultants did not always give enough importance to institution
building and to ensuring the transference of know-how to their national counterparts. It is
extremely unlikely that any sustainable transfer of expertise or local capacity building was
achieved.



10                                          Part I: Project Implementation Assessment
E.    Project Sustainability
31.   One of the key objectives of the project was to establish the OFA, which was designed to
give sustainability to a series of activities carried out under the previous CRP. The design of
OFA as a public sector institution to provide input, credit and marketing services and to
eventually become a private sector body was flawed and unsustainable from the beginning.
Experience in the Bank has abundantly demonstrated that no public sector institution has the
incentive to eliminate itself through privatization. The result was a huge financial loss caused by
allocations to cover bad debts, lower than projected financial revenues and extremely high
operating costs that make OFA unsustainable.
32.   The ambitious cocoa production and export targets set by the project, 26,000 tons to be
exported by the year 2,000, will not be met. Indeed, any improvements in cocoa production will
not be sustainable, due to the fact that at the closing of this project most of the cocoa trees on
Bioko are old (between 30 and 50 years old) and are suffering from neglect and disease.
F.    Bank's Performance
33.   Project concept and design: The main objectives of the project were formulated in order
to implement the recommendations of the October 2, 1989 agricultural sector review. The
strategy for agricultural growth included: (a) increased exports of traditional products (cocoa,
coffee, timber); (b) increased production and diversification of food crop production and
marketing; (c) infrastructure investments, particularly to improve transport; and (d)
strengthening public sector resource management and private sector initiatives. The project
encompassed all of these strategy recommendations; this design proved to be overly complex and
unrealistic given the public sector's limited ability to implement projects.
34.   The project was designed to sustain the perceived achievements of the CRP in project
credit, input supply and market services; however, these achievements later proved to be
negligible. There was dissension in the February 1988 DICSA identification mission as to
whether additional investment in cocoa rehabilitation and replanting was justified, given the low
world prices and the high local costs that had diminished the effectiveness of this investment in
the CRP. Some members of the mission also questioned whether sufficient research had been
completed to determine the potential market for export food crops. The Bank decided to
proceed, but did not incorporate all of the lessons learned during implementation of the CRP to
the design of the DICSA project, including the consequences of declining cocoa prices,
cofinancing obstacles and political interference in project management
35.   At the time of DICSA project design, it was apparent that CRP was suffering serious
cash-flow difficulties due to outstanding Government arrears with OPEC and BADEA. In fact,
in the financing of CRP only 12 percent of the BADEA credit was actually disbursed and OPEC
disbursements were suspended the entire year of 1989. Despite the experience of CRP, vital



Part I. Project Implementation Assessment                                    11
components of the DICSA project depended on BADEA and OPEC cofinancing, 22 percent and
8 percent of the total credit amount respectively. Vehicles, equipment, civil works and training
were to be partially or fully funded by these institutions. Thus, the execution of extension and
institutional development was severely encumbered when no funds from the BADEA credit, and
only a fraction of the OPEC loan, were actually disbursed. Bank staff should have encouraged
Government to find other sources of financing for these crucial elements.
36.   Supervision: From February 1991 to March 1994, there were 8 supervision missions,
including a mid-term review evaluation mission in November 1993, that recommended a major
restructuring of the project. Considerable time and effort were expended by the World Bank
supervision staff in guiding project execution and decisive action was taken when serious
implementation problems were detected. However, the complexity of the project made it
difficult to adequately supervise all components of the project and a great deal of the supervision
time was spent putting out fires.
G.   Borrower's Performance
37.   The project faced major implementation problems due to the actions of the Government
that included the arbitrary appointment of unnecessary and unqualified project staff, the
ineligible use of agricultural inputs and machinery, misuse of credit and special account funds
and loans granted to non-eligible borrowers. It was for these reasons that the Bank ultimately
canceled the DICSA project.
38.   Bank supervision missions detected several cases of misuse of special accounts. For
example, an irregular withdrawal was made on September 7, 1993 of 150 million CFAF from the
IDA and IFAD special accounts and was transferred to OPEC to cover Government arrears. The
Government replenished the special accounts on October 22, 1993. In another case, 60 million
CFAF were withdrawn from the IDA and IFAD special accounts with no justification of use.
This sum was reimbursed to the special account more than 3 months later, in February 1994 -
after the elections of November 1993 and after the devaluation of the CFAF. In yet a third case,
special account funds were withdrawn to fund the Government promoted coffee marketing
program.
39.   The project designers planned an adequate transition period between the out-going CRP
technical assistance team and the newly-appointed DICSA group. However, as a result of delays
in Government negotiations with the consulting firm and in meeting the conditions for credit
effectiveness, the smooth transition and overlap of expertise was less than had been projected.
40.   Due to the accumulation of Government arrears to OPEC and BADEA, crucial project
investments were never made. BADEA and OPEC resources were to provide the vehicles
needed to promote extension activities, BADEA was to finance the civil works needed to



12                                          Part : Project Implementation Assessment
improve the transport sector and OPEC was to furnish 40 percent of the funding in training and
studies.
H.   Assessment of Outcome
41.   The Economic Rate of Return (ERR) for the project was estimated to be 21 percent
(SAR, para 6.08).  Given the present low yields in cocoa production and the fact that
administrative costs have not declined to match the reduced level of activity, the 28 percent ERR
projected for the project in Bioko will not be achieved. Likewise, the 13 percent ERR predicted
for the continental region will almost certainly not be realized, due to delays in introducing
appropriate technology and crops to diversify production. Hence, the 21 percent overall ERR
will not be attained and the project's new ERR is estimated to be close to zero or negative.
I.    Future Operations
42.   Equatorial Guinea is well endowed with arable land. Most tropical fruits flourish in the
fertile volcanic soils and equatorial climate of the island of Bioko. Timber extraction is the
principal economic activity in the continental region of Rio Muni, followed by coffee and some
cocoa production. The diversification and strengthening of agricultural production still offer
potential for economic growth. Support for a natural resource management project to strengthen
management of the country's forest resources and protect their biodiversity could also be
considered. However, before any follow-up projects could be financed the Government would
need to address the serious issues that negatively affected DICSA's project implementation and
internalize the key lessons learned from this project.
J.    Key Lessons Learned
43.   The principal lessons learned from the DICSA project can be summarized as follows:
(a)   Learning from lessons learned:  Follow-on projects must be meticulously
designed to encompass all of the lessons learned from previous projects. The
project should have drawn more from the obvious lessons of CRP, including the
consequences of declining cocoa prices, cofmancing obstacles and political
interference in project management.
(b)   Information management systems:  Satisfactory information and monitoring
systems to track progress in production and implementation targets, as well as
adequate systems for financial reporting must be developed and in place at an
early stage of the project. The fact that DICSA had no information management
systems meant that the project had no statistical data to quantify the achievements



Part 1: Project Implementation Assessment                                   13
of project execution nor to provide required financial information and accounting
reports.
(c)   Keep it simple: Projects need to be kept simple and in line with the public
sector's capacity. DICSA attempted to implement three separate investment
projects: (a) agricultural extension and adaptive research; (b) rural infrastructure;
and (c) credit, marketing and input supply. The complexity of the project design
required extensive supervision and guidance from the Bank, and overwhelmed the
limited managerial capacity of the public sector.
(d)   Government ownership: The lack of government ownership and commitment will
have a detrimental impact on all aspects of a project. The lack of Government
commitment to the successful implementation of this project was evident in that
political interference was frequent in the selection of unnecessary and unqualified
project staff, SAC loans granted to unqualified borrowers, ineligible purchase of
agricultural inputs and machinery from SIC's input supply stores and misuse of
special account funds.
(e)   Secure cofinancing: If the successful completion of project objectives depends on
cofinancing, project appraisal must assure that this cofinancing is secure.
Implementation of two key components in the DICSA project, extension services
and institutional development, depended on financing by OPEC and BADEA.
Little progress was made in the execution of these components largely because
OPEC and BADEA made no disbursements for vehicles, equipment, civil works
and training, due to the accumulation of Government arrears to these institutions.
(f)   Technical assistance management: Long-term technical assistance should be
avoided, due to its unsustainable impact on local capacity and institutions. The
frequent changes in expatriate consultants employed by the DICSA project caused
serious disruption in project implementation, loss of institutional memory and an
uneven knowledge of policies and procedures. The consultants did not always
give enough importance to national institution building nor to ensuring the
transfer of know-how to their local counterparts.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
EQUATORIAL GUINEA
CROP DIVERSIFICATION
AND AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
(Credit 2181-EG)
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
1.    Regarding the project's achievements, considerable benefit has been derived from the
replanting and land division program in the INASA-MAULE Pilot Module in the Island Region,
and from the assistance furnished to small farmers in the cocoa sector on the island of Bioko.
Similar progress has been made in the different types of farms in the Mainland Region and in the
crop diversification work piloted by the Project Coordination Unit in the Mainland Region.
2.    With reference to the cost-benefit data covering the 1991/92, 92/93, 93/94 and 94/95 crop
years, only the last two years can be reviewed as the first four years were under the CRP (Cocoa
Rehabilitation Project). Other managers were appointed for the subsequent years whose
performance, once selected and in post, left much to be desired. There were also many staff
changes that caused a loss of both institutional memory and of needed records to prepare team for
preparing the cost-benefit statements up to the last crop year. However, the costs of the 1993/94
crop year are reflected in the attached balance sheet showing the position as of December 31, 1994.
The figures for 1994/95 have yet to be compiled, since the year has not yet ended.
3.    The Government notes with concern that Article II, Section 2.03 of Credit Agreement No.
2181 EQG specifies the closing date as December 31, 1996, a requirement which has unfortunately
not been observed. It is also disturbed to note that Section 2.04 of the same article requires the
borrower to pay the Association a commitment fee on the undisbursed balance of the credit at a rate
to be fixed by the Association on June 30 of each year but not exceeding one half of 1 percent p.a.
4.    These requirements are a matter of serious concern for our Government and represent a
major burden for our weak economy; however, the Government hopes to benefit from the Bank's
usual understanding that the unilateral cancellation of this credit will be reconsidered with a view to
redynamizing our cooperation in accordance with the aspirations of our Government and people.
5.    As regards the objectives set in the project credit agreement, it can be stated that, in the
cocoa sector, notwithstanding the price fluctuations in the international market and the innumerable
problems during the execution of the project, the fact that it is how self-financing is a positive
achievement.
6.    Finally, the Government hopes that, if the project is refinanced, it will be possible to
eliminate all the deficiencies revealed by the lessons leamed from the experience with the CRP and
the DICSA. In this connection the Government affirms its determination to take steps to improve



Part II: Project Review, From Borrower's Perspective                                   15
administrative systems, declares its readiness to formulate simple projects and its conviction that it
must demonstrate ownership and commitment, while also undertaking to ensure secure cofinancing
and appropriate management of technical assistance so that its efforts will be focused in the short
term on ensuring sustainability and building the capacity of local institutions.
7.    To this end, the Government would like to addresses the Board of IDA to enlist its support
in continuing to develop the activities begun in the agriculture sector through the above projects.
We would like to request that if we, as we intend to do, work to restore the projects funded by IDA
and especially the DICSA project, currently the sole project in the agriculture sector, you will
subsequently take the appropriate actions.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
EQUATORIAL GUINEA
CROP DIVERSIFICATION
AND AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
(Credit 2181-EG)
PART III:   STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A.      Achievement of Objectives
Objectives                                       Substantial          Partial           Negligible        Not Applicable
Macro Policies                                                                                                            l
Sector Policies                                                          i
Financial Objectives                                          _
Institutional Development
Physical Objectives
Poverty Reduction                                                                            1
Gender Issues
Other Social Objectives                                                                      4
Environmental Objectives                                                                     4
Public Sector Management
Private Sector Development                                     .
Other (specify)
B.      Project Sustainability
Project Sustainability                             Likely             Unlikely          Uncertain                         j



Part III: Statistical Annexes                                                                                       17
C    Bank Performance
Performance                                       Highly          Satisfactory         Deflent
Satisfactory
Identification                                                                            4
Preparation Assistance                                                                    4
Appraisal                                                                                 4
Supervision                                                            4         [                  I                  !
D.      Borrower Performance
Performance                                       Highly          Satisfactory         Deficient
Satisfactory
Preparation
Implementation                                                                            4
Covenant Compliance
Operation (if applicable)
E.      Assessment of Outcome
Assessment                                        Highly          Satisfactory      Unsatisfactory         Highly
S thhItory                                             Unsatisfactory



18                                                                  Part III: Statistical Annexes
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/Credit Title                Amount           Objectives                   Approved            Status
Technical Assistance Project     US$6.0million    To assist the Government in  05/31/84        Completed
(Cr- 1304)                                       its effort to address the
major constraints to
promoting a development
strategy.
Cocoa Rehabilitation Project     US$9.3million    To support the rehabilitation   02/19/85     Completed
(Cr- 1548)                                        of large scale cocoa
plantations.
Rehabilitation of Imports        US$6.Omillion    To support the              05/08/86         Completed
(Cr- 1690)                                        Government's reform
program.
Primary Education Project       US$5.lmillion    To improve primary           05/21/87         Active
(Cr- 1797)                                        education.
Health Improvement Project       US$5.5million    To improve basic health     03/26/92         Active
(Cr-2348)                                         services.
Technical Assistance             US$2.4million    To improve government       07/02/92         Active
Petroleum ll                                      capacity to monitor the
(Cr-2408)                                         storage, transport and
distribution of petroleum
_______________________________  ________________   products.



Part III: Statistical Annexes                                                       19
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle     Date Planned               Actual Date
Identification             April 1988                 April 1988
Preparation                1989                       1989
Appraisal                  November 7-28, 1989        November 7-28, 1989
Negotiations               June 1990                  August 27-31, 1990
Presentation to board      October 30, 1990           October 30, 1990
Credit signature           November 21, 1990          November 21, 1990
Credit effectiveness       December 1, 1990           July 10, 1991
Midterm review             December 1993              November 1993
Project completion         June 30, 1996              November 18, 1994
Credit closing             December 31, 1996          November 18, 1994
Final disbursement         June 30, 1997              August 1, 1994



20                                                          Part III: Statistical Annexes
Table 4: Credi Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Year  Appraisal Estimate (USS '000)    Actual Disbursements (USS '000)  Cumulative actual as % of
Annual       Cumulative       Annual        Cumulative   cumulative estimate
Disbursement  Disbursements   Disbursement  Disbursements
1991       737             737             0               0                   0
1992       1,106          1,843          2,084           2,084               113%
1993       1,290          3,133           1,284          3,368               108%
1994       1,228          4,361           743            4,111                94%
1995       1,106          5,467           156            4,267                78%
1996       698            6,165           NA              NA                  NA
1997        135           6,300           NA              NA                  NA
Date of final disbursement: August 1, 1994
Balance of $2,149,356 canceled on December 31, 1994
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Key Indicators for Project Implementation were not available.
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Key Indicators for Project Operation were not available.



Part III. Statistical Annexes                                                                 21
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Study             Purpose                       Status            Impact of Study
Land Tenure       To study the implication of    Completed        The July 1992 supervision
Study for Bioko   the land tenure system that    March 1990       mission concluded that
was characterized by                            implementing this study was
absentee plantation owners                      politically sensitive and
and sharecroppers; to                           extremely difficult to execute.
investigate how abandoned                      All other supervision missions
plantations could be                            agreed with this finding.
redistributed to these
sharecroppers.
Table 8A: Project Costs
Item                         Appraisal Estimates                Actual/Latest Estimates
(US$ million)                       (US$ million)
Local Costs   Foreign      Total    Local Costs   Foreign       Total
Costs                               Costs
Technical Assistance  0.0        3.7         3.7         0.0          3.3         3.3
Vehicles            0.1          0.7         0.8         0.0          0.0         0.0
Equipment           0.1          1.7         1.8         0.1         0.0          0.1
Civil Works         0.1          1.2         1.3         0.0          0.0         0.0
Credit & Diver. Fund  0.4        1.0         1.4         1.1          0.0         1.1
Training & Studies    0.1        1.4         1.5         0.0          0.3         0.3
Operation & Maint.   0.9         2.3         3.2         3.1          0.0         3.1
Incremental Salaries   1.6       0.0         1.6         1.0          0.0         1.0
Total Base Costs     3.3         12.0        15.3        5.3          3.6         8.9
Physical            0.2          0.8         1.0         0.0         0.0          0.0
Contingencies _
Price Contingencies   0.5        1.2         1.7         0.0         0.0          0.0
Total Project Costs  4.0         14.0        18.0        5.3         3.6          8.9



22                                                            Part III. Statistical Annexes
Table 8B: Project Financing
Source                     Appraisal Estimates               Actual/Latest Estimates
(USS million)                     (USS million)
Local Costs  Foreign      Total   Local Costs  Foreign       Total
Costs                              Costs
IBRDlIDA                    1.1        5.2         6.3        1.3         3.0         4.3
IFAD                        1.2        3.8         5.0        1.8         0.6         2.4
BADEA                      0.0         3.9         3.9        0.0         0.0         0.0
OPEC                        .4         1.1         1.5        0.9         0.0         0.9
Government                  1.3        0.0         1.3        1.3         0.0         1.3
TOTAL                      4.0        14.0        18.0        5.3         3.6         8.9
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
I                      0            Data not available                                  I



Part III: Statistical Annexes                                                                                      23
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Credit       Covenant    Present              Description of Covenant                          Comments
Agreement        Type       Status
Section
Borrower to open and maintain in a special  Account opened and funds deposited in
2.02 (b)            I       PCW        account in a commercial bank on terms and    August 1991. Problems reconciling IDA
conditions satisfactory to IDA.             disbursement and project accounts.
Borrower to open a line of credit in favor of  Subsidiary Loan Agreement was signed on
3.03 (a)            3       CW         OFA under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement        4/93.
between the Borrower and OFA under terms and
conditions approved by IDA, as detailed in this
article.
Borrower not to assign, amend, abrogate or
3.03 (b)            5       CW         waive provision of the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, except as the Borrower and IDA
shall otherwise agree.
The Borrower shall maintain CSMU within     No respect of eligibility criteria of Schedule
3.04 (a)            5       NCW        SAC, with the responsibility for assessing the  5, concerning agricultural credit. The
creditworthiness of beneficiaries through field  outstanding portfolio amounts to at least I
inspections of their holdings in accordance with   million US$.
the eligibility criteria and the terms and
conditions set forth under Schedule 5.
The Project shall employ for employment in   All three key personnel employed as of
3.04 (b)            5        CW        SAC (i) a General Manager; (ii) a marketing and   07/01/91  It was agreed to abolish the e
procurement expert; and (iii) a credit and  position of General Manager. SAC
savings experts, all with qualifications,   positions experienced frequent staff changes.
experience and terms and conditions of
employment satisfactory to the Association.
The Project shall employ a (a) Project Director;   All three key personnel employed as of
3.05                5       CW         (b) a Project Coordinator and (c) a Financial  07/01/91. However, the March 1992
Advisor with qualifications, experience and  mission recommended that the Project
terms and conditions of employment satisfactory   Director, Financial Chief and SAC General
to the Association.                          Manager be replaced. The Project Director
was appointed as Secretary of State in early
1994 and was not replaced until the end of
1994, upon threat of credit cancellation.
The Borrower shall cause MALFF to prepare    Work Program/Budget and Training
3.06                9       CW         and furnish to the Association, not later than  Program for 1993 were amended following
October 30 in each year, annual work programs   comments by IDA/IFAD and given to
and budget.                                 mission. Late submission of annual work
plans and budgets for 1994.
The Borrower to (a) carry out a detailed review    Borrower and IDA agreed to advance the
3.07                9       NCW        of the execution of the project, not later than  midterm review date from December 1993 to
December 31, 1993, and furnish the results of  September 1993. This mission
such review to IDA for its comments and     recommended measures to restructure the
recommendations, not later than three months  project, but these measures were not
after such review; and (b) take such measures,    implemented by the Government.
considered adequate by IDA, to ensure the
achievements of the project's purposes.



24                                                                             Part III: Statistical Annexes
Credit      Covenant   Present               Description of Covenant                          Comments
Agreement       Type        Status
Section
The Borrower to select and appoint local    MALFF appointed local staff, however
3.08               5        CW        counterpart staff with qualifications and    considerable Government interference took
experience satisfactory to IDA and in adequate    place in the selection of staff.
number, not later than three months after the
following experts have taken up their duties;  Marketing and Procurement Expert and
Marketing and Procurement Expert, Credit and    Credit and Savings Expert in place.
Savings Expert, Project Coordinator, Financial    Financial Expert was replaced by a United
Expert and Extension and Production Expert.  Nations Volunteer (January 1993)
The Borrower shall furnish to the Association  The final report was issued in 12/91.
3.09 (b)           5        NCW       for comments, the study on the land tenure   However, after more than 2 years, no
system in Bioko and implement, not later than    settlement has yet been achieved. Only 50
June 30, 1991, those recommendations of said    small holders to be settled in 1994, on 300
study agreed upon with the Association.     Ha.
MALFF to enter into an agreement with OFA   OFA responsible for grading cocoa up to
3.10               5        NCW       for the provision of cocoa classification and  12/31/91. Draft proposals being prepared by
grading support by OFA to MALFF, not later  MAF.
than March 31, 1991.
The Borrower to transfer (a) to OFA (i) all
3.11               3        CW        fixed, moveable, and liquid assets, including the   By notary act of 07/10/1991
loan portfolio of the Agricultural Credit
Department of BCD, under liquidation at the
time of signing the Credit Agreement for SAC,
and (ii) the stock of goods and agricultural
equipment of the input supply unit of
CAMARA for the Input Supply (SI) of OFA;
and (b) to MALFF, for the implementation of
the project, al I the vehicles and equipment used
by the technical support team of the Cocoa
Rehabilitation Project.
The Borrower to enter in contractual        Contract signed.
3.12               5        CW        arrangements with the United Nations
Volunteers Program for execution of Parts A
and B of the project.
The Borrower shall employ an extension and  It was agreed that the expert would be
3.13               5        CW        production expert for the execution of Part A of   replaced by a UNV who arrived in
the Project, with qualifications, experience and    December 1993.
terms and conditions of employment satisfactory
to the Association.
The Borrower shall maintain records and     Project does not maintain records and
4.01 (a)            I       NCW       accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with   accounts in accordance with sound
sound accounting practices the operations,  accounting practices.
resources and expenditures in respect of the
Project.
The Borrower to (I) have project accounts,  Audit report for 1991, 1992 and 1993
4.01 (b)            I       CW        including those for the Special Account, audited   accounts indicate that the existing project
for each fiscal year; and (ii) fumish a certified  records, accounts and financial statements
copy of the audit report to IDA, not later than  are not adequate and no proper remedial
six months after the end of the FY.         action has been taken.



Part III. Statistical Annexes                                                                                      25
Credit       Covenant    Present              Description of Covenant                          Comments
Agreement        Type       Status
Section
The Borrower shall enable the Association's  No access possible to SIC records during the
4.01 (c,iii)        I       NCW        representative to examine such records.      mission of February 1994.
The Borrower shall ensure that the report of  Audit reports qualified on this point.
4.01 (c,iv)         I       NCW        such audits contains a separate opinion by said
auditors as to whether the procedures and
internal controls involved can be relied upon to
____________            support the projects withdrawals.
The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to IDA
4.02 (a)           12       CW         for its approval a formula for cocoa producers'
prices.
4.02 (b)           12        CW        The Borrower shall establish and put into effect,  Proposal agreed with MALFF and with IDA
promptly thereafter, cocoa producers' prices  during mission. Ratification by Consejo de
satisfactory to IDA.                        Ministros given in early May 1993.
4.02 (c)           12        PCW       The Borrower shall take and maintain measures   On going exercise.
to provide a system of adequate production
incentives and taxation for cocoa producers,
satisfactory to IDA.
4.02 (d)            9        PCW       The Borrower shall review the adequacy of such   Date was officially changed to March 31 of
system with IDA not later than July 31 in each    each year.
_ _ _ _ _ year.                                   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
The Borrower and IDA to review not later than
4.03               12        CW        April 30 in each year (a) the Public Investment
Program for agriculture; (b) the adequacy of the
interest rates set forth in Schedule 5 to the
Credit Agreement. SAC to adjust interest rates
to levels satisfactory to IDA.
5.01(d)                     NCW        The right of the Borrower to withdraw the    Equatorial Guinea's right to withdraw funds
3                  proceeds of any loan or grant for the financing    from the OPEC loan was suspended and the
of the Project shall not be suspended, canceled    Borrower failed to clear its outstanding
or terminated in whole or in part.          arrears with OPEC.
Covenant Types:
I = Accounts/audits                 6 = Environmental covenants     10 = Project implementation not
2 = Financial perfornance/revenue   7 = Involuntary resettlement        covered by 1-9
3 = Flow & utilization of project funds  8 = Indigenous people      II = Sectoral resource allocation
4 = Counterpart funding             9 = Project Implementation not  12 = Sectoral policy action
5 = Management aspects                 covered by 1-9
Status:
CW = Complied With                  NCW = Not Complied With         PCW = Partially Complied With



26                                                                              Part IH. Statistical Annexes
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement Number and Title              Describe and Comment on Lack of
Compliance
Basically, there was compliance with the applicable
Bank Operational Manual Statements
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of Project Cycle                                   Weeks                 US Dollars
Planned         Actual          Actual
Through Appraisal                                                 88.4            194.2
Appraisal - Board                                                 56.9            98.9
Board - Effectiveness                                             12.3            27.8
Supervision                                        145            145.8          320.3
Completion                                         10              9.6            21.1
Total                                                             313.0           662.3



Part III. Statistical Annexes                                                                        27
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Stage of Project  Month/      No. of     Days   Specialization Staff  Implemen-   Develop-    Types of
Cycle              Year       Persons     in    Skills Represented   tation       ment        Problems
Field                       Status    Objectives
Identification   04/88          2         20   FA, A               NA          NA          NA
Preparation      5/89           2         22   FA, A               NA          NA          NA
Appraisal        11/89          4         21    FA, A              NA          NA          NA
Supervision     03/91           2         10   A,ES                I           1           NI
Supervision     08/91           4         10   A, FA, ES,ES        2           1           NI
Supervision     03/92           4         10   FA, A, SFO,ES    3              1           M, F, T
Supervision     07/92           3         10   FA, E, ES           3           1           LC, M, F, T
Supervision      11/92          2         10   FA, A               3           1           M, F
Supervision     04/93           2         12   FA, FA              3           2           F, P
Midterm Review   11/93          4               E, A, ES, FA       4           4           LC, M,F,P,T
Supervision     03/94           2         43   E,FA                4           4           LC, M,F,P,T
Key to specialized staff skills:
FA=Financial Analyst; E=Economist; A=Agronomist;
ES=Extension Specialist; SFO=Small Farmer Organization
Key to types of problems:
LC=Legal Covenant Compliance; M=Management;
P=Procurement; F=Funding; I=lnstitutional;
T=Technical; NI=None Identified



APPENDIX A: PROJECT REVIEW FROM CO-FINANCIER'S PERSPECTIVE
1.    I wish to share with you some observations regarding the implementation performance of
Equatorial Guinea's Crop Diversification and Agricultural Services Project (DICSA), an investment
initiative which has been cofinanced with the International Development Association (IDA), through a
highly concessional loan in the arnount of SDR 3.7 million (approximately US$5.0 million), from the
International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD). These observations are motivated by the
draft Implementation Completion Report (ICR), which you made available to us for review and
comment. I will also take the opportunity to inform you of the steps which IFAD is taking at the
present time to reactivate the financing of some essential activities of the DICSA project in the
Mainland.
2.    We share the conclusions reached in the ICR's analysis as pertaining to the project's limited
achievements (e.g., institutional strengthening, agricultural production, rural poverty alleviation,
infrastructure development) and its lack of conditions for sustainability. Moreover, the specific lessons
which have been drawn throughout the project's implementation period have been taken into account in
the design of the Fund's Peasant Production and Marketing Promotion Project (PPCC), which is
currently being implemented in the Mainland.
3.    The IFAD loan was approved by the Fund's Executive Board on I October 1990, it was signed
on 12 November 1990, and it fulfilled effectiveness conditions on 2 August 1991. Since the World
Bank acted as our Cooperating Institution (i.e., supervising the project and administering the loan on
the Fund's behalf), IFAD followed the Bank in suspending the loan as of 25 July 1994, until proper
remedial action was taken by Government (GOEG) on a number of key implementation problems (e.g.,
submission of adequate project accounts and audit reports, execution of a credit recovery plan, etc.). At
the time of the loan's suspension in July 1994, disbursements had reached approximately US$2.4
million (SDR 1.77 million) or 48 percent of the original loan amount.
4.    While the Bank canceled the undisbursed IDA credit in November 1994, the Fund fielded two
additional missions in November 1994 and January 1995 with the purpose of assessing directly the
project's situation and possibilities. Subsequently, a proposal was prepared to reformulate/simplify the
project in order to reactivate some activities in the Continental Region. This proposal was based, inter
alia, on the following considerations:
a.    DICSA's implementation problems were not caused only by GOEG's inadequate
performance but also by the complexity inherent to the project's design, e.g. parallel activities
in the Island of Bioko (cocoa marketing and exports; land distribution and titling) and in the
Mainland (food production, crop diversification), etc.;
b.    project progress in the Continent was both satisfactory and promising, e.g., agricultural
extension, development of farmer organizations for the supply of tools and inputs; formation of
a small national project team in this region. This was acknowledged by supervision missions;
and,



Appendix A                                                                          29
c.   the DICSA project was a component of the Fund's assistance strategy for rural poverty
eradication in the Mainland. A second IFAD initiative - The Peasant Production and
Marketing Promotion Project (PPCC) - had been approved in April 1994, and which is
currently being implemented. In addition, a grant from the IFAD/NGO Extended Cooperation
Program was approved in December 1994, to support the preparation of market research and
export promotion studies and activities.  This latter effort is complementary to PPCC's
marketing component.
5.   IFAD maintains its commitment to assisting its target groups in Equatorial Guinea. To this
effect, an agreement was reached between IFAD and GOEG to reactivate DICSA's activities on a
limited scale. Consequently, a proposal for lifting the loan's suspension will be presented shortly to
IFAD's President for approval. The agreement reached with GOEG is in consonance with the
conclusions/recommendations offered by a meeting of IFAD's Periodic Loan Portfolio Review
Committee ("Problem Project" Committee) held in April 1995. The agreement contemplates: (i) the
reactivation of selected project activities (extension, action-research, support to peasant organizations;
food crops and pilot crop diversification support), exclusively in the Mainland; until the original
closing date of December 1996, and, because of the expected reduced scope of operations, with IFAD
exclusive financing. A substantial amount of the undisbursed loan will be canceled; (ii) to request the
Office for Project Services of the United Nations (UNOPS) -- which is the Cooperating Institution for
the ongoing project in the country -- to take responsibility for the supervision and implementation
support of the reduced project activities which will be reactivated; and (iii) to initiate the identification
of a new project in support of smallholder agriculture and natural resource management in the
Mainland, which is expected to assimilate the experience which our institutions have obtained in the
course of implementation of the DICSA initiative.
6.    I would like to thank you for this opportunity to reiterate IFAD's interest to continue
collaborating with the World Bank in the formulation and eventually cofinancing of projects, in
support of Equatorial Guinea's agriculture and rural development, once the Bank resumes its sectoral
operations in the country.



pW CT C',~Appendix B
Malabo, 26 de septiembre de 1995
Nt/Ref /1/MEH/Ne G6j  /95
 i4C ~                        Fax n: 240 - 9 - 3205
Seftor Vicente Ferrer                           Dat* Rec'd
Jefe Interino Divisi6n                          Date to AISC   -
de Agricultura y Med.io Ambiente
Departamento de Africa Central                  Assigee to
y del Oceano Indico                             Project No.  E1C-A QISI-EQ C.
Regi6n Africa
Seq. No.
Distinguido y estizado seiior Ferrer:
Ref: Informe Final del Gcbierno referente al Credito 2181
EG-Proyecto DICSA.
Le reiteramos el Informe Final emitido por este Gobierno a
esa instituci6n a traves de la Sra. Mary Barton-Dock, economista
de Divisi6n de Agricultura y Medio Ambiente Departamento de
Africa Central y del Oceano Indico Regi6n Africa Central de ese
respetable organismo multinacional, cuya fecha de remisi6n fue
el 23 de Mayo de este afto, de referencia N/Ref' MEH/N 3760/95
en el que entre otras la correspondimos a su atenta carta de
fecha 30 de Abril cuyo contexto fue el informe propio del
Gobierno del cierre del credito como se repite a continuaci6n:
"1.   El acuerdo de prestamo concerniente al proyecto DICSA
referente a su financiaci6n recogia cinco financiadores que
debian financiar diez (10) categorias de las acciones de
explotaci6n que integraba el programa de ejecuci6n del proyecto;
tales como:
1.  Obras Civiles
2'.  Vehiculos
3-.  Equipos
4a. Asistencia T6cnica
5 a  Capacitacion T6cnica
6a.  Credito propiamente dicho para a) Fondo de Alivio a la
Pobreza; b) Diversificaci6n Cultivos; c) Insumos
Agricolas y, d) Fondo Rotativo
7'.  Gastos Operacionales
8a.  Salarios Incrementales
9l.  Fondos Preparativos de Proyecto y la
10'. Imrprevistos.



31
Appendix B
2. De lo sefialado para AIF, se comprometi6 a sufragar las obras
civiles recogidas en la categoria Primera; en la cuantia de
100.000 DEG de los que no se utiliz6 ninguno siendo un remanente
del mismo monto.
Asimismo la AIF se comprometi6 a financiar los equipos
en la cuantia de 130.000 DEG; utilizado 3.960 DEG y dando un
remanente de 126.039, 65 DEG.
En la categoria Cuarta de la Asistencia Tecnica, la AIF
se comprometi6 a financiar un monto de 1.750.000 DEG habiendo
sido utilizado la cuantia de 1.574.504,11 DEG.
En la categoria Quinta, la AIF se comprometi6 a
financiar la capacitaci6n, asignando 130.000 DEG de los que se
utiliz6 134.487,76 DEG dando un sobre giro de 4.487,76 DEG.
En las categorias de cr6ditos Alivio a la Pobreza,
Diversificaci6n de Cultivos para Insumos Agricolas asi como el
Fondo Rotativo, la AIF se comprometi6 a financiar estas
categorias en un monto de 460.000 DEG no siendo utilizados ningudn
monto, quedando asi intacto lo sehtalado.
En cuanto a los Gastos Operacionales, Salarios
Incrementales,  Fondo de Preparaci6n de Proyecto,  la AIF se
cormprometi6 en financiar 2.230.000 DEG siendo utilizados
1.474.989,67 DEG dando un remanente de 745.010,33 DEG.
3. En cuanto al FIDA, el Gobierno seriala que esta instituci6n
analogamente a la anterior se comprometi6 a financiar algunas
categorias, tales como: la Asistencia Tecnica, la Capacitaci6n,
Fondo de Alivio a la Pobreza, Gastos Operacionales, salarios
incrementales  e  imprevistos  constituyendo  su  participaci6n
financiera comprometida de 4.700.000 DEG y resultando un
remanente de 3.010.026,22 DEG de lo acordado; habiendo sido
utilizado 1.769.973,78 DEG.
4.  Concerniente a BADEA fuente financiadora, se comprometi6 a
financiar las categorias la Obras Civiles, la 2'; adquisici6n de
vehiculos, la 3l; adquisici6n de equipos y la 10' imprevistos en
un monto de 4.000.000 de DEG siendo utilizados ninguno y dando
el mismo remanente de 4.000.000 de DEG a lo acordado en el
prestaxno.
5. Concerniente a la OPEC, y, asimnismo como los anteriores, se
comprometi6  a  financiar  la  categoria  2a,  adquisici6n  de
vehiculos, la S Capacitaci6n y la categoria 78 gastos
operacionales en un monto de 1.500.000 DEG habiendo utilizado
solo 96.122,10 DEG en gas os operacionales dando un remanente de
1.403.877,10 DEG.



32                                                       Appendix B
6.  Referente a la contribuci6n del Gobierno, se acordo de que
el mismo contribuiria a la categoria 8a sobre salarios
incrementales en la cuantia de 43.430 DEG habiendo sido utilizado
la cuantia de 36.880,09 DEG dando un remanente de 6.549,91 DEG.
A estas acciones tomadas por el Gobierno se vislumbra que
conforme al acuerdo de prestamo se comprometi6 a financiar 43.430
DEG en la categoria 84 y resulta que, ha financiado en efectivo,
concerniente a los Gastos Operacionales, e Incremento de Salarios
en la cuantia de 116.688,06 DEG resultando un sobre giro de
Resumen de utilizaciones y remanente cr6dito 2181 EGQ
AI F
CrOdito acordado        Utilizado         Remanente DEG
4.700.000,00           3.087.941,89        1.612.058,11
F I D A
Credito acordado        Utilizado         Remanente DEG
4.780.000,00           1.772.973,78        3.010.026,22
B A D E A
Credito acordado        Utilizado         Remanente $USA
4.000.000,00                0              4.000.000,00
3 P E C
Cr6dito acordado        Utilizado         Remanente $USA
1.500.000,00            96.122,10          1.403.877,90
GOBIERNO
Contribuci6n            Utilizado         Sobre Giro
43.430,00               116.688,06        (73.258,06) Miles FCFA
A todo esto, adjuntamos los antecedentes demostrativos
a saber: el cuadro de financiaci6n del Proyecto al 31 de Octubre
de 1994 y los pormenores seg6n categorias y financiador.
Referente a los logros del proyecto, cabe sefialar que
mucho  se  ha  tirado  en  cuanto  al  programa de  replante  y
parcelaci6n en el m6dulo Piloto de INASA-MAULE de la Regi6n
Insular de esta Repu2blica, asi como el apoyo a los pequefios
agricultores en el sector cacao en la isla de Bioko. En el mismo
sentido se obtuvo logros en las granjas,  en sus diferentes
modalidades, en la Regi6n Continental y diversificaci6n
piloteadas por la Coordinaci6n del proyecto en la Regi6n
Continental.
Ref erente al apartado de costos y beneficios que abarca
las campahtas 1991/92, 92/93, 93/94 y 94/95, cabe sehtalarles que
solo los dos ultimos ejercicios pueden ser vislumbrados y
satisfechos por el requerimiento seftalado en vuestro informe ya
que los cuatro primeros ejercicios fueron del PRC y los
siguientes por otros responsables, que como bien se sabe, no
cumplieron ni dieron prueba de sus competencias tras su selecci6n



Appendix B                                                               33
y toma de posesi6n en el proyecto, amen de que por otra parte
hubo muchos cambios de estos responsables lo que origin6 una
perdida de memoria institucional y la perdida de archivos que
s6lo con ellos podria el equipo actual confeccionar el estadillo
de costos y beneficios hasta la iUltimia camrpaha, sin embargo, los
costos de la campafta 1993/94 vienen reflejados a traves del
balance que se acompafia cuyo ciezre se efectuo el 31 de Diciembre
del afio 1994. Lo referente a los datos de la campafta 1994/95,
quedan por ser consolidados hasta aqui ya que aun sigue en curso
la misma.
Sin embargo, el Gobierno setala con preocupaci6n que,
acorde al convenio de cr6dito de fomento N 2181 EQG en su
articulo II Secci6n 2.03   recoge que la fecha de cierre del
mismo, seria el 31 de Diciembre de 1996 clausula que por
desgracia, se ha dejado de respetar.   Asi mismo extiende su
preocupaci6n en el mismo sentido en lo recogido en el mismo
articulo secci6n 2.04 en lo que concierne de que "el prestatario
pagarA a la Asociaci6n una comisi6n por conpromiso sobre la parte
del principal del credito que permanezca sin retirar a la tasa
que fije la Asociaci6n al 30 de Junio de cada aflo que no deberA
ser superior a la tasa de un medio de 1% anual.
Estos extremos seftalados en los ultimos incisos qua
preceden constituyen para nuestro Gobierno una seria preocupaci6n
y perjuicio para nuestra d6bil economia; sin embargo, nuestro
Gobierno espera la acostumbrada comprensi6n que siempre ha
disfrutado de esta instituci6n asi como la reconsideracion de la
medida unilateral de cancelacion del credito de referencia do la
finalidad  de  redinamizar  nuestra  cooperacion  acorde  a  las
aspiraciones de nuestro Gobierno y pueblo y, supuestamente, de
esta, nuestra instituci6n".
En cuanto a los objetivos recogidos en el acuerdo de
prestamo del proyecto, cabe seftalar que, en el sector del cacao,
pese a los vaivenes de los precios termometrados por el mercado
internacional, asi como los innumerables problemas sufridos por
el proyecto durante su evoluci6n ejecutiva se ha experimentado
un logro positivo, cuya manifestaci6n concreta se demuestra por
la propia autofinanciaci6n del proyecto, en su evolucion actual.
En definitiva, el Gobierno augura esperanzas, caso de
refinanciar el mismo, en el sentido de eliminar todas las
asperezas consecuentes de las lecciones aprendidas de la
aplicaci6n del PRC y DICSA. En este sentido el Gobierno expresa
su firme determinaci6n de tomar acciones para la mj ora de
sistemas para la administraci6n; su predisposicion de formular
proyectos sencillos; su conviccio6n de hacer presente su propiedad
y compromiso; su disponibilidad segura de cofinanciar asi como
la gesti6n de la asistencia t6cnica para que sus esfuerzos sean
digeridos y aprovechados a corto plazo para provocar la
sostenibilidad y capacidad de las institucionesnesloca



34                                                                   Appendix B
En este sentido, el Gobierno acude al directorio de esa
institucion para que merezca su apoyo en el sentido de seguir
propulsando las actividades iniciadas a trav&s de los proyectos
precedentes en el sector agropecuario de nuestro pais rogando de
suyo por vuestra parte de tomar acciones caso de que proceda
nuestra intenci6n, en sanear los proyectos que a nuestro nivel
son financiados por el Banco Mundial y ante todo el proyecto
DICSA que actualmente activa como uinico ente de su cometido en
el sector agrario.
En espera de obtener una secuencia favorable y recibir
prontamente vuestra misi6n, dignese seftor Ferrer, Jefe Interino
Divisi6n de Agricultura y Medio Ambiente Departamento de Africa
Central y del Oceano Indico Regi6n Africa aceptar nuestra
expresion de alt    stima y digna consi
il ^~~~A                   ONG MBA
?\gq e-Primer Ministro del Gobierno
' .nistro de Economia y Hacienda



(- f '76  N (T
MAGI u;
Report No:           1    l C6 6
y ype : ICR






