Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2181 EG
     (Crop Diversification and Agricultural Services Project)
                              between
                   REPUBLIC OF EQUATORIAL GUINEA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                      Dated November 21, 1990
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2181 EG
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated November 21, 1990, between REPUBLIC OF
EQUATORIAL GUINEA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
      WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
      (B)   the Borrower intends to contract from Banque Arabe pour
le Developpement Economique en Afrique (BADEA) a loan (the BADEA
Loan) in an amount equivalent to $3,900,000 to assist in financing
the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement
(the BADEA Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower
and BADEA;
      (C)   the Borrower intends to contract from International Fund
for Agricultural Development (IFAD) a loan (the IFAD Loan) in an
amount equivalent to SDR 3,700,000 to assist in financing the
Page  2
Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the
IFAD Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and
IFAD;
      (D)   the Borrower intends to contract from the Fund of the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC Fund) a loan
(the OPEC Fund Loan) in an amount equivalent to $1,500,000 to assist
in financing the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an
agreement (the OPEC Fund Loan Agreement) to be entered into between
the Borrower and the OPEC Fund; and
      (E)   the Borrower intends to obtain from the World Food
Programme (WFP) a grant in kind (the WFP Grant) equivalent to
$1,000,000 under its Food for Work Programme to assist in financing
the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement
(the WFP Grant Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower
and WFP; and
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                            ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "ACD" means the Agricultural Credit Department of the
Borrower's Credit and Development Bank currently under liquidation;
      (b)   "CAMARA" means the Borrower's Chamber of Commerce for
Agriculture and Forestry for the island of Bioko;
      (c)   "CSMU" means the Credit Supervision and Monitoring Unit,
a unit to be established within SAC (as hereinafter defined)
pursuant to Section 3.04 of this Agreement;
      (d)   "CFAF" means the currency of the Borrower;
      (e)   "MALFF" means the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture,
Livestock, Fisheries and Forestry;
      (f)   "OFA" means Organizacion de Fomento Agricola, the
Agricultural Development Organization referred to in Section 3.04 of
this Agreement, and to be established as a Sociedad Anonima;
      (g)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the project
preparation advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to an exchange of letters dated December 4, 1989 and
December 20, 1989 between the Borrower and the Association;
      (h)   "SAC" means the savings and credit service of OFA;
      (i)   "SI" means Servicio de Insumos, the input supply service
of OFA; and
      (j)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
Page  3
                            The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to four million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 4,700,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of this
Section and of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made
(or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in CFAF a special deposit account in a commercial
bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association,
including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.
      (c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal amount
of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of
such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance
shall thereupon be cancelled.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1996 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restric-
tions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower;
and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each May 15 and November 15, commenc-
ing November 15, 2000 and ending May 15, 2030. Each installment to
Page  4
and including the installment payable on May 15, 2010 shall be one
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
      (b)   Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due considera-
tion by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify
the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit
shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Condi-
tions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
agricultural, financial management and administrative practices, and
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for the Project.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. (a) For purposes of Part C.2 of the Project, the
Borrower shall, out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated to and
withdrawn from time to time under Category (6) in Schedule 1 to this
Agreement, open in favor of OFA a line of credit, under a Subsidiary
Loan Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and OFA under
terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Associa-
tion, including: (i) an annual interest rate of 11%  payable
quarterly on March 31, June 30, September 30 and December 31; (ii)
the obligation of OFA to finance on behalf of SI the acquisition of
the agricultural inputs and equipment to be distributed to benefi-
ciaries by SI and to be purchased by such beneficiaries under short-
medium- or long-term credit; and (iii) repayment of principal over
a period of 20 years, including a grace period of five years.
      (b)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes
of the Credit and, except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or
waive any provision of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Page  5
      Section 3.04. For purposes of carrying out Parts B.5, B.6 and
C.2 of the Project, the Borrower shall cause OFA to: (a) establish,
not later than March 31, 1991, and thereafter maintain CSMU within
SAC, with the responsibility for assessing the creditworthiness of
beneficiaries through field inspections of their holdings and,
except as the Association shall otherwise agree, in accordance with
the eligibility criteria and the terms and conditions set forth
under Schedule 5 to this Agreement; (b) employ: (i) a General
Manager; (ii) a marketing and procurement expert to advise OFA's
General Manager and the Chiefs of inputs, supply and marketing
services; and (iii) an expert for the position of SAC's credit and
savings expert, all with qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment satisfactory to the Association; and (c)
establish a branch on the mainland to represent OFA and to liaise
with its main office on Bioko.
      Section 3.05. For purposes of carrying out Part C of the
Project, the Borrower shall employ: (a) a Project Director; (b) a
Project Coordinator; and (c) a Financial Advisor; all with qualifi-
cations, experience and terms and conditions of employment satisfac-
tory to the Association.
      Section 3.06. The Borrower shall cause MALFF to prepare and
furnish to the Association, not later than October 30 in each year,
annual work programs and budgets, including training plans for
counterpart and other local staff referred to in Section 3.08 of
this Agreement.
      Section 3.07. Without any limitation or restriction upon the
provisions of this Agreement, the Borrower shall: (a) not later than
December 31, 1993, carry out a detailed review of the execution of
the Project up to that date, and not later than three months after
such review, furnish the results of such review to the Association
and afford the Association an opportunity to comment and make
recommendations thereon; and (b) promptly take such measures in the
light of the results of such review as the Association shall
consider adequate to ensure the achievement of the purposes of the
Project.
      Section 3.08. The Borrower shall select and appoint, not later
than three months after the experts referred to in Sections 3.04 (b)
(ii) and (iii), 3.05 (b) and (c) and 3.13 of this Agreement have
taken up their duties, local counterpart staff with qualifications
and experience satisfactory to the Association and in adequate
numbers.
      Section 3.09. The Borrower shall: (a) not later than
March 31, 1991, furnish to the Association for comments, the study
on the land tenure system in Bioko included in Part C.4 of the
Project; and (b) implement, not later than June 30, 1991, those
recommendations of said study agreed upon with the Association.
      Section 3.10. The Borrower shall, not later than March 31,
1991, cause MALFF to enter into an agreement with OFA for the
provision of cocoa classification and grading support by OFA to
MALFF.
      Section 3.11. The Borrower shall transfer: (a) to OFA: (i) all
fixed, moveable and liquid assets, including the loan portfolio of
ACD, for SAC; and (ii) the stock of goods and agricultural equipment
of the input supply unit of CAMARA for SI; and (b) to MALFF, for the
implementation of the Project, all the vehicles and equipment used
by the technical support team of the Cocoa Rehabilitation Project.
      Section 3.12. The Borrower shall enter into contractual
arrangements with United Nations Volunteers for the execution of
Parts A and B of the Project.
      Section 3.13. The Borrower shall employ an extension and
production expert for the execution of Part A of the Project, with
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
satisfactory to the Association.
Page  6
                           ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower, and OFA, responsible for carrying out the
Project or any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section, including those
                  for the Special Account, for each fiscal year
                  audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                  principles consistently applied, by independent
                  auditors acceptable to the Association;
            (ii)  furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
                  but in any case not later than six months after
                  the end of each such year, a certified copy of
                  the report of such audit by said auditors, of
                  such scope and in such detail as the Association
                  shall have reasonably requested; and
            (iii) furnish to the Association such other information
                  concerning said records, accounts and the audit
                  thereof as the Association shall from time to
                  time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                  with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                  accounts reflecting such expenditures;
            (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Associ-
                  ation has received the audit report for the
                  fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the
                  Credit Account or payment out of the Special
                  Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                  invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                  evidencing such expenditures;
            (iii) enable the Association's representatives to
                  examine such records; and
            (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are includ-
                  ed in the annual audit referred to in para-
                  graph (b) of this Section and that the report of
                  such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                  auditors as to whether the statements of expendi-
                  ture submitted during such fiscal year, together
                  with the procedures and internal controls in-
                  volved in their preparation, can be relied upon
                  to support the related withdrawals.
      Section 4.02. The Borrower shall: (a) not later than May 31 in
each year prepare and furnish to the Association for its approval,
a formula for the establishment of cocoa producers' prices based on
world market conditions and producers' prices prevailing in
neighboring countries; (b) promptly thereafter establish and put
into effect cocoa producers' prices satisfactory to the Association;
(c) take and maintain in effect measures satisfactory to the
Association to provide a system of adequate production incentives
and taxation for cocoa exports; and (d) review the adequacy of such
system of incentives and taxation with the Association not later
Page  7
than July 31 in each year and give due consideration to the
Association's comments.
      Section 4.03. The Borrower and the Association shall, not
later than April 30 in each year, review: (a) the public investment
program for agriculture; and (b) the adequacy of the interest rates
set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement on the basis of criteria
satisfactory to the Association. The Borrower shall on the basis of
the results of such review cause SAC to adjust interest rates to
levels satisfactory to the Association.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Remedies of the Association
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   any instrument under which OFA has been established or
operates shall have been amended, suspended, waived or repealed so
as to materially and adversely affect the ability of OFA to carry
out its responsibilities under Parts B.5, B.6 and C.2 of the
Project;
      (b)   the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of OFA or for the suspension of its operations;
      (c)   an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall
make it impossible for OFA to carry out its responsibilities in
respect of Parts B.5, B.6 and C.2 of the Project; and
      (d)   (i)   subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
                  (A)   the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
                        proceeds of any loan or grant made to the
                        Borrower for the financing of the Project
                        shall have been suspended, cancelled or
                        terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to
                        the terms thereof, or
                  (B)   any such loan shall have become due and
                        payable prior to the agreed maturity there-
                        of.
            (ii)  Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
                  apply if the Borrower establishes to the satis-
                  faction of the Association that: (A) such suspen-
                  sion, cancellation, termination or prematuring is
                  not caused by the failure of the Borrower to
                  perform any of its obligations under such agree-
                  ment; and (B) adequate funds for the Project are
                  available to the Borrower from other sources on
                  terms and conditions consistent with the obliga-
                  tions of the Borrower under this Agreement.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   any events specified in paragraphs (a) or (b) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and
      (b)   the event specified in Section 5.01 (d) (i) (B) of this
Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of Section 5.01 (d)
(ii) of this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
Page  8
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
      (a)   the personnel referred to in Sections 3.04 (b), 3.05,
and 3.13 of this Agreement have been employed; and
      (b)   OFA has been legally established with the assets of ACD,
and of the input supply unit of CAMARA in accordance with Sec-
tion 3.11 of this Agreement, all in a manner satisfactory to the
Association.
      Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Minister of Agriculture, Livestock,
Fisheries and Forestry of the Borrower is designated as representa-
tive of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the
General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            MALFF
            Malabo
            Equatorial Guinea
           Cable address:                Telex:
                                            939 5401
                                            939 5405
      For the Association:
            International Development
             Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INDEVAS                   248423 (RCA),
                  Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC),
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                            197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                        REPUBLIC OF EQUATORIAL GUINEA
                        By /s/ Damaso Obiang
                                         Authorized Representative
                        INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Page  9
                        By /s/ Edwin Lim
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                           SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)   Civil works:               100,000        100%
      Rehabilitation
      of houses and
      construction of
      stores for Part B.1
      of the Project
(2)   Vehicles                       ___
(3)   Equipment:                 150,000        100%
      Office equipment
      for Part B.1 and
      Part C.2 of the
      Project
(4)   Technical                1,810,000        80%
      assistance
(5)   Training and               160,000        100%
      studies: Market-
      ing study for
      Part B.1, inven-
      tory control
      for Part C.2 and
      land distribution
      study for Part C.4
      of the Project
                            Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(6)   Credit for imported
      agricultural inputs,
      equipment and
      services:
      (a)  Poverty                   ___
           Alleviation
           Fund for
           Part B.5,
      (b)  Crop Diversi-         150,000        100%
           fication Fund
           for Part B.6, and
      (c)  Farm Tools             20,000        100%
           Revolving Fund
           for Part C.3 of
           the Project
(7)   Incremental                880,000        35%
      operating costs
Page  10
(8)   Salaries for               380,000        35%
      incremental staff
(9)   Refunding of               670,000        Amount due
      Project                                   pursuant to
      Preparation                               Section 2.02 (c)
      Advance                                   of this Agreement
(10)  Unallocated                380,000
                               _________
           TOTAL               4,700,000
                               =========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "incremental
operating costs" means incremental expenditures for fuel, vehicle
maintenance, travel, and office supplies related to the Project.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures: (a) prior to the date of this Agreement; or (b) under
Category (6) until CSMU has been established, SAC is operational,
the contract referred to in Section 3.12 of this Agreement has been
signed and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement referred to under Section
3.03 of this Agreement has been signed.
                           SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are to alleviate rural poverty,
improve family nutrition and food security, increase food produc-
tion, promote local food marketing and raise foreign exchange
earnings by import substitution and promoting the export of
traditional and non-traditional crops, including food crops.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Agricultural Extension and Applied Research
(1)   Increase of agricultural production and productivity:
      (a)   on about 30,000 mainland farms producing food crops;
      (b)   on about 8,600 hectares (ha) of cocoa land on Bioko,
            comprising: (i) about 3,000 ha already rehabilitated
            under the Cocoa Rehabilitation Project; (ii) about
            3,600 ha of medium-size farms to be rehabilitated; and
            (iii) rehabilitation of about 2,000 ha of abandoned
            suitable cocoa plantations for distribution to the
            landless, near landless, unemployed and sharecroppers;
            and
      (c)   through diverting about 3,000 ha of marginal cocoa land
            on Bioko into production of non-traditional export
            crops.
(2)   Development of appropriate extension and applied research both
      on the mainland and Bioko by:
      (a)   Introduction of the Training and Visit system on a
            national basis to improve production techniques, and
            gradual integration of existing extension activities
            into the national extension service;and
      (b)   Establishment of basic applied research structures in
            Mbini and Bioko, each with a plant propagation unit to
            coordinate all applied research activities, and conduct-
            ing of field experiments on existing and new varieties
Page  11
            of food crops and tropical fruits, for crop diversifica-
            tion and export promotion, as well as on small live-
            stock.
Part B:     Crop marketing, Credit and Input Supply
(1)   Preparation and implementation of a marketing strategy aimed
      at promoting local marketing, and export of food crops to
      neighboring countries, as well as export of high quality cocoa
      and of non-traditional commodities to the world market.
(2)   Improvement of cocoa quality through cocoa fermentation and
      drying techniques.
(3)   Promotion of private sector marketing networks to increase
      local marketing of food and traditional and non-traditional
      export crops through the establishment of a marketing informa-
      tion system, market research and investment promotion activi-
      ties.
(4)   Rehabilitation of roads along the export corridor of Mbini-
      Cogo and Evinayong-Akurenam, maintenance of rural feeder roads
      and purchase of a ferry to operate between Cogo, Akalayong and
      Coco-Beach, in the Republic of Gabon.
(5)   Establishment of a Poverty Alleviation Fund (PAF),
      administered by OFA on a revolving basis, to supplement credit
      initiatives by financing part - but no more than 40% - of the
      down payment required by OFA for village stores, food crop
      production and marketing, and any other credit requirements
      for smallholders, as may be approved by PAF's Management
      Committee.
(6)   Establishment of a Crop Diversification Fund (CDF),
      administered by OFA on a revolving basis, to promote the crop
      diversification program in marginal cocoa production areas.
Part C:     Institutional Development
(1)   Strengthening of MALFF's General Directorate for Training,
      Extension and Cooperative Development through the development
      of its managerial, budgeting and training capabilities.
(2)   Establishment of OFA to support small and medium-size farmer
      food production and marketing through the supply of agricul-
      tural inputs, the provision of marketing assistance and of
      seasonal and medium- and long-term credit in cash or in kind
      through SAC to eligible beneficiaries, including the creation
      of a branch on the mainland to promote food production and
      marketing.
(3)   Promotion of small farmer and trader associations for their
      effective participation in marketing and input supply through
      training in simple bookkeeping, inventory control, group
      management and business procedures, and access to credit.
(4)   Carrying out of a land tenure study on Bioko.
                               * * *
      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1996.
                           SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
Page  12
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.    To the extent practicable, contracts for works, vehicles,
equipment and agricultural inputs shall be grouped into bid packages
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Equatorial
Guinea may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and
subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:  Preference for Domestic Contractors
      In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, the Borrower may grant a margin of
preference to domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Items or groups of items for vehicles, equipment and agricul-
tural inputs estimated to cost between the equivalent of $50,000 and
$100,000 per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on
the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance
with procedures satisfactory to the Association
2.    Items or groups of items for works, vehicles, equipment and
agricultural inputs estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or
less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $100,000,
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison
of price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers eligible
under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to
the Association.
3.    Extension offices and feeder roads rehabilitation, and routine
maintenance works may be procured by force account.
Part E:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
      (a)   With respect to each contract for works, vehicles,
equipment and agricultural inputs estimated to cost the equivalent
of $80,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to
said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association prior to
the making of the first payment out of the Special Account in
respect of such contract.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Association has
authorized withdrawals on the basis of statements of expenditure.
Page  13
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
      In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants or experts whose qualifica-
tions, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants or experts shall
be selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfac-
tory to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use
of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
                           SCHEDULE 4
                          Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (8) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to SDR 200,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account
and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a)
of this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Association re-
                  quests for deposits into the Special Account at
                  such intervals as the Association shall specify.
            (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Association the
                  documents and other evidence required pursuant to
                  paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                  payments in respect of which replenishment is
                  requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                  Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                  withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
                  the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                  shall have requested and as shall have been shown
                  by said documents and other evidence to have been
                  paid out of the Special Account for eligible
                  expenditures.
Page  14
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
      Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; and (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account
(or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraph 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                Eligibility Criteria and Principal
                     Lending terms for Short-,                   Medium- and Long-term 
Page  15
Credit
A. Eligibility Criteria
      Eligible are beneficiaries meeting the creditworthiness
criteria, set forth below.
1.    General Creditworthiness Criteria
            (i)   status of beneficiary's solvency and his past
                  credit repayment performance, if applicable;
            (ii)  proven farm management or entrepreneurial capa-
                  bility;
            (iii) ability to repay based on the farm's or enter-
                  prise's condition and beneficiary's past repay-
                  ment history, if applicable;
            (iv)  presentation of adequate collateral; and
            (v)   appropriateness of title to property for purpose
                  of guaranteeing the credit to be made.
      For first time beneficiaries with no credit history, the
selection procedures as defined under SAC's rules and regulations
shall apply.
2.    For Short-term Credit
      Short-term or seasonal credit, for a period of ten (10) to
twelve (12) months, will be provided to finance short-term commer-
cial and seasonal crop producing and marketing activities. To be
eligible, beneficiaries will have to meet creditworthiness criteria
(i), (ii), (iii) and (iv) above. In addition, beneficiaries will
have to contribute cash from their own resources in a percentage of
total credit, as determined by SAC's rules and regulations.
3.   For Medium-term Credit
      Medium-term credit, for a period not exceeding seven (7)
years, will be provided to finance cost-reducing investments in
equipment and materials. To be eligible, beneficiaries will have to
meet creditworthiness criteria (i), (ii), (iii), (iv) above and, as
determined by SAC's rules and regulations, (v). In addition,
beneficiaries will have to contribute cash from their own resources
in a percentage of total investment, as determined by SAC's rules
and regulations.
4.    For Long-term Credit
      Long-term credit, for a period not exceeding ten (10) years,
will be only provided to finance long-term cost-reducing investments
in production facilities and infrastructure. To be eligible,
beneficiaries will have to meet creditworthiness criteria (i), (ii),
(iii), (iv) and (v) above. In addition, beneficiaries will have to
contribute cash from their own resources in a percentage of total
investment, as determined by SAC's rules and regulations.
B.    Principal Lending Terms
1.    Short-term Credit
            (i)   the annual interest rate shall be 18% for credit
                  granted during the first year; and
            (ii)  repayment of principal shall be at the end of 10
                  to 12 months.
2.    Medium-term Credit
            (i)   the annual interest rate shall be 18% for credit
Page  16
                  granted during the first year;
            (ii)  interest on the principal shall be paid annually
                  at the end of each year; and
            (iii) repayment of principal shall be over a period not
                  exceeding seven years, including a grace period
                  of one year.
3.   Long-term Credit
            (i)   the annual interest rate shall be 18% for credit
                  granted during the first year;
            (ii)  interest on the principal shall be paid annually
                  at the end of each year; and
            (iii) repayment of principal shall be over a period not
                  exceeding ten years, including a grace period of
                  one year.
4.    Review and Adjustment of Interest Rates
      Interest rates shall be reviewed annually in consultation with
the Association during the period of this Agreement, and adjusted so
as to take into consideration the inflation rate and maintain a
positive real interest rate.
C.    Items Eligible for Financing
1.    Short-term credit: agricultural and other inputs such as
      copper sulfate, lime, fertilizers, simple hand tools and
      equipment, wages of farm and other manual labor, and marketing
      activities.
2.    Medium-term credit: agricultural and other inputs and produc-
      tion cost-reducing investment goods, including tractors, farm
      machinery and vehicles, agricultural processing equipment and
      construction of more efficient cocoa dryers.
3.    Long-term credit: renovation of on-farm and other infrastruc-
      ture, construction of facilities for storing agricultural
      products, and construction of laborers' housing.
4.    Other Conditions
      The Borrower shall cause SAC to grant credit to operators in
all sectors of the economy in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Association, including, in the
case of each credit: (i) the right to require that the goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit be used exclusively to
carry out the Project; (ii) the right of the Association to inspect
the goods purchased with the proceeds of the Credit and the farms
and enterprises where they are used; and (iii) the right of SAC to
suspend or terminate the right of its beneficiaries to make
withdrawals under each credit if such beneficiary does not perform
his obligations under his agreement with SAC. The eligibility
conditions, creditworthiness criteria and lending terms for short-
medium- and long-term credit shall be detailed in SAC's rules and
regulations, and shall be acceptable to the Borrower and the
Association.
