Report No. PID5881
Project Name                     Panama-Utilities Restructuring TA (@+)
Region                           Latin America and the Caribbean
Sector                           Privatization
Project ID                       PAPA51124
Borrower                         Government of Panama
Guarantor                        Government of Panama
Implementing Agencies            Ministerio de Planificacion y
Politica Economica
Date Initial PID Prepared        October 7, 1997
Projected Appraisal Date         December 1997
Projected Board Date             February 1998
Background:
The Government of Panama has recognized that inadequate and
inefficient provision of key infrastructure services has hindered
economic growth and efforts to improve quality of life among large
sectors of the country's population. Service deficiencies are a
direct result of budgetary and management constraints characteristic
of state owned enterprises and restrictions on market entry which
inhibit competition and innovation. The government has initiated a
program to redress these issues through mobilization of private
sector management expertise and capital, introduction of competition
where feasible, and redefinition of the government's role and
functions from that of service provider to regulator and policy maker.
Past Performance and Issues
Electricity Sector. In the electricity sector, the state-owned
utility, Instituto de Recursos Hidraulicos y Electrificacion (IRHE),
has been unable to efficiently meet the growing demand for
electricity service.   Service coverage levels are low (50% rural and
85% urban) as is plant availability (42% of thermal). System losses
are high (239), and the organization is overstaffed by international
standards (82 customers/employee). Though average tariffs are high
relative to the cost of service (UScdl/kWh), transfers to the
Government have undermined IRHE's financial solvency.
Water Sector. Provision of water and sewerage service for all but
the smallest communities has been vested in a state owned monopoly,
Instituto de Acueductos y Alcantarillados Normales (IDAAN).
Official estimates report nominal water and sewerage service
coverage at 80% and 50% in urban areas and 50% and 20% in rural
areas. Though IDAAN has been relatively successful in increasing
water production, management of and investment in distribution
systems is poor, with unaccounted-for-water estimated at 45%.
Treatment of residual flows is virtually non existent, resulting in



environmental degradation as waste water discharges directly into
watersheds, riverine and marine areas. Tariffs are slightly low by
international standards (US$.35/m), approximately 30- of users are
charged subsidized rates, and less than half of potential tariff
revenue is billed or collected. As a consequence, IDAAN has
increasingly relied on direct government transfers to finance
investment and a portion of operating expenditures.
Telecommunications Sector. Until 1996, all basic telephone services
were provided by the state owned telecommunications enterprise,
Instituto Nacional de Telecomunicaciones (INTEL). Given the
prominent role of information intensive industries in Panama,
coverage of basic services has been low (11 lines/100 persons) and
quality deficient with months of delays to install a new line and
weeks to repair faults. Moreover, INTEL did not provide cellular or
other potentially profitable data services despite the rapid growth
in demand, forcing many business enterprises to provide services
themselves, at very high cost.
Government Reform Program
Since the early 1990s, the Government has sought to improve
efficiency of service provision by strengthening the relevant para-
statal's operational and financial performance and by encouraging
private sector participation. However, prior minor modifications in
legislation and administrative procedures enacted failed to resolve
critical issues including; (i) separation of policy, planning and
operation roles; (ii) transfer of existing facilities and services
from utilities to private operators; (iii) market risk sharing
between IRHE and IDAAN and private operators for the purchase of
power/water treatment plants; and (iv) clear definition of service
providers' obligations and rights. Recognizing the inadequacies of
prior efforts and the priority of redimensioning the public sector's
role and redirecting government spending toward the social sectors,
the current administration has pursued a far reaching reform
strategy. This strategy was developed through a lengthy process of
consultation with industry, government agencies, organized labor,
and the public at large, and has been codified in 1995-96 sectoral
legislation.
The legal framework now in place requires the separation of policy,
regulatory, and operating functions and the establishment of a
transparent regulatory framework to be applied impartially to public
and private operators. Toward this end, the Government established
a financially autonomous and administratively independent regulatory
agency, Ente Regulador de Los Servicios Publicos (ERSP). Policy and
planning functions are now vested in the Comision de Politicas
Energeticas (CPE) in the electricity sector, and in the Health
Ministry (Ministerio de Salud or MINSA) in the water and sanitation
sector. The state owned utilities are to be disaggregated and
responsibility and control of the majority of services transferred
to the private sector via sale of majority shares or through long
term concession arrangements. Approximately 5t of shares have been
reserved for the existing utilities' labor force, whose rights and
privileges are also established by law. The legislation contains
- 2-



specific provisions and principles for extending service to rural
areas, granting subsidies to the poorest segments of the population,
and fostering efficient and sustainable use of natural resources.
No new legislation is required to implement the reform program for
the infrastructure sectors.
In the electricity sector, IRHE will be broken up into independent
companies, for which enterprise restructuring work and key
regulatory studies are underway. The distribution and thermal
generation companies will be privatized over the next two years.
Over time, other companies will be divested and the system of supply
contracts between generators and the system operator will evolve
into a real time wholesale power market. In the interim, large
consumers will be permitted to contract directly with the generating
companies for capacity and energy, for which regulations requiring
non-discriminatory access to the transmission and distribution
networks will be put in place prior to privatization.
In the water and sanitation sector, IDAAN is to be disaggregated
into 2-3 companies to serve the urban and peri-urban areas of Panama
Metro, Chiriqui, and the Central Provinces, after which they are to
be transferred to private control via auction of majority shares or
concessions. Water production and treatment facilities in the canal
zone are to be incorporated into the system within the next two
years. Detailed analysis of engineering, financial, and economic
parameters for the delineation of the new water companies has begun
and will be completed by February 1998. Installations and services
in rural areas currently under IDAAN's jurisdiction will be
reconstituted under decentralized cooperative or municipal
arrangements and structured to facilitate private sector
participation. MINSA will be reorganized and strengthened to
effectively take on sector policy, planning and monitoring
responsibilities.
In the telecommunications sector, the government has established a
regulatory framework for private service delivery. In early 1996,
the first cellular services license was granted to a consortium led
by Bell South. In mid 1997, 49t of the shares of INTEL and
managerial control was awarded to Cable and Wireless, and in a
subsequent tranche the majority of remaining shares are to be placed
with private investors. During the past year a number of
concessions and licenses have also been granted to providers of
value added, data, trunking, and satellite services. Continuing
refinement of the regulatory framework includes compliance with
service targets, development of monitoring and information systems,
and dispute resolution procedures.
Project Objectives. The objectives of the project are to enhance
the efficiency of provision and improve quality and expand coverage
of infrastructure services. It will provide an enabling environment
for mobilizing private sector expertise and capital on a competitive
basis, within an appropriate policy and regulatory framework.
Specifically, the project will support technical assistance to: (i)
restructure and prepare for privatization entities in the
electricity, water/sanitation and telecommunication sectors; (ii)
- 3 -



develop regulations required for implementing already enacted reform
legislation; and (iii) strengthen key public institutions in their
newly defined policy, planning, and regulatory roles.
Project Description. The project will provide technical assistance
to the government's program of restructuring and introducing private
sector participation in the water and waste water, energy and
telecommunications sectors. The project here outlined includes
three IDB loans/grants which are already under execution, plus the
proposed IBRD loan. Project activities are organized in four
components, as delineated below.
Project Components
Electricity: Consulting services and training to: a) restructure
IRHE (funded by borrower); b) prepare for privatization and sale
facilitation; c) develop required regulations; d) support systems
planning, development of the transmission network and upgrading of
system operations capabilities (IDB funded); and e) establish the
CPE and the Rural Electrification Office (Oficina de Electrificacion
Rural), including formulation of policy and development programs
under their jurisdiction.
Water and Sanitation: Consulting services, training, and equipment
to: a) undertake systems characterization and delineate new
companies; b) identify measures to allocate and mitigate risks
inherent to the privatization process and establish concession
frameworks; c) restructure IDAAN and prepare entities for
privatization and facilitate sale (IDB funded); d) develop required
regulations, including quality and service standards (IDB funded);
e) develop oversight capabilities of the regulator; f) prepare
drainage and watershed master plans (IDB funded); g) restructure
MINSA and strengthen capacity to develop policies and monitor
service and water quality; and h) develop sustainable rural water
supply and sanitation policies and programs.
Telecommunications: Consulting services, training and equipment to:
a) establish a radio spectrum management system; and b) develop
regulatory capacity to grant new licenses and concessions, oversee
auctions, monitor compliance, and manage resolution of disputes
between operators.
Multi-sectoral: Consulting services, equipment and training to: a)
promote consumer awareness and resource conservation; b) carry-out
public information and investment promotion dissemination; c)
conduct environmental audits of existing installations; d) review
and revise as necessary the administrative framework governing water
use rights and environmental regulations and guidelines; e)
strengthen capacity for oversight of compliance with environmental
standards; f) technical assistance for additional privatization
requirements and cross sectoral issues; and g) project management
(strengthen implementation unit, procurement agent, external audit).
Project Financing. The total project costs will be approximately
US$45.17 million.   Of this, US$15.13 million will be financed by the
-4 -



Government of Panama, US$15.96 will be financed by the IDB, and
US$14.08 million by the World Bank.
Project Implementation. The project implementing agency will be
Ministry of Planning and Economic Policy (Ministerio de
Planificacion y Politicals Economicas or MIPPE), which has been
charged with supervision of the reform process in the infrastructure
sectors. Within MIPPE, the Technical Unit for Public Policy (Unidad
Tecnica de Politicas Publicas or UTPP) has direct responsibility for
oversight and day to day execution of the restructuring program and
is already discharging these functions for the IDB financed
activities, which form part of this project. The activities to be
financed under the IBRD loan will utilize existing implementation
arrangements to ensure that the Bank, IDB, and other sources of
financial and technical support are closely coordinated during
project implementation. The UTPP will be responsible for
administering project funds, monitoring and reporting, and
contracting procedures. UTPP will also coordinate the execution of
project activities with the sectoral institutions such as ERSP,
MINSA, IRHE, IDAAN. These institutions will be responsible for
defining and developing work programs, substantive oversight of
consultants and management of training activities.
Project Sustainability. Government actions to date demonstrate
commitment to the reform process, noting the enactment of
comprehensive sector reform legislation, the establishment of an
autonomous regulatory entity, successful negotiation with labor
unions, appointment of a statutory commission to ensure transparency
in the privatization process, and successful privatization of
telecoms, ports, highways, and power generation. By supporting the
implementation of a comprehensive program for restructuring the
major infrastructure sectors and the privatization process, the
project will enhance the likelihood that private participation will
foster the anticipated gains in economic welfare and growth. The
project's emphasis on the design and execution of appropriate
regulations and policies prior to privatization and support for
public institutions which will influence the operating environment
subsequent to the transfer of control to the private sector will be
crucial to ensuring reform sustainability. Lastly, the ongoing
dialogue on further strengthening macroeconomic management and
country creditworthiness should enhance the attractiveness of
Panama, and the infrastructure sectors in particular, as a
destination for significant private investment.
Lessons Learned from Past Operations in Country/Sector. Project
design draws on lessons learned in the delivery of technical
assistance and in support of privatization in many countries, the
most crucial of which include: the need for sustained government
ownership and commitment; flexible project design; and regular
supervision accompanied by substantive policy dialogue. In
addition, adequate preparation and coordination arrangements are
important for ensuring timely implementation. Terms of reference for
work to be carried out during the initial phase of the project have
been prepared and incorporated into the project implementation plan.
Similarly, coordination and oversight arrangements have been put in
- 5-



place to ensure consistent treatment of regulatory and privatization
issues, while assigning day to day project execution activities to
sectoral agencies.
Program Objective Categories. Privatization (PV).
Contact Point:           The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, DC 20433
Telephone:       (202) 458-5454
Fax:             (202) 522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending January 16, 1998.
- 6 -



Annex
Environmental Aspects
Environmental Aspects. The project is presently rated as a Category
B given that it does not finance infrastructure investments and
therefore will not have a direct negative impact on the environment.
Moreover, the project will build on existing environmental
considerations that have been mainstreamed into the reform program.
Sector legislation explicitly recognizes environmental costs of
service provision and the recovery of such cost through tariffs. It
also incorporates environmental concerns in sector policy, planning,
regulation and contractual arrangements with the public and private
sector. The contractual documentation for share sale/concession of
the electricity and water companies are to reflect the environmental
protection and mitigation requirements, as articulated in the
environmental regulations and guidelines and service standards
already in place, in those to be issued by ERSP, and in the
environmental audits to be financed under the project.
The project will provide support for the following activities: i)
Sector Policy and Planning: systems characterization work in the
water sector; ongoing support to the Energy Policy Commission in
sector planning, resource conservation and renewable energy
development; and support to MINSA for policy, planning, and
monitoring of water and wastewater services. ii) Regulation:
strengthening institutional capacity to monitor and enforce
compliance and studies leading to the formalization and updating of
environmental and service standards. iii) Privatization:
environmental audits of the installations to be privatized and
design of bidding documents to reflect appropriate environmental
impact mitigation measures. iv) Public Consultation: studies
leading to issuance of regulatory directives on consultation and
dispute resolution, and on rights and obligations of clients in the
water and electricity sectors and ongoing support to the Regulator
to develop and strengthen oversight capabilities. v) Community
Participation: dissemination and participation in the privatization
process, and development of policies and programs to expand service
provision in rural areas, relying heavily on community participation
in facility planning, financing, and management.
- 7 -



