Page  1
CONFORMED COPY     
LOAN NUMBER 4274-PAN
Loan Agreement
(Utilities Restructuring Technical Assistance Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF PANAMA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated March 3, 1998
LOAN NUMBER 4274-PAN 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated March 3, 1998, between REPUBLIC OF PANAMA (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) pursuant to Law No. 26 of 1996 (Law No. 26), the Borrower 
established the Ente Regulador de los Servicios Públicos, the Borrower’s agency 
responsible for the regulation and control of the provision of the public services of 
electricity, telecommunications, and water and sanitation; 
(B)
pursuant to Law No. 6 of 1997 (Law No. 6), the Borrower adopted the 
regulatory and institutional framework for the electricity utilities operating in its 
territory, to allow the rendering of the electricity public services by public, 
private or mixed entities and to vest policy and planning functions in the Borrower’s  
Comisión de Política Energética; 
(C)
pursuant to Decree Law No. 2 of 1997 (Decree Law No. 2), the Borrower 
adopted the regulatory and institutional framework for the water and sanitation 
utilities operating in its territory, to allow the rendering of water and sanitation 
public services by public, private or mixed entities and to vest policy and planning 
functions in the Borrower’s Ministerio de Salud;
(D)
pursuant to Law No. 43 of 1995 (Law No. 43), Law No. 31 of 1996 (Law No. 
31), and Executive Decree No. 21 of 1996 (Executive Decree No. 21), the Borrower 
adopted the regulatory and institutional framework for the telecommunication utilities 
operating in its territory, to allow the rendering of telecommunications services by 
public, private or mixed entities; 
(E)
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
Page  2
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to 
assist in the financing of the Project; and 
(F)
the Borrower has contracted from the Inter-American Development Bank 
(IDB) two loans in an aggregate amount equivalent to approximately $14,000,000 (the 
IDB Loans) and a grant in an amount equivalent to approximately $1,800,000 (the IDB 
Grant) to assist in the financing of part of the Project, on the terms and conditions 
set forth in agreements entered into between the Borrower and IDB (the IDB Loan 
Agreements and the IDB Grant Agreement, respectively);
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, with the 
modification set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of 
this Agreement:
Section 6.03 is modified to read:
“Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Bank.  If (a) the right of the 
Borrower to make 
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall have been suspended with 
respect to any amount of 
the Loan for a continuous period of thirty days, or (b) at 
any time, the Bank determines, 
after consultation with the Borrower, that an amount 
of the Loan will not be required to 
finance the Project’s costs to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, or (c) at any 
time, the Bank determines, 
with respect to any contract to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan, that 
corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement or the execution of 
such 
contract, without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action 
satisfactory to 
the Bank to remedy the situation, and establishes the amount of 
expenditures in respect of 
such contract which would otherwise have been 
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of  the Loan, or (d) at any time, the Bank 
determines that the procurement of any contract to be 
financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or 
referred to 
in the Loan Agreement and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of 
such 
contract which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of 
the Loan, or (e) after the Closing Date, an amount of the Loan shall remain 
unwithdrawn from 
the Loan Account, or (f) the Bank shall have received notice from 
the Guarantor pursuant to  Section 6.07 with respect to an amount of the Loan, the Bank 
may, by notice to the Borrower 
and the Guarantor, terminate the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals with respect to 
such amount.  Upon the giving of such 
notice, such amount of the Loan shall be cancelled.” 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a)
“Annual Work Plan” means any of the plans referred to in Section 3.06 (a) 
of this Agreement; 
(b)
“CLICAC” means Comisión de Libre Competencia y Asuntos del Consumidor, 
the Borrower’s free competition and consumer affairs commission; 
(c)
“CPE” means Comisión de Política Energética, the Borrower’s energy policy 
commission; 
(d)
“ERSP” means Ente Regulador de los Servicios Públicos, the Borrower’s 
public services regulatory agency; 
Page  3
(e)
“Fiscal Year” means the Borrower's fiscal year which begins on January 1 
and ends on December 31 of each year; 
(f)
“IDAAN” means Instituto de Acueductos y Alcantarillados Nacionales, the 
Borrower’s state-owned water and sanitation utility; 
(g)
“IRHE” means Instituto de Recursos Hidráulicos y Electrificación, the 
Borrower’s state-owned electricity utility;
(h)
“MINSA” means Ministerio de Salud, the Borrower’s Ministry of Health; 
(i)
“MIPPE” means Ministerio de Planificación y Política Económica, the 
Borrower’s Ministry of Planning and Economic Policy; 
(j)
“OER” means Oficina de Electrificación Rural, the Borrower’s rural 
electrification office; 
(k)
“Performance Monitoring Indicators” means the Project’s performance 
monitoring indicators set forth in the letter of even date herewith from the Borrower 
to the Bank; 
(l)
“Project Implementation Plan” means the Borrower’s Project implementation 
plan, dated December 1997, as such plan may be revised from time to time in a manner 
satisfactory to the Bank; 
(m)
“Project Manager” means the manager referred to in Section 3.03 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
(n)
“Project Preparation Advance” means the Project preparation advance 
granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to a letter from the Bank dated July 15, 
1997, countersigned by the Borrower on August 18, 1997; and 
(o)
“UTPP” means Unidad Técnica de Políticas Públicas, the technical unit for 
public policies within MIPPE.
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to twelve 
million seven hundred thousand Dollars ($12,700,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan. 
(b)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount required to 
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon.  The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2001 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
Page  4
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this 
Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date 
occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period 
from and including an 
Interest Payment Date to, but excluding the 
next following Interest Payment 
Date.
(ii)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.06 
of this 
Agreement.
(iii)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank 
offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for 
value the first day of such 
Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the 
Interest Payment Date occurring 
on or next preceding the first day of such 
Interest Period), as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage 
per annum.
(iv)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) one half 
of one 
percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the weighted 
average margin, for such 
Interest Period, below (or above) the London 
interbank offered rates, or other 
reference rates, for six-month 
deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding 
borrowings or 
portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single currency 
loans 
or portions thereof made by it that include the Loan; as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis.  The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period 
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in 
which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable April 15 and October 
15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.08. The Project Manager is designated as representative of the 
Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under 
the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project, through MIPPE, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity 
with appropriate managerial, administrative, financial, privatization, environmental, 
and technical assistance practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
(b)
Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section and 
except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in 
Page  5
accordance with the Project Implementation Plan and the applicable Annual Work Plan, 
with due regard to the Performance Monitoring Indicators. 
(c)
Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall allocate in each of its annual budgets during Project 
implementation the counterpart funds required for Project implementation.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall ensure that, at all times until completion 
of the Project, UTPP will have the following functions and responsibilities: 
(i)
coordinating the provision of technical assistance under the 
Project, pursuant 
to working arrangements with CLICAC, CPE, ERSP, 
IDAAN, IRHE, MINSA and OER, 
satisfactory to the Bank; 
(ii)
monitoring the sectoral performance of CLICAC, CPE, ERSP, IDAAN, 
IRHE, MINSA 
and OER so as to ensure the consistency in policy 
decision-making  and the 
achievement of the Project objectives; 
(iii)
preparing the reports and plans referred to in Sections 3.05 
through 3.08 of 
this Agreement; and 
(iv)
administering the withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan and 
related records, 
accounts and audits, all pursuant to the provisions 
of this Agreement and the 
applicable Annual Work Plan. 
(b)
The Borrower shall ensure that the UTPP is, at all times during the 
execution of the Project, headed by a Project manager assisted by staff in adequate 
numbers, all with qualifications, experience, functions and responsibilities 
satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall retain, at all times until completion of the 
Project, a procurement agent with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the 
Bank, under terms of reference and terms of employment satisfactory to the Bank, such 
agent to assist UTPP in procurement activities to be carried out under the Project. 
Section 3.05.  Without limitation to the provisions of Section 9.07 of the 
General Conditions, the Borrower shall, not later than July 31 and January 31 of each 
year during the execution of the Project, starting not later than July 31, 1998, 
prepare and furnish to the Bank a report of such scope and in such detail as the Bank 
may reasonably request on the progress achieved in the execution of the Project during 
the preceding calendar semesters ending June 30 and December 31, respectively.
Section 3.06. (a) Not later than October 31 of each year of Project 
implementation, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, for its review, an annual work 
plan for the following calendar year, in a format satisfactory to the Bank, such plan 
to include: 
(i)
a description of the Project annual specific targets; 
(ii)
the schedule of the tasks associated with each such target; and 
(iii)
the resources required to complete such tasks and their financial 
sources.
(b)
The Borrower shall: 
(i)
exchange views with the Bank on each proposed Annual Work Plan; 
and 
(ii)
carry out each such Annual Work Plan, taking into account the 
Bank’s views on 
the matter.
Section 3.07.  The Borrower shall: 
Page  6
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank and furnish to 
Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan designed to ensure 
the continued achievement of the Project objectives; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall:
(a)
not later than June 30, 1998, hire consulting firms for the purpose of 
carrying out the environmental audits of existing installations of IRHE and IDAAN 
under Part D (c) of the Project; 
(b)
on the basis of the conclusions and recommendations of the audits 
referred to in subparagraph (a) above, no later than December 31, 1998, prepare and 
furnish to the Bank, an action plan to address the environmental liabilities of 
existing installations of IRHE and IDAAN; and 
(c)
carry out, or cause IRHE or IDAAN or any successor entity to IRHE or 
IDAAN, as the case may be, to carry out the action plan referred to in subparagraph 
(b) above, taking into account the Bank’s comments thereon.
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the 
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or 
any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall: 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for 
each Fiscal Year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than four 
months after the end of each such Year, the report of 
such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time 
to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures; 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report 
for the Fiscal Year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Loan Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
Page  7
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such Fiscal 
Year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
Law No. 26 or Law No. 6 or Decree Law No. 2 or Law No. 43 or Law No. 31 
or Executive Decree No. 21 shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or 
waived so as to affect materially and adversely the Borrower’s ability to carry out 
the Project or to perform any of its obligations under this Agreement;
(b)
(i)
subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph: 
(A)
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the 
IDB Loans or 
the IDB Grant shall have been suspended, canceled or 
terminated in 
whole or in part, pursuant to the terms 
of the IDB Loan Agreements or 
the IDB Grant Agreement; or 
(B)
the IDB Loans shall have become due and payable prior to the 
agreed maturity 
thereof;
(ii)
subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes 
to the satisfaction of the Bank that: (A) such suspension, 
cancellation, 
termination or prematuring is not caused by 
the failure of the Borrower to 
perform any of its obligations 
under the IDB Loan Agreements or the IDB Grant 
Agreement, as the 
case may be; and (B) adequate funds for the Project are 
available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions 
consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur; and 
(b)
the event specified in paragraph (b) (i) (B) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (b) (ii) of that Section. 
ARTICLE VI 
Termination 
Section 6.01. The date June 3, 1998, is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.08 of this Agreement, the Minister 
of Planning and Economic Policy of the Borrower is designated as representative of the 
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Planificación y Política Económica
Vía España y Calle 52 Este
Page  8
Apartado Postal 2694
Panamá 3, República de Panamá
For the Bank:
International Bank for
 Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF PANAMA
By /s/ Eloy Alfaro
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/  Zafer Ecevit 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Latin American and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:   
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
    Dollar Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Goods
   1,870,000
100% of foreign
expenditures; 100%
of local expendi-
tures (ex-factory
cost); and 90% of
other items procured
locally
(2)
Consultants' services
   7,660,000
100%
(3)
Training
   1,260,000
100%
(4)
Project Management
     260,000
100%
(5)
Refunding of
   1,650,000
Amounts due pursuant
Project Preparation
to Section 2.02 (b)
Page  9
Advance
of this Agreement
TOTAL
  12,700,000
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
(c)
the term “Project Management” means the following expenditures for the 
reasonable cost of:
(i)
procurement agent services: 
(ii) external audits; and 
(iii)
operational expenditures for UTPP; and
(d)
“Training” means expenditures incurred for: (i) domestic and 
international travel and per diems of trainers and trainees; (ii) training materials, 
and (iii) rental of training equipment and facilities. 3.
Notwithstanding the 
provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments 
made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals in 
an aggregate amount not exceeding the amount of $600,000 may be made in respect of 
Categories (1) through (4) in the table in paragraph 1 of the Schedule on account of 
payments made for expenditures before that date but after November 1, 1997.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify 
by notice to the Borrower for expenditures for: 
(a)
goods under contracts costing less than $250,000 equivalent (other than 
the contracts referred to in Part D.2 (b) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement);
(b)
services of consulting firms under contracts costing less than $100,000 
equivalent;
(c)
services of individual consultants under contracts costing less than 
$50,000 equivalent;
(d)
Training activities; and
(e)
Project Management.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objectives of the Project are to enhance the efficiency, to improve the 
quality and to expand the coverage of infrastructure services in the territory of the 
Borrower, by providing an enabling environment for the mobilization of private sector 
expertise and capital on a competitive basis, within an appropriate policy and 
regulatory framework.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Electricity
Carrying out of a program for the restructuring and privatization of IRHE, such 
program to comprise:
Page  10
(a)
preparation of specific privatization transactions;
(b)
development of the regulations for a restructured and privatized 
electricity sector;
(c)
provision of technical assistance for: 
(i)
power systems planning, development of the transmission network 
and upgrading 
of power system operations capabilities; and 
(ii)
the initial operation of CPE and OER, including technical 
assistance for the 
formulation of key policy and development programs 
under their jurisdiction.
Part B:
Water and Sanitation
Carrying out of a program to restructure and modernize the Borrower’s agencies 
active in the water and sanitation sector, such program to comprise:
(a)
overall assessment of the Borrower’s water and sanitation sector and 
preparation of proposals for restructuring of the sector;
(b)
determination of risk allocation parameters and elaboration of a 
regulatory framework for concessioning water and sanitation services;
(c)
restructuring and privatization of IDAAN, including preparation of 
specific privatization transactions;
(d)
development of the oversight capability of ERSP with regard to the 
Borrower’s water and sanitation sector;
(e)
development of the regulations required for the Borrower’s water and 
sanitation sector, including the determination of quality and service standards;
(f)
preparation of drainage and watershed master plans;
(g)
restructuring and institutional strengthening of MINSA, focusing on the 
areas of policy development, and quality and service monitoring; and
(h)
development of the Borrower’s policies and programs for sustainable rural 
water supply and sanitation.
Part C:
Telecommunications
Carrying out of a program for the modernization of the Borrower’s 
telecommunications sector, such a program to comprise:
(a)
establishment of a radio spectrum management system; and
(b)
development of the Borrower’s regulatory capacity for the granting of new 
licenses and concessions, overseeing auctions, monitoring compliance, and managing 
dispute resolution among operators.
Part D:
Multi-sectoral Activities
Carrying out of a multi-sectoral program to complement the activities included 
in Parts A through C of the Project, such program to comprise:
(a)
promotion of consumer awareness and resource conservation, through 
CLICAC;
(b)
carrying out of public information and investment promotion campaigns for 
the electricity, water and sanitation and telecommunications sectors;
(c)
carrying out of environmental audits of existing installations of IDAAN 
and IRHE;
Page  11
(d)
reviewing the administrative framework governing water use rights and 
applicable environmental standards and guidelines;
(e)
strengthening the Borrower’s capacity to ensure compliance with such 
environmental standards and guidelines; 
(f)
provision of technical assistance in general privatization matters and 
cross-sectoral issues; and  
(g)
institutional strengthening of UTPP for Project administration purposes.
* * * 
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2000.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal Date Payment Due
(Expressed in Dollars)* 
On each April 15 and October 15
beginning October 15, 2003
through October 15, 2014
$530,000
And on April 15, 2015
$510,000
__________________
* 
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, except 
as provided 
in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4 
Procurement 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General 
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of this Section.
Page  12
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
(a)
Grouping of contracts 
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $250,000 equivalent or more each. 
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than $250,000 but more than $50,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000, may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the 
Guidelines 
2.
Shopping
Goods estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or less per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $750,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of shopping procedures acceptable to the Bank in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of 
said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
With respect to: (a) each contract for goods estimated to cost $250,000 or more; 
and (b) the first two contracts for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of more 
than $50,000 each but less than $250,000 each, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 
2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section 
Page  13
II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Quality-based Selection
Services under Parts A (a), B (a), C (b) and D (d) of the Project may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
through 3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services under Parts A (a), A (c) and B (h) of the Project estimated to cost 
less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for activities under Parts A through D of the Project that meet the 
requirements set forth in paragraph 5.01 of the Consultant Guidelines, shall be 
procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 and (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more but less than $200,000, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of 
paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be awarded 
only after said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
Page  14
Section III.  Special Provisions 
A.
In addition to and without limitation on any other provisions set forth in this 
Schedule or the Guidelines, the following principles of procurement shall govern all 
procurement of goods referred to in Part C.1 of Section I of this Schedule:
1.
Bids may be:
(a)
submitted at any reasonable time before bid opening, either by mail, 
courier or person; and
(b)
accompanied by a bid security in the form and amount specified in the 
standard bidding documents.
2.
No provisional award shall be made at the time of bid opening.
3.
No minimum number of bids shall be required as a condition to award a contract.
4.
Contracts shall be awarded to the bidder whose bid has been evaluated as the 
lowest and responsive bid, in accordance with criteria clearly set forth in the 
standard bidding documents.
5.
After contract award, performance securities shall be provided within the time 
period and in the form and amount specified in the standard bidding documents.
B.
In addition to and without limitation on any other provisions set forth in this 
Schedule or the Consultant Guidelines, the following principles of procurement shall 
govern all procurement of consultants' services referred to in Section II of this 
Schedule:
Foreign consultants shall not be required to:
(a)
be locally registered as a condition of participation in the selection 
process;
(b)
give any participation in or share of any consulting contracts to any 
local firm or person for the purposes of participating in the selection process or 
receiving an award, except in connection with a joint venture arrangement where: (i) a 
sufficient number of capable domestic firms or individual consultants exist to allow a 
foreign consultant reasonable freedom of choice; (ii) the contribution of either party 
to the joint venture arrangement will not be constrained by any prescribed manner or 
extent of participation; and (iii) the foreign consultant is not required to associate 
itself with any specifically named domestic firms or individual consultants;
(c)
furnish any certificate issued by a local authority about their legal 
capacity or tax status for the purposes of submitting a proposal; and
(d)
personally submit their proposals. 
