Page  1
PNPM Rural - Isolated and Vulnerable Peoples Planning Framework - Disclosed July 21, 2010 
Page 
1
of 
9
Safeguards Policy 
 
INDONESIA: Third National Program for Community Empowerment in Rural Areas 
(PNPM Rural III)  
 
Isolated and Vulnerable Peoples Planning Framework 
 
Introduction
PNPM Rural III is the most recent in a series of projects that began with the Kecamatan 
Development Project (KDP) and have been cited as a model for the development of projects of 
this nature. The objective of the Project is that villagers in PNPM rural locations benefit from 
improved socio-economic and local governance conditions. This 
Isolated and Vulnerable 
Peoples Planning Framework
 benefits from continual refinement to incorporate lessons of 
experience and best practice and reflects a pool of direct experience extending back over more 
than a decade in the Indonesian context with PNM Rural projects I and II, and grant-funded 
activities that use the PNPM Rural planning and implementation processes, in particular PNPM 
Generasi Sehat dan Cerdas (PNPM 
–
A
Bright and Healthy Generation) and PNPM Green.  
 
This Framework serves as an umbrella guideline for the project to identify, consult and provide 
mechanisms to address potential positive and negative impacts that subprojects may have on 
Indigenous Peoples (IPs) or Isolated and Vulnerable Peoples (IVPs). It outlines the procedures 
put in place to ensure that all project activities are assessed and potential IVP issues are identified 
and addressed before an activity with the potential to affect IVPs commences. 
 
A. PNPM Rural and OP 4.10 
 
This objective of this Framework reflects the stated objective of OP/BP 4.10, i.e.: 
·
Ensure that Indigenous Peoples participate in and benefit from the project through a free, 
prior, and informed consultation; and 
·
Avoid or minimize potentially adverse effects of the project on Indigenous Peop
les’ 
communities. When avoidance is not feasible, minimize, mitigate, or compensate for 
such effects. 
 
Operational Policy/BP 4.10 on Indigenous Peoples (IPs) requires that planning measures be 
established to protect the interests of ethnic groups with a social and cultural identity distinct 
from the dominant society that may make them vulnerable to being disadvantaged in the 
development process.  
 
"Isolated and Vulnerable Peoples" is the term used officially by the Indonesian Government to 
describe groups that have the characteristics of "indigenous peoples" as used in OP/BP 4.10. This 
document will hereafter use the term "Isolated and Vulnerable Peoples" or IVPs. 
 
As characterized in OP/BP 4.10, IPs communities can be identified in particular geographic areas 
by the presence in varying degrees of the following characteristics:  
·
A
close attachment to ancestral territories and to the natural resources in these areas; 
·
Self-identification and identification by others as members of a distinct cultural groups; 
·
An indigenous language, often different from the national language;  
·
The presence of customary social and political institutions; and 
IPP418 v2 
Page  2
PNPM Rural - Isolated and Vulnerable Peoples Planning Framework - Disclosed July 21, 2010 
Page 
2
of 
9
·
Primarily subsistence-oriented production. 
 
Based on the above characteristics, there are many groups in Indonesia that may be classified as 
IVPs
1
,
for example: 
 
1. 
Small pockets of highly isolated and vulnerable groups such as the Mentawai or other small 
island populations. Such groups can easily be adversely affected by development projects 
because of unfamiliarity with modern market mechanisms, cultural and administrative 
prejudices against them, or inability to retain control over productive and natural resources. 
 
2. Much 
larger 
ethnic populations which meet most of the World Bank’s typological 
requirements (own language, sense of identity, traditional attachments) but exhibit varying 
degrees of vulnerability, such as the so-called Dayak of Kalimantan or the tribal groups of 
East Nusa Tenggara.  
 
3. 
Finally there are heterogeneous communities, where a segment of the population is culturally 
or economically marginalized. Several of the fishing populations of the eastern islands, for 
example, have unique identities and also occupy subordinate positions within local social 
structures. 
 
The project design of the PNPM Rural series and their predecessor, the Kecamatan Development 
Project (KDP), is structured to ensure the participation and inclusion of various groups (including 
women, the poor, and isolated and vulnerable peoples) in local level decision making over 
resource allocation. Specific measures in the project design (to be discussed in further detail 
below) include social mapping to identify target beneficiaries; village-level project facilitators 
and implementing teams elected by their communities; development of sub-village planning 
units; and verification by teams from outside the village on sub-project appropriateness and 
compliance with project rules. 
 
B. Experiences from the KDP and PNPM Rural series 
The project design of the PNPM Rural series and their predecessor, the Kecamatan Development 
Project (KDP), is structured to ensure the participation and inclusion of various groups (including 
women, the poor, and isolated and vulnerable peoples) in local level decision making over 
resource allocation. Specific measures in the project design (to be discussed in further detail 
below) include social mapping to identify target beneficiaries; village-level project facilitators 
and implementing teams elected by their communities; development of sub-village planning 
units; and verification by teams from outside the village on sub-project appropriateness and 
compliance with project rules. 
 
During the twelve-year history of the KDP and PNPM Rural series, no systematic adverse 
impacts on IVPs have been found. A number of test cases have been specifically supervised to 
assess impact on IVPs. In each case, the KDP and PNPM Rural project process proved highly 
adaptive to local cultures and able to work with local structures. Specific examples are below. 
·
On Java, the Baduy, who as a rule reject outside development projects. The project 
did not enter the Baduy area until it was approached by traditional leaders and the 
terms of encounter negotiated and recorded by both sides.  
1
A
list of geographical distribution of IVPs (based on “Komunitas Adat Terpencil” or “KAT”) in Indonesia, as 
presented in the "EGIMap - Strengthening IPs Screening in Indonesia", 2010, World Bank, will be used as a reference 
for the PNPM-Rural projects. IPs per Bank’s policy that do not fall under the KAT category will be identified through 
community consultations, NGOs, and social experts during the preparation of sub-project proposal.
 
Page  3
PNPM Rural - Isolated and Vulnerable Peoples Planning Framework - Disclosed July 21, 2010 
Page 
3
of 
9
·
Indigenous communities on the island of Nias, near West Sumatra. In Nias, KDP 
initially experienced several implementation problems because of Nias’ isolation and 
the deeply hierarchical village structures, but again no adverse impacts could be 
identified. Ongoing post-tsunami reconstruction is closely supervised by the Bank 
through the closely linked KRRP (KDP Recovery and Rehabilitation Project) funded 
by the Multi Donor Trust Funds (MDTF) for Aceh and Nias. Through KRRP, the 
Nias program has undertaken special activities to protect cultural heritage and 
involve Nias school children in cultural heritage awareness through the Nias museum 
and the school out-reach component. 
·
General supervision in the eastern islands also failed to turn up any systemic adverse 
impacts on ethnic minorities.  
 
In addition, the project design has proven to be more flexible than anticipated; in provinces such 
as Aceh or West Sumatra, where kin-based descent units also carry out important administrative 
functions, the project produced special guidelines that used these traditional units rather than the 
standard kecamatan and village structures. 
 
The project is aware that the increased use of culturally apposite forms of social organization 
have come an entirely new generation of problems associated with the people excluded by 
traditional social structures, such as, for example, women, immigrants or low status groups. In 
addition to the clear program requirements (discussed below) that help mitigate deleterious 
effects of sub-projects on those excluded from traditional social structures, the project has 
improved training of facilitators who work directly with local communities, and worked with 
traditional leaders on making their group's workings more inclusive.  
 
The project puts a significant emphasis on oral command of a local language.  Sub-district 
facilitators are selected and hired in each province with preference being given to those that can 
speak the local language used in their assignment area. When printed materials are needed, they 
are put into the local language. 
 
C. PNPM Rural Framework for Community Consultation and Development of Sub-
Projects  
 
The project design recognizes that meaningful participation by poor and disadvantaged sections 
of society requires clear measures within the project procedures that facilitate their participation 
and inclusion. The project is implemented by project staff (facilitators), working with operational 
teams (PJOProv at the provincial level; PJOKab at the kabupaten level; PJOK at the kecamatan 
level) that consist of officials from the provincial, kabupaten, kecamatan level governments. The 
project is committed to and has existing project mechanisms to ensure that IVPs groups are:  
·
Consulted on sub-projects that may affect (either benefit from or negatively impacted 
by the project) them;  
·
Provided opportunities for participation in decision making related to the sub-project 
·
Provided opportunities for participation in project activities, should they so desire. 
 
Specific project mechanisms undertaken at the sub-village and village levels to facilitate the 
participation, consultation, and inclusion of IVP groups in the planning and development of sub-
projects are: 
 
1. 
Project Socialization: 
Multiple consultations are held at the village and sub-village levels 
to clarify PNPM Rural principles, process, and requirements, and to elect local 
Page  4
PNPM Rural - Isolated and Vulnerable Peoples Planning Framework - Disclosed July 21, 2010 
Page 
4
of 
9
representatives to work on the projects and assist in the development of sub-projects. The 
consultations are open to all community members but guidelines require special invitations be 
extended to representatives of marginalized groups (including the very poor, women, and 
indigenous groups), traditional/religious/ethnic leaders, NGOs, as well as village and sub-
district government officials. Forty percent of participants must be women.  
 
Since local community members will be planning and executing the sub-projects, they are 
expected to be either representatives of the IVPs communities or familiar with the group. 
Where IVPs are identified, efforts will be made to ensure that at least one local project 
representative is from the group and able to communicate easily with the group.   
 
Sub-district Facilitators will identify the presence and numbers of IVPs in the community and 
document this. Every sub-district is provided a community training grant that allows local 
facilitators to conduct training specifically tailored for IVPs. Training is done that addresses 
the specific challenges in working with such groups, for example, how to deal with groups 
that may be in conflict with the larger community, etc. 
 
2. 
Social Mapping Process: 
Undertaken at the sub-village and village levels, in this series of 
consultations the community creates baseline data for the sub-village that identifies local 
poverty characteristics using local terms/language and classifies all households as per the this 
criteria to better identify program target beneficiaries. The facilitator documents this baseline 
data of community-identified criteria and the poor households. The sub-village and village 
social map becomes a project document later used by the Verification Team (from outside the 
village) and the Project Facilitator. 
 
3.  
Sub-project Development: 
Consultations are held among groups (formal and informal) at 
the sub-village level, including IVPs, women, and the very poor, to identify causes of local 
poverty, medium term vision for the sub-village and village, and suggest sub-project 
solutions. Further consultations are held at the village level to select sub-projects for 
competition at the sub-district level. Consultations are undertaken in the local language. This 
data is included in the next phase of the process, the sub-project drafting phase. 
 
4. 
Sub-Project Drafting and Verification:
 Executed by community-elected representatives 
with support from the Sub-district Facilitator, three sub-project proposals are drafted and 
documentation prepared. Verification that all community members that will be impacted by 
the sub-project have been consulted. 
 
5. 
External Verification of Sub-Project: 
After an initial assessment by the Sub-District 
Facilitator, a team verifies the proposed sub-project, assessing quality of documentation, the 
level and quality of overall participation, including the participation of IVPs, in the 
identification of the priority and preparation of the sub-project plans. 
 
Special Program for Papua 
The full Papua program is summarized in the “social” analysis part of the PNPM III Rural Project 
Appraisal Document. This section will deal only with those issues relevant to safeguards.  
 
KDP has been active in Papua since its inception. As in other areas, the program in Papua has the 
goal of empowering villagers to undertake their own development through a process of village 
and kecamatan-wide meetings with the facilitation of consultants. Villages have undertaken the 
construction of infrastructure as well as group economic activities. Local governments have been 
eager to expand PNPM- Rural activities, funding annually since 2007 all sub-districts with block 
Page  5
PNPM Rural - Isolated and Vulnerable Peoples Planning Framework - Disclosed July 21, 2010 
Page 
5
of 
9
grants with over US$11,000 in every village in both Papua and West Papua (over 4,000).  
As noted previously, to ensure a longer-term flow of benefits to rural communities even after 
PNPM finishes, PNPM-Rural in Papua also includes a large training program for promising 
graduates from the indigenous communities, who will be trained for six months in civil 
engineering before joining PNPM. This training has been carried out two times and a third 
training is planned before the end of 2010. A similar training is also to be carried out soon for 
“Barefoot Agronomists”. Eight full-time coaches have already been assigned to Papua to provide 
the engineering students with operational oversight and practical supervision. Another program 
developed in partnership with the British Council that provides for extended training in social 
facilitation for Papuan facilitators has graduated its first 50 facilitators. 
 
Monitoring and Grievance Procedures 
 
Monitoring
Monitoring at the Village/Kecamatan Level 
During the consultation phase, communities must assess and document who exactly will be 
impacted by any proposed sub-project and must then determine whether or not to proceed and if 
the decision is to proceed identify and agree compensation. In preparation for proposing projects 
to the Inter-Village Meeting (MAD, or musyawarah antar desa) these documents are reviewed by 
project facilitators, village implementing bodies, representatives of village governments, and 
kecamatan level operations units (PJOK) that consist of government representatives from the 
kecamatan level. Any complaints or objections to the sub-project plan are documented.  If 
complaints or objections to the sub-project arise or appear in the sub-project documents, the first 
level of arbitration is at the village/kecamatan level. 
Sub-projects may not proceed until all 
objections have been resolved.
 The project mechanism provides for further arbitration at the 
district levels (further described below). Where IVPs are identified, the facilitators are required to 
document their participation in the project. Villages are required to evaluate PNPM Rural 
processes and activities at the end of each phase of the project cycle. 
 
Monitoring at the Kabupaten and Provincial Levels 
Kecamatan facilitators hold routine coordination meetings with their kecamatan government 
counterparts (PJOK) to discuss any problems arising during project implementation. In addition 
to these meetings, monthly coordination/review meetings are held at the kabupaten level and 
organized by the Kabupaten Coordination Team (PJOKab) for all kecamatan and kabupaten level 
program staff and facilitators, and district government staff involved in the project. Kecamatan-
level staff reports their project monitoring data (including participation rates among the 
community, specifically women, the poor, and IVPs) and any project implementation problems to 
the district. Furthermore, there are monthly coordination meetings at the provincial level, 
organized by the Provincial Coordination Team (PJOProv) for all kabupaten and provincial 
project staff and facilitators.  At the national level meetings are organized by the Ministry of 
Home Affairs Directorate General of Community and Village Empowerment (PMD). facilitated 
by the NMC.  The Kabupaten level PJOKab and the provincial working units (PJOProv), along 
with project staff, are responsible for operational activities, including possible impact on IVPs, 
with the executive at each level of government (camat at the kecamatan level; bupati at the 
kabupaten level; governor at the provincial level) also holding responsibility for project 
implementation. 
 
Monitoring by GOI, the NMC, and World Bank 
Page  6
PNPM Rural - Isolated and Vulnerable Peoples Planning Framework - Disclosed July 21, 2010 
Page 
6
of 
9
Regular supervision missions are undertaken by the Ministry of Home Affairs Directorate 
General of Community and Village Empowerment (PMD), NMC, and World Bank. Project 
management from the World Bank, PMD, and NMC undertake regular supervision of PNPM 
Rural, on average, 10 days per month at the provincial level. For the kabupaten and kecamatan 
levels of project implementation, the World Bank, PMD, and NMC undertake an average of 15 
days of supervision per month.  
 
Back to Office Reports (BTOR) by World Bank staff are drafted upon return from the field and 
compile the total input and recommendations from the World Bank, PMD and NMC teams. An 
Aide Memoire is drafted twice annually after joint supervision mission and presented to the 
project management unit at PMD and copied to all members of Tim Pengendali (Coordinating 
Ministry for People’s Welfare, National Planning Board, Ministry of Finance) and NMC. The 
Aide Memoire contains a section on Agreed Next Steps which documents recommendations and 
observations presented at the wrap-up meeting, identifies the agency responsible for follow-up, 
and a timeline for that follow-up to be undertaken and completed. Based on this, PMD delivers 
recommendations to all Governors and District Heads (Bupati) regarding implementation. Further 
disclosure of IVPs will come from documents available in line with the World Bank’s Access to 
Information Policy. 
 
Grievance Procedures
PNPM Rural’s scope demands a dynamic complaints handling mechanism that allows all 
stakeholders—community members, facilitators, government and all other stakeholders—every 
opportunity possible for filing complaints. The project actively requires socialization of 
complaints handling mechanisms at all consultations. All stakeholders have the opportunity to file 
anonymous complaints about the program as well as making their complaints in person.  
 
Anonymous Complaints Filing 
Available to stakeholders at all levels, anonymous grievances filing may be done via SMS, fax, 
direct mail, and email. The addresses for complaints handling must be posted publicly at 
kecamatan financial management units (UPK) and on information boards. These complaints are 
gathered at the provincial and national levels. Processing for the SMS complaints go straight into 
a
database housed at the National Management Consultants (NMC). 
 
The majority of complaints filed come via the SMS complaints handling mechanism and 
project consultants/facilitators. 
All grievances are documented and fed into a centralized 
complaints handling mechanism. Consultant reports are filed locally, and documented at the 
provincial and national levels. The project maintains a database of complaints received from all 
sources and a summary of these are posted each month on the PNPM Rural website 
(http://www.ppk.or.id/
). The project strives to resolve grievances at the local level, as much as 
possible. The service standard for dealing with standard complaints is two-three weeks. For more 
serious complaints, the service standard for dealing with complaints is maximum three months. If 
complaints have not been resolved during that time period they are automatically referred to the 
next level of project management for resolution. When necessary, problems are sent to the formal 
legal system. 
 
Complaints Handling at the Village, Kecamatan, and Kabupaten Levels 
In addition to the anonymous complaints handling described above, complaints may also be made 
to every level of project staff and local government representatives. These complaints are 
recorded as part of standard project documentation and reported up to the kabupaten and 
Page  7
PNPM Rural - Isolated and Vulnerable Peoples Planning Framework - Disclosed July 21, 2010 
Page 
7
of 
9
provincial levels, and are fed into the national complaints handling database. If complaints cannot 
be resolved at the village and kecamatan levels, they will be addressed at the kabupaten 
coordination meeting with project staff and kabupaten working unit (PJOKab).  Cases not 
resolved at this level are raised to the national level, via the province (PJOProv). 
 
National and Provincial Role in Complaints Handling 
There are staff members at the NMC dedicated to addressing complaints handling. There are also 
provincial complaints handling
 specialists at the Regional Management Consultants (RMC) 
that are responsible for following up on complaints and ensuring that they are handled 
adequately. Meetings are held monthly in every district to review project progress and problems, 
including issues of the participation of IVPs. The agenda for these monthly meetings includes a 
review of actions taken to address any complaints lodged and a review of whether the time taken 
to respond falls within the service standard. Local NGOs are contracted to monitor independently 
project implementation, in particular levels of transparency and participation. With regard to 
IVPs, PMD with assistance from the NMC has the responsibility for monitoring the treatment of 
IVPs in the project. Supervision missions by the PNPM Seretariat and its consultants in the 
Directorate General of Community and Village Empowerment (PMD) Ministry of Home Affairs, 
GOI, World Bank and NMC further monitor the involvement of IVPs.  
 
Project evaluation studies will include monitoring and evaluation of the impact of the project on 
IVPs. A qualitative study on marginalized groups will be finalized in mid-2010 and strongly 
inform future project policies. 
 
Reporting and Disclosures
Village level 
 
At the village level, the project processes include a mandatory series of village and inter-village 
meetings. One of the key agenda items is a review of project process and a discussion of 
problems and complaints as well as actions needed to resolve these issues. Village level 
facilitators, assisted by the kecamatan and kabupaten facilitators and local government disclose 
all project principles and procedures. As part of the PNPM Rural process the following 
information is disclosed:  
·
Participation levels among specific groups including the very poor, women, and IVPs; 
·
Results of village planning meetings;  
·
Objections to proposals and problems in implementation;  
·
Results of the Inter-Village Meeting to select sub-projects for funding;  
·
Sub-project progress including use of funds;  
·
Community maintenance commitments; and  
·
Mid-term village development ideas for PNPM Rural funds. 
 
Project information boards are available at the village and sub-district levels. The project requires 
that all information, including complaints, are disclosed. As mentioned above, all complaints are 
posted on the website and updated monthly by PMD with assistance by the NMC. More 
innovative methods are being used in a growing number of locations to discuss complaints, for 
example community radio stations.  
 
Kecamatan level 
At the kecamatan, sub-projects are verified and individual village sub-project proposals are 
disclosed to the larger community, including impacts on IVPs and the environment. Funding on 
Page  8
PNPM Rural - Isolated and Vulnerable Peoples Planning Framework - Disclosed July 21, 2010 
Page 
8
of 
9
sub-projects is announced. The kecamatan also verifies that the principles and procedures of the 
project were followed at the village level. Responsibility for kecamatan reporting is held by the 
project staff, village and kecamatan government representatives, and the kecamatan government 
working unit (PJOK). At the kecamatan level, it is confirmed that sub-project proposals meet 
project criteria: 
·
Of greater benefit to the poor (including women and IVPs) than to the majority of the 
community; 
·
Has a direct, positive impact on community welfare; 
·
Can be executed by the community; 
·
Supported by existing community resources; and 
·
Sustainable. 
 
Kabupaten and Provincial Level 
The kabupaten level project staff and kabupaten government working units (PJOKab) coordinate 
reporting from the local level where sub-projects take place to the provincial (PROProv) and 
national levels.  
 
National Level 
All problems documented at the village/kecamatan level are reported up to the district, province 
and up to Jakarta. Problems are also sent to the formal legal system, as necessary. 
 
Much national level disclosure takes places the project’s website, www.ppk.or.id
.
In addition to 
information about the project and other documents, the following information, documents, and 
disclosures can be found under the Handling Complaints Menu: 
·
Complaints handling 
o
Complaints and project problems and ongoing investigations into project issues 
o
Complaint handling procedures/policies 
o
Compiled Data and Documents on Complaints 
ƒ
List of cases 
ƒ
Total cases/source/perpetrator 
ƒ
Fraud cases 
ƒ
Legal Actions 
ƒ
Audit results 
ƒ
List of problem kecamatan 
Also available at www.ppk.or.id
are statistics on project progress and weekly monitoring 
information. 
 
Implementation of the IVPs Planning Framework
 
Strong attention is paid to the participation and inclusion of all groups within the community, in 
particular to Isolated and Vulnerable Peoples, as part of the project process and procedures. The 
IVPs Framework is built into the PNPM Rural operational process and is described in the Project 
Manual, which includes detailed procedures and protocols in dealing with IVPs. The PNPM 
operational procedures and protocols are updated to reflect lessons learned. The IVP planning 
framework, as mentioned above, is implemented by project staff and local government working 
units (PJOK, PJOKab, PJOProv). 
 
A
study on marginalized groups within the project is being completed in mid 2010. The results of 
this study will be used to inform revisions to project operations, including project approaches, 
procedures, and training of facilitators.  
 
Page  9
PNPM Rural - Isolated and Vulnerable Peoples Planning Framework - Disclosed July 21, 2010 
Page 
9
of 
9
Institutional Arrangements and Capacity Building 
 
The PNPM Secretariat within the Directorate General of Community and Village Empowerment 
(PMD) Ministry of Home Affairs at the national level, the provincial level coordination teams, 
and the kabupaten coordination teams, with assistance of consultant management teams at the 
respective levels will be responsible to ensure that IVPs are handled properly in accordance with 
this framework as specified in detail in the PTO. At the lower level, the project staff at the 
kecamatan and village levels has the same responsibility with these three teams for their 
respective project area.  Facilitators receive both pre-service and annual refresher training that 
focuses on increasing the capacity of facilitators to lead more effectively the participatory 
planning process, including the participation of IVPs. While the capacity level of facilitators to 
deal with IVPs is adequate (as demonstrated by case studies mentioned above), in the future, the 
project will continuously and regularly train facilitators and increase training for project 
management staff at all government levels in social safeguards issues, and to deal specifically 
with IVPs in the participatory planning process.   Additional capacity building takes place at 
monthly coordination meetings that have been expanded to allow for in-service training. As 
mentioned above, a study on marginalized groups within PNPM Rural is being completed in mid 
2010. Lessons learned from this study will be folded into training for facilitators. 
 
 
