Page  1
PNPM Rural- Environmental Management Framework 
–
Disclosed July 21, 2010  
1 of 11 
Safeguard Policy 
 
INDONESIA: 
Third
 National Program for Community Empowerment in Rural Areas 
Environmental Management Framework 
 
Introduction:
PNPM Rural III is the most recent in a series of projects that began with the Kecamatan Development 
Project (KDP) and have been cited as a model for the development of projects of this nature. Project 
methodology benefits from a continual refinement to incorporate lessons of experience and best practice 
and reflects a pool of direct experience extending back over more than a decade in the Indonesian context 
with PNPM Rural projects I and II, and grant-funded activities that use the PNPM Rural planning and 
implementation processes, in particular PNPM Generasi Sehat dan Cerdas (PNPM – A Bright and 
Healthy Generation) and PNPM Green.  
 
The Bank has assessed this project as category B. 
 
The objective of the Project is that villagers in PNPM rural locations benefit from improved socio-
economic and local governance conditions. Negative impacts may include: (1) air pollution from vehicles, 
(2) flooding if bridges are improperly sited, (3) an increase in air-borne dust, (4) noise pollution, (5) 
increased erosion, and (6) diverting the flow of rainwater.  
 
In overview five specific mitigation methods are routinely applied; (1) selecting an alignment that reduces 
environmental disturbances; (2) utilizing civil works and vegetation treatments to limit negative impact; 
(3) ensuring maintenance and repairs are made in a timely fashion; (4) using vegetation to stabilize slopes 
and prevent erosion; and (5) using special treatments, such as drains, to overcome problems with ground 
water. 
 
This Annex outlines the procedures put in place to ensure that all project activities are assessed and that 
potential environmental issues are identified and addressed before an activity with the potential to 
negatively impact on the environment is commenced.  
 
Where it is assessed that the merits of activity indicate an activity should proceed, even though a negative 
impact may result, this framework outlines the standard operating procedures that have been incorporated 
in PNPM Rural III to minimize and offset those negative impacts.   
 
The three basic principles guiding project design and this environmental framework are: 
 
1.  Proposals should avoid or minimize negative environmental impacts, and in each case viable 
alternatives with no or minimal negative impact will have been explored. 
2.  Before any activity where a potential negative environmental impact has been identified can 
proceed past the planning stage it must be accompanied by a plan to mitigate the negative impact. 
3. 
Any proposed activities should fit into the General Spatial Plan and avoid areas designated by the 
Ministry of Environment. 
 
PNPM Rural III follows official Indonesian government policy in regard to environmental management 
and protection. The Indonesian Environmental Law No. 32 of 2009 governs environmental management 
in general and covers all sectors.  Government Regulation 27 of 1999 established the required 
methodologies for environmental impact analyses (or AMDAL in Indonesian), and Ministry of 
Environment Regulation No. 8 of 2006, further provides guidance on the AMDAL process. On the basis 
E2388 v2
Page  2
PNPM Rural- Environmental Management Framework 
–
Disclosed July 21, 2010  
2 of 11 
of these Regulations planned development activities are divided into three classes.  The first class covers 
those activities that clearly have a large and significant adverse impact that are sensitive, diverse or 
unprecedented, and as a consequence require a formal environmental impact analysis.  The second class 
covers those activities with less adverse impact and these impacts are site specific and in most cases 
mitigatory measures can be designed more readily that the first category, and for these an environmental 
management plan is required. Lastly, the third class covers those activities with relatively minor or no 
adverse environmental impacts and for these an explicit impact analysis is not required.  A review of the 
scale and nature of activities proposed under PNPM III identifies that in line with the Decree of the 
Minister for the Environment No. 11 of 2006 for 
Activities Obligated to be Supported by Environmental 
Impact Analysis
,
the type and size of activities undertaken by PNPM Rural III mainly fall into the third 
class where due to the very small scale of investments and construction activities supported they do not 
require a formal impact analysis and can follow standard operating procedures issued by sectors as 
available. 
 
PNPM Rural III Environmental Impact Analysis:
The first step in the PNPM review was to conduct a thorough review of experience under the Kecamatan 
Development Project (KDP).  
 
A
total of 14,175 small-scale infrastructure projects were financed in just the third year of the first KDP 
project. Since there were no technical changes to the design manuals in later years, these are considered to 
be representative of investments in all years. The infrastructure investments have been classified into one 
of ten infrastructure development types and the investment costs tabulated.  The summary data are shown 
in the Table 1 below which the following conclusions can be drawn: 
 
·
of
the ten categories of development, only five are of a type which would raise any potential 
concern from an environmental point of view, namely; roads, irrigation, bridges, water supply 
and wharves; and 
·
the average scale of construction was extremely small.    
 
For example, the average road investment financed development of only 1.2 kilometers of new road at a 
cost of about 36.6 million rupiah (US$ 4,100) per kilometer.  Most of the irrigation development involved 
rehabilitation of small schemes although there was some new construction as well.  To provide some 
perspective, for new construction, the average investment of around 25.3 million rupiah (US$2,850) 
would finance only five or six hectares of new, low technology irrigation command.  The other forms of 
development were similar: bridges include small scale steel girder bridges with wooden decks, concrete 
bridges, wooden bridges, and suspension bridges; water supplies come from a variety of sources, but 
mostly come from springs and dug wells.  Most distribution systems are gravity fed, but some utilize 
electrical or diesel pumps.   
 
Table I: Sample Cases of Environmental Impact in KDP 
 
Location Activity 
Environmental 
Impact 
Comment 
Kecamatan 
Sosopan, South 
Tapanuli, North 
Sumatra 
Irrigation project Aek 
Bustak 
Caused downstream areas 
to suffer drought from 
lack of flow 
Incorporate standard 
guideline requiring design 
engineer to check effects of 
incremental water demand on 
downstream users.   
Lancap Jae, 
Kecamatan 
Use of heavy equipment 
in constructing a new 
Disturbed wildlife in the 
surrounding forest
Largely unavoidable and only 
of short term effect.  No 
Page  3
PNPM Rural- Environmental Management Framework 
–
Disclosed July 21, 2010  
3 of 11 
Arse 
road 
surrounding forest 
special safeguards 
recommended 
Riau province 
Construction of a road 
leading to protected 
forests 
Became a link in the 
transportation of illegal 
logging 
Potentially significant but 
difficult problem to deal with.  
One option might be to 
include a prohibition of such 
investments in the negative 
list. 
Tana Toraja, 
South 
Sulawesi 
Culverts in general built 
without protective 
structures including 
wing walls, drop 
structures, and lined 
discharge channels. 
In relatively flat areas 
the uncontrolled 
discharge damaged field 
or orchards. 
In mountainous areas led 
to landslides on the side 
slopes of the road. 
Failure to follow good design 
principles.  Need to find out 
why communities or their 
engineering advisers were not 
applying standard design 
safeguards. 
Cilacap, 
Central Java 
Construction of a 
bridge with a 
reduction in the 
wetted perimeter of 
the channel 
Reduction in flow area 
caused the stream to 
overflow, causing 
damage to productive 
rice fields. 
Failure to follow good design 
principles.  Need to find out 
why communities or their 
engineering advisers were not 
applying standard design 
safeguards. 
The review of KDP environmental impact and safeguards illustrated three key facts: 
 
·
the basic environmental impact potential of investments supported through the project is low so 
the general strategy followed under KDP remains relevant; 
·
nevertheless, the desk and field reviews suggested that a small number of environmental issues 
were encountered. Furthermore, with block grants doubling in size there is some potential for 
increased impacts should more villages cooperate on large investments (even though subproject 
maximum sizes will remain unchanged from KDP).  
·
most of the issues had their origin in apparent failures to follow best civil engineering practice 
and it is likely that these can be addressed through continued training and supervision of 
engineering staff providing technical advice to participating kabupatens; the small number of 
environmental complaints made to the KDP complaints unit may be a reflection of the very low 
adverse impact potentials of investments supported under the project but it also could be a 
reflection of lack of interest in environmental issues on the part of beneficiaries or a reluctance to 
report problems upwards.  
 
These three items have been addressed in the design of PNPM Rural.  It has been made clear that the 
national government, the donor, and the national consultants place high importance on attention to the 
environment. It is the responsibility of the kecamatan facilitators to explain the basis for this to the 
villages and to monitor implementation.  Sanctions are imposed where breaches are identified, for 
example causing environmental damage is sufficient cause to cancel an activity.  Not paying attention to 
the environment is sufficient cause to have the facilitator replaced.   
 
This attention to the environment is equally important at the kabupaten level, where the kabupaten 
consultants and especially the kabupaten engineering consultant must enforce environmental standards. In 
addition, the project's negative list (refer to Annex 1) is extensively announced and explained and 
reflected in the project's legal documents. 
Page  4
PNPM Rural- Environmental Management Framework 
–
Disclosed July 21, 2010  
4 of 11 
 
Reluctance to report problems is widespread in most projects.  Problems will be reported faithfully only if 
several conditions are met: 
 
·
There are no negative effects from reporting problems 
·
There are positive results from reporting problems, i.e. help is given 
·
There are negative effects from not reporting problems 
 
The design of PNPM Rural attempts to address all three of these conditions.  Reporting of problems is a 
major point in the performance evaluation system.  Problems that are reported are discussed and handled 
at monthly meetings, and doing this is a major point in the performance evaluation of kabupaten 
consultants.  The first item is connected with the attitude of senior consultants, government officials, and 
donor representatives when confronted with reported problems.  They should perceive these reports as 
evidence that the system is working and as opportunities to improve performance in the field.   
 
Success in the field depends upon the discipline of project actors meeting these three conditions, which is 
a
task for senior management. A review of the effectiveness of these measures will be included in the 
first-year evaluation and measures for correction will be agreed with the Bank prior to the approval of the 
second year program. 
 
Supported by donor-grants, PNPM Rural will also be piloting new approaches for community based 
environment work in the fragile upland areas of Sumatra and Sulawesi. These “green” programs cover 
watershed management, renewable resource energy, and environmental education. Detailed design 
documents are in the project files. They include the direct involvement of experienced green NGOs in 
promoting environmental awareness and community based resource management.  Fifty percent of a core 
Bank environment specialist provides oversight and support to these programs. 
 
Lessons incorporated in the PNPM Rural III design:
Even though exempt from formal studies, (Minister for the Environment Decree No. 11 of 2006 for 
Activities Obligated to be Supported by Environmental Impact Analysis
,
designers of PNPM Rural 
infrastructure are required to consider environmental effects.  The designer is a graduate civil engineer 
who works with the local communities assisted by a village technical facilitator.  In analyzing 
environmental effects, the designer must be capable of imagining all effects that might arise as a result of 
the activity.   
 
Environmental effects are defined as those changes that arise directly as a result of development activities, 
both positive and negative.  The types of problems encountered are determined based on the experience of 
experts, the field experience of the designer, interviews, literature, and simulations.  Analyses on PNPM 
Rural III investigate concerns that may occur during construction and those which may occur after 
construction is complete and during operations. 
 
An example of environmental effects for a rural road can be seen in the table below, according to types of 
impact: 
 
MATRIX I Possible Environmental Impacts of a Rural Road 
 
Category 1: Serious but local problems  
Water flow concentration 
Landslides 
Category 2: Serious negative impact on 
environment 
Sale of land to outsiders 
Page  5
PNPM Rural- Environmental Management Framework 
–
Disclosed July 21, 2010  
5 of 11 
Loss of productive land due to landslides 
Deforestation 
Increased sediment load due to road erosion 
Category 3: Negative effects of slight 
probability or less important impact 
 
Air pollution from vehicles 
Flooding due to improper sitting of bridge 
Increase in airborne dust 
Increase in criminal activity in the village 
Noise pollution 
Category 4: Unclear effects, positive or negative 
 
Increase in use of chemical fertilizers and 
pesticides 
Establishment of small industries that pollute 
Increased intensity in farming or livestock 
Residents seek employment outside the village 
Moving houses to roadside 
Outsiders move into the village 
Category 5: Clearly positive impact 
 
Reduction in erosion from agricultural land 
due to application of improved technologies 
Availability of construction materials in 
village 
Increase in communication, including access 
to health and education facilities 
Category 6: Negative impact, but clearly 
acceptable to the local community 
Traffic accidents 
Loss of land required for road widening 
From the above Matrix it can be seen that categories 1, 2, and 4 require special attention.  Category 1 
includes problems of short-term impact even though the effects might be widespread.  These are handled 
through the application of standardized design and operational procedures which are implemented right 
across the project.  This is also the case with deforestation and increased sediment from Category 2. 
 
The determination of negative effects requires experience, coupled with the use of input from the various 
existing manuals.  Negative environmental effects for roads and bridges, for example, arise especially 
from the disturbances of unstable soils that are sensitive to landslides or from changes in the flow of 
water.  Excavation and embankment frequently result in landslides or erosion.  Landslides bring with 
them three kinds of negative impact 
 
·
endangering agricultural land or housing 
·
increasing erosion because the soils are not compact 
·
diverting the flow of rain water 
 
Erosion of roadsides can have large negative impact if the soil is transported to productive land or if the 
soil is carried in suspension to a reservoir, as this will reduce its storage capacity.  At the same time, both 
landslides and serious erosion will result in unsightly scars near the road.  Changes in watercourses can 
destroy productive lands or irrigation canals, as well as disturb the road itself. 
 
There are four steps in the process of reducing environmental damage. 
 
·
Identifying potential dangers; 
·
Selecting an alignment that reduces environmental disturbances; 
·
Utilizing civil works and vegetative treatments to limit negative impacts; and 
·
Undertaking maintenance and repairs in a timely fashion. 
 
Page  6
PNPM Rural- Environmental Management Framework 
–
Disclosed July 21, 2010  
6 of 11 
The first two are the most efficient, and they are the responsibility of the surveyor and designer.  A good 
survey can truly reduce or eliminate many environmental problems.  This is emphasized in pre-service 
training. 
 
Roads are often located in critical lands that are sensitive to erosion and landslides, where soil types and 
climate combine to multiply risks.  The designer must consider a variety of treatments to build 
infrastructure that will not harm the environment while still bringing sustainable benefits.  To analyze the 
environmental effects one needs to record information about three things, as follows: 
 
Treatments necessary
 to overcome environmental problems, include:  
 
·
Changing the alignment to reduce steep grades 
·
Moving houses 
·
Building civil works to stabilize side slopes 
·
Using vegetative treatments to stabilize side slopes or prevent erosion 
·
Using special treatments to overcome the problem of ground water, such as drains 
 
Negative environmental effects 
that might still exist after construction include: 
 
·
Side slopes that are unstable and endanger housing or agricultural land 
·
Excavation that results in the stockpiling of unstable soil 
·
Side slopes that are left bare, without any vegetative cover 
·
The muddying of rivers as a result of construction 
·
Changes in the course of a stream, which could cause flooding, erosion, or sedimentation 
·
Changes in water flow that damage productive land 
·
An increase in erosion and sediment as the result of uncontrolled discharge from ditches or 
culverts 
·
The cutting down of the forest 
·
Socioeconomic problems 
that arise as the result of constructing a bridge or road.   
 
These problems include the sacrifice of productive lands or other land holdings.  If other problems arise, 
it is necessary to record any information that need to be considered about the type and extent of the 
problem. 
 
For water supply projects or sanitation projects, there is always the possibility of increasing 
contamination, for example a water source contaminated by surface water entering from outside, or 
ground water contaminated by a poorly designed or constructed waste control system.  One also must 
consider the formation of an operations and maintenance committee for water or sanitation projects. 
 
PNPM Rural III Environment Impact Control Strategy
The method used to ensure that proper attention is paid to environmental problems is a combination of 
standard checklists and a special checklist for the environment (please see attached Form 22) 
 
For each type of subproject, a technical standard is included in project manuals, and these include 
considerations of environmental effects.  For example,  
 
·
The magnitude of the grade of a road and the steepness of the cross-slope perpendicular to the 
road are limited.   
Page  7
PNPM Rural- Environmental Management Framework 
–
Disclosed July 21, 2010  
7 of 11 
·
Drainage for the road must be installed, together with culverts to discharge water safely.    
·
Leeching fields from latrines have to be located at least ten meters from any water supply, and 
located downstream as groundwater flows.   
·
Water supplies cannot be located near any potential source of contamination. 
 
The completion of the environmental format is an obligatory part of the planning process.  Each type of 
project is checked for the various treatments that must be performed on it to avoid or repair environmental 
problems.   
 
At any point during construction, the same form is brought out to the field and reviewed, at a time when it 
is still feasible to easily repair deficiencies.  At the end of construction, the form is reviewed again. The 
kabupaten engineering consultant is responsible for reviewing all infrastructure designs on PNPM Rural 
projects in the kabupaten.  He or she will reject any design not accompanied by a completed 
environmental form and may also request clarification for any feature where a problem is anticipated.  
 
One other element of handling environmental problems is the use of technical inspection forms, which 
exist for many types of subprojects.  Among the items inspected are those dealing with aspects of 
environmental impact, such as for roads where the forms include slope protection, drainage ditches, and 
shoulders.  These forms are filled out incidentally by anyone who inspects the infrastructure. 
 
PNPM Rural III also has a “Negative List” based on cases from past experience, which identifies activity 
clusters which may present specific environmental impacts and which, as a result, require special 
screening, for example:  
·
Fisheries 
·
Herbicides and pesticides 
·
Tobacco and tobacco products 
·
Ozone depleting substances 
·
Asbestos 
·
Sub-projects that may produce liquid or gaseous emissions 
·
Hazardous materials or waste 
·
Logging 
·
Mining 
·
Excavation of coral or reefs 
·
Development on protected areas 
 
The full negative list can be seen in Attachment 1. 
 
Reporting and Disclosure 
 
Facilitators and NMC staff will aggregate and review environmental reports and flag them in their 
quarterly reports.  The project manual will include a matrix of likely environmental impacts and steps 
with which to address them.  An experienced environmental consultant will be hired to summarize 
progress and monitor and measure the impact of the project on the environment as part of the project 
performance evaluation. The consultant will give input into a summary of findings on sub-
projects’ 
environmental practices, including best practices to replicate as well as lessons learned and how to 
mitigate them, that will be posted on the project website 
www.ppk.or.id
.
Further disclosure of 
environmental impacts will come from documents available in line with the World Bank's Access to 
Information Policy. 
 
Page  8
PNPM Rural- Environmental Management Framework 
–
Disclosed July 21, 2010  
8 of 11 
 
Implementation of the Environmental Management Framework 
 
The Environmental Management Framework is built into the PNPM Rural operational process and is 
described in the Project Manual, which includes detailed procedures and protocols and forms (Attachment 
2). The PNPM operational procedures and protocols are updated to reflect lessons learned. 
Page  9
PNPM Rural- Environmental Management Framework 
–
Disclosed July 21, 2010  
9 of 11 
 
Attachment 1: Negative List
 
Excludes to finance expenditures pertaining to or involving:  
(a) a military or paramilitary purpose;  
(b) civil works for government administration or religious purposes;  
(c) the manufacture or use of environmentally hazardous goods (including asbestos, pesticides and 
herbicides), arms or drugs;  
(d) the manufacture or use of dynamite;  
(e) the financing of government salaries;  
(f) the production, processing, handling, storage or sale of tobacco or products containing tobacco;  
(g) activities within a nature reserve or any other area designated by the Borrower for the management 
and/or the protection of biodiversity, except with the prior written approval of the Borrower’s agency 
responsible for the management and/or protection of such area;  
(h) mining or excavation of live coral;  
(i) water resources development on rivers which flow into or out of another country;  
(j) alterations to river courses;  
(k) land reclamation covering an area in excess of 50 hectares;  
(l) new irrigation schemes covering an area in excess of 50 hectares;  
(m) the construction of water retaining or storage structures of a capacity greater than 10,000 cubic 
meters; or  
(n) the provision of goods, works or services, directly or through intermediaries, by suppliers or 
contractors, as the case may be, who have been declared ineligible to participate in the procurement of 
any Bank-financed or Bank-financed contract, whether indefinitely or for a stated period of time, as a 
result of a decision of the Bank, and in accordance with the terms of the decision; or  
(o) to finance land acquisition
Page  10
PNPM Rural- Environmental Management Framework 
–
Disclosed July 21, 2010  
10 of 11 
 
Attachment 2: Form 22 
 
Handling Negative Impacts on the Environment 
 
Village          : 
 
 
Type of Sub-
project   
:
Kecamatan   : 
 
 
Designed by 
: 
Kabupaten    : 
 
 
Date                
: 
Please describe 2 kinds of negative environmental impacts that have the potential to cause greatest loss to 
the community: 
1. Please describe the primary negative impact that may arise as a result of this project: 
State the exact measures that will be taken to resolve this issue or mitigate against potential impacts. 
 
2. Please describe the second negative impact that may arise as a result of this project: 
State the exact measures that will be taken to resolve this issue or mitigate against these impacts. 
 
Page  11
PNPM Rural- Environmental Management Framework 
–
Disclosed July 21, 2010  
11 of 11 
Please describe two kinds of negative environmental impacts are mostly likely to arise as a result of this 
project: 
1. Please describe the primary negative impact that may arise as a result of this project: 
State the exact measures that will be taken to resolve this issue or mitigate against these impacts. 
 
2. Please describe the second negative impact that may arise as a result of this project: 
State the exact measures that will be taken to resolve this issue or mitigate against these impacts. 
 
