기


﻿i 11f
CREDIT NUMBER 917 BU
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 1, 1979, between REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATI04AL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Se,1--tion 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Condition's)
Section 1.02.   Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the term "sub-project" means any specific study or project
of technical assistance to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit, as described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva
lent to two million five hundred thousand dollars ($2,500,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association, for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.


﻿-2-
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the goods and services (other than advisers ' and consul-
tants' services) for the Project to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit shall be procured in accordance with the
Borrower's normal procurement procedures.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1982
or such later date as the Association shall establish.       The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each April 15
and October 15 commencing October 15, 1989, and ending April 15,
2029 each installment to and including the installment payable
on April 15, 1999, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the Gen-
eral Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
and Other Covenants
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project
through its Ministry of Planning with due diligence and efficiency
and in conformity with appropriate administrative and financial
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, serTices and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. The purposes and scope of each sub-project, the
methods of the implementation thereof and the specific allocation
thereto of proceeds of the Credit shall be determined by agreement
between the Borrower and the Association.


﻿-3-
Section 3.03. (a) For the purpose of assisting the Borrower
in carrying out each sub-project, the Borrower shall employ
advisers or consultarts whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Associ-
ation.
(b) The Borrower shall appoint counterpart personnel to the
advisers and consultants to be empioyed pursuant to paragraph (a)
-f this Section, as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the
Association in respect of each sub-project.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall apply the proceeds of the
Credit in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement exclu-
sively to expenditures on the Project.
Section 3.05. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the
Project.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall cause its Ministry of Plan-
ning to prepare and furnish to the Association for its approval,
not later than December 31, 1980, detailed proposals for the use
of the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Asso-
ciation, promptly upon their preparation, copies of the documents
prepared, in respect of Part (ii) of the Project, by the advisers
and consultants to be employed pursuant to Section 3.03 (a) of
this Agreement, including reports and drafts thereof, in such
number as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower and the Association shall from time to
time exchange views with respect to the evaluation and implemen-
tation of the recommendations and other conclusions contained
in the documents referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section.
.  (c) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and proce-
dures adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Association's accredited representatives to inspect
any records and documents relevant to the Project, including the
records and documents which the consultants and advisers employed


﻿by the Borrower shall be required to keep for the purposes of
the Project; and (iii) shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association at regular intervals all such information as the
Association. shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its
cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it,
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Bor rwer
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish t6 the
Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by the Borrower and the Association of their
respective obligations under the Development Credit Agreement and
the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit.
Section 3.08. (a) The Borrower shall establish, for each sub-
project, arrangements and procedures, satisfactory to the Associa-
tion, for selecting services, equipment and supplies and directing
their use for such sub-project, supervising and directing the
work of the advisers or consultants employed therefor, recommend-
ing modifications of the advisers' or consultants' terms of refer-
ence or other terms and conditions of employment, and reviewing
the reports and recommendations of such advisers or consultants.
(b) The Borrower shall take all measures necessary to
facilitate the work of the advisers or consultants to be employed
pursuant to Section 3.03 (a) of this Agreement, cooperate fully
with them in the performance of their services, and make available
to them all such information as shall be necessary or useful for
the successful execution of the Project.
(c) The Borrower shall not, without the prior approval of
the Association: (i) amend or waive any of the terms and condi-
tions of employment (including the terms of reference) of the
advisers and consultants to be employed pursuant to Section 3.03
(a) of this Agreement for any sub-project; (ii) consent t. any
material extension of the time specified for the performance of
their tasks or any approval of sub-contractors or modification
thereof, or substitution of personnel of such consultants; or
(iii) suspend payments under, or terminate any contract with such
consultants or advisers.
VA


﻿-5-
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with con-
sistently maintained appropriate accounting practices the opera-
tions, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of
the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any sub-project.
ARTICLE IV
Termination
Section 4.01. "The date September 5, 1979, is hereby speci-
fied'for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 5.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministere des Finances
Botte Postale 1830
Bujumbura, Burundi
Cable address:                    Telex:
MINFIN                             MINAFFEXT 65 Buja
-Bujumbura, Burundi
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
By Is/ Clement Sambira
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By Is/ W. Wapenhans
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa
Ir
J,I
"AI


﻿-7-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) Salaries and                1,310,000        100% of foreign
other emoluments                            expenditures
of advisers
(2) Consultants'                  940,000        100% of foreign
services                                    expenditures
(3) Training and                  150,000        100% of foreign
scholarships                                expenditures
(4) Equipment and                  50,000        100% of foreign
vehicles                                    expenditures
and 80% of local
expenditures
(5) Unallocated                    50,000
TOTAL             2,500,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.


﻿-8-
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or stipply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of, payments made for expen-
ditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that
the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Association are not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii)
if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such expen-
ditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category may
continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.


﻿19
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project ie designed to strengthen the Bo rower's planning
and project implementation capacity; it consists in the folloving:
(i) strengthening the Borrower's planning and project preparation
capacity utilizing about 16 man-years of advisory services; (ii)
provision of about 140 man-months of consultancy services for:
(A) carrying out pre-investment and feasibility studies and
preparing projects; and (B) conducting studies related to agricul-
tural credit, marketing of industrial and agriculturalproducts,
establishment of artisan centers and such other subjects as the
Borrower and the Association shall determine; and (iii) training
and provision of scholarships in the fields. of statistics, plan-
ning, and project<preparation and analysis.
VI1
*                     *             *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 1982.
4
4.
År


