 IEG
                                                                                             Report Number: ICRR14770

                 ICR Review
                 Independent Evaluation Group




      1. Project Data:                                       Date Posted: 06/27/2015

               Country: Nicaragua
             Project ID: P083952                                                 Appraisal              Actual
         Project Name: Fourth Roads                Project Costs (US$M):                     69.9                123.1
                         Rehabilitation And
                         Maintenance Project
  L/C Number:                                        Loan/Credit (US$M):                       60                101.0
      Sector Board:      Transport                   Cofinancing (US$M):                        0                    0

          Cofinanciers:                                 Board Approval Date :                              06/08/2006
                                                                Closing Date:           12/31/2011         09/30/2014
        Sector(s):        Rural and Inter-Urban Roads and Highways (89%); Central government administration (11%)
        Theme(s):         Infrastructure services for private sector development (40%); Rural services and
                          infrastructure (40%); Micro; Small and Medium Enterprise support (20%)

Prepared by:              Reviewed by:           ICR Review                 Group:
                                                 Coordinator:
Kavita Mathur             Robert Mark Lacey      Christopher David         IEGPS1
                                                 Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:

The Project Development Objectives (PDO) were to: (a) improve the Recipient’s transport infrastructure
along selected main road corridors; (b) improve access to productive zones and to rural communities; and
(c) ensure the sustainability of the road improvements carried out under the project (Financing
Agreement, Schedule 1 page 5).
According to the Project Appraisal Document (PAD, page 6), the overall objective of the project was to
support the Government of Nicaragua's broad based economic growth and poverty reduction plan by
relieving transportation bottlenecks that currently hinder economic growth and private sector investment.
The specific objectives were to support economic growth by: (i) expanding and complementing the
previous focus on trunk roads by improving a connecting network of secondary and rural roads ; (ii)
helping ensure the sustainability of the road improvements, through strengthening of maintenance
practices, and (iii) institution building and technical development in the Ministry of Transport and
Infrastructure and the Road Maintenance Fund (PAD page 6).
The PDOs from the Credit Agreement will be used for this evaluation.

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
Yes
 If yes, did the Board approve the revised objectives/key associated outcome targets?
No
c. Components:

Original Components
Component 1: Road Rehabilitation and Improvement (appraisal cost US$10.13 million, actual cost
US$13.69 million). This component financed the rehabilitation and improvement of the following road
segments: Diriamba-La Boquita-Casares (32 km) principal road network; La Virgen-San Juan del Sur (19
km) secondary trunk road in Zones I, II, and IV.
Component 2: Rural Transport Improvement (appraisal cost US$41.87 million, actual cost US$86.73
million). This component included an adoquin stabilization program for approximately 320 km of
secondary and tertiary rural roads located mainly in Production Zones I, III, and IV.
Component 3: Road Maintenance (appraisal cost US$7.64 million, actual cost US$12.26 million). This
component included provisions for periodic (US$3.05 million) and maintenance (US$4.59 million)
contracts. It was expected that four additional micro-enterprises would be formed, for a total of 37
micro-enterprises, in order to cover the maintenance of 2,400 km of secondary trunk and/or tertiary roads.
Component 4: Studies, Goods, Technical Assistance, Training, and Consultancy Services (appraisal
cost US$7.75 million, actual cost US$10.43 million). This component included consultancy services for
project supervision, financial audits, feasibility studies, preparation and updating of detailed engineering.
It would provide training and institutional strengthening to various Ministry of Transport and
Infrastructure (MTI) units for planning, road safety, environmental, and social aspects; and to the Road
Maintenance Fund staff for micro-enterprise management. The component would contribute to network
development by helping to improve the planning and programming of the Pavement Management System
developed by the MTI’s Planning Unit.
Revised Components
Components 2, 3, and 4 were revised at the time of Additional Financing (AF), approved by the Board of
Directors of the World Bank on June 1, 2010. As a result, the amended components were as follows:
Component 2: Rural Transport Improvement (US$81.44 million). Implementation of restoration
works for gravel or adoquin (concrete cobblestone) stabilization standards on approximately 320
kilometers of secondary and tertiary rural roads, all within the existing right of way. Due to cost overruns,
the cost of this component increased and only 198 km could be stabilized with the financing allocated
under the original project. Additional resources were allocated under the AF to this component to
complete the remaining roads out of originally planned 320 km.
Component 3: Road Routine and Periodic Maintenance (US$13.84 million): (i) routine maintenance
on approximately 2,700 kilometers of trunk, secondary, and/or tertiary roads; and (ii) periodic
maintenance on an additional 47 kilometers of selected main roads, in order to meet the established
periodic maintenance target of 80 kilometers of selected main roads, all within the existing right of way.
Component 4: Studies, Goods, Technical Assistance, Training, and Consultancy Services, as needed
(US$7.58 million):
a) Monitoring the performance of project components; the management and supervision of civil works
contracts; the design and implementation of training programs, technical audits, surveys on traffic origin
and destination, transport sector reviews; building of the MTI’s capacity for technical, social, and
environmental analysis; holding of workshops on road network decentralization; design and
implementation of reforms to vehicle overloading regulations; building the capacity of the Road
Maintenance Fund (FOMAV) for road maintenance management; and preparation of the implementation
completion report on the project.
b) Design and supervision of the overall road maintenance program by contractors, including, inter alia:
(a) training for: (i) the staff of the MTI and FOMAV; and (ii) the micro-enterprises, as required; and (b)
the operation of FOMAV, including the design of promotional activities.
c) The improvement of the MTI’s planning and programming capacity, including the integration of
environmental and social practices into the planning cycle.
d) The preparation of feasibility studies and detailed engineering for road rehabilitation, improvement,
and maintenance.

d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:

Project Costs: The actual cost of the project was US$123.1 million compared to the appraisal estimate of
US$115.3 million.
Financing: The original credit amount was US$60.0 million. On June 1, 2010, the project received
US$39.3 million in Additional Financing (AF) to cover the financing gap due to the increase in
construction costs caused by worldwide increase in the price of oil and other commodities. The AF was in
the form, of an IDA grant for US$31.8 million and an IDA credit of US$7.5 million. The total actual
financing was US$101.0 million, and US$2.7 million was cancelled.
Borrower Contribution: At appraisal, the Borrower committed US$9.9 million. The actual Borrower
contribution was US$22.1 million.
Dates: The project closed two years and nine months behind schedule. The project closing date was
extended thrice:
First, from December 31, 2011 to December 31, 2012. The ICR does not report on the reasons for
extension.
Second, from December 31, 2012 to June 30, 2014 due to the delays in the procurement of contractor for
the road construction works on the Nueva Guinea – Naciones Unidas section financed under the AF; and
Third, from June 30, 2014 to September 30, 2014 to allow three additional months for using an
uncommitted US$2.3 million to procure adoquines (concrete cobblestones) to be used on existing project
sites and to procure vehicles for supervision of works.

3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:
Relevance of Objectives is rated High.
The project objectives are relevant to the second strategic area of the Bank's Country Partnership Strategy
(FY 13-17), which aims at raising incomes by enhancing competitiveness and diversifying exports. Under
this, the Bank would continue to support the rural roads sector, improve road management framework,
and increase the share of roads in good condition.
The project objectives were consistent with the 2005 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) under the
"Productive and Social Public Infrastructure" area, especially in the targets related to the sustainability of
maintenance and improving rural access.
Improving road access for rural areas continue to be part of the Government's poverty alleviation strategy.
The Adoquines Community Modules (MCA) modules* would not only enhance mobility and
accessibility of rural populations but also contribute to the generation of employment opportunities .
The Additional Financing (AF) for the project was included under the Progress Report on the World Bank
Group’s 2009 Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) under Pillar II (pro-poor investment in delivery of
basic services).
*MCA modules are local entities formed under the leadership of local mayors, with each MCA staffed by a board of five
directors to perform a specific road-upgrading task. MCAs join together and use economies of scale to hire an earthworks
contractor and a cobblestone supplier. Individually, each MCA hires its own local labor in order to construct a specified stretch
of road.


b. Relevance of Design:
Relevance of Design is rated high.
The statement of the development objectives was clear, and there was a clear causal chain between the
activities financed by the project and the outcomes related to the project objectives. For example, the
investment in the Diriamba-La Boquita-Casares road sections of the principal road network; and La
Virgen-San Juan del Sur secondary trunk road (Component 1) were intended to improve the transport
infrastructure along selected main road corridors. The investments the adoquin stabilization program for
secondary and tertiary rural roads located mainly in Production Zones was clearly linked to the second
objective which aimed to improve access to productive zones and to rural communities. The project
design included a component to strengthen the sector’s institutional arrangements.

4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):
  Objective 1. Improve the Recipient’s transport infrastructure along selected main road corridors:
rated high.
Outputs
    The project funded rehabilitation of 52 km (target 51 km) of trunk and secondary roads. This
     included rehabilitation of 32.3 km of Diriamba – La Boquita trunk road and 19.25 km of La Virgen –
     San Juan del Sur secondary trunk road.
Outcomes
    The International Roughness Index (IRI) on Diriamba – La Boquita road section was reduced from
     10 to 2.3 and on La Virgen – San Juan del Sur road from 8 to 2.6, exceeding the target of 3.5.
    The Average Daily Traffic increased from 380 vehicles per day (vpd) to 480vpd, exceeding the
     original target of 460 vpd and meeting the revised target of 480 vpd.
Objective 2. Improve access to productive zones and to rural communities: rated modest.
Outputs
    A total of 361 km of rural roads paved with adoquines (concrete cobble-stones) were rehabilitated,
     exceeding the target of 320 km.
Outcomes
    The rural roads rehabilitated under the project were located in the Production Zones I, III, and IV.
     However, there are no outcome indicators to measure the improved access to productive zones.
    The share of population living within two km from a paved road increased from 28% at the time of
     Additional Financing 38% at project completion. The attribution to the project roads cannot be made
     fully as the indicator is for the entire country and not just to the project areas/roads. The ICR (page
     16) notes that 100 percent of population who were living within two km from the project financed
     rural roads gained access to an all-season paved road after the project.
    The project assisted in increased mobility of residents in rural communities. The bicycle daily traffic
     (bcd) increased from almost zero in 2006 to over 320 bcd, exceeding the revised target of 300 bcd but
     significantly below the original target of 500 bcd.
Objective 3. Ensure the sustainability of the road improvements carried out under the project: rated
substantial.
Outputs
    The project supported the approval of legislation for the funding of the Road Maintenance Fund (
     FOMAV) via tax surcharge on fuel (16 cents per gallon on diesel and gasoline - the ICR does not
     specify the currency).
    Adoption of Highway Design and Maintenance Model (HDM) and Road Economic Decision Model (
     RED) models by MTI and FOMAV for road maintenance and new construction.
    45 MTI and FOMAV staff was trained in planning and management of the roads network compared
     to the revised target of 40 and original target of 6.
    19 new routine maintenance micro-enterprises were established by FOMAV, far exceeding the target
     of 4. At the end of the project, routine maintenance was being carried out by 52 routine maintenance
     micro-enterprises, which were managed and supervised by FOMAV.
    At the end of the project, the FOMAV carried out routine maintenance on 3,200 km of roads,
     exceeding the revised (increased) target of 2,700 km, which included the 413 km of trunk, secondary,
     and tertiary roads rehabilitated under the project.
    FOMAV carried out periodic maintenance on 95 km of roads exceeding the target of 80 km.
    The project supported the improvement of FOMAV's planning, technical, and financial capacity.
    Under this project, the Bank team continued the sector dialogue started during the previous Third
     Roads project. FOMAV was able to receive funding from fuel surcharge for road maintenance.
Outcomes
As a result of fuel surcharge, FOMAV resources increased from US$2.4 million (which were largely from
budgetary allocation) to US46 million per years by 2014. The share of roads in good and fair condition
increased from 20% baseline to 23.3% at the end of the project. FOMAV is no longer dependent on
budgetary allocation for road maintenance, as it is receiving sufficient funds from the fuel surcharge.

5. Efficiency:

At appraisal, net economic benefits for the main roads were evaluated using the Highway Development
and Management Model (HDM-3), which simulates life cycle conditions and costs and provides
economic decision criteria for multiple road design and maintenance alternatives. With regard to
secondary and tertiary roads (rural roads), the economic analysis was developed using the Road
Economic Decision Model (RED), which simulates life cycle conditions and costs, and provided
economic decision criteria for low traffic roads.
The ex-post Economic Rate of Return (ERR) for Diriamba – La Boquita road section was 27.8 percent,
lower than the appraisal estimate of 37.7%. The Net Present Value (NPV) at 12 percent discount rate was
estimated at US$4.06 million (based only on Vehicle Operating Cost, VOC) and US$9.1 million (based
on VOC and time savings). The Average Annual Daily Traffic (AADT) growth was 1.9%, lower than the
appraisal estimate of 4%.
The ERR for La Virgen – San Juan del Sur section was 46.4 percent, lower than the appraisal estimate of
61%. The NPV was estimated at US$11.94 million (based on VOC) and US$18.18 million (based on
VOC and time savings). By 2014, the Average Annual Daily Traffic (AADT) had risen by 123 percent
due to the increase in tourist developments taking in the southern region where the La Virgen – San Juan
del Sur is located. The Average Annual Daily Traffic (AADT) growth was 11.4% higher than the
appraisal estimate. The actual capital costs were US$236,500 per kilometer on La Virgen – San Juan del
Sur, 18 percent higher than the appraisal estimate.
At appraisal, the improvement of 320 km of rural (secondary and tertiary) roads was expected to yield
and ERR of 34%. Cost overruns and the addition of new road sections resulted in the need of additional
financing. Ex-post, 198 km of the original project roads were improved and yielded an ERR of 54%. For
the 163 km road sections under the Additional Financing, the ERR was 34%. The VOC was reduced by
almost 50 percent for cars, 55 percent for buses, 52 percent for light trucks, and 49 percent for medium
and articulated trucks.
The project experienced cost increases due to worldwide increase in the price of oil and other
commodities. All key cost drivers suffered major increases between 2004 and 2009: cement (99%),
adoquines (cobblestones) (50%), and transport costs (150%).
The project experienced delays in the procurement of contractor for the road construction works on the
Nueva Guinea – Naciones Unidas section financed under the AF. There were delays in processing and
contracting of the earthworks and adoquin supply by MCA staff. This took longer than expected due to a
change in the procurement method from three quotes to a competitive bidding process.
Efficiency is rated substantial.

 a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
    re-estimated value at evaluation :

                               Rate Available?                          Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

    Appraisal                      No

    ICR estimate                   Yes                                     40.5%                                    80%
                                      * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome:
   The relevance of the project objective's and design is rated high. The efficacy of the first objective is
rated high, the second modest and third substantial. The project improved the Recipient’s transport
infrastructure along selected main road corridors and assisted in ensuring the sustainability of the road
improvements carried out under the project. Efficiency is rated substantial. The outcome of the project is
rated satisfactory.
 a. Outcome Rating: Satisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:

The Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure (MTI) and the Road Maintenance Fund (FOMAV) have
gained significant experience in planning, road asset management, and economic evaluation. FOMAV is
responsible for the maintenance of the classified road network. FOMAV is no longer dependent on
budgetary allocation for road maintenance, as it is receiving funds from fuel surcharge. FOMAV has the
capacity to administer, supervise, and make payments to micro-enterprises - at the end of the project,
routine maintenance was being carried out by 52 routine maintenance micro-enterprises, which were
managed and supervised by FOMAV. It is, however, unclear if 16 cent surcharge is enough since no
estimate of overall maintenance requirements has been made. Moreover, the surcharge is in absolute
terms and not a percentage of the retail price of fuel. There is lack of clarity regarding the legal and
regulatory framework under which FOMAV operates and of its degree of autonomy or of its governance
arrangements. Regarding the rural roads, ICR does not discuss whether the MCA model includes
maintenance.
The risk to development outcome is rated moderate.

  a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Moderate

8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

a. Quality at entry:
   The Fourth Roads Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project was designed to complement the two
previous Bank financed road projects - the Second and Third Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance
Projects. This project would continue to focus on key sector areas, including investments in improving
and expanding the trunk and rural road network (including investments in adoquines, and routine
micro-enterprise maintenance programs), ensuring funding and sustainability of maintenance schemes,
and strengthening the sector’s institutional arrangements. The project’s implementation arrangements
were a continuation of those already in place: implementation was the responsibility of the Ministry of
Transport and Infrastructure Project Coordination Unit (PCU), which had managed previous Bank
financed projects satisfactorily. Safeguards were adequately identified. Most risks were rated
substantial or modest at entry and mitigation measures were identified and incorporated in the project
design. M&E design was adequate (see section 10 a), baseline data and targets were provided (PAD
page 31).
  Quality-at-Entry Rating:                  Satisfactory

b. Quality of supervision:

The ICR reports that the Bank provided support to the Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure (MTI)
Project Coordination Unit (PCU), and the Road Maintenance Fund (FOMAV) through workshops to
ensure adequate project implementation. The Bank also provided special training on the use of the
Highway Design and Maintenance Model HDM and the Road Economic Decision Models for
economic analysis to the staff of the Transportation Directorate of the MTI, as well as the FOMAV.
The Bank team responded promptly to changed circumstances, such as the increase in construction
cost, by processing additional financing in June 2010. The additional financing was critical as it
permitted not only the closing of the financing gap and achieving outcomes that had temporarily
suffered due to cost increases, but also improving the results framework to ensure that the indicators
and their targets were better aligned with the project development objectives and components. The
Bank provided institutional strengthening in environmental management to MTI for the
implementation of environmental safeguards (see section 11a).


  Quality of Supervision Rating :           Satisfactory

  Overall Bank Performance Rating :         Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

a. Government Performance:
   The Government allocated sufficient counterpart resources to the project. The actual Government
contribution was US$22.1 million compared to the appraisal commitment of US$9.9 million. The
Government approved a key legislation which allowed the Road Maintenance Fund to increase its
funding via the tax levy of a surcharge on fuels (16 cents per gallon on diesel and gasoline). This is an
important contribution to sustainable funding for road maintenance.
   Government Performance Rating                         Satisfactory

b. Implementing Agency Performance:

The project was implemented by the Project Coordinating Unit (PCU), housed at the Ministry of
Transport and Infrastructure. The PCU had gained considerable experience through the
implementation of several transport projects and developed an adequate technical capacity in project
planning, procurement and safeguards. It provided technical advice and shared knowledge with the
Adoquines Community Modules (MCA’s) beneficiary municipalities for the implementation of the
Rural Transport Improvement Component in safeguards, financial, and procurement procedures. It
prepared the MCA manual which included guidelines, project cycle implementation phases, and
procurement, safeguards, and environmental procedures.
There were procurement delays. The capacity of the PCU and other MTI Directorates to collect data
and calculate the indicators on a periodic basis was weak. At the end of the Fourth Rehabilitation and
Maintenance Project, weak M&E capacity remains.

   Implementing Agency Performance Rating :              Satisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                 Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

a. M&E Design:
   The project design included following outcome indicators: (i) increase in traffic volume and reduction
in vehicle operating costs; (ii) increased mobility for residents of rural communities; (iii) increased share
of road network in good and fair condition; and (iv) incorporation of improved management and planning
procedures by Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure (MTI) and the Road Maintenance Fund
(FOMAV). The baselines and targets were set and presented in Annex 3 of the PAD.
These indicators were aligned with the project development objectives. The project also included output
indicators such as: (a) km of main roads improved each year; (b) km of rural roads stabilized each year;
(c) number of MTI and FOMAV staff trained in planning and management courses; and (d) share of road
network condition surveyed. MTI’s Project Coordinating Unit was responsible for project monitoring.

b. M&E Implementation:

The PDO target of increased mobility for resident of rural communities was too optimistic and was
revised during implementation. A new outcome indicator was added - "share of rural population with
access to an all season road”. This was a core indicator required for all IDA operations, referring to the
number of people living within 2 km of an all season paved road. However, the indicator was not
assigned a target value, and the baseline for the indicator was taken from the 2000 Living Standards
Measurement Household Survey results for the entire country. The targets for some of the output
indicators were also revised.
MTI’s planning division had a team which was in charge of collecting, analyzing, and reporting project
performance indicators. The ICR reports (page 12) that the evaluation of the M&E Framework showed
that the capacity of the PCU and other MTI Directorates to collect data and calculate the indicators on a
periodic basis was weak. Despite these shortcomings, all of the indicators were reported in the ICR.
At the end of the Fourth Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project, weak M&E capacity is a major
shortcoming of the Bank involvement in the transport sector in Nicaragua.

c. M&E Utilization:
  The Bank used the data collected on the performance indicators to carry out the project’s restructuring
and to prepare the Additional Financing.

M&E Quality Rating: Substantial




11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:
The project was assigned Environmental Category "B" and the following two safeguards - Environmental
Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) and Physical Cultural Resources (OP 4.11), were triggered under the original
project and were maintained under the Additional Financing.
At appraisal, the Division of Environmental Management of the Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure
(MTI) carried out the environmental screening and assessment of all project roads in accordance with the
Environmental Manual developed under previous IDA projects. Four of environmental reports were
prepared and submitted to the Bank's Infoshop and were made available to the public in Nicaragua.
According to the manual, all the projects for secondary roads stabilization with adoquines did not require
the preparation of an Environmental Impact Assessment. However, a brief socio-environmental screening
was carried out for the adoquin projects.
The ICR reports (page 12-13) that the Bank provided institutional strengthening in environmental
management to MTI, the Road Maintenance Fund and at the municipal level, and that the project was
"rated satisfactory for compliance with these [i.e. OP 4.01 and OP 4.11] safeguard policies for both the
original project and its Additional Financing".

b. Fiduciary Compliance:
Financial management. The ICR reports that the financial management performed by the Financial and
Administration Directorate of the Ministry of Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure (MTI) was
satisfactory, since the Directorate applied sound financial management practices throughout the
implementation of both the original project and Additional Financing. These included adequate internal
controls and the use of the Integrated Financial Management System modules to perform the
reconciliation of accounts, track transfers and performance of the Adoquines Community Modules,
providing useful and timely information for monitoring purposes to the Bank. The Directorate had
qualified and experienced operational staff, adequate processes and procedures, and a satisfactory
information reporting system. Generally the Interim Financial Reports (IFRs) were submitted in a timely
manner. External project audits were carried out on an annual basis, determining the adequacy of the
accounting system and internal controls by the Directorate. Audits reports were unqualified, although
some internal control issues were identified, which were addressed by the Project Coordinating Unit.
Procurement. The ICR (page 13) notes that the "procurement supervision, including ex-post evaluations
and field visits, found no significant deviation from World Bank policies under the Road Rehabilitation
and Rural Transport Improvement components". Regarding the contracting of adoquines Community
Modules (MCAs), there were some delays in processing and contracting the earthworks and adoquin
supply by MCA staff. The initial procurement method for the MCAs was through price comparison or
shopping for both earthworks and pavement with adoquines . At Additional Financing, the Bank team
recommended that the contracting of earthworks and the supply of adoquines be subject to a National
Competitive Bidding process at the municipal level, due to high contract amounts. The operational
guidelines and bidding documents were revised and the Bank provided training to MCA community staff
and addressed these delays. For the Additional Financing, the World Bank carried out an Independent
Procurement Review of the project, and its findings were incorporated into the operational manual and the
guidelines for MCAs.

c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):
     None reported.

d. Other:
None reported.

12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review               Reason for
                                                                                   Disagreement/Comments
                      Outcome: Highly Satisfactory          Satisfactory      The relevance of the project
                                                                              objective's and design is rated high.
                                                                              The efficacy of the first objective is
                                                                              rated high, the second modest and
                                                                              third substantial. The project
                                                                              improved the Recipient’s transport
                                                                              infrastructure along selected main
                                                                              road corridors and assisted in
                                                                              ensuring the sustainability of the
                                                                              road improvements carried out
                                                                              under the project. Efficiency is
                                                                              rated substantial. The outcome of
                                                                              the project is rated satisfactory.
          Risk to Development Moderate                      Moderate
                     Outcome:

            Bank Performance: Satisfactory                  Satisfactory

       Borrower Performance : Satisfactory                  Satisfactory

                Quality of ICR:                             Exemplary

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:

The following lessons are adapted from those in the ICR:
    A functional Road Maintenance Fund is key for long-term sustainability of the roads sector.
    The project experience shows that the use of Modulos Comunitarios de Adoquinado (MCAs) is a
     technically feasible method that also provides a number of employment and skills building benefits.
    To encourage impact evaluation in transport projects, the World Bank could actively encourage the
     borrowers to include impact evaluation in projects by offering technical guidance or
     non-reimbursable technical assistance to cover totally or partially the cost of the study.
IEG adds the following lesson: In institutionally weak countries, a PCU (benefitting from strong and
continuous Bank support) can play an important role in successful project implementation.

14. Assessment Recommended?            Yes     No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:

The ICR is informative and analytical in its assessment of the project. It is concise and well written, and
contains all the elements necessary to evaluate the project. The quality of evidence and analysis is
adequate; the discussion is results oriented and not a mere narrative of implementation. The lessons drawn
are based on the evidence provided by the experience of preparing and implementing the project.
a.Quality of ICR Rating : Exemplary
