FILE_COPY.
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
I'T"TRhJr~ I"N AL [WvELorI.IEIJ            1-:1
Not For Public Use
Report No. P-1572a-MA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO MALAYSIA
FOR AN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND
EXTENSION PROJECT
May 1, 1975
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published, quoted
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the
accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                    Malaysian Dollar (M$)
US$1                          1$ 2.45 /a
M$ 1                          US$0.4u8
M$ 1 million                  US$408.163
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 acre                 = 0.405 hectares (ha)
1 mile (mi)            = 1.609 kilometer (ki)
1 sq. mile (sq,mi)     =  640 acres (ac)
1 ton = 2240 lbs. (lb) = 1,000 kilograms (kg) (approx.)
/a From June el, 1973, the Malaysian dollar has floated in
relation to the US dollar. The rate shown is the rate of
mid-1974 and has been used throughout this report.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO MALAYSIA
FOR AN AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to Malaysia for the equivalent of US$28.5 million to help finance
an Agricultural Research and Extension Project. The loan would have a
term of 25 years, including 7 years of grace, with interest at 8-1/2 per-
cent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The latest economic report "Recent Economic Developments and
Long-Term Issues" (No. 653-MA) was distributed on March 5, 1975. Country
data sheets are attached as Annex I.
3.        With a per capita GNP of US$477 (1973), Malaysia is one of the
most properous developing countries in Southeast Asia. The economy is
export oriented: exports account for 45-50 percent of GNP. Fairly high
rates of growth of GNP in constant market prices, averaging about 6 percent
per annum during the last decade, were maintained, notwithstanding rather
sharp fluctuations in the prices of major exports, uncertainties created
by political developments, and a relatively slow growth in investment. At
the same time, progress has been made in reducing the dependence on
rubber exports (now 30 percent of total exports) through diversification to
palm oil, rapid development of timber resources, start of petroleum pro-
duction and growth of manufactured goods exports. The balance of payments
position is strong. There are few foreign exchange controls, and external
reserves (totalling over US$1.7 billion at the end of 1974 at the current
exchange rate) are equal to about four months' import payments. Malaysia's
conservative fiscal and monetary management has considerably enhanced
the country's financial standing. Public sector revenues have been growing
rapidly, mainly as a result of vigorous taxation efforts; the ratio of total
government revenue to GNP is now over 30 percent. Conservative financial
policies are also reflected in the relatively low level of external public
debt and the very low ratio of debt service payments to foreign exchange
receipts (2.5 percent in 1973).
4.        Overall, in the last two years economic developments in Malaysia
have been favorable, generating higher incomes in the rural sector as well
as recording substantial increases in total growth, even though economic
performance in 1974 was much below the record 1973 levels. There was a
definite deceleration, concentrated in the second half of 1974. Gross
Domestic Product (GDP) in real terms is estimated to have increased by
6 percent in 1974, compared to 10 percent in 1973. Agricultural production
increased by about 6 percent compared to 14 percent in 1973, as a result
of a drop in demand for agricultural exports, particularly during the
second part of the year. Shortages of materials and the high costs of



construction and industrial inputs cut into the industrial growth rate.
In real terms in 1974 exports showed hardly any increase. In current
terms, the value of exports increased by 30 percent, but commodity prices
were considerably weaker in the second half of 1974. In real terms, export
earnings are forecast to rise by only a small percentage in 1975. Never-
theless, the country's balance of payments position is fundamentally strong.
In particular, in the future exports will be strengthened by the increasingly
larger earnings of palm oil and petroleum.
5.        As a result of the high growth rates of the boom year of 1973 and
the improvement in the terms of trade in that year national income increased
by 17 percent. The major beneficiary of that improvement was the agricul-
tural sector, where substantial increments in income, aided by high rubber
prices, went to the traditional smallholders as well as the estates. Paddy
farmers also benefited from a sharp rise in rice prices and a further
increase in output. During the second half of 1974, however, the rapid
deterioration of rubber prices cut sharply into rural income levels, although
an increase in palm oil prices partially offset the decline. In the future
strong rubber prices will be important to help sustain increases in rural
incomes. Therefore, in December 1974, to halt the decline in rubber prices,
the Government undertook measures to curtail supplies and to build-up buffer
stocks.
6.        During the last two years, inflation has emerged as Malaysia's
primary economic concern. After a decade of remarkable price stability
(with consumer prices rising on average only one percent per annum), two
years ago domestic prices began to show a noticeable upward trend. Average
consumer prices in 1972 were 3.2 percent higher than in 1971 and they jumped
10.5 percent in 1973. In 1974 prices rose another 18 percent. Price
pressures have been the result of both imported inflation and rapid in-
creases in domestic demand. Notwithstanding the upward revaluation of the
Malaysian dollar vis-a-vis the currencies of all major trading partners,
import prices have been rising sharply. Considering that the growth in
demand during 1973 and first half of 1974 was unprecedented, and that strong
cost pressures were operating from the import side, the extent of inflation
in Malaysia is not at all surprising. Other East Asian countries, notably
Taiwan, Korea, Thailand, and the Philippines, are currently experiencing
higher rates of domestic inflation than Malaysia.
7.        Malaysia has not been adversely affected by the high price of
petroleum and in the longer term should benefit from it. In 1973 Malaysia's
production of crude petroleum was about 100,000 barrels per day, or 4.5 mil-
lion long tons a year. In about four years time, production is expected to
increase three to four-fold. In 1973 Malaysia became a net exporter of
petroleum products, and as production increases petroleum will soon become
an important foreign exchange earner. Substantial reserves of natural gas
are also available and by 1979 Malaysia is expected to start exporting
significant quantities of liquefied natural gas, further strengthening the
country's balance of payments position.



- 3 -
8.        During the last several years the Government s long-term planning
has concentrated on the problem of reducing the economic disparity between
the Malays, who account for a little over half the population, and non-
Malays of whom about 71 percent are Chinese. Over the next 20 years the
Government aims to eradicate poverty and to restructure society so that the
present identification of race with economic activity will be eliminated.
These objectives are spelled out in the New Economic Policy which was
announced in June 1971. The basic outlines of the Policy are sound and
allow for continued growth for each of the principal ethnic groups while
at the same time enlarging economic opportunities for Malays. The Policy
provides the main guideline for Malaysian development planning.
9.        The Second Malaysia Plan (1971-75) indicates the Government's
willingness to step up the public sector's development effort. The public
sector's planning and implementation capacity has been expanded although
several planning and operating agencies still suffer from substantial manpower
shortages. The improvement in the Government's capacity to prepare and
execute projects resulted in expenditures during the first three years of
the Plan period that already exceeded the original plan allocation of US$2
billion. The revised Plan level of US$4 billion anticipates a further
strengthening of project identification and implementation in the public
sector. Most of the increased allocation is earmarked to support the New
Economic Policy, including among other items (i) the expansion of the land
settlement programs to provide employment opportunities and help raise rural
income (ii) increased support to the manufacturing sector to diversify the
economy and to provide increased employment in higher income jobs, and
(iii) the provision of training and education to upgrade the skills of the
low-income groups.
10.       During the first three years of the Second Malaysia Plan, 1971-73,
total public sector development expenditures amounted to about US$2.2 billion
of which 50 percent was financed by net domestic borrowing and 16 percent by
net foreign borrowing. The balance was financed largely by current surpluses.
The Bank has provided a little under 40 percent of the foreign loan commit-
ments; market borrowing and bilateral aid, mainly from the United Kingdom,
other Commonwealth countries, the Federal Republic of Germany, Japan, and
loans from the Asian Development Bank provided the rest. Domestic financing
is considered adequate. In addition to a satisfactory level of revenues, the
Government can readily borrow domestically notably from the Government Em-
ployees' Provident Fund. For the next 5 years disbursements of almost US$1
billion of public medium and long term loans from abroad will be required to
permit the level of public investment planned. To support this inflow, new
foreign loan commitments of approximately US$1.8 billion will be required
over the 5 year period. However, while project loans from multilateral
sources, IBRD and ADB, are not expected to decrease, bilateral assistance
from traditional sources (Commonwealth countries and Japan) is likely
to be substantially lower and market borrowing to be on less favorable terms.
The Government has therefore made initial contacts with a number of the Arab
member countries of OPEC and the first aid commitments have already been
obtained.



- 4 -
11.       Malaysia's development program will continue to require resources
in excess of the foreign capital which will become available for financing
the import component of development projects. The Bank plans therefore
to cover a portion of local costs in agriculture and in other sectors where
the foreign exchange content of projects is small.
12.       The expected level of foreign borrowings is well within Malaysia's
debt servicing capacity. Debt service obligations at present are about
2.5 percent of exports of goods and non-factor services and are estimated
to rise to only about 3 percent during the late 1970s. The Bank's share
in Malaysia's debt service payments is 22 percent and is expected to be
about 23 percent by the end of 1978.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MALAYSIA
13.       The Bank has made 28 loans to Malaysia for projects in education,
population, agriculture, forestry, industrial finance, power, water supply,
telecommunications, ports, railways, roads and urban transport. Although
in a few cases disbursements were slow, the execution of these projects
has generally been satisfactory. As of March 31, 1975 the loans to
Malaysia held by the Bank amounted to US$525.3 million. In addition, the
Bank made a loan in 1965 to the Public Utilities Board, Singapore (Loan
405-MA), guaranteed by Malaysia, to finance the Johore River Project.
The amount held by the Bank under that loan is US$4.8 million. Ten loans
are fully disbursed. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans
and IFC investments as of March 31, 1975 and notes on the execution of
on-going projects.
14.       Bank assistance to Malaysia is intended to support the Government's
efforts within the framework of the New Economic Policy to redress imbalances
in rural and urban incomes, to create employment for the urban unemployed,
and to reduce rural underemployment. Since Malaysia's agricultural develop-
ment programs provide the most effective Government instruments for tackling
unemployment and income imbalances, the Bank will continue to give financial
support to these programs. So far, the Bank has made five loans for land
settlement projects, of which three are for the Jengka Triangle area in the
State of Pahang, where about 10,000 smallholders are being settled, one
further loan in the State of Pahang for the Keratong Land Settlement project
where about 3,400 families will be settled, and one for the settlement of
about 4,500 families in the State of Johore. The Bank has also made two
loans for irrigation, one for the Muda Irrigation Project and another for
the Kemubu Irrigation Project, both projects assisting low income rice
growers in the States of Kedah and Kelantan, and a loan for the improvement
of drainage in Western Johore to improve existing smallholders productivity.
In addition, the Bank will continue to assist Malaysia in education parti-
cularly to increase educational opportunities for the rural poor, health
services, population control and expects to extend its assistance to
nutrition. Also, the Bank will continue to assist in the financing of



- 5 -
infrastructure development that will improve conditions in the urban areas
and help support manufacturing. The Bank has helped the Government to
prepare projects either in the course of its lending operations or by acting
as Executing Agency for UNDP-financed studies. The Bank has also helped to
strengthen public agencies responsible for carrying out important parts
of Malaysia's investment program. The Bank will continue this policy,
which will be reflected in the loans to be presented to the Executive
Directors in the next year or so. These loans would be for projects
involving rural development, agricultural extension, seed multiplication,
agricultural credit, land settlement, forestry, public utilities, urban
and other infrastructure development.
15.       At present the Bank is also assisting in the preparation of the
Third Malaysia Plan (1976-80), both in the preparation of sector programs
as well as in the review of overall economic objectives and policies.
16.       IFC has been active in Malaysia since 1963 and has made five
investments totalling US$8.7 million (Annex II). The total commitments
under those investments held by IFC as of March 31, 1975 amounted to
US$1.9 million.
PART III - AGRICULTURE IN MALAYSIA
General
17.       The agricultural sector holds an important position in the
Malaysian economy. In 1972 it generated around 30 percent of gross domestic
product, provided employment for over 50 percent of the economically
active population, and accounted for about 60 percent of Malaysia's foreign
exchange earnings. Expansion of rubber exports in the 1960's, in the
face of declining prices, was achieved by large gains in productivity.
At the same time, crop diversification, mainly to oil palm, was vigorously
encouraged and has resulted in Malaysia becoming the world's largest
producer of palm oil. Rice production has doubled through the provision
of irrigation, and Malaysia is now nearing self-sufficiency. Malaysia is
second only to Taiwan as an exporter of pineapple but is finding it increas-
ingly difficult to maintain her share of the market. Other major crops, such
as coconut, cassava, groundnuts, coffee, fruits and vegetables, are grown
mainly for internal consumption.
18.       While Malaysia is relatively prosperous, some sections of its
population are economically depressed. Whereas the average annual per
capita income for Malaysia in 1973 was about US$477, for agriculture it was
only about half of that amount. Limited data are available on
rural income distribution by type of activities, but it would appear that
the smaller paddy and rubber producers in particular had annual incomes
of only about US$70-90 per capita. According to other and more recent



-6-
data available for Peninsular Malaysia only, approximately 450,000 households
engaged in agriculture were in the poverty category, defined by monthly per
capita incomes of less than US$10 (M$25); the incidence of poverty was
particularly high among the East Coast fishermen, rubber estate workers,
and residents of "New Villages", created during the Emergency of the 1950's.
19.       The main agricultural development objectives are the resettlement
of landless rural unemployed and marginal smallholders on viable holdings
planted mainly with oil palm and rubber by clearing virgin jungle, and,
the raising of incomes of existing potentially viable smallholdings by
providing infrastructure and agricultural services. Land settlement programs
are mainly carried out by the Federal Land Development Authority (FELDA)
and the Bank has assisted in the financing of five land and smallholder
projects. FELDA is currently developing about 100,000 acres and settling
about 7,000 families annually. Other land settlement programs for small-
holders are being undertaken by the Rubber Industry Smallholders' Develop-
ment Authority (RISDA), and by the States. But, settlement programs can
only deal with a relatively small number of people and cannot by themselves
alleviate rural poverty throughout Malaysia. Also the availability of
virgin jungle for large-scale land settlement schemes is limited, particularly
if the needs for conservation of soil and for quality of water resources, as
well as for the protection of wildlife and for the preservation of unique
ecosystems are fully taken into account. Increased emphasis will therefore
have to be placed on the generation of additional incomes and employment
by increasing the productivity of land already under cultivation. Under
a project for Western Johore financed under a Bank loan, improved drainage
and better protection against the sea of a large smallholder area is being
provided. Irrigation systems are being improved to introduce double crop-
ping for a number of smallholder paddy producing areas, two of which are
financed under Bank loans. But these efforts benefit directly only a
relatively small proportion of Malaysia's small farmers. There is a need
to improve the lot of the majority of those smallholder rural families who
are, and will remain, dependent upon rainfed agriculture.     So far little
attention has been given to development of rainfed agriculture with the
exception of the non-food crops, rubber and oil palm, mainly because of
the lack of information on suitable technology. To remedy this the
strengthening and expansion of agricultural research is a principal
prerequisite.
Agricultural Research
20.       The outstanding work and success of the long established Rubber
Research Institute of Malaysia (RRIM) has created a strong awareness of the
economic value of agricultural research in Malaysia. Other agricultural
research was carried out mainly by the Agricultural and Veterinary Departments
and to a lesser degree by FELDA and the Malaysian Pineapple Industry Board
(MPIB). In 1969, it was decided to consolidate all agricultural research,
except rubber, into a single institute - the Malaysian Agricultural Research
and Development Institute (MARDI). Effective operations started in early
1971 when MARDI took over existing research programs in rice, oil palm,
cor-nut, hiorticultural and field crops, and crop protection from the



- 7 -
Department of Agriculture, together with a number of research stations.
Pineapple research was transferred from MPIB in January 1974 and research
in food technology, hitherto carried out by the Food Technology Research
and Development Centre (FTRDC), in October 1974.
21.       MARDI's work so far has been mainly concerned with (a) planning
and initiating its research programs (b) developing an appropriate
research organization (c) developing research facilities, and (d) recruiting
and training staff. Research planning has been undertaken within the
framework of the Government's policy of: (i) raising the prosperity of
the small farmers (ii) improving productivity of export crops (iii)
diversifying agricultural production, and (iv) import substitution. Special
Government support has been provided for oil palm research because of the
size and rapid growth of the industry. Rice research was further developed
and new programs were initiated in tree, field and horticultural crops,
as well as livestock. Project development work, involving the regional
verification of research results, also started.
22.       In July 1974 the total MARDI staff was 981, including 126 in the
various research officer classifications and 327 research assistants. All
staff in the research officer grades hold at least a bachelor or bachelors
with honors degree, some 45 hold M.Sc. degrees while about 10 have Ph.Ds.
Many research assistants also have bachelors degree or are studying part
time for their degree. In addition MARDI has an active program for full
time degree training for the most promising research assistants with
diploma qualifications. MARDI has a policy of promotion of good graduate
research assistants to the research officer grades. Also MARDI fully
appreciates the necessity of advanced training for its research staff and
currently has about 80 personnel away attending M.Sc. or Ph.D. courses,
more than 60 at overseas universities. No problems are anticipated in
expanding the research officer staff of MARDI from 126 in mid-1974 to
about 230 by the end of 1980.
Agricultural Extension
23.       The States' Agricultural and Veterinary Departments are responsible
for providing extension services on crops and livestock to the smallholder
sector. The States are supported by the Federal Agricultural and Veterinary
Departments which supply funds, key personnel, supervision and technical sup-
port. Other agencies involved in extension to specific sub-sectors are RRIM
(estate rubber), RISDA (smallholder rubber), MPIB (pineapples) and FELDA on its
own schemes. The newly created Farmers Organization Authority (FOA) within the
Ministry of Agriculture is augmenting departmental extension services by
providing integrated rural development services through its Farmers Depart-
ment Centers.



Q 8 -
24.       The States have a total of only 45 graduate extension officers
servicing the approximately 450,000 small farms of Peninsular Malaysia. The
field extension agents are trained to junior school certificate level and
receive some additional in-service training. In the more prosperous States
there is one field extension agent for 500 farm families, but in the less
prosperous States the ratio is one for several thousand families. In gen-
eral, both the Federal and State departmental services are understaffed.
25.       If MARDI is to fulfill its role effectively as the developer of
new technology for the Malaysian farmer, the country's extension services
will have to be strengthened. At present there is a wide gap between
existing research findings and known technology, and, farmer adoption of
this new technology. More effective extension at the federal and state
levels will therefore be required to increase the flow of information to
the farmers, to assure the feedback from field experience to the research
institute as well as to improve the training of extension workers. Exten-
sion at the Federal level will be strengthened through the Project. Regard-
ing the extension services at the State level it was agreed during neg
gotiations that the Federal Government will make appropriate arrangements
to ensure that the States will expand and strengthen their services to
enable them to effectively transfer the results of the research to farmers.
Agricultural Education
26.       Malaysia's developing University system is well geared to supply
sufficient bachelor's degree graduates to meet the agricultural sector's
expanding needs. About 300 bachelor's degrees in agriculture, 500 in
related sciences and 400 in economics/administration/management are being
awarded annually. However, facilities for postgraduate trasning to M.Sc.
and Ph.D. levels are limited and for a considerable time, most post -
graduate training of Malaysian students will continue to be done at over-
seas universities. This will particularly affect those who wish to take
up agricultural research and for whom the general agricultural bachelor's
degree training is not adequate. Facilities for training agricultural
technicians to diploma and certificate levels are already well established
in Malaysia and are being expanded. They are adequate to meet all needs
including research.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
27.       The project would assist the development and expansion of MARDI
over the seven year period 1975-81, and set up an Extension Liaison Unit
in the Department of Agriculture. It is expected that at the end of the
seven year period MARDI's research capability would be commensurate with
the technological needs of.Malaysia's agricultural development aims. In
preparing the project, the Government of Malaysia was assisted by the IRI
Research Institute Inc., (New York). Preparation was financed under Loan
885-MA (Third Jengka Triangle Land Settlement Project). The project was



-9-
appraised in July and October 1974. Loan negotiations were held in March
1975; the Malaysian delegation was led by Encik Yahaya bin Abdul Wahab,
Under Secretary (Finance) of the Treasury. The appraisal report No. 632-MA
dated April 25, 1975 is being circulated separately.
Description
28.       The project would strengthen the institutional framework for expand-
ing agricultural research (other than rubber) designed to enhance the produc-
tivity and income levels particularly of the Malaysian small farmers. It
would assist the Malaysian Government in accelerating its program of providing
MARDI with facilities and equipment for its research staff, for advanced
training of its staff through overseas fellowships and, while this crash
training program is underway, for the participation of senior, experienced,
internationally recruited scientists in the various research programs. It
would strengthen existing and build new linkages with international agri-
cultural research institutes. The Project would provide for a number of
integrated commodity research programs in MARDI supported by agricultural
engineering-water management research, a project development unit, a central
analytical laboratory and central library, computer and workshop facilities.
It would also provide for the creation of a new Extension Unit in the Federal
Department of Agriculture as a first step in accelerating and broadening
the flow of information from the research establishment to the smallholder
sector.
29.       The following are the main components of the Project:
(a) Internationally recruited senior scientists and similar
specialists to work in the MARDI research programs and
the Extenslon Liaison Unit (104 and 9 man years
respectively);
(b) Fellowships for post-graduate training of MARDI and
Department of Agriculture Staff (286 and 94 man-years
respectively);
(c) Laboratory, farm-field and workshop equipment for all MARDI
programs as well as extension equipment for the Extension
Liaison Unit;
(d) Importation of improved breeds of dairy and beef
cattle, buffaloes, pigs and poultry;
(e) Laboratories, workshops, livestock housing, storage
facilities for MARDI and office, hostel and other
regional buildings for the Extension Liaison Unit;
(f) Periodic monitoring of the various research programs
by eminent scientists.



- 10 -
Detailed Features
(a) MARDI Research Programs
30.       The Research Program for Rice centered at the existing Bumbong
Lima Station, where additional facilities would be provided, would focus
on the selection and breeding of high yielding varieties and crop husbandry
improvement. Particular attention would be given to improving the effi-
ciency of fertilizer use. The Program would be multi-disciplinary in
approach. A collaborative research program between the rice research
group and the field crops group would be developed to study mixed crop-
ping systems. Collaborative studies would also be carried out with the
agricultural engineering and water management research team and with the
Project Development Unit.
31.       The Research Program for Field Crops other than rice would con-
centrate on groundnuts., soybeans and other legumes, grains, including
maize, sorghum and cassava. Program headquarters would be relocated at
the newly acquired Bertam estate, adjacent to the Bumbong Lima rice re-
search station. The program would be of particular importance to the small-
holder sector. The Program would concentrate on the development of crop
varieties and production techniques capable of high and sustained yield
under field conditions. Promising introductions of varietal selections
would be multiplied and tested in coordinated trials at the headquarters
and field stations. They would be evaluated for yield, nutrient response,
maturity, adaptability to cropping systems, and resistance to diseases,
insects and other pests, and environmental hazards. Attention would also
be given to studies on nitrogen fixation by leguminous crops.
32.       The main objective of the Research Program for Pineapples would
be to increase productivity, profitability and efficiency of this important
export industry in which smallholders produce more than 50 percent of total
annual output. The Project would expand the present research efforts at
Jalan Kebun and Alor Bukit centers, both located on peat soils on which
pineapple is at present the main crop. This program would involve breed-
ing and selection of high qua'lity fruit with a high canning yield. Close
attention would also be given to disease resistance, plant nutrition and
plant water relations, replanting strategies and crop physiology. Colla-
borative research would be carried out with the Agricultural Engineering-
Water Management Unit and studies will be made on establishment of pine-
apple on non-peat mineral soils.
33.       The objectives of the Research Program for Cocoa/Coconut would be
to develop the large potential for increasing yields of cocoa and coconut
as well as to expand the. area under production. The program would be
centered at Hlilir Perak and Serdang with supporting activities at Jerengau
on the east coast of Peninsular Malaysia; the program would also be
extended to Sahah and Sarawak. Research would be concerned with selection
and breeding of improved and hybrid varieties, pest and disease control,



- 11 -
cultural practices, storage, drying, processing and handling. Continuation
and expansion of the selection of coconut clones for evaluation and use
as parents in hybrid progeny trials would be an important part of the
program. Vegetative propagation research for cocoa shows promising results
and would be strengthened and continued. The program will work closely
with the Agricultural Engineering and Products Utilization Units.
34.       The Research Program for Livestock would concentrate on beef and
dairy cattle, buffaloes, sheep and goats (mainly for meat), pigs and poultry.
Program headquarters would be at the main MARDI Serdang complex, with field
facilities for cattle research at Kluang and for buffalo at Bukit Ridan.
Research in all units would include evaluation of local and imported breeds
in the Malaysian environment. Local cattle and buffalo, and their crosses
with improved exotic breeds, would be compared for meat and/or milk
production efficiency, feed utilization and reproductive capacity. Breed
comparisons and cross-breeding studies would also be carried out with pigs
and poultry. Feeding trials to maximize the use of locally grown feed-
stuffs and locally available by-products by all classes of animals would
be an important feature. Collaborative studies with the Project Develop-
ment Unit would concentrate on developing management and feeding systems
suitable for smallholder mixed-farming operations.
35.       The Research Program for Agricultural Products Utilization would
focus on increasing recovery of farm products, through reduced transit and
storage losses of farm products, and increased quality of farm products.
The Program would also continue current research on improved quality,
including protein enhancement of major foods used in depressed rural
areas, in school lunch, and similar programs. Research would be primarily
concerned with (a) processing (storage, drying, and milling) of rice
(b) processing of pineapple and other horticultural crops (c) processing
of fish, poultry and meat, (d) processing of field crops; (e) improving
the quality of all agricultural products, and (f) improving the efficiency
of the processing industry through the application of engineering. Close
links with the food processing industry would be maintained. The Program
would work closely with the commodity research programs in identifying
those products and areas where research programs are required and likely to
produce the greatest benefit, and in establishing product grading standards
for crop varieties and maturity that will give the best return to the
farmer and the processor. An important aspect of integrated commodity
research will be in the utilization of crop by-products. Research findings
would be published in scientific and technical journals and those in the
fields of food utilization and food technology would be made available
to the public and private food processing sector. To promote coordination
with the food industry, one member representing the public food industry
and one member representing the private food industry would be appointed
to the Advisory Committee on Agricultural Products Utilization. These
appointments would be a condition of effectiveness.



- 12 -
36.       The Research Program for Agricultural Engineering and Water
Management, new in MARDI, would provide supporting research for all of
the commodity programs as well as for agricultural engineering and water
management. The objective of the Program would be to improve the produc-
tion, harvest, storage and handling of agricultural products. The greatest
impact would be on rice, field crops and pineapple. Research will be
concerned with the development of equipment and techniques to facilitate
extension and intensification of agricultural production, the development
of farm equipment for local manufacture, techniques for land development,
water control, and efficient utilization of energy. The Agricultural
Engineering Program would be responsible for on-the-farm processing research,
whereas the Products Utilization Program would be responsible for off-the-
farm processing research and obviously their work would be closely integrated.
(b) Project Development Unit
37.       The Project Development Unit would provide field verification and
regional evaluation for the commodity research programs. The Unit would
work closely with the Department of Agriculture Extension Liaison Unit.
It would carry out socio-economic studies, i.e. on the impact of farm
mechanization in smallholder agriculture, farm size and farm incomes, and
would thus assist in focusing MARDI's research objectives. It would measure
the impact of the project and the rate of technology adoption. It would
concentrate on structuring research results into specific smallholder-feed-
fertilizer-technology packages.
(c) Extension Liaison Unit
38.       This Unit would strengthen the Extension Service of the Federal
Department of Agriculture in order to promote the efficient transfer of
MARDI research results to the State Departments of Agriculture, other Federal
agencies, and through these, to the farmers. Its Headquarters would be in
Kuala Lumpur. The Unit would increase the flow of information on new
varieties, crop diversification, cultural practices and other new and improved
technology. The Unit would work in close association with MARDI's Project
Development Unit to keep abreast of current research findings; it would in
turn feed back information from the State extension services to MARDI. This
feedback would be an important determinant of acceptance of research results
and would provide guidelines for determining areas of research and research
priorities. One of the Unit's primary activities will be the training of
extension staff in all Federal and State agencies.
Organization and Management
(a) MARDI
39.       MARDI is a semi-autonomous public organization headed by a
Director, who is also Chairman of the Governing Board and a member of the
Scientific Council and who is responsible for the whole of MARDI's opera-
tions. lie is assisted by two Deputy Directors, one responsible for research



- 13 -
programs and the other for administration and development. During negotia-
tion assurances were obtained that MARDI within six months of loan signing
will employ a senior specialist to assist the Deputy Director, Research, in
planning and implementing research programs. Each of the commodity and
other research groups would be headed by senior scientists coordinating
and guiding program research work. The lower echelons, responsible for
producing the actual research "at the bench", are organized in 3 groups,
- Production Research, Backstopping Research, and Research Services.
40.       Each commodity research program would concentrate its work on
the whole spectrum of technology associated with the particular commodity
and within each group all the disciplines necessary for such broad spectrum
work would be represented. Specialists from the research services and
backstopping research groups would be secured for various periods of time,
as and when required, to work with the commodity groups. Four research
service groups (economics, farm management and marketing; agricultural
engineering and water management; statistics and data processing; central
analytical services) would provide key professional support services to the
whole of MARDI's research effort.
41.       The essential staff structure below the top management group,
is based on a ratio of two Research Assistants and four Junior Research
Assistants and/or technicians for each research scientist. The Junior
Assistants normally are University or Diploma graduates and form the pool
out of which, after further post-graduate training through fellowships,
the future professional cadre is built up.
42.       MARDI management has anticipated the severe recruiting problem
of local personnel required for its expansion program. By the end of 1974
there were about 300 students in local Universities on MARDI scholarships.
Graduates from this program with B.Sc. or Diploma status will join MARDI
as Junior Research Officers. MARDI also has more than 60 staff and non-staff
members in overseas Universities who will join MARDI after obtaining higher
degrees.
43.       A major problem facing MARDI's recruitment and retention of
experienced staff is the level of salaries. A Government commission has
recommended parity of salaries for staff with equal training and experience
in MARDI, RRIM and the University of Agriculture. Assurances were obtained
during negotiations that this recommendation would be implemented within
six months of loan signing.
44.       The D)irector of MARDI would be responsible for engaging the
international scientists to be financed under the Project. The substantial
expenditure on internationally recruited staff is required to maintain the
strength of the research programs while staff fellows are overseas. In
general, the expatriate inputs would maintain this strength at somewhere
between 70 percent and 90 percent of the establishment. Research facilities
and employment conditions at MARDI are generally good and no problems in
recruiting the international staff required are expected.



- 14 -
45.       MARDI is financed through the annual GOM budget.    To improve
long-term planning the Government has approved MARDI's request for a block
grant to cover its needs for 5 years. However, it is essential that the
flow of funds from treasury sources will be coordinated with the expanded
level of activity envisaged under the Project. Therefore, further revisions
of the block grant are required to integrate the Project Budget with the
Block Grant Budget. Assurances have been obtained that the Government will
promptly provide the funds required by MARDI to enable it to perform its
functions.
46.       Under the Project MARDI would initiate a Planned Program Budgeting
System and its accounting system would be modified to permit identification
of the goods and services financed. These accounts will be kept in accord-
ance with sound accounting principles and will be audited by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank within six months after the end of the
financial year. A timetable for establishing the Planned Program Budgeting
System will be agreed between the Bank and MARDI within six months of loan
signing.
(b)  Extension Liaison Unit
47.       The Extension Liaison Unit would be a new part of the existing
Extension Branch of the Federal Department of Agriculture, and would be
headed by a senior Agricultural Officer. There would be four main functional
sections, i.e. communications, data processing, projects, and subject
matter specialization.
48.       Fellowships for the Unit's staff would be an essential component
of the Project. These are required to provide qualified manpower for the
Unit and would aim at post-graduate courses and medium and short-term
refresher courses available to all Departmental staff in order to increase
rapidly the strength of the Unit to an acceptable level. Internationally
recruited staff would initially be engaged for planning and operation of
the Unit partly to offset the work input foregone by local staff pursuing
their fellowships. During project execution, further expatriate staff
would be engaged on a short-term basis to assist in planning and operating
the specialized subject matter units.
Project Monitoring
49.       An essential requirement for the proper functioning of a research
organization such as MARDI, is periodic reviews of its research program
by eminent scientists, not-directly associated with the organization, to
ensure that the research undertaken is relevant to the needs of the agri-
cultural sector and that research resources are efficiently utilized.
The Project would provide for such periodic reviews by a panel of scientists,
selected by MARDI's Director in consultation with the Bank. The project
would provide the funds for the engagement of such reviewers. The selection
of the reviewers would be based on the particular program or programs to
be reviewed in each instance.



- 15 -
Cooperation with International Research Institutes
50.       MARDI is already collaborating closely with international research
institutes particularly in its research on rice, small farmer mechanization
and oil palm. It also has already established contact with international
research institutes working on tropical agriculture and field crops, including
maize, sorghum, soybean and tapioca. These contacts will be strengthened
and new ones will be established. The Project would also finance fellow-
ship for MARDI staff for both short and longer term visits to relevant
international centers.
Cost and Financing of Project
51.       The Project costs are estimated at US$108.5 million of which
US$23.1 million are for the MARDI Research Groups, US$4 million for the
Extension Liason Unit in the Ministry of Agriculture, US$45.2 million for
local staff costs, salaries and operating expenditures during the implement-
ation period (1975-81);contingencies account for the remaining US$36.2 mil-
lion of Project costs. The proposed Bank loan of US$28.5 million would be
made to the Government and would cover the estimated foreign exchange
component including contingencies. Remaining project costs will be met by
the Governnlent. The Government will make the Bank loan as well as the local
currency funds required for the project available to MARDI and the Department
of Agriculture on a grant basis.
Procurement and Disbursements
52.       Internationally recruited specialists would be engaged by the
Director of MARDI or the Director of the Extension Liaison Unit through
arrangements to be agreed by the Bank. Fellowships would be awarded to
staff members selected by the senior scientists and approved by the Director
of MARDI or the Director of the Extension Liaison Unit respectively. The
fellowship program itself would be managed under arrangements agreed upon
between the Bank and MARDI.
53.       All goods would be procured on the basis of international compe-
titive bidding, in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines. However contracts
for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of not more than US$20,000 would
be let according to normal Government procedures which are satisfactory.
Also, the computer would be purchased or leased following procedures to
be agreed with the Bank. Contracts for similar goods would be bulked to
attract foreign as well as local bidders. Local manufacturing would be
allowed a margin of preference of 15 percent, or the actual customs duty,
whichever is lower. Most of the goods are now expected to be imported.
54.       Livestock purchases can be made only in a limited number of countries
and are therefore not suitable for international competitive bidding.
The Director of MARDI would submit a list of countries for the purchase of
each class of livestock for the Bank's concurrence. All livestock purchases
and sales would be administered through a Livestock Fund, the assets of which
will be at the disposal of the Director of MARDI for further purchases of
livestock only.



- 16 -
55.       Contracts for the construction of buildings would be awarded on
the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group
Guidelines. But Malaysia has a viable local contracting industry and it is
expected that local contractors would win all bids.
56.       In view of the major expansion program now underway in MARDI,
to be accelerated through the Project, the Procurement Unit would be
strengthened to handle the procurement work associated with the expansion
program. The Unit would form the liaison with the Malaysian Tender Board
and other supply agencies and would be responsible for the day-to-day work
of administering the recording requirements under the project. It would
be a condition of Loan effectiveness that the Unit be strengthened by
the addition of at least 3 additional staff members.
57.       The Loan would finance 100 percent of the foreign exchange cost
of the services of internationally recruited senior scientists, of staff
fellowships, of overseas missions to collect plant materials, of project
monitoring, and of equipment and supplies and livestock. It would finance
100 percent of the ex-factory cost of locally manufactured goods procured
through international competitive bidding, and 70 percent of the cost of
goods imported but purchased locally. It would finance 33 percent (the
estimated foreign exchange component) of the cost of all buildings to be
constructed under the Project. It would cover retroactive expenditures
estimated not to exceed US$20,000 for a study to establish computer needs.
58.       The following would be conditions of disbursement:    (i) the
creation of a Livestock Fund in respect of all livestock purchases, (ii) the
appointment of qualified senior scientists in respect of all expenditures
for MARDI's Agricultural Products Utilization and Agricultural Engineering
and Water Management Programs, and (iii) the completion of a study by a
computer consultant and the setting-up of adequate operating and maintenance
provisions in respect of all computer expenditures.
Justification and Benefits
59.       An overwhelming part of agriculture in Malaysia is in the hands
of small farmers, who do not have the means to carry out their own research.
If the social and income status of these small farmers is to be improved
then a major Government effort in agricultural research and extension is
required to provide them with the technology which would give them the
means to improve their productivity, output, and incomes. This applies
to research on rice, cassava, cocoa, coconut, pineapples and livestock,
which are all traditional smallholder products. Research on rice and field-
crops for livestock feed will result in output expansion and also assist in
minimizing future risks in the world supply of these basic commodities.



- 1 7 -
60.       An attempt was made to assess the value of a research and exten-
sion project to Malaysia (see Annex 14 of Appraisal Report). Given present
methodology, a research and extension project does not lend itself readily
to traditional benefit cost analysis because of the uncertainties with
respect to the resources required to produce a particular research result
and the variety of research results which may be achieved. However, histori-
cal and analogue data of research and extension efforts in Malaysia and other
countries on examination indicate (a) that Malaysia was spending comparatively
less on agricultural research and extension than most other Asian countries
(b) that physical constraints on cropping areas can be removed
through the introduction and/or adoption of new technology, (c) that a
reduction in the research extension lag can be expected (based on analogue
evidence from Malaysia's rubber industry, applied to some basic data for
four of MARDI's research programs), (d) that strong political and industrial
support for agricultural research exists in Malaysia and (e) that based on
evidence in a selected group of 12 Asian countries a definite relationship
between aggregate net output per hectare and the research-extension effort
exists. These factors taken together, indicate that the proposed research
and extension effort would be likely to benefit Malaysia's agriculture at
least sufficiently to justify the proposed research program.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
61.       The draft Loan Agreement between Malaysia and the Bank, the draft
Project Agreement between the Bank and MARDI, the Report of the Committee
provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement and
the text of a resolution approving the proposed loan are being distributed
to the Executive Directors separately.
62.       The special features described in paragraphs 25, 35, 39, 43, 46, 49,
52 and 54 of this Report are reflected respectively in Section 4.04, of the
Loan Agreement, Sections 2.10, 2.09, 3.03, 2.06, and 2.11 of the Project
Agreement, 3.03 of the Loan Agreement and 2.02 of the Project Agreement,
and 2.08 of the Project Agreement. The special procurement provisions
described in paragraphs 53 and 54 of this Report are reflected in Sections
A.3 and 2 of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement.
63.       The additional conditions of effectiveness described in paragraphs
35, and 56 of this Report are reflected in Section 6.01(b) and (c) of the
Loan Agreement.
64.       The conditions of disbursement described in paragraph 57 of this
Report are reflected in Section 2.02 (a), (b) and (c) of the Loan Agreement.
65.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.



- 18 -
PART VI-  RECOMMENDATION
66.       I recommend that thle Axecutive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by J. Burke Knapp
Washington, D. C.
May 1, 1975



ANNEX I
Page 1 of 3 pages
WDUNTNT DATA - MALAYSIA
ANNA                                                POPUJLATION                                  LNNSITT
32-9,74.9 ha2                                        W*~mllo          ed-1972)
Per 1.2.f .able land
SOCIAL NDMICATORS
Malaysia              ~~Referenc  Coun,tries
tri Pu CAflTA US$ (ATIAS BASIS) /5                               ..13                             50L           990/          750/
DEMDGRAPHIC
Crd  trbrte (Per thousand)                                41.             b5Lna            12           2  .          . 
Crude death rate (per thousand)                                                                                11 aI d-9a
Infant mortality rate (per thousand live births)                62              39A/,8           73 5          50           61
Life mapeatan..y at birth (yours)                               5765                  f          58  d         6865/
Pouatio  gotrae292.7 ?/9                                                                                  iS/3s
Dines r2noto         ae                                          .9            2.9              4.            -.           3.1
POPulation growth rate - urban                                 ....                                         tiso       
Age atnotur    (percet)
15-61.                                                       453 [1.J         5       ~        0 L5          28          1506
65and over                                                    3  W                               1))       1/             1. 
AgeOd. dependenyyratio /   4                                  0.9    b          9              0.9           0'6/         10
Economic dependency ratio Lb                   ~~~~~~11/5/     1.6              1.7           1.2           2.0
Ur ban peopulation me percent of total                          27 /b.l.ai      29 ak.           55     ~      3  5         6   5.
P"elly planning,   Ho. Of accePtors cumulative (thous.)                        220                             3              1/,
NO. Of ueers (% of earned mao)15
Total lbor force (thousands)                                 2,300 /5        2,900            1.,300        3.000 La    13,0MO
Percentage employed In ogricoltore                            56   b 5        17/              1.5           31 A         1.0
Percentage, unemployed                                         6/jj            8/               5            .1
INOEDISTHINSC
Prcent of noioal incoa. rocivod by hlghont 5%                    17 4a,r         28 /531                                      36l
Percent of catinnal incoe. ro-i-ad by highest 20%               1.1             6 4
Peroent of national in.... --cined by boot 0576
Peroent of notional inocom eoe,-d by 1oo_et 1.0%18                   '
nmdbtop7 109 of 0000c93
% ownd by moallest 10% ofourn.01
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
Population per phynician                                     6,500 Ls.a      3,860La          1,920 /f     1,100         1,11.0
Popriatioc per nure;.ng pr.n...                                              1,080 /,         ,C     5        90/         ,7
Population per hospital bnd                    ~~~~~~290 Los   330              870           160           930
Per napito calorie nopply as % of roqutrements /5              10?2o.           91. /b           91.          uS           110
Per capita protein copply, total (grois Per duy)/               51  wu           ./              6             56
Of hioh,aoo,od pulse                                          220             20  baa          21.h         Ii            6h/a
Death rate 1-1. yeorv /7 ?                                                       6 /2 / as       .           3.?Lc /5/.
EIIUCATrON62.b-                                                                                                   2
Adjueted /8 piusary school enrollmnen  ratio                    95 /5           89 /5115/4g                    951./a
Adjusted L                                                                                       ' s"cnmdary sohool enrollment ratio  20 ul3.r5LI // 6  2
Tears of ec-ooliog providod, firet and second level             13 /13                                        6511          123
Vocotinnal enrollment on 9 of ec. schol1 enrollment             13 153 /51                       p             13?          21.
Adult literacy rote                                             1.8 5           89   1N.~a7                     32 6        26 1/,f.o
HOUSIIfhL                                                                         897l5                              U        8/.a,
Average No. Off persone per rmo  (urban)                                       2 3              .             .2?L.
Percent of ocoupiod unots without piped outer                                                                              2 5  .  .  2.6  /a
Acceecs to e1letirity (on 9 of total population)                               15 .3                                       61 85  /5hj
Percent of turn). PePulatim, oonoocted to electricity                           30             ..59/.
Ra6dio roirsper 1000 poo,latinn                                  37             1.2(             138 /         169 /5       301 (
Possenger core per 1000 population                              15p             25 [b)           17           71 /           8/
Nlectprict pconrmpconsop-o (bg pey.c.r                         200/            1.1 45 132/                 1,026 Ia        66? /5.
Neanprint consumption p.c. kg per year        ~~0.5            3.0 Lab          3.1           3.9 7-       1.8 /
Notes   Fig-re   refer either to tic. latent psriodn or to            accout of ... rornsantal teoperatur, body seighte, and    -
the latest yearn.   Latent periods refer in prineiplv to         /6distribution by 0gm andl ea    of national popalatione.
the Yaore 1956-60 or 1966-70; tic 1utoet Yeare in prin-          /6   Protein etand-rde (requiremet.) for .11 ...uotrineas ee .tab
ciple to 1960 and 1970.                                               liehdc by tatila Ec-noic Roeaucb Service provide for a   i.
/I   To. Per Capita INP eetiaate in at narket pricc  for              al1uwance of hO gr-oet  f itotal protein psr day, aund 20 panS of
Years other than 1960,calculated by the anna con-erehon           ani,an1 an  puie  protein, of vbbch 10 grmo should be anical
tochnique no tin 1972 Worid Bank, Atlas.                           protein.  Thoe octand-rde are eo.ewht lower than thoses of 75
/5Average nonecr of doughters per won      of reproduction           grom  of total protein and 23 grac   of aninal protein as an
.a..                                                              average for tie world, propoand by FAQ to the Third World Food
/5  POPulotion growth rteis ar   for thc decaden ending in            Survey.
1960 and 1970.                                               /7 Imne etudies hare euggested that wruda death rates of children
Ratio Of POPolatim, oder       an d   en d over to   pua          agen 1 threugh 4 nay he .ned on a first opotainindea Of
them of agee 15-61. far age dependency ratio end in labor    /8  lPerostage nroldo.ornoaigpplto                     fsho      g
forc  of  ges15-6. fo  ecnnei  depndeCy ratio.         asdoficed for each country.
/4 PO reference standarlds represet PhYsiologIcal re-
quireeta for noral actiolty and health, taking
/5 1972;   /5  West Maleyvsia;   Lac 1971;    /d  1965-2o UN estimate;    /a   1967;   /5  1969;    La  1960-72;    /h  Including
etmigrtion plaas   191-0            Capitale of distnicte and tines populated centers with ouch urba     characterinticsesa
stees    p        -ns  ater supply syotee, SMevM9ge efYteea, electrlic lighte, etc.;  /5  lcjiino        25.2o     os
L i957;   /p   1973;   /h  Data exciudee Indin Jungle population;       La  Eatiaate;    /5k  1962;e    of i957058 o,     Hooacl
Li 1930-711   /5t  Econooicealy actlce population1    /5  FederatIon of Malaya;     /      1961; 2;Nme no t9558     regstr Houteol.
a96ll  orkidg In the coutry;    /5  Peranene  In governmenOt eevie;        x  Includiog aidwlree;    /5   1961-63;
; 91.6~   /ob   1968;   Inc  Including ev,ening echools;    /ad   Grosenola     n  which include overge studente;
1966;   LaL   15 year end or,er;    Lag  Definition unknown;    Ll5t  Data refer to housing unitn;    LaL   InsIde only;
Isknetted rean wi th populati On of 10,000 or aur.
*Mexico has been selected as aobjective country since it has set a rapid petb of Iodoetrtai         -aPanoi- in tic eanee
M-alayia industrial baele-   relatively oaoll and tie coantry hao th.esapaIty and plan      in expand Itn induotra     pro-
duction rpidly in the ftulur.Pa                                                       Pd
RS April 25, 1975



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 3 pages
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1974 (Provisional)                      ANNUJAL RATE OF GROWTH (%, constant prices)
US$ Mln.       %                      1960-65           1965-7_Q         1297
GNP at Market Prices         8,151       100.0                      6.9               5.6             6.3
Gross Domestic Investment    1,661        20.3                      9.4               7.7             3.4
Gross National Saving        1,223        15.0                     11.8               7.9             5.4
Current Account Balance       -438        -5.4
Exports of Goods, NFS        4,329        53.1                      4.1               6.5             2.0
Imports of Goods, NFS        4,662        57.2                      3.3              5.7              7.0
OUTPUT, TABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1970
Value Added                 Labor Force                  V. A. Per Worker
US$ M}n.    _                  Mn_                           US-$       -_%
Agriculture                    823       29.7              1.5       46.9                 549        54.4
Industry                       760       27.5              0.5       15.6               1,520       149.5
Services                     1,184       42.8              1.0       31.3               1,184       116.4
Unallocated
Tot,al/Average
2,767      100.0               3.2       O                  1,017       100.0
GOVERN7NT FINANCE
General Government                           Central Government
n5   - l;      6of GII         ~M$            Mln.)        %o    D
1974 a/  174      1972_7                197  aT7   1974 %     19X-774
Current Receipts                  5,159        30.3       29.9                  4,41)2     25.9         25.0
Current Expenditure               4,41         26.0       27.7                  3,738      22.0         23.7
Current Surplus                     743         4.4        2.2                    664       3.9          1.3
Capital Expenditures              1,803        10.6       10.8                  1,578       9.3          9 2
External Assistance (net)           271         1.6        1.4                     10       0.0          1.5
MONEY, CREDIT and PRICES                1969         1970       1971        1972        1973
(M$ Million oufstanding and period)
Money and Quasi Money                   3,724       4,130       4,666       5,771       7,574
Bank credit to Public Sector              909         833       1,045       1,186      1,375
Bank Credit to Private Sector           1,841       2,246       2,572       3,014      4,586
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP        33.1         35.0       37.6        43.7       46.1
General Price Index (1970 = 100)         92.3        100.0      101.9       110.8      122.4
Annual percentage changes in: .
General Price Index                      -0.4         1.9         1.6         3.2      -10.5
Bank credit to Public Sector              6.4        -8.4        25.5        13.5       15.9
Bank credit to Private Sector             9.0        21.9        14.6        17.2       52.2
NOTE: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average sxchangs rate prevailing during the period
covered.
a/ Latest estimate
not available
not applicable



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 3 pages
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPTTAL FlOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                 MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1972-74)
1971     1972a/    1973a/                                             US$Mln      %
(Millions US $)
Exports of Goods, NFS          1,717   1,816    3,178                Rubber                           898       31.2
Imports of Goods, NFS         1,646    1,887    2,604               Tin                               428       14.8
Resource Gap (deficit = )     -71        7l      -5T4               Timber                            491       17.0
Palm Oil                          249       8.6
Interest Payments (net)          -23     -23      -35               Petroleum                          168       5.8
Workers' Remittances               .       .                        All cosnodities                    648      22.6
Other Factor Payments (net)      -51     -87     -234                    Total                       2,882     100.0
Net Transfers                    -55     -56      -63
Balance on Current Account       -58    -237      242
Direct Foreign Investment        52       64       85             EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1973
Net MLT Borrowing
Disbursements                 145     136      100                                                       US $ Mln
Amortization                   21      23       46
Subtotal                     124      113       54               Public Debt, incl. guaranteed             665.2
Capital Grants                    15      23       12               Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Other Capital (net)              -77      92)    -185)              Total outstanding & Disbursed
Other items n.e.i                -16        )                                                  /
Increase in Reserves (+)         61       55      208             DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1973b'
Gross Reserves (end year)        907   1,029    1,422
Net Reserves    (end year)       902   1,027    1,417               Public Debt, incl. guaranteed             2.5
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Fuel and Related Materials                                           Total outstanding & Disbursed
Imports                      1,772   1,717    1,811
of which:  Petroleum         117     162      111
Exports                      1,601   1,646    1,846
of which:  Petroleum         167     185      138       IBRD/IDA LENDING, March 31, 1975 (Million US$):
IBRD        IDA
RATE OF EXCHANGE
Outstanding & Disbursed              237.9
Thr2o2lh 1971                                                  Undisbursed                          295.2
US$1.00 = M$3.06                                              Outstanding incl. Undisbursed        5331
M$1.00  = US$0.33
1972 - February 13, 1973
US$1.00 = M$2.82
M$1.00 = Us$0.35
February 13 - June 21, 1973
US$1.00 = M$2.54
M$1.00 = US$0.39
June 21. 1973 to present floating in relation to US dollar
uS$1.no = M$2.40
M$1.00 = US$0.42
a/ Exchange rates used: 1972, US$1.00=M$2.82; 1973, US$1.00      M$2.43; 1974, US$1.00 = M$2.40
b/ Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services.
riot available
not applicable
April 16, 1975



AN1NEX II
Page I of 7
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPETATIONS IN MALAYSIA
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS (AS AT MARCH 31, 1975)
US$ Million
Loan                                                         Amount   (Less Camellations)
Number    Year    Borrower                   LL7  Qe           Bank       Undisbursed
Ten loans fully dLsbursed                                     i95.2 /a
533       1968    Malaysia                Land Settlement      14.0           0.3
599       1969    Malaysia                Education             8.8           4 .8
672       1970    Malaysia                Land Settlement      13.0           3.6
700       1970    National Electricity
Board                 Electric Power       20.0          6,7
753       1971    Malaysia                Telecommunications    18.7         11.9
774       1971     Sabah Ports Authority  Ports                 16.1          5.0
799       1972    Malayan Railway         Railroad
Administration                             16.0           3.9
810       1972    Malaysia                Education             15.5         14.6
851       1972    Malaysia                Urban Transport       16.0          8.6
880       1973    Malaysia                Population             5.0          4.9
885       1973    Malaysia                Land Settlement       25.0         21.6
908       1973    Malaysia                Water Supply          13.5          9.3
931       1973    Malaysia                Highway               19.5         16.8
967       1974    MLlaysia                Land Settlement       140.0        38.4
97,       1974    Malaysia                Agricultural
Development        145.0         45.0
974       1974    Malaysia                Education             19.0         19.0
1031       1974    National Electricity
Board                 Power                45.0         44.9
1044       1974    Malaysia                Land Settlement       36.0         35.9
Total                                               5t1           297.2
of which has been repaid                            8
Total now outstanding                               533.1
Amount sold                      19.1
of whichi has been repaid     11.3                  7.8
Total now held by Bank                              725.32
Total undisbursed                                                295.2
/a  In addition, Malaysia is Guarantor for Loan 405-MA of February 26, 1965 to the
Public Utilities Board in Singapore (amount being held by the Bank at March 31,
1975 - US$14.8 million).



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 7
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (AS OF MARCH 31. 1975)
Type of        Amount in US$ Million
Year                                       Business        Loan   Equity   Total
1964,    Malaysian Industrial              Development
1974       Development Finance             Financing        -      1.94     1.94
Ltd. (MIDF)
1966     Tasek Cement Ltd.                 Cement          1.28    0.28     1.58
1968     Malayawata Steel Ltd.             Steel           2.45    1.01     3.46
1969     Malayawata Steel Ltd              Steel            -      0.23     0.23
1969     India-Malaysia
Textiles Ltd.                   Textiles       1.25    0.25      1 .50
Total gross commitments                          4.98    3.71      8.69
less: repayments, sales, cancellations,
terminations and write-offs               3.32    3.46      6.78
Total investments now held by IFC                1.66     0.25     12.91
Total undisbursed                                 _



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 7
C.  PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
Loan No. 533       Jengka Triangle Project; US$14.0 Million Loan of
April 17, 1968; Closing Date: December 31, 1975
Loan No. 672       Second Jengka Triangle Land Settlement Project; US$13.0
Million Loan of May 20, 1970; Closing Date: May 31, 1977
Loan No. 885       Third Jengka Triangle Land Settlement Project;
US$25.0 Million Loan of March 30, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
The projects consist of the clearing of forest, the planting of
62,000 acres of oil palms and 35,000 acres of rubber and the settlement of
10,000 families in the Jengka Triangle (State of Pahang). The Federal Land
Development Authority (FELDA), responsible for the execution of the project,
operates efficiently and its standards of planting and maintenance are high.
Physical work for the first project (533-MA) has been completed. The re-
maining balance in the loan account will be used to finance fertilizers and
interest. Cost overruns on Bank financed project components are estimated
at US$3.3 million. Rubber and oil palm planting under the second project
(672-MA) has been completed and village development is proceeding satisfac-
torily. About 1,300 settlers have moved in. Settlement of the rest is
expected to be accomplished by early 1976, slightly behind schedule. Palm
oil mill construction will be completed by mid-1975. Cost overruns on Bank-
financed project components are estimated at about US$5.5 million, or 40
percent over appraisal estimates. Under the third project (885-MA) oil
palm and rubber plantings are slightly behind schedule but are proceeding
satisfactorily. Infrastructure and village development is behind schedule
and settlement is expected to begin in 1976. Cost overruns on Bank-financed
project components are estimated at US$6.8 million. In terms of economic
viability, improved prospects for palm oil and rubber prices have fully
compensated for cost overruns on all three projects.
Loan No. 967       Johore Land Settlement Project; US$40.0 Million
Loan of February 27. 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project, implemented by FELDA, consists of the planting of
65,000 acres of oil palm, and settlement of 4,400 families in the State
of Johore. About 30 percent of the oil palm planting program has been
completed. Clearing and planting operations for the rest are proceeding
satisfactorily, but infrastructure and village development is being
These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any problems
which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy them.
They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that they do
not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and weaknesses in
project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 7
delayed. Cost overruns on Bank-financed project components are presently
estimated to exceed US$10 million, but the economic rate of return of the
project remained satisfactory.
Loan No. 1044-MA   Keratong Land Settlement Project; US$36.0 Million
Loan of October 3, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project, implemented by FELDA, consists of the planting of
55,000 acres of oil palm, the settlement of 3,400 families, the construc-
tion of two palm oil mills and the establishment of two urban settlements.
Loan No. 973       Western Johore Agricultural Development Project;
US$45.0 Million Loan of April 5, 1974; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980
The project includes the provision of main and feeder drains,
coastal embankments and tidal gates to improve drainage in a total area
of 134,000 ha (33,000 ac) in the southwest of Peninsular Malaysia as well
as an integrated agricultural development program. A Project Division has
been set up to direct and coordinate the various agencies involved in proj-
ect and program execution, to monitor and evaluate project progress and to
prepare a feasibility study for a second stage project. Due to the need
to re-evaluate some of the design criteria, drainage construction is about
one year behind schedule but prospects remain good for completing the proj-
ect on time. The agricultural development program has only just begun but
progress to date is satisfactory.
Loan No. 700-MA     Fifth Power Project; US$20.0 Million Loan of
July 16, 1970; Closing Date: January 31, 1977
Implementation of the project consisting of the third stage of
the Tuanka Ja'afar thermal power station of the National Electricity Board
system was delayed because of manufacturers' delays, particularly in sup-
plying structural steel and turbo-alternators, and lately to shortages of
cement. Commissioning of the first of the two units is now scheduled for
November 1975, about 18-19 months behind schedule. The foreign exchange
value of all contracts covered by the loan is still within the loan amount.
Loan No. 1031-MA    Sixth Power Project; US$45.0 Million Loan of
July 25, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The project consists of the distribution network for the Temengor
hydroelectric power station. So far implementation is on schedule.
Loan No. 753-MA     Second Telecommunications Project; US$18.7 Million
Loan of June 21, 1971; Closing Date: June 30, 1976
The program of expansion has been revised by TDM to adjust to
current estimates of their needs. Procurement of goods required for the



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 7
project is progressing satisfactorily. About 45,000 lines of local exchange
and 12,000 lines of long-distance exchange equipment have been installed.
The project is expected to be completed by June 1977, about one and one
half years behind schedule.
Loan No. 908       Second Kuala Lumpur Water Supply Project; US$13.5 Million
Loan of June 14, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1978
The project consists of the expansion of facilities to provide
piped water supply to parts of Kuala Lumpur and Klang Valley which do not
have a public supply and to meet increasing demand in the project area.
The facilities will include an earth dam on the Langat River to form a
reservoir to regulate the river flow. When field surveys were made for
the detailed design, the consultant found that the 175 feet height of the
dam originally planned had to be raised by 9 feet. The completion of the
dam, but not the other components of the project, is expected to be delayed
by about one year to late 1978. The project cost is presently estimated at
about 30 percent more than the appraisal estimates due to the increased cost
of the dam and adoption of a higher allowance for inflation.
Loan No. 774       Sabah Ports Project; US$16.1 Million Loan of
June 30, 1971; Closing Date: March 31, 1976
Rises in prices of building materials, fuel and labor are expected
to increase the project cost from the forecast M$67 million to M$78 million.
Construction problems and building materials shortages will delay completion
by 7-9 months until July-September 1975. Operating efficiency has deterio-
rated during the latter part of 1973, particularly at Kota Kinabalu. How-
ever, overall traffic increased in 1973 and 1974. Financial results for
1973 and budgeted and forecast results for the years 1974-77 are substan-
tially as forecast.
Loan No. 799       Railway Project; US$16.0 Million Loan of
February 11, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1975
The project includes mainly equipment and works for a dieseliza-
tion program of the Malayan Railways (MR). Although procurement started
late, almost all the equipment to be procured has been ordered. The overall
revised investment plan cost of about M$120 million is not likely to be
exceeded. There are management problems largely due to many vacancies in
key technical posts. Operations have not improved to the extent forecast
at appraisal. Passenger traffic has risen faster than anticipated, while
freight traffic in 1973 was slightly below forecasts, but there were indi-
cations of improvement in 1974. A Select Committee set up by the Government
to review the MR's organization and operations is expected to present its
recommendations by June 1975.



ANN-EX II
Page 6 of 7
Loan No. 851        Kuala Lumpur Urban Transport Project; US$16.0 Million
Loan of July 20, 1972; Closing Date: April 30, 1977
The project is designed to improve access to Kuala Lumpur from
the adjacent town of Petaling Jaya. Project implementation is behind
schedule, but progress has been made by the Contractor in speeding up the
work through reorganization of his local staff and through additional sub-
contracting. Due to the low rate of inflation in Malaysia during the 1960's
and up to the time of the award of the contract, the Contractor seriously
underestimated future price increases in his bid. He has now made a request
to the Government that the contract be amended to allow for price escalation
for a large number of items in addition to those already allowed for.
Loan No. 931        Second Highway Project; US$19.5 Million Loan of
August 22. 1973; Closing Date: March 31, 1977
Construction contracts for four of the five road sections in the
project have been awarded, three in September-October 1973 and one in
November 1974. Due to the late start of the fifth and last road section,
which was tendered in January 1975, project completion will be delayed
by about 12 months. Construction costs have escalated sharply and it is
likely that they will exceed original estimates (including contingencies)
by almost US$17 m-illion, or about 56 percent.
Loan No. 599        Education Project; US$8.8 Million Loan of
May 23, 1969; Closing Date: June 30, 1976
Originally scheduled construction has been completed at 20 of
21 project schools and the quality of the completed buildings is good. A
new site was necessary for one remaining agricultural school, for which
construction is not expected to be completed before mid-1976. Disburse-
ments have been slow mainly because of administrative delays in the Public
Works Department.
Loan No. 810         Second Education Project; US$15.5 Million Loan of
April 5, 1972; Closing Date: December 31. 1977
Project implementation is about 12 months behind schedule mainly
due to delays in the appointment of consultant architects for the Penang
University but is now improving. Final drawings and tender document for
the science schools of the Penang University are about 60 percent complete
and contracts for the Curriculum Development Center and six schools have
been awarded. The revised cost estimate shows an increase of about 40 per-
cent in the project cost over the appraisal estimate. Progress on equipment
procurement is satisfactory.
Loan No. 974        Third Education Project; US$19.0 Million Loan of
April 5, 1974: Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Due to an early start in the preparation of the construction
documents, project implementation is about three months ahead of schedule.



ANLNEX II
Page 7 of 7
All sites for project institutions except one have been selected. Sketch
plans have been approved for 9 of the 13 project institutions. Progress
on both civil works and equipment procurement is satisfactory.
Loan No. 880        Population Project; US$5.0 Million Loan of
February 9, 1973; Closing Date: September 30, 1978
The project is designed to assist Malaysia in achieving low birth
and population growth rates and thus to contribute to an increase in per
capita income growth and in the long run to ease the unemployment problem.
The United Nations Fund for Population Activities (UNFPA) is providing
US$4.3 million in the form of a grant to finance certain components of the
project. Progress is satisfactory after initial difficulties in coordinating
activities of the Government agencies involved, which has delayed loan dis-
bursement. Total project costs are estimated to increase by US$3.5 million
or 14 percent.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 3
MALAYSIA - AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION LIAISON PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                 Malaysia
Beneficiary:              The Malaysian Agricultural Research and Development
Institute (MARDI and the Federal Department of Agri-
culture)
Amount:                   US$28.5 million equivalent
Project Description:      The proposed project will assist the development
of MARDI over the seven year period 1975-81 by
providing for the services of internationally
recruited scientists and specialists (104 man-years),
staff fellowships for post-graduate training (286
man-years), the supply of laboratory, field and
workshop equipment and supplies, the construction
of buildings and the importation of improved breeds
of all classes of livestock; the provision of
services of specialists (9 man-years), staff
fellowships (94 man-years), buildings and equip-
ment for the Extension Liaison Unit in the
Department of Agriculture. It will consist of:
(a) commodity research programs for rice, field
crops, pineapples, cocoa/coconut, livestock
as well as research programs for agricultural
products utilization, agricultural engineering
and water management;
(b) the establishment of a Project development
unit in MARDI;
(c) the establishment of an Extension Liaison
Unit in the Department of Agriculture.



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 3
US$ Million
Estimated Costs:                         Local      Foreign       Total
1. MARDI Research Groups
Expatriate Scientists               0.9         5.5          6.4
Staff Fellowships                    -          4.1         4.1
Buildings                           1.9         0.9          2.8
Equipment and Livestock             0.3         9.5          9.8
Sub-Total                       3.1        20.0        23.1
2. Department of Agriculture
Expatriate Scientists               0.1         0.5         0.6
Staff Fellowship                     -          1.4          1.4
Buildings                           0.9         0.5          1,4
Equipment                           0.1         0.5         0.6
Sub-Total                       1.1    -    2.9         4.0
3. Local Staff and Overhead              45.2          -         45.2
Sub-Total                      49.4        22.9        72.3
4.  Contingencies:  Physical              2.5         1.1          3.6
Price /1             28.2         4.0        32.2
Sub-Total                      80.1        28.0       108.1
5.  Rounding Factor                       _           0.4          0.4
Total Project Cost             80.1        28.4       108.5
/1   54.6 percent on local cost, 21 percent on imported equipment, 14.5
percent on services in the aggregate over the seven-year implementa-
tion period.
Financing:     Proposed Bank Loan                                     28.5
Government Grants to MARDI
and Department of Agriculture                       80.0
Total                                 108.5
Estimated Disbursements:
US$ Million
Calendar Year                       76    77    78    79    80     81
4.5   6.4   8.5   3.1    2.9   3.1



ANNEX III
Page 3 of 3
Procurement
Arrangements:          Recruitment of international specialists and man-
agement of the fellowship program for both MARDI
and the Extension Liaison Unit would be made under
arrangements to be agreed with the Bank. All
goods would be procured on the basis of interna-
tional competitive bidding, except computer equip-
ment and contracts of US$20,000 equivalent or less.
Local manufacturers would be allowed a margin of
preference of 15 percent or the actual customs
duty, whichever is lower. Livestock purchases
would be made only in a limited number of
countries and the Director of MARDI would submit
a list of countries for the purchase of each class
of livestock for the Bank's concurrence. Civil works
contracts would be let on the basis of international
competitive.
Appraisal Report:        Report No. 632-MA, dated April 25, 1975.






I BRD 11238R
t00-             <   lol                  102                  lox                         APPIL 1075
1 > _MALAYS IA
2ThorrgAaO--
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH         AND
Padatrg Besor                      rEXTENSION                             PROJECT
\E-. g}vzc\/Z/8<   T H A I L AND
r>XA L/2 tJ "-'IL.,                                           A    Mordi res-arch cen-ers and Fold slat ons
KznCrt  )        j                                            Q     Aqricullural products  olidr-tw.n research  Centers
*'                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Food technology)
(/D>   \  i   t  > Turnpot  Federal roads and rorul  numbers
MergonC;) <>?   roSt .i X tNLuvnEdhar.       Other prnc,apl r1nds
Mergong  t ar,ea                    lB          undanrg           Slate  boundaries
-6- 0             K i DSA H  )                 (1)    \; P\lr     -   -   Intern-I-Inol boundares
)  BeIng . r               /    Pute~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~F Ka,nporg
Torth     ,' t Raja  0    20    40    60
Sunget abet~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n     IMMcLang'
Sungi  I  olinMe,                chF           0   20  40  6W  80  1g0
3umbong Limo0\Lt~ ) ~\\  <)  2  1  0 KuoloKr01  ))  KILOMETERS
Sumbong LIaXKuala 
IIFN a  >>\ 1,   uw       r          t                        orrengganu
S.                    tFer&                       0                                           5.~~~~~~~. 
(       PR Ef P A   K   r'          7AN 
~5        Kuaa Kure                                         T R N G GA V U5a-
Pert Wd                      r'ang
AS VA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~u     l,  C0H9LOn 1       S7'  C i
~~t~~aaI ~~angcor  ~ ~ ~ ~   ~~  f5'   (sac Oung~~~~ur glBgn
a  5 Z,                 A   H VGoT 
Cameronng Kcronge,<   J  < fS  5   \  mr10h   J
Kr ~      J0     2    vUL UIPra
H  TonPra~~-                            ohnt j5So                        t
~~  Tanjong Kararrg Ka
..-                P chlK, -p d  Mu\                             EndSa-
7he Fhrnaedrvle  shown en rhis esop do er,rS,mb rS5/1k7/Z,\>\ 
Emirrrsexdenemere  or acrep1roece  by  rOe r\/  \\\\
leerEd deb7r eed  n ftsar eflue $> <  X
\                      ~~~~~~~~~     ~~~~          ~~Dickson  G n cs _ 'no   !,
L                                                  \       10                     MersigJ
NTHAILAND~-'~' 
BM .    .            IM  )                   \  I        /K.
B         REPM     ,                                 Beeo          1 a  r 
',-.,. -' E M       PHILIPPINES'            B A                      uang (
oI\  Sor,th Chnor S eo   a   )      JTuco                              x      
. u    A                            1onra XKectTinl                            atanBar\-
akuata)  7'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7,
Lu nr p u~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lo u 
<1S  t A-Y S ERUNEttst @ ||~~~~~~~NDONESI      <              Aonn KecrA
>~y 'K>R S,=NGAPORE    K -   < A TAN  S m o r Oa
F k  t  N 'DOX 0  N  ES  I  A  (3-                                          /0



