Report No 632a-MA
Malaysia                                                                         F=ILECP
Appraisal of the                                                                1ELh C0p
Agricultural Research and Extension Project
April 25, 1975
East Asia and Pacific Projects Department
Not for Public Use
U
Document of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
This report was prepared tor official use oniv by the Bank Group It may not
be published quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization The Bank Group does
not accept responsibilitv for the accuracy or completeness ot the report



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                       Malaysian Dollar (M$)
US$1                                M$ 2.45 /a
M$ 1                                US$0.408
M$ 1 million                        US$408.163
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 acre (ac)               =    0.405 hectares (ha)
1 mile (mi)               =    1.609 kilometer (km)
1 sq. mile (sq mi)        =    640 acres (ac)
1 ton = 2240 lbs. (lb)   =    1,000 kilograms (kg) (approx.)
ABBREVIATIONS
AVRDC     =  Asian Vegetable Research and Development Center
CIAT      =  Centro Internacional de Agricultura Tropical
CIMMYT    =  Centro Internacional de Mejoramiento de Maiz y Trigo
CSIRO     =  Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research
Organization (Australia)
EPU       =  Economic Planning Unit (in Prime Minister's Department)
FELDA     =  Federal Land Development Authority
FAO       =  Food and Agriculture Organization
FOA       =  Farmers' Organization Authority
FTRDC     =  Food Technology Research and Development Centre
GNP       =  Gross National Product
GOM       =  Government of Malaysia
ICRISAT   =  International Crop Research Institute for the Semi-Arid
Tropics
IDRC      =  International Development Research Center (Canada)
INTSOY    =  International Soybean Program (University of Illinois)
IITA      =  International Institute for Tropical Agriculture
IRI       =  IRI Research Institute, Inc.
IRRI      =  International Rice Research Institute
LID       =  Local Indian Dairy (Cattle)
MADA      =  Muda Agricultural Development Authority
MARDI     =  Malaysian Agricultural Research and Development Institute
MPIB      =  Malaysian Pineapple Industry Board
MRRDB     =  Malaysian Rubber Research and Development Board
NLDA      =  National Livestock Development Authority
/a   From June 21, 1973, the Malaysian dollar has floated in relation to
the US dollar. The rate shown is the rate of mid-1974 and has been used
throughout this report.



MALAYSIA
APPRAISAL OF THE AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ..* ............................ i-iii
I.  INTRODUCTION        ..........................................    1
II.  BACKGROUND ..      ......................... .... .........    1
General ..... ..     . ............................   1
The Agricultural Sector    ...........................   2
Agricultural Education ........................... ,    4
Agricultural Research      ............................   4
Agricultural Extension . .............. ........... .   6
Project Generation ......... .....................    7
III.   PROJECT AREA AND RESEARCH STATIONS    ....................   7
IV.  THE PROJECT ........                    ......      ..    8
A.  General Description ........... .............    8
B.  Detailed Features .... ..10
MARDI Research and Development Programs       10
Research Program for Rice .10
Research Program for Field Crops .11
Research Program for Pineapples     ..        12
Research Program for Cocoa/Coconut.           12
Research Program for Livestock.               13
Research Program for Agricultural
Products Utilization                        14
Research Program for Agricultural
Engineering and Water Management    .       15
Project Development Unit                      16
Central Services in MARDI                     16
Extension-Liaison Unit in the
Department of Agriculture        .17



-2-
Page No.
V.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT .           ..........................    18
A.   Organization (MARDI)  .......       ......................   18
Management Structure .......     ..................    18
Commodity Research Groups -
Backstopping Research Groups ...... ........   19
Research Service Groups ....................      .   19
Research Administration .....  . ................   20
B.   Staffing (MARDI) ... ...............................   20
Local Staff .......... .............................   20
Staff Salaries ...... ............................   21
Expatriate Staff ............................   21
C.   Organization (Extension-Liaison Unit) ............   21
D.   Staffing (Extension-Liaison Unit)          ................   22
E.   Project Monitoring .......        ........................   22
F.   Cooperation with International
Research Institutes ... ................... ........   23
G.   Financing, Accounting and Audit ..............       .       23
VI.   PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING, DISBURSEMENTS
AND PROCUREMET .........         ............................   23
Project Costs .......       ........................   23
Financing ...............................       ...   25
Disbursements ...................    ..                25
Procurement ...................     ...                26
VII.   JUSTIFICATION AND BENEFITS ........          .....................   27
VIII.   AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS ........................   28
Agreements ..................................    28
Conditions of Credit Effectiveness ..........   29
Conditions for Disbursement ..        ...............   30
ANNEXES
1.   Agricultural Education, Research and Extension Services
(2 charts, 2 Appendices and 1 map)
2.   MARDI - Research Program for Rice
3.   MARDI - Research Program for Field Crops
4.   MARDI - Research Program for Pineapples
5.   MARDI - Research Program for Cocoa/Coconut



- 3 -
6.   MARDI - Research Program for Livestock
7.   MARDI - Research Program for Agricultural Products Utilization
8.  MARDI - Research Program for Agricultural Engineering and
Water Management (1 chart)
9.   MARDI - Project Development Unit
10.   MARDI - Central Services
11.   Department of Agriculture:  Extension-Liaison Unit (1 chart)
12.   Project Costs and Financing
13.   Project Disbursement and Procurement
14.   Justification and Benefits (1 chart)






MALAYSIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSION
i.        The Project reinforces the Malaysian Government's program to
strengthen agricultural research for which purpose the Malaysian Agricultural
Research and Development Institute (MARDI) was created in 1969. Research on
one crop, rubber, has been carried out with outstandingly good results for
over 40 years by the Rubber Research Institute of Malaysia (RRIM). Awareness
of the importance of organized research for agricultural development is there-
fore strong in Malaysia, and the need for consolidating of hitherto fragmented
research for the production, processing and utilization of all crops (other
than rubber for which RRIM would remain responsible), livestock and fresh-
water fish has been clearly identified. Beginning in 1971, MARDI took over
all existing research in rice, oil palm, coconuts, horticultural and field
crops as well as in crop protection, and more recently pineapple research
and food technology from the various institutions previously responsible
for this research. Research planning is being guided by Government policies
to assist small farmers to improve productivity and to raise their incomes,
and to diversify agricultural production both for export and to reduce im-
ports.
ii.       The Project would support MARDI in developing and conducting
specific commodity oriented research programs by providing the services
of internationally recruited scientists and specialists, staff fellowships
for specialist post-graduate training, laboratory, field and workshop equip-
ment and supplies, buildings and the importation of improved breeds of var-
ious classes of livestock. The specific research programs are for rice,
field crops (grain legumes, maize, sorghum and cassava), pineapples, cocoa/
coconut and livestock. The Project will also include research on agricultural
product utilization, and the establishment of (i) an Agricultural Engineering
and Water Management Unit, which would carry out research in agricultural en-
gineering and water management and provide research supporting services to
all commodity programs, (ii) the strengthening of a Project Development Unit,
which would undertake field verification and regional evaluation of commodity
research programs, disseminate information and assure liaison between research
work and agricultural extension services, and (iii) the provision of central
analytical, computer, library and workshop services. Finally, the Project
would provide for the establishment of an Extension-Liaison Unit (ELU) in the
Federal Department of Agriculture to promote and to facilitate the efficient
transfer of MARDI research results to the State Departments of Agriculture
which are responsible for the extension services at the farm level. The
Project would assist the establishment of this Unit by providing financial
support for expatriate extension specialists, staff fellowships, a building
program and the purchase of equipment. It is expected that the Project would
be followed by an extension project to be prepared possibly for Bank financing
by the Extension-Liaison Unit.



- ii -
iii.      Total costs of the Project are estimated at US$108.5 million
(M$ 265.8 million), including US$35.8 million of price and physical contin-
gencies. These total costs will provide essential buildings, equipment and
materials, and will cover the cost of operating the program for the 1975-1981
period, including the services of internationally engaged and local personnel;
of the total, US$30.1 million represents local staff costs.  The Loan would
finance the foreign exchange component of US$28.5 million, equivalent to
about 26% of Project cost. The remaining cost would be covered by Govern-
ment appropriations. Contracts for buildings and goods, other than for
livestock, would be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertised
locally and in accordance with local procedure satisfactory to the Bank. No
restrictions would be placed on bidding by foreign contractors. Livestock
purchases would be made in countries selected by the Director of MARDI with
the concurrence of the Bank but in all other respects the normal Bank pro-
cedure on procurement would be followed for livestock also. Expatriate
specialists and research fellows would be selected by the Director of MARDI
and the Director of the Extension-Liaison Unit respectively. Appropriate
arrangements would be made for the recruitment of specialists and for man-
agement of the fellowship program. Appropriate linkages would be sought
and strengthened with International Agriculture Research Institutes. Spe-
cial arrangements would also be made for both internal and external tech-
nical program reviews on an agreed interval and basis.
iv.       This would be the tenth agricultural and forestry project financed
by the Bank in Malaysia. Previous loans include 3 loans for the Jengka Tri-
angle Projects (Loans 533-MA, US$14.0 million; 672-MA, US$13.0 million; and
885-MA, US$25.0 million) approved in 1968, 1970, 1973 respectively; one loan
for the Johore Tenggara Land Settlement Project (Loan 967-MA, US$40.0 mil-
lion approved in 1974), one loan for the Keratong Land Settlement project
(Loan 1044-MA, US$36.0 million). The other loans are for a forestry proj-
ect (Loan 673-MA, US$8.5 million, 1970), for two irrigation projects - MUDA
(Loan 434-MA, US$45.0 million, 1965) and Kemubu (Loan 500-MA, US$10.0 mil-
lion, 1967) and for the Western Johore Agricultural Development Project
(Loan 973-MA, US$45.0 million, 1973). Implementation of all these proj-
ects is progressing satisfactorily.
v.        The decision of the Malaysian Government to spend about US$108
million for an agricultural research project appears fully justified in view
of the benefits which can reasonably be expected as indicated by the evidence
on the relationship between aggregate net agricultural output per hectare
and the research-extension effort in a selected group of 12 Asian countries
or in rubber production in Malaysia and other such suppprting evidence. Di-
versification of agricultural production, increase of exports, in order to
improve Malaysia's foreign exchange earnings and self-sufficiency for
rice and animal feed crops, has become more important recently in view
of uncertain supply conditions. To achieve this requires an organized
and systematic agricultural research effort as well as a strengthening of
extension services. Of overriding importance is the support the Project
would give to Malaysia's small farmers (who do not have the means to finance



- iii -
or to organize their own research), who would be able to introduce new
technology and thus to improve their incomes aided by results of the expanded
level of research activity made possible by the Project.
vi.       Given the agreements and recommendations in paras. 8.01, 8.02 and
8.03, the Project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$28.5 million to be made
to the Government for a term of 25 years including 7 years of grace for the
repayment of the principal. The Loan would be disbursed from 1975-1982 and
would be passed on to MARDI and to the Department of Agriculture as a grant.






MALAYSIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Malaysia (GOM) has asked the Bank to assist in
financing the further development of the Malaysian Agricultural Research
Institute (MARDI) over the six-year period 1975-1980.  The Project would
provide MARDI with a group of experienced overseas scientists to aid in
planning and developing its research programs, additional equipment and
facilities for research, and fellowships for overseas postgraduate training
of MARDI staff. It would also support the formation of an Extension-Liaison
Unit in the Department of Agriculture. This would be the tenth Bank Loan,in
support of agricultural development in Malaysia.
1.02      The Project was prepared for GOM by the IRI Research Institute,
Inc. of New York (IRI). This report is based on the findings of Messrs.
Milford, Lesueur and Downing (Bank) and Eyles (Consultant) who visited
Malaysia in July 1974 to appraise the Project.
II. BACKGROUND
General
2.01      Malaysia covers about 128,000 square miles.  Less than one-fourth
of Peninsular Malaysia and only about 3% of Sarawak and Sabah are under
cultivation and tropical rain forest covers most of the remaining area. The
climate is characterized by uniformly warm to hot temperatures and abundant
rainfall.
2.02      Population in 1972 was estimated at 11.4 million, growing at 2.7%
a year. About 85% of the people live in Peninsular Malaysia with the high-
est densities on the coastal strip and foothills of the west coast and in
the south. Malays account for about 53%, Chinese 35%, Indians 11% and others
1% of the population.
2.03      The economy is export-oriented.  In 1973, exports accounted for
almost 50% of Gross National Product (GNP), principally rubber (US$1,045
million), tin (US$366 million), timber (US$630 million) and palm oil
(US$190 million). Real GNP at market prices grew at an average yearly
rate of 6% during the last decade and amounted to about US$6.8 billion in
1972. Average real GNP per capita, which grew at about 3.0% yearly during
the 1960's, was about US$477 in Malaysia as a whole in 1973, but much less
in the rural areas. During the 1960's, consumer prices rose by about 1%
yearly on the average. During 1972-73, prices began to rise in 1972 (by
3%) and during 1973 jumped to 10% as the result of sharp increases in import
prices and a domestic rise in national income. Price increases were still
rising at an estimated rate of 18% in 1974.



- 2 -
2.04      Wide disparities in income and ownership of assets are correlated
with ethnic differences. Malays have lower incomes than non-Malays. Much
of this income imbalance arises because nearly 80% of Malay employment is
in the rural sector compared with slightly more than 50% for the non-Malay.
But even within the rural sector, Malay incomes are generally much lower
than for non-Malays. More than half of the total Malay labor force is
engaged in traditional, low income, smallholder agriculture compared to
14% of the non-Malay labor force. In the rubber smallholder sector, Malays
outnumber non-Malays by 2 to 1. The average size of non-Malay holdings of
8.3 acres is almost twice that of Malay holdings. The dissatisfaction with
the distribution of benefits of economic growth and with growing ethnic
income inequalities provides the rationale for Government's New Economic
Policy. The major aims of this policy, as expressed in the Second Malay-
sian Plan 1971-75, are: (a) to reduce poverty by raising income levels
and increasing employment opportunities for all Malaysians, irrespective
of race; and (b) to accelerate the process of restructuring Malaysian
society to correct economic imbalances so as to reduce, and eventually
eliminate, the identification of race with economic function. One of the
results of the policy is the increasing attention given to raising rural
incomes, especially those of smallholders, through land settlement and
rural development schemes (para 2.10).
2.05      It is precisely this focus of the New Economic Policy which gave
birth to MARDI in the recent past, since it would develop the new technology
on which increased rural incomes would rest.
The Agricultural Sector
2.06      The agricultural sector holds a pre-eminent position in the
Malaysian economy. In 1974 it generated around 30% of Gross Domestic
Product, provided employment for about 50% of the economically active
population and accounted for upwards of 60% of Malaysia's foreign exchange
earnings. Expansion of rubber exports in the 1960's, in the face of de-
clining prices, was achieved by large gains in productivity. At the same
time, diversification to oil palm was vigorously encouraged and now accounts
for 10% of the country's export earnings; Malaysia has become the world's
largest producer of palm oil. Rice production has been increased through
the provision of irrigation, HYV and double cropping, and Malaysia is now
nearing self-sufficiency in rice. Malaysia is one of the world's major pro-
ducers of pineapples, however, it is finding it increasingly difficult to
maintain its share of the export market. Other major crops, such as coco-
nut, coffee, cocoa, fruits and vegetables, are grown mainily in peninsular
Malaysia for internal consumption.
2.07      Of the 7 million cultivated acres 1/ in Peninsular Malaysia in
1972, rubber occupied 4,460,000 acres, oil palm 720,000 acres, coconut
528,000 acres; more than 5.7 million acres was under tree crops. Of the
1/   With double cropping and inter-cropping, annually about 8.5 million
acres would be cropped.



-3-
remaining 1,300,000 acres, 937,000 was under paddy (about half of it double
cropped). Other significant crop acreages are pineapple 55,000, cocoa
39,000, tapioca 29,000, sugar 25,000, tobacco 22,000, coffee 22,000, and
groundnuts 19,000 (1972).
2.08      Pork and poultry are the two main livestock products in Malaysia.
In 1973, the annual per capita consumption of pork was 15.6 and of poultry
meat 6 kg. Both industries are heavily dependent upon imported feed grains
costing about M$ 200 million in 1973. The outlook for feed grain imports
indicates that future supplies will be more expensive and increasingly dif-
ficult to obtain on a reliable and regular basis. Thus GOM has adopted a
policy aimed at increasing home production of animal feedstuffs. Similarly
it is encouraging expansion of local beef, mutton and milk production to be
based on better use of crop residues and the growing of improved pastures
and forage crops.
2.09      Large estates account for about half the production of rubber and
40% of the production of oil palm, but the smallholder proportion is in-
creasing especially in oil palm where Government policy strongly favours
building up the smallholder sector. There are also some large coconut
estates and two or three large pineapple estates. Other than these export
crops Malaysian agriculture is almost entirely concerned with the production
of food, for domestic consumption, by small farmers.
2.10      The agricultural population includes some of the most economically
and socially depressed sectors of the Malaysian community. Government's
major agricultural policy thrust has been to develop new land for settle-
ment of landless laborers and marginal farmers mainly into smallholder
rubber and oil palm. Related programs have been mainly carried out by the
Federal Land Development Authority (FELDA) and Bank finance has assisted
several such smallholder projects, namely: Jengka I (Loan 533-MA); Jengka
II (Loan 672-MA); Jengka III (Loan 855-MA)l Johore Tenggara (Loan 967-MA),
Johore Agricultural Development (85-MA), and Keratong (Loan 1044-MA), ap-
proved in September 1974. Other land settlement programs for smallholders
are being undertaken by the Rubber Industry Smallholders Development
Authority (RISDA). Such settlement programs, however, can only deal with
a relatively small number of people, and cannot by themselves alleviate
rural poverty throughout Malaysia. The Government has therefore tackled
two other major sectoral activies:
(a)  Paddy Farming:  Irrigation systems have been con-
structed for a number of major smallholder paady
producing areas. One of these was the Muda Irrigation
Project (Loan 434-MA), which has been successful in
introducing double-cropping and improving yields.
Another major paddy project is the Kemubu Irrigation
Project (Loan 500-MA).



(b)  Smallholder Development:  Remaining needs are for
physical infrastructure, technology and agricultural
supporting services to improve incomes on existing
smallholdings. This Agricultural Research and
Extension Project aims at complementing the
physical infrastructure with the appropriate
technology. The FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program
mounted a mission in October 1974 to review the
structure and needs of the smallholder subsector.
The report of this mission is expected to be com-
pleted shortly.
Agricultural Education
2.11      Malaysia's developing University system is well geared to supply
sufficient bachelor's degree graduates to meet the agricultural sector's
expanding needs. About 300 bachelor's degrees in agriculture, 500 in
related sciences and 400 in economics/administration/management are being
awarded annually. However, facilities for postgraduate training to M.Sc.
and Ph.D. levels are limited and for a considerable time, most post grad-
uate training of Malaysian students will continue to be done at overseas
universities. This will particularly effect those who wish to take up
agricultural research for whom the general agricultural bachelor's degree
training is not adequate. Facilities for training agricultural technicians
to diploma and certificate levels are already-well established in Malaysia
and are being expanded. They are adequate to meet the needs of research
and other agencies (Annex 1).
Agricultural Research
2.12      There is a local awareness of the economic value of well organized
mnd executed indigenous research through the outstanding work of the long
established Rubber Research Institute of Malaysia (RRIM). Until the late
1960's other agricultural research was carried out mainly by the Agricultural
and Veterinary Departments and to a lesser degree by the Malaysian Pineapple
Industry Board (MPIB) and by FELDA.
2.13      A study in 1968 highlighted important deficiencies in the research
capacities of these organizations and GOM concluded that all agricultural
research, except rubber, should be consolidated into a single institute
(Annex 1, para 12). In 1969 legislation was passed creating the Malaysian
Agricultural Research and Development Institute (MARDI).
2.14      The MARDI Act (Annex 1, Appendix 1) gives the Institute responsi-
bility for scientific, technical, economic and sociological research in
Malaysia with respect to production, utilization and processing of all
crops (except rubber), livestock and freshwater fish. MARDI also has the
function of providing an agricultural information service, and maintaining
liaison with other agricultural research organizations.



2.15      MARDI commenced to operate as an effective Institute in early 1971
when it took over existing research programs in rice, oil palm, coconuts,
horticultural and field crops and crop protection from the Department of
Agriculture, together with a number of its research stations. Of these,
only the rice program was supported by facilities and trained staff at a
level adequate for productive research. Pineapple research was not trans-
ferred from MPIB until January 1974 and food technology research, hitherto
carried out by the Food Technology Research and Development Centre (FTRDC),
was transferred to Mardi on October 1, 1974 (see 5.08).
2.16      The main tasks of MARDI to date have been to (i) plan and initiate
its research programs, (ii) develop an appropriate research organization,
(iii) develop research facilities, and (iv) recruit and train staff.  Research
planning has been undertaken within the framework of the Government's policy
of (i) raising the prosperity of the small farmers, (ii) improving produc-
tivity of export crops, (iii) diversifying agricultural production, and (iV)
import substitution. Special Government support has been provided for oil
palm research because of the size and rapid growth of the industry. Rice
research has been further developed and new programs have been initiated in
tree, field and horticultural crops, and livestock, within the constraints
set by availability of trained staff and facilities. Many of the research
programs taken over and continued by MARDI are oriented to solving produc-
tion problems of important commodities such as rice, oil palm and pineapple
and significant breakthroughs have been achieved in tissue culture and plant
protection research which is of major importance to these commodity research
programs. Useful results are now accruing from such programs. As a conse-
quence MARDI has commenced an outreach program of project development work
involving the regional verification of research results and dissemination of
information to extension agencies.
2.17      MARDI has had some problems in developing a suitable organizational
structure. It is recognized in Malaysia that a re-structuring of MARDI was
necessary to overcome the difficulties which experience to date has revealed.
The main improvements needed were: a strengthening of the Directorate, placing
research, development and administration in their proper perspective, and pro-
viding an effective structure for commodity oriented and supporting research.
This has now been achieved (para 5.02).
2.18      Since its inception, MARDI has undertaken a program to provide
adequate facilities, mainly buildings, laboratory and field equipment at
its new headquarters at Serdang, the centers at Kluang, Bukit Ridal and
Bertam as well as expanding and upgrading those at eleven field stations
formerly controlled by the Department of Agriculture.
2.19      In the past, MARDI's greatest problem has been a shortage of ex-
perienced scientific staff and the difficulty of recruiting and retaining
such staff in the face of competition from RRIM and the Universities both
of whom offered higher salaries and better fringe benefits. However, the
problem of salary inequities has been basically overcome by the implementa-
tion of the Harum Salary Commission Scales in January, 1975. During nego-
tiations, assurances were given that MARDI salaries would be adjusted and



-6-
maintained at a level equitable with RRIM and the Universities. In spite
of past salary deficiencies, MARDI has managed to establish a nucleus of
high calibre scientists, particularly an excellent young cadre, sufficient
to initiate and implement the accelerated development envisaged under the
Project.
2.20      In July 1974 the total MARDI staff was 891, including 126 in the
various research officer classifications and 327 research assistants, not
including the Agricultural Products Utilization Unit (formerly FTRDC).
All staff in the research officer grades hold at least a bachelors or
bachelors with honours degree, some 45 hold MSc. degrees while about 10
have PhDs. Many research assistants also have bachelors degree or are
studying part time for their degree. In addition MARDI has an active pro-
gram for full time degree training for the most promising research assistants
with diploma qualifications. MARDI has a policy of promotion of good grad-
uate research assistants to the research officer grades. Also MARDI fully
appreciates the necessity of advanced training for its research staff and
currently has about 80 personnel away attending MSc or PhD. courses; more
than 60 at overseas universities. No problems are anticipated in expanding
the research office staff working in the 8 MARDI programs to be financed
under the proposed Project from about 127 at the end of 1975 to about 230
by the end of 1980.
Agricultural Extension (Annex 1)
2.21      The States' Agriculture and Veterinary Departments are responsible
for extension on crops and livestock to the predominantly smallholder sector.
The States are supported by the Federal Agriculture and Veterinary Depart-
ments who supply funds, key personnel, supervision and technical support.
Other agencies involved in extension to specific sub-sectors are RRIM
(Estate Rubber), RISDA (smallholder rubber), MPIB (pineapples) and FELDA on
its land settlement schemes. The newly created Farmers Organization Author-
ity (FOA) is augmenting Departmental extension services to provide integrated
rural development services through its farmers' Development Centres.
2.22      The States have a total of only 45 graduate extension officers
serving the 450,000 small farms of Peninsular Malaysia. The field exten-
sionist are trained to junior school certificate level and receive some
additional in-service training. In the more prosperous States there is
one field extensionist to 500 farm families, but in the less prosperous,
the ratio is one to several thousand. In general, both the Federal and
State departmental services are understaffed. Through the establishment
of an Extension Liaison Unit in the Federal Department of Agriculture, the
Project will strengthen the Extension Service at the Federal Level. It
was also agreed at negotiations that GOM would make arrangements to expand
and strengthen agricultural extension at the State level to facilitate the
transfer of research findings and requirements to and from the farmers.



2.23      If MARDI is to fulfill its role effectively as the developer of
new technology for the Malaysian farmer, it is vital that the country's
extension services be strengthened. Indeed more effective extension is
urgently needed to promote existing proven technology. Although further
study is needed to determine how this can be achieved most effectively,
initial strengthening of the federal service is clearly necessary. In
this context priority is to be given to development of an Extension-Liaison
Unit in the Federal Department of Agriculture to: (i) act as a bridge
between MARDI and the field extension services, (ii) train field extension
workers, and (iii) feed back field problems to focus MARDI's work on the
needs of Malaysian agriculture.
Project Generation
2.24      In December 1972, GOM requested the Bank to assist it in financing
specific research projects and programs and in the provision of facilities
and equipment as part of its overall five-year program of development for
the infant MARDI organization. Following a reconnaissance mission in
February 1973 which recommended the Bank's participation in this program,
GOM engaged IRI to assist it in preparing a project for Bank financing.
2.25      During its stay in the country, the appraisal mission became
acutely aware of the gap between existing research findings and known tech-
nology on the one hand, and farmer adoption of this technology on the other.
An Extension-Liaison Unit within the Department of Agriculture, was therefore
included in the Project to initiate improvements in the extension services
(paras 4.51 - 4.54).
III. PROJECT AREA AND RESEARCH STATIONS
3.01      The staff and facilities of the project would be located at some
of the 22 research centers and field stations shown in Annex 1, Appendix 2.
The principal activities would be at those stations dealing with the four
commodity programs, (i) rice at Bumbong Lima, (ii) field crops at Bertam
Estate, (iii) pineapples at Jalan Kebun, (iv) livestock at Serdang. Other
programs i.e., agricultural products utilization, agricultural engineering
and water management, project development unit, and supporting services
would be at MARDI Headquarters at Serdang. The Department of Agriculture's
Extension-Liaison Unit would be located at Kuala Lumpur.
3.02      Evaluation and verification trials would be carried out throughout
Peninsular Malaysia, and after 1977 also in Sabah and Sarawak. Research
work in the States of Sabah and Sarawak would be undertaken upon their re-
quest, since a formal agreement between the Federal and State authorities
to undertake agricultural research by MARDI in these States has not yet
been concluded.



- 8 -
IV. THE PROJECT
A. General Description
4.01      The essence of the Project is to assist Malaysia to build an
institution with an agricultural research capability commensurate with the
technological needs of Malaysia's agricultural development aims. It would
focus on accelerating smallholder development. This the Project would do
through advanced training of staff and complementing the expanded staff
capability with equipment and facilities. Since most agricultural-research
is of a long term nature, a significant increase in the flow of usable re-
search should not be expected during this institution building period.
4.02      The Project would assist GOM in accelerating its program of pro-
duction oriented-research by providing MARDI with facilities and equipment
for advanced training of its staff and, while this crash training program
is underway, by financing the participation of senior, experienced, inter-
nationally recruited scientists in MARDI's research programs. It would
also build linkages with International Agriculture Research Institutes;
existing linkages would be strengthened and new ones would be sought. The
Project would also finance the creation of a new Extension-Liaison Unit in
the Federal Department of Agriculture as a first step in providing the means
for accelerating any existing research information to the smallholder sector.
4.03      The Project would assist in strengthening and expanding existing
research programs for rice, field crops (grain legumes, cassava, maize and
sorghum), cocoa/coconut, livestock and pineapples, and agricultural product
utilization. Also it would provide for the establishment of an agricultural
engineering and water management unit to participate in the crop research
programs and to study problems of small farm mechanization and water control
in the rice areas. These programs were selected on the basis of their sig-
nificance or potential significance to Malaysian agriculture, particularly
the predominantly small holder sector. Oil Palm although an important small-
holder crop, was not included because adequate provision for financing oil
palm research had already been made through a special Treasury grant. MARDI's
Project Development Unit would also be expanded under the Project to give
increased emphasis to programs for evaluating the research findings of the
commodity groups under field conditions. It would also stimulate and measure
the rate of farmer adoption of new technology and, at appropriate intervals,
the overall benefit of the project. This work would be carried out in close
cooperation with the State Departments of Agriculture.
4.04      The Project would support the following components:
(a) Internationally recruited senior scientists to work in
the various programs, consisting of: (i) 67 man-years
of research scientists, including a Program Specialist



who would work with the Deputy Director for Research
Programs, for the five commodity programs (rice,
field crops, cocoa/coconut, livestock and pine-
apples); (ii) 15 man-years of food technologists
for the product utilization program; (iii) 15 man-
years of engineering scientists for the agricultural
engineering/water management program; (iv) 7 man-
years of specialist services (information dissemina-
tion, rural sociologist) for the Project Development
Unit; and (v) 9 man-years of extension specialists for
the Department of Agriculture's Extension-Liaison Unit.
(b) 380 man-years of fellowships for post-graduate training
of MARDI and Department of Agriculture Staff.
(c)  Essential equipment consisting of laboratory equipment,
chemicals and glassware, farm-field and workshop equip-
ment for all MARDI programs and appropriate extension
equipment for the Extension-Liaison Unit.
(d) Importation of improved breeds of dairy and beef
cattle, buffaloes, pigs and poultry.
(e) Laboratories, workshops, livestock housing, storage
and office facilities for MARDI and office, hostel
and other regional buildings for the Extension-Liaison
Unit.
(f) Periodic annual internal technical program reviews by
MARDI Scientists and external reviews by eminent
scientists of the various research programs, at
appropriate and useful intervals.
(g) Evaluate, at appropriate intervals, the overall impact
of the Project and establish a monitoring systems for
this purpose.
(h) Provide the services of a Programming Specialist to
work with the Deputy Director for Research Programs
to assist MARDI in the development, coordination and
implementation of its research in accordance with the
National Plan.



- 10 -
B. Detailed Features
MARDI Research and Development Programs
4.05      The Project would finance a number of integrated commodity research
programs in MARDI supported by Agricultural Engineering-Water Management re-
search, a Project Development Unit, a central analytical laboratory and cen-
tral library, computer and workshop facilities.
4.06      The success of MARDI's research during the critical first years
of the project depends upon its abilitY to plan, coordinate and integrate
its expanded and accelerated programs. Therefore, the Project has pro-
vided, and it was agreed at negotiations, that an internationally recruited
Program Specialist would assist the Deputy Director for Research Programs
in planning, coordinations and implementation of the research programs.
The Program Specialist would be financed out of unspecified funds from each
of the commodity programs.
Research Program for Rice (Annex 2)
4.07      This Program (total base cost US$2.0 million) would support and
expand MARDI's existing high quality rice research. In this, the Program
would serve two national objectives: self-sufficiency in rice and improving
productivity of the small rice farmers.
4.08      The Program would be centered at the existing Bumbong Lima Station
where additional facilities would be provided. It would be carried out in
specific agro-ecological regions at four strategically located sites: Alor
Star, Parit, Tanjong Karang, and Lundang-Kota Bharu. The existing collabora-
tive research with IRRI would be continued and strengthened.
4.09      Research would focus on the selection and breeding of high yield-
ing varieties and crop husbandry improvement. Particular attention would
be given to improving the efficiency of fertilizer use. The Program would
be multidisciplinary in approach, involving plant nutrition, insect and
disease resistance, and control, rodent control, agronomic studies such as
planting densities, depth of planting, plant-soil-water interactions, water
management, harvesting, storage and grain quality.
4.10      A collaborative research program between the'rice research group
and the field crops group would be developed to study mixed cropping systems.
Collaborative studies would also be carried out with the agricultural en-
gineering and water management research team and with the Project Develop-
ment Unit.
4.11      Program research staff would be increased from 20 to about 35 by
1980. Corresponding increases in supporting staff would also be made. The
Project would provide 14 man-years of internationally recruited scientists as
follows: plant breeder/agronomist (5 man-years); agronomist/plant nutrition



- 11 -
(3 man-years); cropping systems (3 man-years) and short-term consultants
(3 man-years). These scientists would work on specific projects within the
team, providing vital leadership to the enthusiastic young local scientists
during the early phase of the program. They would also ensure continuity of
the Program when many of the local staff would be receiving overseas post-
graduate training.
4.12      The Project would provide 43 man-years of fellowships for the
training of about 9 PhD's and 8 MSc's. Students would be selected on the
basis of their qualifications and the needs of the Program.
4.13      The Project would provide for insectaries, plant houses, addi-
tional laboratory space and laboratory and field equipment for the program
headquarters and regional stations in addition to fertilizer and research
equipment for field and laboratory research.
Research Program for Field Crops (Annex 3)
4.14      This Program (total base cost US$3.1 million) would include re-
search on food and feed grain, upland crops, concentrating on groundnuts,
soybeans and other legumes, cassava and grams including maize and sorghum.
Grouhdnuts and cassava are the two main annual field crops grown in Malaysia
and are important food sources.  Soyabean, maize and sorghum although of
minor importance in agriculture production at present, are among the main
imported food and feed commodities. Maize and sorghum are essential to the
rapidly expanding pig and poultry industries.
4.15      Program headquarters would be relocated at the newly acquired Bertam
estate, adjacent to the Bumbong Lima rice research station. Research would
also be undertaken at four field research stations, representative of the
main agro-ecological cropping areas. The program would be of particular
importance to the smallholder sector.
4.16      The Program would concentrate on the development of crop varieties
and production techniques capable of high and sustained yields under field
conditions. Promising introductions or varietal selections would be multi-
plied and tested in coordinated trials at the headquarters and field sta-
tions. They would be evaluated for yield, nutrient response, maturity,
adaptability to cropping systems, and resistance to diseases, insects, mam-
malian pests (particularly rodents), and environmental hazards. Particular
attention would also be given to studies on nitrogen fixation by leguminous
crops. As the use of several of these crops in the Malaysian environment
is exploratory, a major effort in plant breeding would not be justified
until a representative range of introductions had been properly evaluated
and plant breeding objectives could be defined. This is particularly true
of maize, sorghum and of grain legumes such as cowpeas, mung beans and
pigeon peas. In this work the linkage with the relevant International
Institutes would be strengthened (CIMMYT, CIAT, ICRISAT, IITA and IDRC).



- 12 -
4.17      The MARDI research staff in the Program would increase from 11 to
38 between now and 1980. Senior scientists would be recruited international-
ly to work in the Program during the early years of expansion under the
Project. They would include plant scientist (5 man-years); maize sorghum
agronomist (4 man-years); rhizobium specialist (4 man-years) and short-term
consultancies (9 man-years), a total of 22 man-years. 54 man-years of fel-
lowships financed under the Project would provide for overseas post-graduate
training to about 11 PhD and 11 MSc degrees.
4.18      The Project would provide support for the development of buildings
and farm facilities, and the supply of farm equipment, fertilizers, vehicles
and research equipment.
Research Program for Pineapples (Annex 4)
4.19      The objective of this Program (total base cost US$1.6 million)
would be to increase productivity, profitability and efficiency of this
important export industry in which smallholders produce more than 50% of
total annual output. The Project would expand the present research efforts
at Jalan Kebun and Alor Bukit centers, both located on peat soils where
pineapple is the main crop.
4.20      This Program would involve breeding and selection for yield of
high quality fruit with a high canning yield. Close attention would also
be given to disease resistance, plant nutrition and plant water relations,
replanting strategies and crop physiology. Collaborative research would be
carried out with the Agricultural Engineering-Water Management Unit and some
studies will be made on establishment of pineapple on non peat mineral soils.
4.21      The present research team would be increased from 9 to 18 graduate
staff by 1980. The Project would provide support for 10 man-years of inter-
nationally recruiting senior scientists to provide leadership that will
assist the efficient expansion of the program envisaged under the Project:
pineapple agronomist (3 man-years), pineapple plant physiologist (3 man-
years); and short-term consultancies (4 man-years). The Project would also
provide for 26 man-years of fellowships, leading to about 6 PhD and 3 MSc
degrees in addition to about 3 man-years for short-term study tours by local
staff at overseas institutes.
4.22      Additional facilities at Jalan Kebun and Alor Bukit such as plant
houses, a field laboratory, farm and workshop equipment, field and laboratory
research equipment and vehicles, would be provided under the Project.
Research Program for Cocoa/Coconut (Annex 5)
4.23      The objectives of the research program (total base cost US$3.0
million) would be to develop the large potential for increasing yields of
cocoa and coconut and the area under production. The program would be
centered at Hilir Perak (Telokanson) and Serdang on the west coast with
supporting activities at Jerengau on the east coast of the peninsula; the
program would also be extended to Sabah and Sarawak.



- 13 -
4.24      Research would be concerned with selection and breeding of improved
and hybrid varieties, pest and disease control, cultural practices, storage,
drying, processing and handling. Continuation and expansion of the selection
of coconut clones for evaluation and use as parents in hybrid progeny trials
would be an important part of the program. Vegetative propagation research
for cocoa shows promising results and will be strengthened and continued.
The program will work closely with the Agricultural Engineering and Products
Utilization Units.
4.25      The present research staff would be increased from 13 to 22 by
1980; with proportional increases in supporting staff. The project would
provide for ten man years of internationally recruited scientist (Plant
Breeder, 2 man-years, Pathologist, 2 man-years, Biochemist, 2 man-years
and short-term consultancies, 4 man-years) to strengthen the leadership
and research activities of the progrnam before and during the period that
local staff are obtaining experience and training. The project would
provide 32 man-years of fellowships for overseas postgraduate degree
training and study tours.
4.26      Additional facilities, buildings, land development, field equipment,
planting materials, laboratory equipment, and agricultural chemicals would be
provided by the project. The Project would also provide for the collection
of germplasm materials in selected regions overseas in order to broaden the
plant breeding base for cocoa and coconut.
Research Program for Livestock (Annex 6)
4.27      The Program (total base cost US$4.6 million) derives from GOM's
policy of increasing output of local animal products at lowest possible
costs. Program units would concentrate on beef and dairy cattle, buffaloes,
sheep and goats (mainly for meat), pigs and poultry. Program headquarters
would be at the main MARDI Serdang complex, with field facilities fot cattle
research at Kluang and for buffalo at Bukit Ridan.
4.28      Research in all units would include evaluation of local and imported
breeds in the Malaysian environment. Local cattle and buffalo, and their
crosses with improved exotic breeds, would be compared for meat and/or milk
production efficiency, herd utilization and reproductive capacity. Breed
comparisons and cross-breeding studies would also be carried out with pigs,
and, to a lesser extent, with poultry. Feeding trials to maximize the use
of locally grown feedstuffs and locally available by-products by all classes
of animals would be an important feature. Collaborative studies with the
Project Development Unit would concentrate on developing management and
feeding systems suitable for smallholder mixed-farming operations.
4.29      The Project would prcvide 11 man-years of internationally re-
cruited scientists: beef/production specialist (4 man-years), pig produc-
tion specialist (3 man-years), poultry specialist (2 man-years) and short-
term consultancies (2 man-years). The Project would finance 36 man-years



- 14 -
of fellowships for Program staff, leading to about 6 PhD and 6 MSc degree
in addition to 6 man-years of short-term study tours. The Project would
finance the importation of livestock, feedstuffs, fertilizer and construc-
tion of buildings, including housing for the animals. The professional
staff would be increased from 13 to 35 during the term of the Project.
Research Program for Agricultural Products Utilization (Annex 7)
4.30      This Program (total base cost US$2.8 million) would focus on
increasing recovery of farm products, through reduced transit and storage
losses of farm products, and increased quality of farm products. The
Program would also continue current research on quality enhancement, in-
cluding protein enhancement of major foods used in depressed rural areas,
in school lunch, and other such social programs.
4.31      The Program would continue to have its headquarters at Serdang.
Collaborative commodity research would be conducted at the 5 product field
stations; fruit and vegetable processing at Tampoi (near Johore Bahru);
fish processing at Kuala Trengganu; rice processing at Alor Setar; eggs,
poultry and meat processing at Mergong; a second fruit and vegetable
processing station has been approved and budgeted for Kuala Kangsar (near
Ipoh).
4.32      Research would be primarily concerned with (i) processing (storage,
drying, and milling) of rice, (ii) processing of pineapple and other horti-
cultural crops, (iii) processing of fish, poultry and meat, (iv) processing
of field crops, (v) improving the quality of all agricultural products,
and (vi) improving the efficiency of the processing industry through the
application of engineering. Close links with the food processing industry
would be maintained. It is essential that the research findings are made
available to the public and private food industry sector (Annex 7, para 18)
and assurances were given during negotiations to this effect. It was agreed
that in order to fully assist the food, feed and fiber industry and promote
cooperation, that one member representing the private industry and one member
representing the public industry would be appointed to the Agricultural Prod-
ucts Utilization Research Advisory Committee (formerly Coordination Committee
on Food Technology); see Annex 7, para 12.
4.33      The Program would work closely with the commodity research programs
in identifying those products and areas where research is urgently required
and likely to produce the greatest benefit, and to set product grading stand-
ards for crop varieties and maturity that will give the best return to the
farmer and the processor. An important aspect of integrated commodity re-
search will be in the utilization of crop by-products.
*.34      Professional research staff would be increased from 25 to 40 by
1980; the current ratio of supporting staff would be maintained. The Proj-
ect would provide for 15 man-years of expatriate scientists: rice process-
ing (2 man-years), fruit and vegetable processing (4 man-years), food en-
gineering (3 man-years), quality control (3 man-years) and short-term



- 15 -
consultants (3 man-years). These scientists would fill posts for which
local expertise is not available, and would provide a greater depth of
experience to improve the focus of the research to be undertaken.
4.35      The Project would finance 44 man-years post graduate fellowships
leading to about 8 PHD and 8 MSc degrees and 4 man-years for short term
courses and study tours. The candidates would be selected on the basis of
qualifications and the needs of the Program.
4.36      Equipment would be provided for pineapple and rice processing
research, quality control, controlled atmosphere storage research, and
vegetable oil research. The Project would finance the provision of a
quality control laboratory to be located at Serdang.
Research Program for Agricultural Engineering and Water Management (Annex 8)
4.37      This is a new Program (total base cost US$2.3 million) in MARDI
to provide supporting research to all of the commodity programs and to con-
duct agricultural engineering and water management line research. The objec-
tive of the Program would be to improve the production, harvest, storage and
handling of agricultural products. The greatest impact would be in the rice,
field crops and pineapple subsectors.
4.38      The Program would initially have its headquarters for engineering,
water management and workshops at Serdang, but would be actively engaged in
research and would provide supporting services at all field stations. When
the field crops station is developed at Bertam estate, it would also become
the headquarters for the Agricultural Engineering and Water Management
Program. The main workshops for equipment maintenance and prototype
fabrication would remain at Serdang, close to the sources of supply for
component parts and raw materials.
4.39      Research will be concerned with the development of equipment
and techniques to facilitate extension and intensification of agriculture
production, the development of farm equipment for local manufacture, tech-
niques for land development, water control, and efficient utilization of
energy. The Agricultural Engineering Program would be responsible for on-
the-farm processing research, whereas the Products Utilization Program
would be responsible for off-the-farm processing research and obviously
their work would be closely integrated.
4.40      Research staff would be increased from 7 to 17 by 1980; the stand-
ard ratio of supporting staff would be maintained for research. In addition
the Program would require a large complement of cl-illed labor to provide
supporting services for the other Programs and for station operation and
maintenance.
4.41      The Project would finance 15 man-years of internationally re-
cruited scientists: agricultural engineer-farm power and machinery (5
man-years), agricultural engineer-farm machinery (3 man-years) to super-
vise the workshops and design sections, agricultural engineer-drying and



- 16 -
storage (3 man-years), agricultural engineer-farm structures (3 man-years)
and short-term consultancies (1 man-years). All of these scientists would
be assigned in a full working capacity to participate in research programs,
provide leadership and on-the-job training. A farm power and machinery
engineer would also fill the post of Senior Scientist as head of the pro-
gram. Collaboration with IRRI in the area of Agricultural Engineering and
Water Management will be strengthened and expanded.
4.42      The Project would finance 21 man-years of fellowships leading to
MSc and PhD degrees and 3 man-years for short-term specialized training and
study tours. Candidates would be selected on the basis of their qualifica-
tions and the requirements of the Program.
4.43      The Project would also provide for buildings, laboratory equip-
ment, prototype fabrication equipment, design equipment, field equipment,
and maintenance and repair workshop equipment..
Project Development Unit (Annex 9)
4.44      The Project Development Unit (total base cost US$1.1 million)
would provide field verification and regional evaluation for the commodity
research Programs. The Unit would work closely with the Department of
Agriculture Extension-Liaison Unit. It would carry out sociological studies,
such as on the role of farm mechanization in smallholder agriculture, farm
size and farm incomes, and would thus assist in focusing MARDI's research
objectives. It would measure the impact of the project and the rate of
technology adoptation. Most importantly, it would focus on adopting re-
search output into a smallholder-seed-fertilizer-technology package.
4.45      The Unit's professional staff would be increased from 9 to 29 by
1980 and supporting staff would be increased accordingly. The project would
finance 7 man-years of expatriate extension and research specialists: re-
search development specialist to assist in the organization and planning of
the operations of the unit (3 man-years), rural sociologist (3 man-years),
short-term consultancies (1 man-year).
4.46      The Project would provide 21 man-years of fellowships leading to
MSc and PhD degrees and 3 man-years for short term training and study tours;
and would provide for vehicles, printing, field testing and communications
equipment.
Central Services in MARDI (Annex 10)
4.47      The Project would provide central analytical, computer, library
and workshop services for all the Research Programs (total base cost US$2.4
million).
4.48      The Project would provide essential modern instruments which
would increase the accuracy and capacity of analytical work at the Central
Analytical Laboratory. The Project would also provide for the evaluation



- 17 -
of computer facility requirements and the provision of a computer for joint
use by MARDI and the Department of Agriculture. The computer would be used
for research and for data storage and administrative work. MARDI has en-
gaged consultants (to be financed under the project) to study the computer
facility requirements for MARDI and the Department of Agriculture's Exten-
sion Liaison Unit. Disbursement for expenditures for computer equipment
and facilities will be based upon recommendations of the consultants
acceptable to the Bank.
4.49      Library equipment and materials would include cataloging and
microfilm equipment, reference books, text books, back issues of research
reference journals, and subscriptions to current journals.
4.50      Central Workshops will be maintained for all of MARDI's work.  Re-
sponsibility for these workshops will rest with the Agricultural Engineering
and Water Management Research Program. Arrangements will be made for use
of common facilities for station maintenance and operation.
Extension-Liaison Unit in the Department of Agriculture (Annex 11)
4.51      This Unit (total base cost US$4.0 million) would strengthen the
Extension Service of the Federal Department of Agriculture to promote the
efficient transfer of MARDI research results to the State Departments of
Agriculture, other Federal agencies, and through these, to Malaysia's
farmers. The Unit would have its headquarters in facilities to be estab-
lished in Kuala Lumpur.
4.52      The Unit would increase the flow of information on new varieties,
crop diversification, cultural practices and other new and improved tech-
nology.   The Unit would work in close association with MARDI's Project
Development Unit to keep abreast of current research findings; it would in
turn feed back information from the State extension services to MARDI. The
latter would be an important measure of acceptance of research results and
would provide guidelines for determining areas of research and research
priorities.  One of the Unit's important activities will be the training
of extension staff in all Federal and State agencies.
4.53      The Unit would rapidly build up a staff of 18 professional offi-
cers and about 46 supporting technical officers. Some of these officers
would be drawn from the existing extension service, but most would be new
recruits. The Project would provide nine man-years of expatriate extension
specialists: senior extension officer to assist in the organization, plan-
ning and implementation of the unit (1 man-year); extension specialists (8
man-years) to strengthen leadership conduct extension and on-the-job train-
ing in agro-protection, soils, mechanization and farm management.
4.54      The Project would finance 94 man-years for training, special
courses and study tours, to upgrade and expand professional and sub-profes-
sional staff and would finance the construction of a building complex for
the extension-liaison headquarters, and would provide laboratory equipment,
audio visual equipment, office equipment, field equipment and vehicles.



- 18 -
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Organization (MARDI)
Management Structure
5.01      The MARDI Act (Annex 1, Appendix 1) creates a semi-autonomous
organization. The Ministers for Agriculture and Finance however have
overriding responsibilities in the fields of policy and financing. The
Act specifies that MARDI shall be managed by a Director and two Deputy
Directors. Within this legal constraint the Project had to devise a
management mode which would be suitably structured to conduct commodity
- production oriented research and which would create a proper balance
between the demands of research and the demands of a public service or-
ganization, in the administration of public funds.
5.02      The management structure which would permit this was formally
approved by the MARDI Board in November 1974. 1/ The Director, who already
is Chairman of the Governing Board and a member of the Scientific Council,
is responsible for the whole of MARDI's operations, as specified in the
MARDI Act. Two Deputy Directors would operate under the Director of MARDI;
one would be responsible for Research Programs and the other for Development
and Administration. Both would be senior officials who had made their career
in technical fields, appropriate to their function. Moreover, both would be
expected to make their career in MARDI (unlike the present situation where
the only Deputy Director now in MARDI is a senior public service administra-
tor seconded to MARDI for a limited period of time). In accordance with the
new organizational structure and the MARDI Act, Part II, Section 4(1) (see
Annex 1) the Director and Deputy Directors shall be appointed by the Yang
di-Pertuan Agong from among persons nominated by the Minister of Agricul-
ture after consultations with the Scientific Council.
5.03      The proposed structure would provide for five Assistant Directors.
The Assistant Director for Production Research 2/, the Assistant Director
for Fundamental Research and the Assistant Director for Research Services
would report to the Deputy Director for Research Programs. The Assistant
Director for Development and the Assistant Director for Administration would
report to the Deputy Director for Development and Administration.
1/   The MARDI Organization Chart is shown in Annex 1, Chart 9523.
2/   For organization of research, Annex 1, para 23-31.



- 19 -
5.04      The lower echelons, responsible for producing the actual research
"eat the bench", are organized in 3 groups, - Production Research, Back-
stopping Research, and Research Services. This unit-structure facilitates
all parts of research, and enables the Project to finance the specific re-
search efforts for which Bank support was requested by GOM.
5.05      Each of the commodity and other research groups would be headed
by a Senior Scientist as program coordinator. Initially, the head of the
Agricultural Engineering and Water Management Program would be filled by
an internationally recruited scientist with qualifications acceptable to
the Bank. A Senior Scientist has been appointed as head of the Agricul-
tural Products Utilization Program and it was agreed at negotiations that
the curriculum vitae of the scientist would be sent to the Bank for clear-
ance.
Commodity Research Groups - Backstopping Research Groups
5.06      MARDI's commodity research groups would be organized in 7 com-
modity programs (rice, oil palms, field crops, horticultural crops, live-
stock, freshwater fish, cocoa/coconut), and an agricultural products
utilization program. In addition these would be a backstopping research
department for research in such fields as soil, plant and animal sciences,
analytical services and crop protection. These Programs are responsible
to the Assistant Directors for Production Research and Fundamental Research
respectively 1/.
5.07      Each commodity research program would concentrate its work on the
whole spectrum of technology associated with the particular commodity, and
within each group all the disciplines necessary for such broad spectrum work
would be represented on the interdisciplinary team. Specialists from the
research services and backstopping research groups would be secured for
various periods of time, as and when required, to work with the commodity
group teams.
5.08      The Agricultural Products Utilization Research Program would form
an important link between the producer and the consumer. In the past this
work was carried out by the FTRDC, which was transferred to MARDI on October 1,
1974.
Research Service Groups
5.09      Alongside the research programs, Research Service Groups would
operate under an Assistant Director responsible to the Deputy Director of
Research Programs. Two groups (agricultural engineering and water manage-
ment, and stations and facilities) would provide key professional support
services to the whole of MARDI's research effort.
1/   For organization of research,-Annex 1, paras 20-23.



- 20 -
5.10      The Assistant Director for Research Services would be responsible
for the development and maintenance of MARDI's research stations and facil-
ities. The farm managers of these stations would report to him. On those
stations where more than one research group would operate, station committees
would be formed to ensure proper coordination of the farm work and to set work
priorities in consultation with the local farm managers.
Research Administration
5.11      Development of MARDI's administrative and management functions
would be the responsibility of the Assistant Director Administration and
Development. In view of the major expansion program now under way in
MARDI and which would be accelerated through the Project, the Procurement
Unit would be strengthened to handle the procurement work associated with
the expansion program. The Unit would form the liaison with the Malaysian
Tender Board and other supply agencies and would be responsible for the
day-to-day work of administering the recording requirements under the
project. It was agreed at negotiations that the Administrative Section
and Procurement Unit would be increased by 3 additional staff appointed
to MARDI to facilitate procurement and accounting for equipment purchased
under the Project.
5.12      The Project Development Unit would report to the Assistant Director
for Development. It would be responsible for field verification trials of
findings by the commodity research groups. The Unit would collaborate with
the Federal and State Departments of Agriculture - and other government
bodies in the agricultural field. The Unit therefore would be MARDI's window
on the agricultural scene and it would form the first link in getting
the research output "on the market". The Project Development Unit would be
more decentralized than other MARDI groups and would have small groups of
staff permanently located in a number of areas throughout Malaysia.
B.  Staffing (MARDI) -y
Local Staff
5.13      The essential staff structure below the top management group, is
based on a ratio of two research assistants and four junior research assis-
tants and/or technicians for each research scientist. The junior assistants
normally are new University or Diploma graduates and form the pool out of
which, after further post-graduate training through fellowships, the future
professional cadre is built up.
1/   Annex 12, Table 12.4 shows the overall program of staffing expatriate
staffing and fellowships.



- 21 -
5.14      MARDI management has anticipated the severe recruiting problem
flowing from its expansion program. It has currently 170 students (in-
creasing to 300 by the end of 1974) in local Universities on MARDI scholar-
ships. Graduates from this program with BSc or Diploma status will join
MARDI as junior research officers. MARDI also has more than 60 staff and
non-staff members in overseas Universities who will join MARDI after obtain-
ing higher degrees. This program of training would be strengthened by the
Project which provides the FE cost for overseas fellowship leading to about
70 PhD and 70 MSc degrees.
5.15      The postgraduate students would focus their fellowships on pro-
grams of study and research relevant to MARDI's research objectives. This,
as far as practicable, would be achieved by requiring Fellows to do their
field work in Malaysia, combined with study and thesis work at overseas
Institutes. Concurrence by the Bank to the locus and subject of studies
would be sought.
Staff Salaries
5.16      The Harum Salary Commission Scales were implemented in January,
1975. MARDI's salary are now being adjusted to be on par with RRIM and
the Agriculture University; it was also agreed at negotiations that GOM
would maintain MARDI salaries at an equitable level.
Expatriate Staff
5.17      The Director of MARDI would be responsible for engaging the inter-
national scientists to be financed under the Project. These scientists would
work within the various Programs and through the Program Coordinator would be
responsible to the Assistant Directors. Because of the important contribu-
tion these scientists would make to the development of MARDI, the Bank's
concurrence would be sought for long term appointments of international
scientists (para 6.04(A)(a)). The substantial expenditure on internationally
recruited staff is required to maintain the strength of the research programs
while the staff fellows are overseas. In general, the expatriate inputs
would maintain this strength at somewhere between 70% and 90% of the estab-
lishment during the development period (Annex 12, Table 12-4).
C. Organization (Extension-Liaison Unit)-1/
5.18      The Extension-Liaison Unit would be a new part of the existing
Extension Branch of the Federal Department of Agriculture. The Unit will
be headed by a Senior Agricultural Officer with solid experience in exten-
sion services and qualifications acceptable to the Bank. To facilitate
the transfer of MARDI research finding to the Department and disseminate
1/   Annex 11, WB Chart 9155.



- 22 -
information to the farmers the Unit would consist of four main functional
sections; i.e. communications, data processing, projects, and subject matter
specialization.
D. Staffing (Extension-Liaison Unit) -/
5.19      Fellowships (94 man-years) for the Unit's staff would be an
essential component of the Project. These are required to provide quali-
fied manpower for the Unit and would aim at post-graduate courses and
medium and short-term refresher courses available to all Departmental
staff in order to increase rapidly the strength of the Unit to an accepta-
ble level.
5.20      Longterm internationally recruited staff would initially be en-
gaged for planning and implementation of the Unit; partly to offset the
work input foregone by local staff pursuing their fellowships. During
project implementation, further expatriate staff would be engaged on a
short-term basis to assist in planning and implementing the specialized
subject matter units.
E. Project Monitoring
5.21      An essential requirement for the proper functioning of a research
organization, not only MA1hRDI, is periodic reviews of its research program by
eminent scientists, not directly associated with the organization, to ensure
that the research undertaken is relevant to the needs of the agricultural
sector and to ensure efficient utilization of the research resources. These
periodic external technical program reviews supplement internal reviews con-
ducted annually by scientists from the different programs, i.e. scientist
peers commenting on the work carried out in MARDI. These reviews would be
undertaken in liaison with the Scientific Council.
5.22      The Project would provide for both annual internal technical
program reviews by MARDI Scientist and for such periodic external reviews
by a panel of eminent scientists when appropriate, selected by MARDI's
Director in consultation with the Bank. The project would provide the
funds for the engagement of such reviewers on an agreed basis. The selec-
tion of the reviewers would be based on the particular program or programs
to be reviewed in each instance. Perhaps one reviewer might be used each
time a review takes place, whilst his capability might be augmented by
ither specialists to fit the specific review program. It was agreed at
negotiations that scientists, acceptable to the Bank, would be engaged for
periodic reviews of MIRDI's research programs as appropriate.
1/   Annex 12, Table 12.4 shows the overall program of staffing, expatriate
staffing and fellowships.



- 23 -
F. Cooperation with International Research Institutes
5.23      MARDI is already collaborating with international research
institutes, particularly in its research relating to rice and small farm
mechanization. Also MARDI already has contact with international institutes
responsible for research in tropical agriculture and field crops (including
maize, sorghum, soybean and cassava). The Project will seek to strengthen
these contacts and to make other linkages. In addition to direct col-
laboration in the various MARDI research programs the Project would finance
fellowship for MARDI staff for both short and longer term visits to relevant
international institutes. These established and similar contacts with
Universities will facilitate MARDI's recruiting program.
C. Financing, Accounting and Audit
5.24      MARDI is financed through the annual GOM budget.  To improve long
term planning, GOM, EPU and Treasury officials have approved MARDI's Block
Grant request to cover the Third Plan Period. However, it is essential
that the flow of funds from treasury sources would be coordinated with the
expanded level of activity proposed under the Project. Therefore, further
revision of the Block Grant is required to integrate the Project Budget with
the Block Grant Budget.
5.25      Under the Project, MARDI would initiate an approved Program Budget-
ing System and its accounting procedure would be modified to facilitate iden-
tifications of goods and services financed by the Project. These accounts
would be implemented in accordance with an agreed system and timetable to
be worked out no later than the first Project Supervision. These accounts
would be kept in accordance with sound accounting principles and would be
audited by independent auditors, acceptable to the Bank, within six months
after the end of the financial year.
VI. PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING, DISBURSEMENTS AND PROCUREMENT
Project Costs (Annex 12)
6.01      The Project would assist GOM with financing the FE component
(US$28.5 million) for 8 selected research programs during the period 1975-
1981. The base cost estimate was calculated on late 1974 prices. A 5%
physical contingency was added to all componenets of the project.  A price
contingency of 45% (US$32.2 million) was added to the project base cost in
accordance with current projections and international and local price
changes. The price contingencies are: 54.3% on local costs (15% in
year 1 reduced to 10% in year 6); 21% on equipment (14% 1974, 11% 1975
and 7.5% thereafter); and 14.5% on the FE component of services (5% per
annum). (Annex 12).



- 24 -
PROJECT COST ESTIMATES
US$ x 1 million              M$ x 1 million             FE
Sub-      Items                          eauivalent                  equivalent            Component
Total                              Local   Foreign   Total    Local   Foreinn   Total
I      MARDT Research Groups
Expatriate Scientists,        0.9      5.5      6.4       2.2     13.5      15.7       85%
Collection Missions
Staff Fellowships              -       4.1      4.1        -      10.1      10.1      100%
Building and Site
fDevelopment                1.9      0.9      2.8       4.7      2.2       6.9       33%
Fertilizer, Herbicides,
Semen and Stockfeeds        001      1.7      1.8       0.3      4.2       4.4       94%
Field Equipment, Vehicles
& Land Development          0.1      1.6       1.7      0.2      3.9       4.2       94%
Research Equipment             -       2.9       2.9       -       7.1        7.1     100%
Computer and Library,
Central Services             -       2.1      2.1        -       5.2       5.2      100%
Livestock                     0.1      1o2       1.3      0.2      2.9       3.1       92%
MARDI Sub-total I             3.1     2Q.0      23.1      7.6     49.1      56.7       87%
II     Department of Agriculture
Extension-Liaison Unit
Expatriate Scientists         0.1      0.5      o.6       0.3      1.2       1 5       85%
Staff Fellowships              -       1.4       1.4       -       3.4       3.4      100%
Building and Site
Development                 0.9      005       1 4      2.2      1o2       3-4       33%
Field Equipment, Vehicles,
Land Development             -       0.3      0.3.       -       0.7       007      100%
Research and Extension
Equipment                   0.1      0.2       0.3      0.2      0.5       0.7       66%
Extension Liaison Unit        1.         .        .        .         .        .          2
Sub-total II            1.1      2.9       4.0      2.7       7.0      9.7       72%
III    Staff and Local Costs        45.2       -       45.2    110.7        -     110.7        -
IV     Project Base Costs
(I+II+III)                49.4      22.9     72.3    121.0      56.1    177.1        31.7%
V      Physical Contingencies 5%    2.5       1.1       3.6      6.1       2.7      8.8       30%
VI     Project Costs, including
Physical Contingencies
(IV+V)                    51.9      24.0     75.9    127.1      58.8    186.0        31.6%
VII    Price Contingencies Over
Project Period on:
Local Costs                  28.2       -       28.2     69.1        -      69.1        -
Equipment                      -       2.4       2.4       -       5.9       5.9      100%
Expatriate Salaries and
Fellowships                  -       1o6      1.6        -       3.9       3.9      100%
Price Contingencies
Sub-total VII         28.2       4.0     32.2      69.1      9.8     78.9        12.4%
Prolect Total Costs*
(VI+VII)                   80.1     28,1   108.1    196.2       68.7    264.9        26%
Rounding Factor                -       0.4       0.4       -       0.8      08       100%
Project Costs                80.1     28.5   108.5    196.2       69.5    265.7        26.3%
*Of Which Local Staff
Costs                      30.1       -      30.1      73.8       -       73.8        -



- 25 -
Financing - Annex 12
6.02      GOM would provide MARDI with the required local currency through
an annual or multiyear grant. The FE component of the Loan to GOM, would
also be passed on as a grant to MARDI. Provision for this procedure is
available in the MARDI Act 1/. A similar procedure would be followed for
the financing of the Extension-Liaison Unit in the Department of Agricul-
ture.
Disbursements - Annex 13
6.03      The Project would finance 100% of the foreign exchange cost of
engaging internationally recruited senior scientists, the provision of
Fellowships, the cost of overseas missions to collect plant materials,
project monitoring, equipment and supplies, and livestock. It would
finance 100% of ex factory cost of locally manufactured goods and equip-
ment and 70% of imported goods procured locally. It would finance the
foreign exchange component of building construction which is estimated
to be 33% of the total cost of all buildings to be constructed under the
Project (Annex 12). Assuming loan effectiveness on May 31, 1975, disburse-
ments would commence in the first quarter of FY 1977 when expanded facili-
ties for research would become available. The Project would be complete
by December 31, 1981. The Disbursement Schedule is shown in Annex 13,
Table 13.1. It is based on slow disbursement in the first year of the
project, to permit recruiting and procurement procedures to be established.
Any surplus funds remaining after completion of the Project would be can-
celled.
Procurement (Annex 13)
6.04      For each of the broad expenditure groups referred to below, a
different procurement procedure would be followed.
(A) Services
(a) Internationally Recruited Specialists (US$7.0 million)
would be engaged by the Director of MARDI or the Director
of the Extension-Liaison Unit through arrangements to be
agreed by the Bank.
(b) Fellowships (US$5.5 million) would be awarded to staff
members selected by the Senior Scientist and approved
by the Director of MARDI.
Arrangements for recruiting of the specialists and the management of the
fellowship program for both MARDI and the Extension-Liaison Unit would be
handled under arrangements to be agreed between these organizations and
1/   Annex 1, Appendix 1, para 14.



- 26 -
the Bank. A standard format would be used for the Fellowships. The fel-
lowship programs shall be administered and managed under arrangements to
be agreed upon by the Bank. It was also agreed at negotiations that an
advance draft of the fellowship contracts would be submitted to the Bank.
(B) Goods
(a) Goods (US9.0 million) other than livestock and the
computer (US$1.3 million) would be procured on the
basis of international competitive bidding in accordance
with Bank Group Guidelines. However contracts for
goods estimated to cost the equivalent of not more than
US$20,000 would be let according to normal Government
Procedures which are satisfactory. A margin of pre-
ference of 15% would be given to local manufacturers in
bid evaluation.   Contracts for similar goods would be
bulked to attract foreign as well as local bidders.
For reasons of animal health services livestock
purchases could be made only in a limited number of
countries and the Director of MARDI would submit a
list of countries for the purchase of each class
of livestock for the Bank's concurrence. All livestock
purchases and sales would be administered through a
Livestock Fund (Annex 13), the creation of which would
be a condition of disbursement for all livestock
purchases. The computer would be purchased or leased
following arrangements to the agreed by the Bank
(para 4.48);
(b) Contracts for the construction of buildings (US$1.4
million) would be awarded on the basis of interna-
tional competitive bidding in accordance with Bank
Group Guidelines. No restrictions would be placed
on bidding, however, due to the small size and
scattered nature of the contracts they are
unlikely to be of interest to foreign contractors.
Malaysia has a viable local contracting industry
and it is expected that local contractors would
win all bids;
(c) The Bank's prior approval would be required befbre
invitations to bid are issued and contracts are awarded
for equipment purchases and construction of buildings
where contracts are estimated to be in excess of
US$100,000 equivalent, and for the purchase of all
classes of cattle.



- 27 -
VII. JUSTIFICATION AND BENEFITS (ANNEX 14)
7.01      An overwhelming part of agriculture is in the hands of small farm-
ers who do not have the means to carry out their own research. Yet, an ex-
panded effort in agricultural research and extension is needed if the social
and income status of these small farmers is to be improved. A major Govern-
ment effort is called for to provide the small farmers with the technology
to improve their incomes. This justifies research on rice, cassava, cocoa,
coconut, pineapples and livestock; all traditional smallholder crops. Re-
search on rice and field crops for livestock feed is justified also because
it will assist in minimizing the risk of supply failure of these basic com-
modities (Annex 14, para 26).
7.02      In support of this general justification an attempt was made to
assess the value of a research and extension project to Malaysia. As indi-
cated in Annex 14 given present methodology, a research and extension project
may not lend itself in all cases to traditional benefit cost analysis because
of the uncertainty surrounding the resources required to bring a particular
piece of research to its conclusive end. Instead, historical and analogue
data of research and extension efforts in Malaysia and other countries were
examined.
7.03      This examination (full details in Annex 14) indicates that:
(a) In 1965 Malaysia was spending comparatively less on
agricultural research and extension than most other
Asian countries. The decision made not long after,
in 1967/68, to expand such research in Malaysia
through the creation of MARDI in 1969 appears to
be justified on these grounds.
(b) There is evidence that in Malaysia physical constraints
exist on cropping areas, or cropping technology of crops
which, on social and economic planning grounds, need
expansion in aggregate output. These constraints can
only be removed through the introduction and/or adop-
tion of new technology (paras 4.05-4.50).
(c) Rates of return calculated only to quantify the cost
of time lags, based on analogue evidence from Malaysia's
rubber industry, which, if applied to some basic data
for four of MARDI's research programs, indicate that
a reduction in the research-extension lag is a justi-
fiable objective.
(d) Derived from the success of the RRIM there is in
Malaysia a climate of justifiable pride in, and



- 28 -
political and financial support for, a program of
research in agriculture. Since agricultural research
is at the best of times a long-term effort, such
support is absolutely essential and is perhaps the
best guarantee that broad research objectives can be
established and maintained.
(e)  There is ex-post evidence from other countries, on the
basis of rates of returns to individual crop research
programs and in terms of aggregate output per hectare,
that agricultural research is a sound national in-
vestment.
(f)  There is evidence that a definite relationship exists
between aggregate net output per hectare and the
research-extension effort in a selected group of 11
Asian countries.
7.04      Whilst no one of the foregoing indicators (a-f) in isolation
could provide full justification for the Project, - taken together, they
give every indication that it would be beneficial to Malaysia's agricul-
tural sector generally, and to the smallholder sector in particular in
at least sufficient measure to justify the program.
VIII. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
Agreements
8.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached on the following impor-
tant points:
(a)  MARDI shall employ one competent Senior Scientist
(head of the program) each, with qualifications
acceptable to the Bank, for its Agricultural Prod-
ucts Utilizations Research Program and for its
Agricultural Engineering and Water Management
Research Program. (Para 4.42).
(b)  MARDI salaries are being adjusted through the
implementation of the Harum Salary Commission
Scales and will be maintained at a level equitable
with RRIM and the Agriculture University, the ini-
tial adjustments shall have been implemented within
6 months of the date of the Agreement. (Para. 2.19).



- 29 -
(c) MARDI shall engage eminent scientists (acceptable
to the Bank) to undertake periodic reviews of the
on-going research programs. (Para 5.21 and 5.22).
(d) Recruitment of specialists, and operation of fellow-
ship programs (MARDI and ELU) included in the Project
will be managed under arrangements to be agreed upon
between the Bank, and MARDI and ELU. (Paras. 5.15,
5.17 and 6.04A).
(e) The Department of Agriculture will establish and main-
tain, within its department, an Extension Liaison Unit
(ELU) with staff acceptable to the Bank. (Paras. 4.22
and 4.51-4.54).
(f) Within 9 months after the date of the agreement, MARDI
shall employ a Program Specialist in consultation with
the Bank to assist the Deputy Director for Research
Programs in planning, coordinating and implementing
research programs. (Paras. 4.04 and 4.06).
(g) The Government of Malaysia will make necessary arrange-
ments to expand and strengthen agricultural extension
services at the state level to facilitate transfer of
research findings and requirements between the farmer
and MARDI. (Para 2.22).
Conditions of Credit Effectiveness
8.02      During negotiations, the following conditions of effectiveness
were agreed:
(a) One member representing the public food processing
industry and one member representing the private
food processing industry shall have been appointed
by MARDI to the Advisory Committee on Product Utili-
zation (formerly Coordinating Committee on Food Tech-
nology). (Para. 4.32).
(b) Three additional staff shall have been appointed to
the MARDI procurement unit. (Para 5.11).
Conditions of Disbursement
8.03      During negotiations, the following conditions of disbursement
were agreed:
(a) The Bank will not disburse for expenditures asso-
ciated with the Agricultural Products Utilization
Program, and the Agricultural Engineering and Water
Management Program until satisfactory evidence has



- 30 -
been provided to show that the first appointments
to the posts of Senior Scientist (heads of the
programs) have been made. (Para. 4.42 and 5.05).
(b)  The Bank will not disburse for expenditures for the
lease or procurement of computer equipment until
evidence satisfactory to the Bank has been furnished:
(i) That an acceptable computer consultant's study
has been completed for MARDI and ELU,
(ii) Adequate provisions have been made for training,
operation and maintenance of the equipment,
(Para 4.48).
(c)  The Bank will not disburse for expenditures for livestock
until satisfactory evidence has been provided that a
Livestock Fund, for the exclusive use for procurement and
sale of livestock out of proceeds of the project, has been
established within the MARDI Fund. (Para. 6.04B(a)).
8.04      The Project is suitable for a loan of US$28.5 million.
April 25, 1975



ANNEX 1
Page 1
MALAYSIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
Agricultural Education, Research and Extension Services
A. Introduction
1.        Malaysia's agricultural education, research and extension services
have had a continuous history of development over several decades. In con-
trast to the situation in many other former colonial territories, tnere was
no disruption of these services when Malaysia became independent in 1957.
However, further development in all these services is required to meet the
present and future needs of Malaysian agriculture.
B. Agricultural Education Services
ihigher Education
2.        There are two schools of agriculture in Malaysia, the oldest, the
Faculty of Agriculture in the University of >ialaysia is scheduled to close
in 1977. It is currently awarding 80-100 first degrees and about 10-15
Masters' degrees annually. PhD courses are of recent origin and only two
PhD candidates are currently enrolled. The new Agricultural University at
Serdang enrolled its first agricultural, forestry and veterinary students
in 1973.  About 100 first degrees are expected to be awarded in 1976, with
a projected increase to 250-300 within a few years, including graduates in
a new course, BSc (Agri-business).
3.        In addition to graduates receiving agriculture, veterinary, and
forestry degrees, there are also three institutions offering degrees in a
number of agriculture related sciences.  These are, the University of Mlalaya
(Science and Economics and Administration Faculties), Naeional University
(Science, Economics and Management Faculties), and the University of Applied
Science at Penang. The current annual output of graduates from the Science
Faculties of these Universities is about 500 Bachelors - 300 Honours - 30
Mlasters' - and 4 PhD degrees. Tne present output of the Economics, Admin-
istration and Management Faculties is about 400 Bachelors degrees, but only
a few Ilasters' and no PhDs degrees.



ANiEX 1
Page 2
4.        University education in Malaysia is still in a developmental
phase, and the emphasis hitherto has been on training at the undergraduate
level. Only recently has attention been given to the development of post-
graduate programs.
5.        Because of the lack of post-graduate training at its own Uni-
versities, Malaysia depends on overseas universities to train Malaysian
students to Master and PhD level in agriculture and agriculture related
sciences. Malaysian graduates are readily accepted for post-graduate
studies at universities in UK, USA, Australia and New Zealand, the prin-
cipal countries providing this training. At the present time there are
about 100 staff from Malaysian Government agricultural institutions
working overseas for higher degrees. The greatest number is from MARDI
which currently has 63 staff members overseas receiving Masters or PhD
training. MARDI also has 15 of its staff receiving post-graduate train-
ing in Malaysia. This program should greatly reduce the present critical
shortage of personnel with advanced training.
Sub-Professional Agricultural Education
6.        Malaysia has two Institutes awarding diplomas on the basis of
three or four years' training in agriculture and agriculture-related sub-
jects. These are the Agricultural University at Serdang and the IHIara In-
stitute of Technology. Almost 500 Diplomas were awarded in 1974, of which,
325 were Diplomas in Agriculture from Serdang, and the balance distributed
between courses in animal health and production, forestry, and planting
industry management. New courses in animal science, fisheries, home economics,
food technology, and microbiology have been commenced and the output of
diplomates will rise to 700 to 800 in two to three years.
7.        Diplomates from these school find ready employment as sub-professionals
in government and semi-government agencies, and in private industry. In
government service they operate at the technical level in scientific work,
or as district extension offices. Despite the considerable and growing out-
put of diplomates, there is shortage of qualified personnel at this level.
At the present rate of training diplomates, it is expected that supply and
demand of qualified teclnical personnel will be in equilibrium within a
few years.
8.        There are also five institutes awarding Certificates of Agriculture
based on a three-year course, and four vocational schools giving two years
of training leading to a more practically orientated Vocational Certificate
in Education (Agriculture). People holding these Certificates are eligible
for employment as laboratory and field assistants and as field extension
officers. The Veterinary Department trains about 20 assistant veterinary
officers a year in a two year course at Kluaiig for employment in Depart-
ment's extension service. With the increasing output of the training ins-
titutions it is expected that the current shortage of sub-professional staff
will ease in the next few years.



ANNEX I
Page 3
C. Agricultural Research Services
Introduction
9.        The-value of well-conceived and executed commodity oriented agri-
cultural research in Malaysia has been amply demonstrated by the success
of the RRIM. Established in 1927 as an autonomous government authority,
it is recognized as the leading rubber research center in the world. As
the result of the applications of the research findings of RRIM, Malaysia
produces a major share of the world's natural rubber, and the average yield
of rubber per acre in Malaysia is by far the highest in the world.
10.       Unlike rubber, other agricultural research activities have been
fragmented and less effective.  Pineapple research was done by the ITIB
and the oil palm producers (mainly estates until very recently) carried
out their own research. FELDA found that the research services available
in the late 1970's were inadequate for its smallholder development programs,
and established its own small research unit to work on oil palm, cocoa and
shade trees at Sungai Tekan in the Jengka Triangle.
11.       Until the formation of MARDI, a major responsibility for agri-
cultural research, other than for rubber, rested with the Department of
Agriculture and the Veterinary Department in the Ministry of Agriculture.
The Departments were responsible for regulatory services, education and
other farmer services, and were not primarily research oriented.
12.       A review carried out in 1968 noted a number of deficiencies in
research capacity in these Departments and indicated the need for improved
field facilities and field and laboratory equipment, better trained personnel,
improved library facilities, and improved administrative procedures.1/
Practical problems in research organization were identified at that time,
viz., the need to ensure problem orientated interdisciplinary collaboration,
and continuity of programs, with budgetary and staff stability. The con-
solidation and co-ordination of agricultural research (except rubber) into
a single organization was recommended.
D.   Malaysian Agricultural Research and Development Institute (MARDI)
13.       In 1969 the Government passed the MARDI Act to implement the
recommendations. (Appendix 1). It was envisaged that the Institute would
take over all the research functions of the Department of Agriculture and
the Veterinary Department, the Malaysian Pineapple Industries Board and the
Ministry of Agriculture's Food Technology Research and Development Center.
I/   Research for Agricultural Development in Malaysia, A.H. Moseman, 1968.



ANNEX 1
Page 4
MARDI was given responsibility for scientific, technical, economic and
sociological research in Malaysia with respect to production, utilization
and processing of all crops (except rubber), livestock and fresh water fish.
i4URDI was also given the function of providing an agricultural information
service, to disseminate research findings and technical information to the
extension specialist, and to establish liaison with other research organiza-
tions. The Act provided for the appointment of a Director and two Deputy
Directors.
Administration and Staffing
14.       The Director is Chairman of a Governing Board comprising repre-
sentatives of various Ministries, including Agriculture, Finance and Primary
Industries and not more than five members with experience in agricultural
research or agriculturel development programs. Its main functions are to
determine MARDI policies on administrative procedures and staffing, approve
budgets, and grants-in-aid for research to other organizations and approve
fellowship recipients. The Ministers of Agriculture and Finance would be
ultimately responsible for pplicy and financing of M4ARDI, which in all
other respects would have a great deal of autonomy.
15.       The MARDI Act also specifies a Scientific Council appointed by
the Minister of Agriculture to include representatives of the four major
universities, RRIM, agricultural industry, Ministry of Agriculture and the
Economic Planning Unit (EPU) of the Prime Minister's Department, the Director
of  AURDI and one of the Deputy Directors as Executive Secretary.  The main
purpose of the Scientific Council is to advise on the priority and formulation
of research programs, and on locations and facilities for research. It also
maintains liaison with other organizations involved in researcn, and advises
on evaluation procedures of professional staff and on library services and
publication. The Governing Board and Scientific Council meet at least four
times a year.
16.       The MARDI Act also permits the establishment of a Fund into which
grants by the Federal and State Governments can be deposited as well as income
received by M4ARDI from sale of produce and services rendered. The Act permits
tile M'inister of Finance to impose special cesses on agricultural commodities
to support agricultural research, which would also be paid'into the MARDI
fund.
17.       Although MARDI was formally inaugurated on October 28, 1969,
transfer to it of the administrative responsibility for some of the re-
search activities within the Ministry of Agriculture was not completed
until late 1970. Tnie physical transfer of staff, field activities, labo-
rawories and other research facilities did not commence until January 1971.
Ti'us, M-ARDI hias only been in operation for about 3-1/2 years.  Its first
Director, Dr. A.H. Moseman, was replaced by Dr. Encik Anuwar bin Mahmud
who was the Director until March 31, 1975.



ANNEX 1
Page 5
18.       MARDI has grown rapidly and now has a larger professional staff
than RRIM. As of July 1, 1974, it has 126 graduate research officers, in-
cluding five Principal Research Officers, three Senior Research Officers,
34 Research Officers and 84 Assistant Research Officers. Only nine of the
graduate officers have PhD degrees. There were 127 Research Assistants
and 200 Junior Research Assistants. Total MARDI staff as of April 1974
numbered 891. This rapid growth of staff is expected to continue through
to 1980 when MARDI expects to have over 500 graduate staff.
19.       Most of the graduate staff have a good basic training, but do
not have higher degrees or research experience. Lack of research experi-
ence and experienced leadership is one of the greatest decifiencies of
*MARDI. Strengthening of research leadership is urgently required to make
the most effective use of its large and enthusiastic young staff.  ihe
growth and development of physical facilities and research programs has
been equally as rapid as the increase in staff. This has placed a con-
siderable burden on the Director.
Organization of Research
20.       The Scientific Council nas formed a series of Research Advisory
Committees to review and advise on each of MARDI's major commodity research
programs. These Committees are composed of a member of the Council and
university and industry representatives. Some, such as the Oil Palm Research
Advisory Committee, are very active and meet several times yearly. Others
are not as active. The major commodity programs under review are rice, oil
palm, horticulture crops, field crops, cocoa and coconut, livestock and
pineapple.
21.       It is becoming clear from the work done to date trhat MARDI would
organize its research work most effectively if it were to focus its activi-
ties on a number of commodity research programs, with suitable supporting
research being carried out by a few specialized groups. A suitable organi-
zation to give effect to this type of operational structure is shown in
Chart 9206.
22.        1ie MARDI Act gave the Institute responsibility for research
in the utilization and processing of all agricultural crops (except rubber)
livestock and freshwater fish, to this end, the Food Tech~nology Research and
Development Centre was transferred to IMARDI on October 1, 1974.  Its structure
is shown in Chart 9112.
23.       There are some other activities of a research and semi-research
nature remaining in the Agricultural and Veterinary Departments.  The ani-
mal breeding work being done by the Veterinary Department is competitive
witi1 the MARDI's work. It should be discontinued and the appropriate fa-
cilities transferred to MARDI. The Animal health work in the Veterinary



ANNEX 1
Page 6
Department is of a high standard but is mainly of a regulatory and service
nature and should remain in the Department. The Department of Agriculture
soil classification and soil analytical work is also of a high standard.
It should remain with the Department because it is not research per se
and the need for close integration with the Department's extension activ-
ities.
Research Facilities
24.       The headquarters of MARDI are located in a complex at Serdang some
30 minutes from Kuala Lumpur. The complex includes the newly established
Agricultural University. At present MARDI occupies a series of cramped and
temporary buildings and these have poor facilities for research. New head-
quarters are under construction and are scheduled for completion in 1975.
They will include the following separate buildings: administration; library;
theater; crop improvement; animal improvement; crop protection; soils, water
and engineering (2 three-story buildings); and economics and statistics. A
separate budget has been approved and allocated'for the construction of these
facilities which will encompass 200,000 square feet at a cost of M$5.5 million.
25.       Including headquarters, MARDI has 16 research stations and two
Project Development Unit centres which conduct their studies on farmers' land.
These stations are in various stages of development ranging from some (e.g.,
Bumbong Lima and Jalan Kebun) which are well developed and support active
research programs to others (e.g., Kluang) which are only recently acquired
and are in process of establishment. Overall the spread of stations provides
a satisfactory cover of Malaysian crop environments (see Appendix 2: List
of Research Centers and Field Stations and Map).
Project Development Unit
26.       The MARDI Act gives the Institute the responsibility "to act as
a centre for specialist extension service in the agricultural industry".
However, the main task of extension to the farming community rests with
the Agriculture and Veterinary Departments and other Federal and State
Government agencies. These agencies and MARDI have recognized the need for
MARDI to undertake local verification trails, and confirmed the Departments
as the principal agencies of extension at the farmer level.
27.       MARDI has recently formed a Project Development Unit to undertake
field verification trials, provide an information service, effect liaison
with the extension agencies, and undertake sociological studies to assist
in determining the Institute's research priorities. The need for harmonious
and close co-operation with the extension agencies is well recognized.
Outside Support
28.       MARDI is receiving outside technical and financial support from
11 different sources. The support for technical assistance and equipment
comes from FAO, Tropical Agricultural Research Center-Japan, USA-Peace Corps,
CSIRO-Australia, Germany, ODA, Belgium, and Australia Volunteers. The
largest grant is from the Oil Palm Growers Council of Malaysia for M$633,000.



ANNEX 1
Page 7
Funding
29.       MARDI receives its funds through direct budgetary allocations from
Government as part of the Ministry of Agriculture's budget. The Ministry's
budget amounted to a total of M$49.87 million operating and M$127.58 mil-
lion development budget for 1974. Of these amounts, MARDI's budget for 1974
is M$10.20 million for operating expenses and M$9.45 million for development.
30.       Concern for future funding resulted in MARDI being requested by
the Prime Minister to prepare a Block Grant Proposal for 1975-1980 which
would include provision for the Third Malaysia Plan (1976-80). Total
funding for 1975-80 is estimated at M$220.7 million of which M$183.7
million would be for operating expenditures and M$23.0 million for
development expenditures. The Government has given its approval for
the Block Grant; however, it needs to be integrated with the Bank Proj-
ect Budget.
Research Staff Salaries
31.       MARDI salaries have been lower than those paid to University and
RRIM personnel of equivalent training and seniority. This had placed MARDI
in a poor competitive position for the best trained scientists and the
Institute has as a result lost a number of its best people. The Harun
Commission salary scales were implemented in January 1975 and MARDI sal-
aries are being adjusted and will be maintained at an equitable level with
RRIM and the Agriculture University.
Federal-State Relationships
32.       Before MARDI can carry out agricultural research in a State,
agreement to this effect must be reached between the Federal and State
Governments concerned. Such agreements have been reached for all of
Peninsular Malaysia, but as of to date MARDI does not carry out agricul-
tural research in Sabah and Sarawak.
D. Agricultural Extension Services
General
33.       Agricultural extension services in Malaysia are provided by a
number of organizations. The State Departments of Agriculture have prime
responsibility for extension to Malaysia's small farmers, with the excep-
tion of small holders rubber growers who are catered for by the RRIM, RISDA
and FELDA. The State Departments are supported in this work by the Federal
Agriculture and Veterinary Departments. The newly formed Farmers Organiza-
tion Authority (FOA), has the role of coordinating the extension efforts of
the Federal and State Departments in the numerous Agricultural Development
Centers it is establishing throughout West Malaysia, in conjunction with
its responsibilities for farmer credit, marketing and other aspects of
agribusiness.



ANNEX 1
Page 8
Federal and State Agriculture Departments Extension Services
34.       The Federal Ministry of Agriculture is
responsible for supervising and organizing extension activity on Malaysia-wide
basis, although funds for the State extension services come from the State
Treasuries. The chief extension officer in each State is a federal officer
seconded to the State. Also the federal Department supplies a limited number
of extension specialists to individual States on the basis of particular needs
and the availability of suitably qualified personnel. However, the present
staff is totally inadequate to service the needs of the country. In January
1974 there were 45 graduate officers working in extension in the eleven states
of West Malaysia. Distribution of these officers ranged from ten in the large
and relatively intensive agricultural state of Perak to only one in the small
state of Perlis. These graduate officers are responsible mainly for admin-
istration at the central State level and do little field work.
35.       The organization of extension services at the district level is
the responsibility of Agricultural Assistants. There are 231 agricultural
assistants in West Malaysia ranging from two in Perlis to 52 in Perak.
Many of these officers participate in some field extension work in addi-
tion to their district coordination activities. The main task of on-farm
extension is done by Junior Agricultural Assistant field officers, most
of whom have onlv a junior school certificate education plus some in-serv-
ice training in agriculture. The total number of these in Malaysia was
about 850 in January 1974. The very modest objective is to have one offi-
cer for every 500 farm families. While this level is being approached in
the most prosperous States such as Kedah and Perak, the situation in the
poorer states of e.g., Kelantan and Trengganu, is far below the target
level.
36.       In addition to the Federal officers working in the individual
State extension services, there are seven professional officers and 24
ancillary staff in the Federal extension service based at headquarters.
These are responsible for providing extension information to the State
services and include some specialist officers who travel to the individ-
ual States to advise on problems in their area of expertise.
Non-Estate Crop Extension by Other Bodies
37.       Extension advice to rubber smallholders on cash crop intercrop-
ping is handled by RISDA. This organization was establiphed in 1973 to
assume responsibility for (i) the smallholder replanting scheme formerly
handled by the Rubber Industry Replanting Board (RIRB) and (ii) extension
to smallholders previously handled by RRIM. The authority relys on RRIM
and MARDI for data on crops and on the Department of Agriculture for guid-
ance and advice on extension methods.
38.       There are about 700 so-called extension officers who also service
the replanting work. Almost 500 of these are former RIRB inspectors, with
primary school level education and no formal agricultural training. Most



ANNEX 1
Page 9
of the remainder are junior high school graduates, while there are only
about 20 diplomates, and 10 graduate officers. Several diploma holders
have been sent overseas for degree training in extension.
39.       The low level of basic education of the bulk of its officers
is a serious limitation to the effectiveness of RISDA's extension services.
Some assistance in training is being given by MARDI and RRIM, and upgrading
of overall staff quality is being attempted through recruitment of more
agricultural diplomates university graduates.
40.       The overall effect of the fragmentation of extension services
is that, although variations exist, the effort is inadequate and the result
is inadequate. A major effort in institutional overhaul, staffing and
funding is required before adequate extension services are available to
the small farmer sector.
April, 1975



MALAYSIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE OF MARDI
F      GOVERNING         L
BOARD              -                    l
DIETR                            SC I EN TIF IC
v<-{  X'~~~~~CUNI
*                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~DEPUTY DIRECTOR I                                                                DEPUTY DIRECTOR 11l
|   (RESEARCH PROGRAMMES)             ||(DEVELOPMENT & ADMINtSTRATION)  |
ASSISTANT DIRECTOR                   ASSISTANT DIRECTOR                   ASSISTANT DIRECTOR                     ASSISTANT DIRECTOR                   ASSISTANT DIRECTOR
(PRODUCTION  RESEARCH) |            BACKSTOPPING  RESEARCH)                  (RESEARCH SERVICES)                       DEVELOPMENT                         ADMINISTRATION
1. Rice                           1. Soil Science                          1. Agricultural                       1. Economics, Farm                      1. Personnel
Engineering,                          Management
2, Oil Palm                       2. Plant Science                            Water Management                      (including                           2. Budget
and Central                           evaluation)
3. Field Crops                    3. Animal Science                           Workshop                              and marketing                        3. Accouints
4. Horticultural Crops            4. Crop Protection                       2. Stations and                       2. Statistics and                       4. Purchasing
Facilities                            Data Processing                         and Stores
5. Livestock                      5. Central Analytical Services
3. Project Develop-
6. Freshwater Fish                                                                                                  ment and Socio-
logical Studies
7. Cocoa/Coconut
4. Library, Publica-
8. Agricultural Product                                                                                             tions and
Utilisation                                                                                                      Printipg
5. Information and
Liaison
6. Coordination in
Preparation of
Annual Budgets
apd Implementa-
tion of Develop-
ment Projects
World Bank-9523(R)



MALAYSIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
FOOD TECHNOLOGY DIVISION
MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE AND FISHERIES
ORGANIZATION CHART
| DIRECTOR GENERAL 
ASSTN DIRE TOR GENERAL         A
AD INS  EAD TRATIS E  |
|ADMINISTRATION ||DEVELOPMENT  |I
_r                                                      I                                                        I 
FOOD ENGINEERING.                           FOOD PROCESSING                                 FOOD PRO|CESSING
DIRECTOR                         ~~~~~~~~PLANT ORIGIN?,                          IANIMAL ORJIGINI,                             AATI  N  OLT
DIRECTORF                                       DI RECTOR                                   CONTROL'. DIRECTOR .IIPIR   llI 11
LPASIR PSTEH          INFESAND .              ATION AND       l|AOA0-                                                                        l    ILG                           SA                     ,l( 
| KELANTAN     l      OTPION                 HANDLING                                                                     |SI                       t MU                      |TAON
CHEMICAL
ENGINRER-FOO
INS (OIL                IRDA
TECENOLDoGI              IO
F RU IS 
VEGETABLE
STANDARDS               WORKSHOP
AND
SRADDES
FRUIT AND  FRUIT AND ~ ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ FOD                                                                                                                                                P
STATION,            STATION.                                                                                                                     AIN           | SAIN                l FEPIN                   LN 
JOHORE   M KANGEAR   |               .                                                                    ~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~MEPGONG  |    FRENGOANII  |  T ELANTAN  DPITC Nl.l,ANU|



AiNEX 1
Appendix 1
Page 1
MALAYSIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
Malaysian Agricultural Research and Development
Institute Act, 1969
An Act to establish the Malaysian Agricultural Research
and Development Institute and for matters connected there-
with.
(2nd May, 1969)
BE IT ENACTED by the Duli Yang Maha Mulia Seri Paduka
Baginda Yang di-Pertuan Agong with the advice and consent
of the Dewan Negara and Dewan Ya'ayat in Parliament assem-
bled, and by the authority of the same, as follows:
PART I
PRELIMINARY
1.   This Act may be cited as the Malaysian Agricultural
Research and Development Institute Act, 1969.
2.   In this Act -
"Director" and "Deputy Director" means the Director
of the Institute and any of the Deputy Directors of the
Institute appointed under sub-section (1) of section 4;
"Minister" means the 2Iinister of Agriculture and
Co-operatives.
PART II
THE INSTITUTE
3.   There is hereby established the Malaysian Agricul-
tural Research and Development Institute hereinafter
referred to as the "Institute"1) whose functions shall
be -



AQif L- 1
Appenaix 1
Page 2
(a) to conduct scientific, tecnnical, economic
and sociological research in iHalaysia witil
respect to the production, utilisation and
processing of all crops (except rubber),
livestock and fresh water fisheries;
(b) to serve as a centre for the collection and
disseminiation of information and advice on
scientific, technical and economic matters
concerning agricultural industry, including
taie publicationr of reports, periodicals and
papers relating thereto;
(c) to act as a centrc for specialist extension
service in the agricultural industry;
(d) to advise on the training of workers for
scientific and teclhical research and exten-
sioln;
(e) to provide grants in aid for tne purpose of
pure and applied scientific, technical and
economic research concerning agricultural
industry; and
(f) to maintain liaison with other organizations,
both public and private, indigenous and
foreign which are engaged in scientific, tech-
nical and economic and sociological research
concerning the agricultural industry.
4.(1)      For the purpose of tihis Act there shall be a
Director of the Institute and tw7o Deputy Directors of
tLhe Institute to be appointed by the Yang di-Pertuan
Agong from among persons nominated by the ..inister
after consultation with the Scientific Council as herein
after constituted.
(2)     The Director and Deputy Directors shall each
be appointed for suchl period as may be specified in
the letter of appointrnent and slhall be eligi-le for re-
appointment.
(3)     The Director and Deputy Directors shall be
appointed on such terms and conditions as may be
provided for in their respective letters of appoint-
ment.



AiNNEX 1
Appendix 1
Page 3
(4)     The Yang di-Pertuan Agong may at any time
revoke any appointments made under suvb-section (1);
and any person so appointed may at any time resign
from office.
(5)     The Director shall be the Chief Executive
officer of the Institute and shall be assisted by the
Deputy Directors in the carrying out of his powers and
duties relating to the administrative and technical
functions of the Institute; provided however, the Board
as hereinafter established may prescribe other powers
and duties of the Director and Deputy Directors as it-
thinks fit.
(6)     If during any period the Director for any
reason is unable to perform the functions of his office,
or, if the office of the Director falls vacant, the
Minister shall appoint one Deputy Director to exercise
the powers and perform the luties of the Director until
a new Director is appointed under sub-section (1).
PART III
THE BOARD
5.(1)     For the purpose of administering the Institute
there is hereby established the Malaysian Agricultural
Research and Development Institute Governing Board (in
this Act referred as "the Board") which shall be a
body corporate with perpetual succession and a common seal,
and may sue and be sued in its name, and subject to and
for the purposes of this Act may enter into contracts
and shall have power to acquire and hold property, moveable
and immoveable, and to dispose thereof or otherwise deal
therewith.
(2)     The Board shall consist of the following members-
(a) the Director of the Institute - as Chairman;
(b) a representative of the Ministry of Agricul-
ture and Co-operatives - as Deputy Chairman;
(c) a representative of the Ministry of Finance;
(d) a representative of the .linistry of Primary
Industries;



AiNEX 1
Appendix 1
Page 4
(e) a representative of the Ministry of the
National and Rural Development;
(f) a representative of the Ministry of Techno-
logy Research and Local Government; and
(g) not more than five members with experience
in agricultural research or agricultural
development programmes.
(3)     The members of the Board shall be appointed for
such period as may be specified in their letters of appoint-
ment by the Yang di-Pertuan Agong; and every member of the
Board referred to in paragraph (g) of sub-section (2)
shall, unless he sooner resigns his office or his appointment
revoked or his office shall otherwise become vacant, be
eligible for re-appointment.
6.(1)     Without prejudice to sub-section (1) of section
5 the Board shall have, in addition, the following
functions -
(a) subject to the direction of the Minister, to
determine the policies in the administration
of the Institute;
(b) to determine the procedure with respect to
appointments, promotions and termination of
appointments of employees and servants of
the Institute, exclusive of the Director and
Deputy Directors;
(c) with the concurrence of the Minister, to
approve the budgets or estimates of expen-
diture with respect to the administration
and operation of the Institute;
(d) to issue administrative rules relating to
the day-to-day administration of the
Institute;
(e) to determine and allocate grant in aid for
research to be conducted by other organiza-
tions or agencies; and
(f) to approve the selection of recipient of
scholarship and issue award or travel grant
to be financed by the Institute.



ANNEX 1
Appendix 1
Page 5
(2)     The Board shall by 31st March of every year
present to the Minister and the Minister of Finance an
Annual Report covering the activities of the Institute
including an income and expenditure account in respect
of the preceding year.
(3)     The provisions of the Schedule shall apply to
the Board.
7.        The Board may from time to time appoint and employ
on such remuneration and upon such terms and conditions as
may be prescribed by rules, such officers, servants and
consultants as may be necessary in the opinion of the Board
for the proper implementation of this Act.
PART IV
THE SCIENTIFIC COUNCIL
8.(1)     For the purpose of ensuring maximum quality and
effectiveness of the technical programmes of the Institute
there is hereby established the Malaysian Agricultural
Research and Development Institute Scientific Council,
(hereinafter referred to as the "Scientific Council").
(2)     The Scientific Council shall consist of the
following members appointed by the Minister-
(a) a Chairman;
(b) a representative of the Division of
Agriculture of the Ministry of Agriculture
and Fisheries;
(c) a representative of the Economic Planning
Unit of the Prime Ministerts Department;
(d) a representative of the University of
Malaya;
(e) a representative of the University Kevangsaan,
Malaysia;
(f) a representative of the University Sains,
Malaysia;



ANNEX 1
Appendix 1
Page 6
(g) a representative of the University Pertanian,
Malaysia;
(h) a representative of the Rubber Research
Institute of Malaya;
(i) not more than three persons from the agricul-
tural industry;
(j) the Director - as ex-officio; and
(k) a Deputy Director - as executive secretary.
(3)     (a) If owing to illness or any other cause
whatsoever the chairman is unable to perform
his function, the Council shall elect among
the members an acting Chainman who shall
exercise the powers and perform the duties of
the chairman under this Act;
(b) If owing to illness or any other cause
whatsoever the executive secretary is unable
to perform his function, the Council shall
elect among the members an acting executive
secretary who shall exercise the powers and
perform the duties of the executive secretary
under this Act.
(4)     The members of the Scientific Council referred
to in paragraph (i) of sub-section (2) shall be appointed
from among agriculturists having the capacity, in the
opinion of the Minister, to contribute to the due and
proper functioning of the Scientific Council.
(5)     Every member of the Scientific Council shall,
unless he sooner resigns from his office or his appoint-
ment revoked or his office otherwise becomes vacant,
hold office for such period as may be specified,-in his
letter of appointment and shall be eligible for reappoint-
ment.
9.        Without prejudice to sub-section (1) of section
8, the Scientific Council shall have, in addition, the
following functions -
(a) to advise on the formulation of and review
the research programmes of the Institute;



AiNEX 1
Appendix 1
Page 7
(b) to advise on priorities for the research
and development programmes of the Institute
to ensure maximum quality and effectiveness;
(c) to maintain liaison with external organiza-
tions, both in the public and private sectors,
and to maintain contact with agricultural
research needs;
(d) to furnish guidance in the development or
research facilities including the selection
of locations and laboratory facilities and
supervision of major items of specialised
equipments;
(e) to advise on the procedures for the evaluation
of capability and performance of the profes-
sional staff appointed under this Act,
including promotions on professional merit;
(f) to advise on the library documentation
services and publications of the Institute.
10.       The Scientific Council shall meet at least four
times each year and shall, in addition, meet as and when
convened by the Chairman of the Scientific Council or the
Executive Secretary.
11.       A decision of the Scientific Council shall be
decided by the majority of votes of the members present
and voting.
12.       Records of the proceedings of all meetings of
the Scientific Council shall be kept by the Institute and
copies thereof shall be submitted to the Board.
13.       Subject to the provisions of this Act and any
rules made thereunder, the Scientific Council may determine
its own procedure.
PART V
THE FUND AND ACCOUNTS
14.       For the purposes of this Act there shall be
established the Malaysian Agricultural Research and
Development Fund (hereinafter referred to as the "Fund")



ANINLX 1
Appendix 1
Page 8
to be administered by the Board in accordance with the
provisions of this Act -
(a) into which shall be paid any special cesses
which may be imposed or collected in accor-
dance with section 20;
(b) into which shall be paid any grants made to
to Institute by the Federal or any State
government;
(c) into which shall be paid any monies from any
sources, contributions, endowments, gifts or
bequests as may be made to or in favour of the
Institute;
(d) from which shall be defrayed all expenditure
relating to the administration of the Institute,
the Board and the Scientific Council and such
other expenditure as may be paid in accordance
with the provisions of this Act.
15.(1)    The Board shall cause true and proper account of
the Fund to be kept and shall, as soon as possible after
the 31st December of each year, and not later than 30th
June, issue a report of the Fund together with a balance
sheet and an account of income and expenditure during the
preceding year, calculated from the 1st January or from the
date of the inception of the Fund to the 31st December, and
a list of the investment (if any) of the fund showing their
cost prices and value at such last mentioned date.
(2)    The annual balance sheet, income and expenditure
and list of investments (if any) of the Jund shall, prior
to the issue thereof, be audited by such auditor or auditors
as the Board may with the concurrence of the Minister of
Finance appoint.
16.       The Board shall within three months from the close
of its financial year -
(a) transmit to the Hinister and the M4inister
of Finance each a copy of the annual accounts
certified by the auditor and such accounts
shall then be published in the Gazette;



ANNEX 1
Appendix 1
Page 9
(b) transmit to the Mlinister and the Minister of
Finance a report each by the Board on the
activities of the Institute throughout the
year and such report shall be published by
the Board.
17.       The Annual Accounts and Annual Report aforesaid
shall, as soon as may be, be laid before both Houses of
Parliament.
PART VI
SUPPLEMENTAL
18.       The Board may, subject to the approval of the Minister
of Finance, from time to time borrow or secure the payment of
any money required by it for the proper carrying out of its func-
tions under this Act.
19.       The assets of the Institute may be invested by the
Board in investments for the time being authorised by law for
the investment of trust fund:
Provided that the Board shall not make any investment in
securities issued or registered or other properties situated
outside Malaysia except with the approval of the MIinister of
Finance.
20.       Notwithstanding any written law relating to the
imports and exports of agricultural products, the HIinister of
Finance may, for the purposes of this Act, and after consultation
with the Minister impose special cesses on such agricultural
products as he may think fit for the purposes of agricultural
research.
21.       The Board shall be exempt from the payment of stamp
duty under any written law for the time being in force relat-
ing to stamp duties.
22.       No member of the Board or of the Scientific Council
shall incur any personal liability for any loans or damage
caused by any act or omission in the management or conduct of
the affairs of the Institute, the Board of the Scientific
Council, unless such loss or damage is occasioned by an inten-
tionally wrongful act or omission on his part.



ANNEX 1
Appendix 1
Page 10
23.       Notwithstanding the financial source as a result of
which any research is carried out or any programme is under-
taken in accordance with the provisions of this Act, tne
results of such research or programme shall be in the public
domain.
24.       The Minister may from time to time issue general
directions to the Board not inconsistent with the provisions
of this Act; and the Board shall give effect to sucil direc-
tions.
25.       The Board may, with the approval of the Minister,
and in respect of (a) and (b) subject to the concurrence of
the Minister of Finance make rules for all or any of the
the following matters -
(a) the determination of salary scales and terms
and conditions of employment of the officers
and servants of the Institute, including the
provisions of loans to such officers aid
servants;
(b) the establishment and management of a contri-
butory provident fund for the officers and
servants of the Institute or for payment of
pensions, allowances or gratuities to the
said officers and servants on retirement or
otherwise ceasing to hold office;
(c) the principles and procedures with respect
to appointments, promotions and termination
of appointments in the Institute, exclusive
of the Director and Deputy Directors;
(d) the principles and procedures for the evalua-
tion of capability and performance of the
professional staff of the Institute; and
(e) any other matter which may be prescribed under
this Act.
SCHEDULE
(Section 6)
1.        The Board shall meet at least four times each year
and shall, in addition, meet as and when convened by the
Chairman.



ANNEX 1
Appendix 1
Page 11
2.        Four members present shall be a quorum at any
meeting of the Board.
3.        Minutes shall be kept of all proceedings of the
Board and copies thereof shall be submitted to the Minister.
4.        The seal of the Board shall be authenticated by the
Chairman, or other member acting as Chairman, and one other
member of the Board, and any document purporting to be sealed
with the said seal, authenticated as aforesaid, shall until
the contrary is shown, be deemed to have been validly exe-
cuted.
5.        Subject to this Act the Board shall determine its
own procedure.
6.        The Board may appoint any Committee or Committees
as it thinks fit.
7.        The Board may require any person to submit informa-
tion which, in the opinion of the Board is necessary for the
discharge of its functions under this Act.
April, 1975



ANNEX 1
Appendix 2
MALAYSIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
List of Research Centers and Field Stations!/
I.   MARDI Research Centers and Field Stations
1.   Alor Setar - Rice & Sugarcane
2.   Bumbong Lima/Bertan Estate - Rice & Field Crops
3.   Kuala Kangsar - Fruits
4.   Parit - Rice
5.   Hilir Perak - Cocoa & Coconut
6.   Tanjong Karang - Rice & Field Crops
7.   Jalan Kebun - Pineapples & Peat Soils
8.   Serdang - Headquarters - Oil palm, fruits, livestock, field
crops, and vegetables
9.   Batu Berendam - Freshwater fish
10.   Kluang - Oil palm, pastures, pepper & fruits
11.   Alor Bukit - Pineapples
12.   Bukit Ridan - Fruits and Livestock
13.   Sungei Baging - Bris soils
14.   Cameron Highlands - Vegetables
15. Jerangau - Oil palm, Cocoa and Fruits
16.   Lundang - Rice, tobacco & field crops
,II. Agricultural Products Utilization (Food Technology) Research Centers
17.   Serdang - Headquarters - Processing, Engineering, Nutrition,
Quality Control, Sanitation, Packaging, Chemistry, Microbiology
and General Food Technology
18.   Alor Setar - Rice Processing
19.   Johore Bahru - Fruit and Vegetable Processing
20.   Kuala Trengganu - Fish Processing
21.   Mergong - Poultry, eggs and meat Processing
22.   Kuala Kangsar - Proposed Fruit and Vegetable Processing Station
1/   Refer to map at end of report.
January, 1975



ANNEX 2
Page 1
MALAYSIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
MARDI - Research Program for Rice
A. Introduction
1.        Rice is the staple food of Malaysia.  While self-sufficiency in
rice production is being approached, this elusive target has not yet been
reached. Almost all rice in i-lalaysia is produced by smallholders who,
even within smallholders' sector, comprise the poorest segment. The rice
industry therefore warrants, on economic as well as social grounds, a
strong research effort if Government policies directed at self-sufficiency
and social equity are to be attained.
2.        The Northern Research Center at Bumbong Lima is nlow and will con-
tinue to be the headquarters site for the Rice Research Program. This loca-
tion choice was based on: (i) the presence of existing facilities and 35
acres of land for effective rice research; (ii) the importance of the area
for commercial rice production, and (iii) its central location in respect
to otner rice research stations at Alor Star, Lundang, Parit, Tanjong Karang
and Kota Bharu (see also para 4), and the MUDA Irrigation Scheme. It is also
convenient in location to two major cities (Penang and Butterworth) which
have ready communications by air, rail and paved roads and provides essen-
tial services to the research staff.
3.        MARDI's headquarters at Serdang will provide support for the
coordinated national rice Program in analytical, computer, and service
functions which would not be duplicated in the Bumbong Lima. The Bumbong
Lima station is located close to the Bertam Estate, which has recently
been acquired by MARDI for field crops and additional rice research.
Strengthening Bumbong Lima and staffing Bertam Estate will also be a
part of the field crops research and agricultural engineering and water
management proposals.
4.        Five other MARDI research stations are involved in rice breeding
and selection, crop husbandry, plant physiology and nutrition, crop pro-
tection, seed increase, water management and agricultural engineering
(para 10 shows locations and functions of these stations).
P-resent Status of Rice Research
5.        Current research activities of the HARDI rice researcli unit are:



ANNEX 2
Page 2
(a) Selection and breeding improved high-yielding rice
varieties with early maturity, disease resistance,
and improved milling and cooking qualities;
(b) Screening parental and progeny lines for resistance
to the major diseases as well as developing crop
protection practices to control diseases;
(c) Physiological studies on the growth components
affecting high yields i.e., the control of lodging
in rice, factors of plant spacing, water require-
ment and effect of climatic factors on yield;
(d) Rice nutrition studies and trials, including fer-
tilizer practices (time and method of fertilizer
application), as they influence the growth, disease
incidence, yield and quality of rice;
(e) Crop husbandry concerned with nursery practices,
planting densities, depth of planting, age of
seedlings, plant-soil-water interactions, water
management, crop harvest in relation to qual-
ity; and
(f) Crop protection against such diseases as bacterial
leaf blight, leaf streak, blase, brown spot, and
insect pests such as hoppers and stem borers.
6.        Considerable progress has been achieved in the above activities.
Local and introduced rice varieties, principally from the International
Rice Research Institute (IRRI) such as IR-8, IR-20, IR-24, from the
Philippines, C4-63 and C4-636 and RD1 and RD3 from Thailand, have been
used for hybridization. A variety, derived from CR-63 or parentage
(Peta x BP1-76) produced in the Philippines has good local adaptability and
will be released for commercial planting in 1974. A glutinous line, Pulut
(Setera x 1R-8) 1/ has shown promise with yields of more than 5,000 pounds
per acre at several locations. This line shows excellent adaptability,
desirable plant characteristics and possessing rice quality considered
excellent for consumer acceptance. The fact that several promising lines
are also in the advanced stages of testing and demonstration indicates the
activity and degree of success of the on-going rice researCh program.
7.        Crop husbandry research, including work on rice nutrition and
physiology, rotational and multiple-cropping with rice, management of water
and drainage, new methods of stand establishment, weed control, harvesting,
1/   The highest yielding (glutinous) variety tested in 1972/73.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
threshing and drying have been limited by manpower and equipment resources.
Some investigation on direct seeding, fertilizer responsiveness, liming
acid sulfate soils, time and method of nitrogen application, nitrogen spacing
trials and water management have been conducted but this research is not very
far advanced. The inclusion in the project of a Agricultural Engineering
and Water Management Research Program will strengthen work on these problems.
8.        Double-cropping or rotation-cropping of rice has become a reality
in several large areas of West Malaysia due to improved irrigation, drainage
and water control. This provides a highly practical means of crop diversi-
fication not heretofore available in Malaysia. Multiple-cropping involving
rice fully utilize the land and water resources. A whole new technology
involving rotational and multiple-cropping, methods of land preparation,
stand establishment, fertilization, water management, pest control, har-
vesting, threshing and drying the paddy is required to utilize fully the
land and water resources. It is expected that this will become a major
activity in close collaboration with the Agricultural Engineering and
Water Management Research Program.
B. The Research Program on Rice
9.        The Project would strengthen the Rice Research Program as a
whole and the Headquarters Research Center at Bumbong Lima in particular.
The research at this center would emphasize production-oriented research on
rice, crop rotations and multi-cropping. The rice research program would
continue the use of existing MARDI research stations to complement research
at the central facility and provide a variety of agroclimes for adaptive
testing.
10.       The principal research sites involved in the program and their
respective functions will be as follows:
Locality                                       Function
Rice Research Center      1.  Central coordination for national multi-
Bumbong Lima                  disciplinary rice research program.
2. Multi-disciplinary staff headquarters
for production-oriented rice research.
3. Land, greenhouses, laboratories and
supporting research facilities.
4. Information and training center for
research, extension and development
staff and agencies.



ANNEX 2
Page 4
Field Research Stations
Tanjong Karang            1.  Adaptive trials of promising
varieties.
Parit                     2.  Seed increase for fundation stocks
Lundang                   3.  Field trials on crop husbandry as
affected by soil type and agro-
climatic conditions.
Alor Star                 4.  Paddy mechanization, including field
preparation, planting, fertilization,
pest control, harvesting and drying.
Kota Bharu                5.  Paddy mechanization, including field'
preparation, planting, fertilization,
pest control, harvesting and drying.
6. Water and drainage investigations.
7. Multi-cropping - rotation research.
8. Regional extension activities
appropriately coordinated with
national and state agencies.
ll.       The main focus of rice research would be on:
(a) Breeding and selection for high yield plant type,
disease and pest resistence, non-photoperiod sensi-
tivity and short maturation.
(b) Breeding and selection for improved quality, in-
cluding grain length, translucence, vitreous appear-
ance without chalkiness, medium amylase content and
gelatinization temperature.
(c) Crop physiology studies designed to assist the plant
breeder in the identification of plant types for high
yield, the physiology and identification of factors
controlling yield, spacing x variety x fertilizer
interactions, seedling quality and performance, sea-
sonal and environmental effects on crop growth and
yield.
(d) Fertilizer rate and application studies designed to
identify the nutritional requirements or rice on



ANNEX 2
Page 5
typical paddy soils, the effect of time and method
of application; acid sulfate amelioration for paddy
production, and the correlation of soil and plant
tissue tests with crop response to fertilizer.
(e) Crop husbandry, especially nursery preparation, plant
spacing, soil-plant-water relations, alternative methods
of stand establishment, weed and pest control, water
requirements and water management.
(f) Crop protection, involving cooperation with agricul-
tural engineers and with plant breeders in screening
for resistance to the major diseases, such as bacte-
rial leaf blight, bacterial leaf streak, blast, brown
spot, sheath blight stem borer, leafhopper; develop-
ment of screening techniques; disease etiology, host-
parasite relationships, crop losses and evaluation of
chemical control methods.
(g) Rotational and multiple-cropping patterns for dif-
ferent rice soils where water supplies and drainage
can be controlled. Identification of upland field
and vegetable crops which can be grown in rotation
or in multi-cropping with rice. This work involves
studies of managing puddled rice soils in cooperation
with agricultural engineering and water management.
Rotational cropping work done in collaboration with
the field crop unit.
(h) Rodent control in cultivated paddy fields and in rice
storage to eliminate plant damage and crop loss.
(i) Studies of the economics of paddy production and var-
ious husbandry practices; evaluation of multiple-crop-
ping systems.
(j) Accumulation, preparation and dissemination of rice
production subject matter to Federal, State and other
agencies concerned with the production of rice.
C. Local Staff
12.       Under the Project MARDI would expand the number of graduate
staff engaged in the research from the present 17 to 32. This would involve
.erticularly strengthening staff for the crop husbandry, plant nutrition,
disease and pest resistance and control work, so that the new varieties
coming from the breeding program could receive adequate evaluation and be
brought quickly into practical use. The expanded team would also place



ANNEX 2
Page 6
increased emphasis on multiple and rotation cropping and would collaborate
closely in these studies with the Field Crops Program.
D. Internationally Recruited Scientists
13.       It is proposed that the Project provide 14 man years of expatriate
scientists to work with MARDI staff. A senior scientist with experience in
rice breeding or rice agronomy would be recruited for five man years to
assist in planning and developing the Program. Scientists to work on weed
control, and crop rotation would each be recruited for three years. They
would also make their experience available to assist the Field Crops Program.
In addition, three man years would be provided for short term assignments to
cover specific problems arising during the course of research; this would
also include a contribution to the cost of funding the Program Specialist
Post assigned to the Deputy Director for Research Programs. The details
of costs shown in Table 2.1 indicate an expenditure of $840,000 for these
expatriate scientists. The Project would also seek to strengthen linkage
with the International Rice Research Institute (IRRI) for both technical
assistance and training.
E. Fellowship and Training
14.       Post graduate training for staff would be an important part of
the Project. It is proposed to allocate 43 man years of post graduate
training time to the Rice Program - this would be sufficient to train eight
staff to PhD level and another eight to MSc level. In addition three man
years would be allocated for short term training fellowships at leading rice
research institutions. The cost details shown in Table 2.1 indicate an ex-
penditure of some $619,200 for these fellowships during the 6 year project
period.
F. Land, Buildings, Equipment and Materials
Land and Buildings
15.       Existing MARDI stations provide all the land required for the
research program, but some additional laboratory buildings will be needed
at Bumbong Lima, and at the experimental stations at Alor Setar, in Kedah
and Palundang in Kelantan.
Equipment and Materials
16.       Field, farm and laboratory equipment; together with consumables for
research work (such as chemicals and glassware), fertilizers and pesticides
would be provided under the Project. The total expenditure for these items
would be US$569,000 including buildings during the 6 year project period.



ANNEX 2
Page 7
G. Organization and Management
17.       The Rice Research Program will be led by a Senior Scientist (Pro-
gram Coordinator), under the supervision of the Assistant Director for Pro-
duction Research.
18.       There will be a particular need for close collaboration with the
other Programs in MARDI. The desirable contact and collaboration would be
facilitated by the establishment of Research Committees and would be aug-
mented by the Program Specialist.
19.       It is important that effective collaboration be established between
the MARDI rice research program and all irrigation schemes, such as MUDA. At
present MUDA personnel lack appreciation of the contribution which M4ARDI re-
search can make to improving rice yields and solving some of the long term
problems facing in this major rice growing area, Closer consultation between
MARDI and the MUDA personnel could help to define the nature and extent of
problems, and to focus MARDI's work on the most important problems.
20.       The internationally recruited experts working in the rice program
would be able to make a valuable contribution to the planning and development
of the expanded activities. They will pursue active research programs and
not act solely as advisors. This is important because the research strength
of the Program would be considerably reduced by the absence of MARDI staff
on post-graduate training.
R. Cost Estimates
21.       Estimates of costs for all goods and services for the Rice Research
Program are shown in Table 2.1.
April, 1975



MALAYSIA
AGRICULCURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
RICE RESEARCH PROGRAM
Cost Estimates - US$ c 1000 Equivalent
TEHS                                                 Year 1                   Year 2                    Year 3                Year 4                     Year 5                   Year 6                    Years  I - 6
Loana       Forelgn      Local       ForEigo      Local       ForeEgn      Loac,       Foreign      Local       F.reiga      Local       Foreign        Local       Foreign       Total
I - SERVICES
1. ESpotriate Specialiata
Senior Plantbreeder/Agrono-mit, 5 MY               9.0         51.0         9.0         51.0         9.0         51.0         9.0          51.0        9.0         51.0                                   45.0        255.0       300.0
Crop Husbandry Specialist, 3 MY                    9.0         51.0         9.0         51.0         9.0         51.0                                                                                     45.0        153.0       300.0
Cropping Systems Spcislist, 3 MY                 9.0          51.0         9.0         51.0                                                                                                              27.0        153.0       190.0
Shortterm Consultanciet, 3 19Y                     4.5         25.5         4.5         25.5         4.5         25 5         4.5          25.5       4.5          25.5        4.5         25.5           27.0        153.0      10.0
2. Fellowshipa
Staff Fellowahipa, 43 MY                           0          103.2         0          103.2         0          103.2         0           103.2       0           103.2        0           103.2          0           619.2       619.2
Subtotal I - ISRVICES                               31.5        281.7        31.5        291.7        31.5        281.7       13.5          179.7      13.5         179.7       4.5          129.7         126.0       1333.2      1459.2
II - GGODS
S. iuildings
Nuhbo!lg Lipa
Inaect Proof Hoona (3) Insectory (1)
Animal ilous  (1)                                 16.2          8.1        16.2         8.1                                                                                                                32.4        16.2         48.6
Plant hou.e  (9)                                  36.7         18.3        36.8        18.4                                                                                                               73.5        36.7        110.2
Eateneion of eoiuting laboratory                  12.8          6.4        12.8         6.4                                                                                                               25.6         12.8         38.4
Alor Star
Regional Laboratory                                7.1          3.5         7.2         3.6                                                                                                                14.3         7.1        21.4
Palandana
Regional Laboratory                                7.1          3.5         7.2         3.6                                                                                                                14.3         7.1        21.4
In-set Proof Hou.e                                4.3           2.1         4.3         2.2                                                                                                                8.6         4.3        12.9
Plant Ho.s. (1) Plant House for
Photoperiodir studies (1)                          6.8          3,4         6.8         3.4                                                                                                                13.6         6.8        20.4
2- Fertfli.etu
Urea, 240 tlons @  $ 700/trn                       1.1         11.4         1.1        11.4          1.1         11.4         1.1          11.4       1.1          11.4        1.1         11.4            6.6        68.4        75.0
Phoaphate, 48 tons @ MS 500/tan                   0.2           1.6         0.2         1.6          0.2          1.6         0.2           1.6       0.2           1.6        0.2          1.6            1.2         9.6        10.8
Potash, 30 tone @ MS 400/ton                      0.1           0.8         0.1         0.8          0.1          18.         0.1           0.8       0.1           0.8        0.1         r0.8            0.6         4.8          5.4
Miscollnaneoa  p-sticidec, ehemicala               0            1.0         0           1.0          0            1.0         Ge.      7     .o       0             1.0   t     .           1.0            0           6.0         6.0
3. Resean.h Equipnent
Rice Program
Rire Separator and sorter (1)                     0            10.2                                                                                                                                                  10.2        10.2
Elect-onic grain ce.nter (1)
res.each siscroscope (1) pearler (1)
spectrophotoomter (1) ge,,inantng
cabinet (1) debhuidifier (1)
precision  balance (1)                            0             6.3         0           6.3                                                                                                                0          12.6        12.6
Other roaearch and laboratcry eqaipmset            0           17.6                    17.6                                                                                                                0          35.2        35.2
shemi-cal, glaseware, cosua,blea                 0             8.1         0           8.1          0            8.1         0             8.1       0             8.1        0            8.1            0          48.6        48.6
Crop Yrotection Psoeran
Growth chaster with humidtty control               0            8.1                                                                                                                                        0           8.1         8.1
Wnteestill (3) .centr1fge (1) Colony
counter (1) colourimeter (2)
lighttrap with as.c.Ei pump (2) micra-
manipulator (net)                                  0 O         15.0         0                                                                                                                              o          15.0       15.0
Other laboratory and reeareb eqauipsent           0            12.5                                                                                                                                        0          12.5       12.5
Reaearbh microacopes (3) Zoom
ateneoncoprn and accesaoriea                      0             8.0                                                                                                                                        0           9.0        8.0
Chemicols, glasawara, consua. blea                0             8.1        0           8.1           0            8.1         0             8.1       0             8.1        0            8,1            0          48.6       48.6
Subtotal  11 - GOOD                               92.4         154.0       92.7         100.6       1.4           31.0        1.4           31.0      1.4           31.0       1.4          31.0          190.7       378.6      569.3
RICE RESEARGH PROGRAM - TOTAL                       123.9         435.7      124.2        382.3       32.9          312.7       14.9          210.7    14.9           210.7       1.9         119.7          316.7      1311.8    2028.5
Aptil 3, 1975



ANNEX 3
Page 1
MALAYSIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
MARDI - Research Program for Field Crops
A. Introduction
1.        GOM has emphasized the development of field crops (other than rice)
as a major priority in the agricultural sector. Although these field crops,
except cassava and groundnuts, are now of minor importance in Malaysian agri-
cultural production, their products form a substantial proportion of imports
already, and internal demand is steadily rising, especially for livestock
feeds. In this context principal crops warranting research are soybeans and
certain other feed legumes, cassava, maize and sorghum. Although most of
these crops are grown in Malaysia, yields are low and there is a need for
research on improved varieties and cultural methods. In particular, studies
are needed for cultivation of these crops under Maylsian small farmer condi-
tions.
2.        It has been decided to explore the prospects for large-scale pro-
duction of these crops through research and development by the creation of
a Research Program in Field Crops to be headquartered on the new Northern
Research Center at Bertam, close to the existing well-developed rice research
center at Bumbong Lima.
3.        Bertam requires extensive development before it can be used for
field crops research. Until this development is sufficiently advanced,
MARDI's headquarters station at Serdang would continue to serve as the
field crops research center. A number of research field stations would
be required to cover the major agroclimatic and soils regions of Malaysia.
After the main base for the Program is transferred to Bertam, the stations
which would be used as field trial stations are:
(a) Jalan Kebun - peat soils of the west coast
(b) Serdang - rolling upland soils of the west central area
(c) Kota Bharu - alluvial soils of the north-east coast
(d) Two or three other stations in eastern and southern
Peninsular Malaysia.



ANNEX 3
Page 2
Also, because maize and sorghum are normally grown in much drier climates than
those of West Malaysia, consideration must be given to testing these materials
in Sabah where some areas are drier than West Malaysia.
Status of Research and Knowledge
4.        Agro-climatically, considerable areas of Malaysia appear to be suited
to the production of field crops. Climatic problems with field crops are
more likely to be associated with excessively wet and humid conditions than
with dry weather - e.g., problems of land preparation, erosion, fungal disease,
and grain harvesting.
5.        Soils in Malaysia range from heavy clay alluvium to coarse sand in
texture, and have varying capacities to supply nutrients. It is likely that
a considerable amount of applied nitrogen will be needed in most soils in
order to obtain acceptable yields of non-leguminous crops. Since legumes
can build up nitrogen levels in the soil for the benefit of subsequent crops,
the economic value of legumes is accentuated by the recent large rise in
the cost of nitrogen fertilizer, and the likelihood of supply shortages.
Phosphorus is almost universally required for good crop growth, lime may be
needed on the more acid soils, and certain minor elements will probably be
required on some soils (e.g. copper on peat soils). Soil fertility research
will be needed to establish crop fertilizer needs in the various soil-climate
environments.
6.        Apart from cassava and groundnuts, field crops to be studied are
virtually untried in the Malaysian environment and any research program is
therefore of an exploratory nature. This places major emphasis in the early
stages of research on assembling ecotypes for testing in Malaysia, with par-
ticular attention to collecting and evaluating material from other humid-near
equatorial regions.
7.        Little information is available on varietal performance and fertilizer
response of maize in Malaysia. The principal variety presently being grown
is a "local flint" of unknown origin with a low yield potential (around 2,000
lbs/acre). The syntehtic variety "Metro" was introduced some 10 years ago from
Indonesia, and has yielded up to 6,000 lbs/acre albeit under favorable con-
ditions.  A recent study (Wong, 1973) indicated that "Metro" as now grown in
Malaysia is highly variable in performance and should be reselected to increase
yield. Fertilizer trials in Trengganu State (Lim, 1973) showed response to
lime, nitrogen and phosphate but not to potassium. Yields of "Metro" in these
trials exceeded 4,000 lbs/acre on the best soils but were on the order of
2,000 - 2,500 lbs/acre on a heavier soil series. Some trials of hybrids and
varieties from South Africa, Australia and India were attempted a few years ago,
with one Australian hybrid showing good performance. Very recently, a large
collection of "tropical" varieties and hybrids was provided to MARDI by a com-
mercial starch processing company, and this material is being evaluated at
Serdang.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
8.        Maize research in many other countries has progressed to a very high
degree in the past 30 years. High-yielding selections and hybrids now are
available in most of the major maize-producing countries of the world, although
plant breeding success has been less marked in tropical areas than in tem-
perate zone countries. Some high-yielding commercial hybrids are being grown
in equatorial America, but it is not known how well this material would
thrive in Malaysia. -
9.        Sorghum has recently been introduced to Malaysia, and has given
higher yields than maize.  The most promising type is a medium-height hybrid
introduced from India. Yields of over 4,000 lbs/acre have been obtained in
several trials, including rotational trials on coastal peat soils at MARDI's
Jalan Kebun station. Sorghum responds to nitrogen and phosphate' applications,
and copper is required for it to develop properly on the peat soils. No plant
breeding work has been done with sorghum in Malaysia, and the eventual place
of the crop in Malaysian agriculture has yet to be determined.
10.       Breeding techniques employed for sorghum in the United States, Europe,
Argentina, Brazil and India depend chiefly on the production of hybrids.
Yields up to 8,000 lbs/acre have been produced, but the adaptation of that
type of material, particularly its peformance under wet and humid equatorial
condition, is not known. Generally, sorghums require a substantial period
of dry weather for proper grain maturity, and are often subject to severe
damage by birds.
11.       Although only limited work has been done in Malaysia with soybeans,
plot yields of up to 2,500 lbs/acre have been obtained in field trials by the
RRIM. Some material has recently been obtained by MARDI from the International
Soybean Research Program (INTSOY) at Illinois. The need for adequate Rhizobium
inoculation hs been demonstrated (Rajaratnam, 1973), but commercial cultures
of Rhizobium are not presently available.
12.       In recent studies with soybeans in Nigeria and Ecuador, yields ex-
ceeding 3,500 lbs/acre have been attained with some varieties, Effective
Rhizobium inoculation, ample supply of available phosphorus, and high plant
populations were required for high yields in these areas.
13.       Little research has been conducted in Malaysia on tihe otner food
legume species - groundnuts, mungbeans, and cowpeas. MARDI's research workers
are aware of the international research linkages available for development of
studies in these species (ICRISAT - India for groundnuts, IITA - Nigeria for
cowpeas, and AVDRC - Taiwan for mungbeans).
14.       Malaysia has conducted research on cassava for some time, and MARDI
could rapidly develop its research on this crop.  Internat-:onal linkages are
possible with CIAT (Colombia) and the Central Research Ins Litute of Agriculture
(Indonesia) where significant research on cassava is underway.



ANNEX 3
Page 4
B. The Research Program on Field Crops
Description
15.       The following group of field crops, whose products are used in
Malaysia for human and animal food would form the core of the field crop
research program:
(a) Grain legumes - groundnuts, soybeans, mungbeans
and cowpeas, and other grain legumes.
(b) Root crops - cassava (tapioca), and other root
crops; and
(c) Coarse grains - maize and sotghum.
16.       Under the Project, MARDI would undertake research on all these
crops in a Field Crops Research Program, with appropriate sub-units for
individual crops or groups of crops. The Program would involve an inter-
disciplinary research team based at the Bertam Station. Other field stations
of MARDI would also be utilized for field research and trials of these crops
in the major agro-climatic areas where there are good prospects of their
successful use. Emphasis would be placed on grain legumes.
Research Program - General Review
17.       The major initial objective of the program would be to establish
the broadest germplasm base through plant introduction and to determine
cultural requirements for the most profitable yields of soybean, groundnuts,
other food legumes, cassava, other root crops, maize and sorghum under
Malaysian conditions. It is most likely that germplasm and production tech-
niques to achieve high yields in all of these crops are available from other
areas of the tropical world, but require evaluation and probably modification
to fit Malaysian agricultural conditions.
18.       The Program would concentrate on the development of crop varieties
and production techniques capable of high and sustained yields under Malaysia
field conditions. This will involve attention to yield, maturity, product
quality, resistance to disease and insect attack and tolerance to climatic
hazards. Promising introductions or varietal selections would be multiplied
and tested in coordinated trials at the headquarters and branch field sta-
tions. They would be evaluated for yield, nutrient response, maturity,
adaptability to cropping systems, and resistance to diseases, insects, mam-
malian pests (particularly rodents) and environmental hazards. Since the
introduction of several of these crops in the Malaysian environment is
exploratory, a major effort in plant breeding would not be justified until
a representative range of introduction had been properly evaluated and plant



ANNEX 3
Page 5
breeding objectives could be defined. This is particularly true of maize,
sorghum, and of grain legumes such as cowpeas, mung beans and pigeon peas
which are mainly grown in the high latitude tropics and sub-tropics in much
lower rainfall conditions than in Malaysia.
Specific Crop Programs
I.   Food Legumes - Soybeans
19.        Selection and Improvement.  Early improvement work would concen-
trate on the introduction and testing of established varieties and advanced
generation germplasm pools expected to have tropical adaptation. The inter-
national agencies INTSOY - (University of Illinois), IITA (Nigeria) and
AVRDC (Taiwan) are possible sources of such material. Other potential sources
are the University of Queensland (Australia), the Brazilian National Soybean
Project, the USDA-ARS soybean group at Stoneville, Mississippi. However, the
majority of this material does not come from wet near-equatorial regions, and
the collection of soybean ecotypes from those regions should feature in
MARDI's plant exploration program. Once promising material has been selected
or bred it would be multiplied and distributed for verification trials and
farm use. Because of the humid climate, selection for disease resistance
would be particularly important.
Other Food Legumes (Groundnuts, Mungbeans, Cowpeas)
20.       Selection and Improvement.  Breeding systems for these three species
are essentially similar to those for soybeans.
21.       Agronomic Practices:  Except for groundnuts, there is little expe-
rience in Malaysia with growing food legumes. Thus, the basic agronomic
practices best suited to the production of high yields under local conditions
must be established. These studies would include time and methods of sowing,
row spacings, plant populations, cultural practices, rotational sequences,
and intercropping. The program would also include studies at high plant
populations of 150,000 plants or more per acre.
22.       Soil Fertility and Plant Nutrition:  Studies of crop response
to various fertilizer treatments, on different soil types, would be the major
object of this research. Nitrogen fertilizer application would be confined
to limit amounts of "starter" nitrogen provided that effective Rhizobium
inoculation is applied. Requirements for phosphorus are usually substantial,
and minor elements may be a problem on some soils. Soil PH studies and
practical means for correcting soil acidity would be investigated.
23.       Rhizobium Inoculation Studies:  These studies would be an essential
part of the food legume program, since little work has been done to date in
Mal,ysia. These studies would be of an applied nature and include experiments
designed to determine the need for inoculation, the success of different
inoculum strains in the field, inoculation techniques and inoculant prepara-
tion and control.



ANNEX 3
Page 6
24.       Disease, Insect and Weed Control:  Virus diseases are the most
important problem of grain legumes in most tropical and subtropical areas,
and their identification and control would be a primary objective in this
program.  Most of the major virus diseases are insect-vector transmitted,
and close collaboration between plant pathology and entomology is required.
Low resistance in existing germ plams is a problem, but major screening
efforts are underway at several tropical and subtropical research centers
(G. B. Pant University, India; IITA, Nigeria; Port Alegre, Brazil). Weed
control, using herbicides and cultivation, would also be studied particularly
with food legumes. In this work it would be essential to consider the
effects on erosion of any cultivation undertaken for weed control. Resist-
ance to fungal diseases would also be considered in the selection and
breeding program, since many food legumes have marked susceptibility to
fungal diseases under humid conditions.
II. Root Crops
Cassava
25.       Selection and Improvement:  Cassava has been cultivated in Malay-
sia for many years, and at present occupies the largest acreage of any of
the field crops proposed for study under the Project. It is already the
basis of a substantial export industry as well as being an important food
staple in Malaysian diets. The crop is well adapted to the environment
and produces high yields of carbohydrates, and would receive priority in
the field crops research. Only a few varieties are extensively planted,
although many are known in the country. As a first step, all recognizable
varieties found in Malaysia would be collected and established at the central
research site. Promising introductions from Indonesia, Thailand, Brazil and
CIAT (Columbia) would also be obtained. The existing status and promise of
the crop justify special attention to it in MARDI's plant collecting activities.
After preliminary screening for root yield and other desirable characteristics,
the best types would be multiplied for further testing and distribution.
Crossing between desirable types would be undertaken with the aim of developing
superior varieties.
26.       Agronomic Practices:  Trials would be conducted on planting
techniques, plant population and spacing, time and methods of harvesting,
and cropping sequences (including intercropping). These trials would
involve selected varieties and be conducted at locations representing the
major soil situations where cassava is likely to be grown.
27.       Soil Fertility and Plant Nutrition:  Cassava is a root crop with
a long growing period, and differs greatly from grain crops which have much
shorter growing periods. It is therefore likely to exhibit different responses
to soil nutrient supply. Plant nutrition studies should seek to determine



ANNEX 3
Page 7
the quantity of nutrients removed by the crop, fertilizer response on different
soils, including times and rates of application, varietal differences in
fertilizer response, and appropriate indicators of nutrient deficiency.
28.       Diseases and Pest Control:  Cassava is considered to be relatively
free from serious disease and pest attack. However, plant diseases are
a problem in some areas, and research would be required to determine if
more intensive cultivation of cassava, or changes brought about by plant
breeding, are likely to lead to increased disease or pest hazards.
III. Coarse Grains
Maize
29.       Under the Project collection of maize varieties and ecotypes from.
overseas would be made, concentrating Gn near-equatorial, high rainfall
localities. Only after all this material had been thoroughly appraised
would a decision be taken on the breeding material and breeding system to
be selected. Because of the technical difficulties with hybrids, they would
need to show large potential advantages to justify a decision in their favour.
Constraints on plant and grain type should not be brought into the program
too early, as they may introduce unwarranted yield limitations.
30.       Agronomic Practices:  A thorough review would be made of the best
available agronomic practices for production of high maize yields under
tropical conditions. Following this review, field work would be concentrated
on the major soil types and rainfall zones of Malaysia, to determine the
most appropriate practices for cultivation, planting time, seeding rates,
spacing, crop sequence and timing of harvest. For these agronomic studies,
selections with high yield potential would be used, together with appropriate
crop protection and fertilizer regimes.
31.       Soil Fertility and Plant Nutrition:  Research on soil fertility and
plant nutrition would concentrate on fertility requirements for the best
economic yields on specific soil types and cropping patterns under Malaysian
conditions. Other nutrient elements and lime may be required, especially on
"iproblem" soils such as peats or sandy loams. Fertility research would be
conducted in association with agronomic and varietal studies, to ensure
that the findings are applicable to Malaysian farming conditions.
32.       Disease, Insect, Pest and Weed Control:  Maize in the tropics is
subject to several serious disease and insect pests, and in some instances
to mammalian pest damage. Also weeds can be a serious problem, especially
in the young crop stages. In the proposed program diseases associated with
humid conditions such as mildew and stalk rot may present special difficulties,
while stalk borers are already known to be a problem.



ANNEX 3
Page 8
Sorghum
33.       Selection and Improvement:  Most of the recent research in sorghum
breeding and production techniques has been done in the USA. Some application
of this work to tropical environments has been undertaken in India and a few
other countries, but much of this work has been in areas much drier than
those where the crop would be grown in Malaysia. While sufficient research
evidence is available to indicate that this crop can produce high yields
under a wide range of environmental conditions, there is little information
on the crop in the wet equatorial tropics.
34.       Selection and Improvement:  No material selected for Malaysian
conditions is available. The introduction of sorghum ecotypes from similar
climatic areas would be an important aspect of MARDI's plant exploration
work.
35.       Agronomic Practices, Soil Fertility and Nutrition.  The objective
of research on cultural practices would be similar to those for maize, with
the addition of trials on ratooning.
36.       Disease, Insect and Pest Control.  Except for stalk borers and
downy mildew, the range of disease, insect and other pests affecting sorghum
differs from those attacking maize. Leaf diseases and fungal attack on
maturing heads may be a problem in humid conditions. Bird damage to the
ripening grain is particularly severe when isolated fields of sorghum are
grown, and is much more serious in short-glumed, white or yellow seeded types.
Resistance to loss from these pests and diseases would be important objectives
in any breeding program.
Seed Production, Processing and Storage
37.       A program for the multiplication of seed of new cultivars of
field crops selected in the evaluation and breeding programs would be a
part of the Project. The creation of a seeds sub-unit would ensure that
this important activity receive proper attention. Studies would also include
time of sowing in relation to seasonal conditions, maintenance of purity, and
the most effective agronomic practices to ensure high yields of good quality
seed. The sub-unit would also be responsible for evaluating and prescribing
techniques for seed handling, processing and storage under local conditions.
Collaborative Activities
38.       Because several of these crops are virtually untried in Malaysia,
there is a particular opportunity for the Field Crops Program to profit by
collaborative activity both inside and outside the Institute. This collabora-
tion would be essential both to developing efficient crop production systems
and to establishing profitable farming activity based on the new technology.



ANNEX 3
Page 9
39.       Plant Collection Introduction and Exchange.  MARDI workers are
already in contact with a number of the overseas centres mentioned in the
previous sections viz.
Maize - CIMMYT (Mexico)
Soybeans - INTSOY (Illinois, U.S.A.)
Cowpeas - IITA (Nigeria)
Sorghum and Groundnuts - INCRISAT (India)
Mungbeans - AVRDC (Taiwan)
Cassava - CIAT (Colombia)
Other relevant overseas agencies include the national maize, sorghum and
soybean programs of the USDA (United States), maize and sorghum research of
several European countries, and the national soybean research program of
Brazil.
40.       Reference has been made to the need for MARDI staff to make specific
collections of all the principal crops to be studied by the Field Crops
Research Program, the Coconut Research Program (Annex 5) and the Pineapple
Research Program (Annex 4). The Project would finance a limited number of
2-3 man collecting missions to selected near-equatorial regions. The missions
would obtain major collections of material which would be the basis for
selecting and breeding varieties adaptable for use in Malaysia. The collections
would concentrate on the food legumes (soybeans, groundnuts, and possibly also
cowpeas, pigeon peas, and mung beans), cassava, pineapple, maize and sorghum.
41.       Field losses of farm produce have always been a serious problem
and are further complicated by multiple cropping and resulting wet season
harvest. Thus improvement in post-harvest technology handling, drying,
storage and processing, are becoming increasingly important. Research in
this is essential and would be carried out by the Agricultural Engineering
and Water Management Program in close collaboration with the Field Crops
and Agricultural Products Utilization Programs.
Staffing
42.       The present Field Crops Research Program would require major expan-
sion to handle the program described above. During the Project, the Program
would need to build up its graduate staff from the present total of 11 to 38
graduate scientists.
43.       It is estimated that 22 man-years of expatriate scientists time
would be needed during the formative stages of MARDI's expanded Field Crops
Research Program. One senior scientist with extensive experiece in tropical
upland crop agronomy, preferably with food legume experience, would assist the
Program Coordinator in planning and coordinating the work. He would also
-nerate his own research program. Two other expatriate agronomists would
be needed for the cassava and maize and sorghum research programs and the



ANNEX 3
Page 10
Rhizobium research program. Two other internationally recruited scientists,
one for weed control and the other for multiple cropping with rice would be
shared with the Rice Research Program. The Project would also provide for
9 man-years of short-term consultances time to assist in specific aspects
of the Program as it develops and contribute to the cost of the Program
Specialist assigned to the Deputy Director for Research Programs. The
total cost for the Project of internationally recruited sepcialists would
be US$1,320. Details are provided in Table 3.1. The costs of the plant
collection missions are estimated at $54,000.
Training and Fellowships
44.       Further training of staff would be vital to the successful devel-
opment of the proposed expanded Program. Of the five graduate MARDI staff
working on field crops at present, only one has a post-graduate degree.
Furthermore, it is unlikely that any of local staff to be recruited to the
team would have had post-graduate training. The Project would provide
suitable research officers assigned to the field crops program with over-
seas postgraduate training.   Wherever possible, overseas training programs
would include provision for research on problems relevant to Malaysian agri-
culture. Arrangements for such training with course work at overseas insti-
tutions and field work in Malaysia are currently being negotiated. Adaptive
research training at such international centers as CI MYT, AVRDC, IITA,
ICRISAT, and CIAT under short-term fellowships would also be included.
Land Buildings, Equipment and Materials
45.       The proposed main field crop research center at Bertam hias only
recently been purchased by MARDI and requires land clearing, drainage, some
land levelling, the provision of irrigation facilities, and the construction
of office and research buildings. Total expenditures for land buildings and
materials would be approximately US$900,000 during the project.
Cost Estimates
46.       The estimated cost of all goods and services which would be fi-
nanced for the Field Crops Research Program is shown in Table 3.1.
April, 1975



MALtYS LA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
FIELD CROPS RESEARCH PROGRAM
Cost Eutisates - USS   1000 En-ivaleet
ITEMS                                           Year  I                   Year  2                  Year  3                  Year  4                    Year 5                   Year  6                       Year, I  -  6
Local       Foreign      Local       Foreign      Local       Foreign      Local       Foreign        Local      Foreig,       Local       Foreign          Loc-l       Foreign        Total
1 SERVICES
Senior Scientist, 5 MY                         9.0         51.0         9.0          51.0         9.0         51.0          9.0        51.0           9.0        51.0                                      45.0         255.0         300.0
Meize-Sorghum Agronomist, 4 MY                  9.0         51.0         9.0         51.0         9.0         51.O          9.0        Sl.O                                                                 36.0        204.0         240.0
Rhizobe.  Specialist, 4 MY                     9,0          51.0         9.0         51.0         9.0         51.0          9.0        51.0                                                                 36.0        204.0         240.0
Other and Shsrttern Coneultanta, 9 MY         13.5          76.5        13.5         76.5        135.5           5         13A         I6.s          13.5        76.5         13.5        76.5              81.0        459.0         540.0
lullossuhip., 54 MY                             0          129.6         0          12%46         0          129.6          0         129.6           0         129.6           0         129.6              0          777.6         777.6
Support for Plent Collection Mi.aion in
Africa end South America                     0            9.0         0             9.0        0             9.0          0          9.0            0           9.0          0           9,0              0            54,0          54.0
Subtotal I - Servicea                        40.5         368.1        40.5        368.1        40.5         368.1         40.5      368.1           22.5       266.1        13.5        215.1            196.0       1953.6         2151.6
11 GOODS
1. Buildings
Bertree
Lhbor-tory                                 13.0         5.5          13.0         5.5                                                                                                                   26.0         11.0           37.0
Steres; Fertiliser, Seed,
P.O.L.,Eq.ip.ent                 12.7         5.4          12.8          5.4                                                                                                                  25.5         10.8           36.3
Shops;  Workshop, I.pIee..t.,
Postherve-t work                   10.2         4.4           10.2         4.4                                                                                                                   20.4          8.8          29.7
Staff qo-rtere                              1.7         0.7           1.7         0.7                                                                                                                    3.4          1.4           4.8
Field Labohrtory                            2.6         1,1           2.6         1.1                                                                                                                    5.2          2.2            7.4
Shadeheuse for Rhi-bo-o Research
(Serd.ng)        5.6         2.3           5.6         2.3                                                                                                                   11.2          4.6          15.8
Other building.                             .5.9        2.6           5.9         2.6                                                                                                                   11.8          5.7          17.0
2. . Farn Deve lopent
Land clearing                               5.5         1.4            5.5         1.4         5.5          1.4          5.5         1.4           5.5         1.4                                      27.5           7.0          34.5
Sprinkler irrigation (Bertran)               0          11.6           0          11.6                                                                                                                    0           23.2           23.2
3. Far Eqsip.ent
Meize planters (4) Forklift truck (1)
Cohbine (1) Forage harvester (1)             0          17,0                     17.0                                                                                                                    0            34.0          34.0
Tractors;  45 HF(2,)75 HP (3)                D           8.7                      14.8         0             6.1                                                            0            6.1              0            35.7          35.7
Trnetori.npleoentu                           0          12.7                      12.8                                                                                                                    0           25.5           25.5
Single exle Tractor (2)                      0           3.8                                                                                                                                              0            3.8           3.8
Fumps (9)                                                1.9           0            1.9        0             1.9          0         1.9             0           1.9         0            1.9              0           11.4           11.4
Motorgrader (1)                              0          41.6                                                                                                                                              0           41.6           41.6
Roadr-ller large (1), small (1)              0          40.8                                                                                                                                              0           40.8          6.0.8
Mticellaneous feru equipment                 0           3.6           0            3.6         0            3.6          0          3.6       .   0            3.6         0            3.6              0           21.6           21.6
Spare partn, 157.                            0          19.5           0           7.6         0             1.7         0          0.1             0           0.1         0            1.7              0           30.7          30.7
4. Fertilteers
Urea@ M$ 700/ton                             0.9         8.7            1.2        12.0         1.4         13.6          1.6      16.0             1.6        16.0         1.6         16.0              8.3         82.3           90.6
ph-sphste@  1M  500S/to                      0.1         1.2           0.2          2.0        0.2          .5.5          D.53      2.8             0.3         2.9         0.3          2.8              1.4         14.1           15.5
Pot..h, Lice,  Tr-e. elensents                0.3         2.7           0.3          3.5        0.4          4.2           0.5       4.8             0.5         4.8         0,5          4.8              2.5         24.8           27.3
5. Vehiclea
4 W-drive (1), Truck (1), Van (1)
Trock with crone (1)                    0          67.6                                                                                                                                              0           67.6          67.6
Sloon rar (Bertrtn)                         2.9         4.3                                                                                                                                              2.9         4.3            7.2
6. Re=earrh Equipmet
MeteOrologic1a Eq.ipme.,t (All MARDI
siaties-)               0          16.0          0            16.0                                                                                                                   0          32.0            32.0
Field Crops Re-rtch
Seed bed eq. (1), Soedg-ad-rs (2)
Bagging eq. (NA), Oven (3), Balance (4)
CalcuIators (2)                                      7 9                       7.9                                                                      .      .                                      0           15.8          15.8
Lsafareameter (1I and niecellneus.   eq.   0            4.3           0           4.3                                                                                                                    0            8.6           8.6
Chenicnil; glesawere and Coneuneblen                     9.3           0           9.3         0             9.3         0          9.3            0            9.3         0            9.3              0           55.8          55.8
Crop Protection Research
Centrifuge (5) Colny counte-(I)
Colorimeter (5) Light trap (1)
Microtowe (1) Gro.th Chk.ber (1)
Re-earch Micro-ecpe (4) Tee-etereoncope
(4)
Auto-lave (I) Spray Tower (1)
Surtion T-rp (1)                  0          21.3           0          21.3                                                                                                                    0          42.6           42.6
Mi.-ellan.eos ite-s                          0           4.3           0           4.3                                                                                                                    0           8.6             8.6
Chesicals, OluonseGre, Connasables           0           983           0           9.3         0            9.3          0          9.3            0            9.3        0            9.3               0          55.8           55,8        I :
Rhiubheun Rese.rch
Mier--cepe (1) Autoclave (1)                                                                                                                                                                                                         21.0
O-en (1) Freeze Drier (1)                    0          10.5           0          10.5                                                                                                                    5          21.0
Mi.rellananes  oiar itema                    0           4.5.           0           4.5                                                                                                                   0           9.0             9 0
Subtotal 11 . Gooda                         61.4       356,5         59.0        197.6        7.5         53.6          7.9        49.2          7.9          49.2          2.4       55.5              146.1       761.6          907.7
FIELD CROP RSEARICH PROGRAM - TOTAL        101.9       724.6         99.5        565.7       48.0        421.7         48.4       417.3         30.4          315.3        15,9       270.6             344.1      2715.2         3059.3



ANNEX 4
Page 1
MALAYSIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
MARDI - Research Program for Pineapples
A. Introduction
1.        The existing station at Jalan Kebun has been selected as the
headquarters for the centre for the Pineapples Research Program. The
station at Alor Bukit, in the main pineapple growing region in southwestern
Johore, will also serve as an important experimental center.
Pineapples in the Malaysian Economy
2.        In recent years, Malaysia exported about M$ 50 million of canned
pineapples and juice. There were about 55,000 acres under pineapples in
West Malaysia in 1973. About 60% of the crop is produced by smallholders
and the rest by 3 large plantations. The average yields of about 8 tons of
fresh fruit per acre are low compared with 20-25 in Hawaii and for Queensland.
Fruit quality control and handling is poor. Much of the fruit received at
the cannery is bruised and of uneven ripeness. Although the main local
variety, Singapore Spanish, has an attractive colour for canning, it is far
from satisfactory in several other characteristics. It is poorly shaped and
has a thick and deeply indented skin with the result that wastage in process-
ing is extremely high, varying between 80 and 85%. Also the brix/acid ratio
is poor since the acid level is only about one-half that of good Hawaiian
pineapples. Ester content, judged on the basis of aroma and taste, is also
extremely low. Clearly there is an urgent need for research to develop a
better canning variety, since most world markets prefer fruit with higher
ester and acid contents, and because of the low yield and high wastage of
the local fruit.
3.        A further feature of pineapple production in Malaysia is that the
crop is mainly grown on acid peat soils, primarily because it is one of the
few crops which can be grown on these difficult soils.
4.        Since MARDI took over pineapple research from MPIB in 1974, several
new research programs have been commenced. Work is in progress in breeding
and selection, pathology, plant nutrition, and crop agronomy. A new variety
named Mas Merah giving 25% higher yield than Singapore Spanish has been selected.
The most important areas of research to be undertaken are varietal improvement
through selection and breeding, disease control, requirements for fertilizer



ANNEX 4
Page 2
and water, replanting strategies (crowns vs. crown slips vs. suckers), crop
physiology (spacing), economics of alternative production systems, and fruit
physiology.
B. The Research Program for Pineapples
Description
6.        The Project would substantially expand the present research effort
on pineapples at Jalan Kebun and Alor Bukit. MARDI staff would be increased,
international expertise would be recruited to assist in developing the research
program, and post-graduate fellowships would be provided for MARDI staff. In
addition, equipment and fertilizer would be provided to assist in the expansion
of the Program.
Research Program
7.        Pineapple Introduction Breeding and Selection:  The MPIB research
group has assembled a considerable selection of pineapple lines from within
Malaysia and from a number of overseas areas. Most of the overseas material
is not well adapted to Malaysian conditions, mainly because it comes from
much higher latitudes than Malaysia. It is also probable that, since most
of the overseas material was sent on request and not collected directly by
Malaysian scientists, it does not represent the most promising lines.
8.        A program of collecting overseas material would be one of the first
undertaken under the project. Special attention would be given to equatorial
regions in South America and Africa. This would provide a much broader base
for the Malaysian breeding and selection program and would enhance the
prospects of developing more productive varieties. In addition, clonal
selection within existing local cultivars could give substantial yield
increases.   Now that MARDI has developed tissue culture techniques for
rapid multiplication of superior cultivars, any new varieties which are
developed could rapidly be brought into widespread use.
9.        Disease Resistance:  Pineapples in Malaysia are subject to several
bacterial and viral diseases, the most important of which is fruit rot which
can cause between 10 and 60% fruit losses in affected fields. Thus in the
breeding and selection program, careful attention would be given to disease
resistance and to research in the relevant areas of plant protection.
10.       Plant Nutrition and Plant Water Relations:  The current research
in Dlant nutrition at Alor Bukit is of good quality but requires expanding.
SG. fertility studies have been done at only one or two locations and a
regional study of the fertility status of Malaysian peat soils is necessary
before general recommendations on fertilizer application for pineapples,
(or for that matter any other crops) can be made. The present preliminary



ANNEX 4
Page 3
studies of the inter-relationships between soil nutrient status and soil
moisture status would also be developed in detail. MARDI plans to recruit
a soil physicist/hydrologist for this work, which would be done in colla-
boration with the proposed new Agricultural Engineering and Water Management
Program (Annex 8).
11.       It is also proposed to study the application of leaf analysis
techniques to determine fertilizer requirements, particularly since standards
developed elsewhere for pineapples grown on mineral soils may not be directly
applicable to peat soils. In this program it would be expected that the
backstopping soil science unit would contribute through special studies
on the chemistry and physics of peat soils.
12.       Replanting Strategies:  Studies would be undertaken to develop the
most productive replanting strategies. Pineapples can be replanted from
crowns, crown slips, or suckers and the alternative systems of block replant-
ing vs. continuous replanting need to be compared. Other aspects of crop
agronomy which would be studied are the effects of different plant spacing
within and between rows, the effects of replanting at different times of the
year, and the value of different weed control practices.
13.       Growth Regulators:  Little is known about the response to growth
regulators under Malaysian conditions. Since experience from higher latitudes
has shown that pineapple is particularly responsive to growth regulators in
terms of floral induction, delay of ripening, and uniform ripening it is
anticipated that this program would be given high priority. The Program would
include research into kinds of regulator, rates, times of application (not
only in relation to night versus day, but also time of year). This work could
have valuable effects in minimizing monthly fluctuations in production, thus
improving the efficiency of cannery operations.
14.       Agricultural Engineering:  Collaborative research with the Agricul-
tural Engineering Program would be undertaken to develop equipment and
techniques for clearing and preparing peat soils for pineapple planting. A
successful outcome could contribute significantly to expansion of pineapple
plantings in Peninsular Malaysia.
15.       Fruit Quality:  Emphasis would be given to studies on fruit quality.
One of the most important practical problems of the pineaRple canning industry
is that of the variable quality of fruit on delivery to the cannery. This
involves establishing precise criteria for acceptable quality at the factory
and making known to the individual producers the maturity criteria which
they should apply in harvesting the fruit.
16.       Utilization of Pineapple Waste:  Research into the utilization of
pineapple waste would be expanded by the Agricultural Products Utilization
Program. Even in an efficient cannery operation there will continue to be
a large percentage of waste. The possible value of this material for pro-
cessing as stock feed deserves collaborative research with other Programs.



ANNEX 4
Page 4
Staffing
17.       The present pineapple research team would be increased from 9 to
18 graduate staff during the Project period.
18.       The Project would provide 10 man-years of expatriate scientists
for the Pineapple Research Program. An agror-.mist with extensive experience
in pineapple research would give assistance to the Program Coordinator in
planning and program development over the first three years, particularly in
organizing the collection and evaluation of new genetic material. He would
also operate his own research program. A soil fertility expert (Agronomist)
to plan and participate in the fertility research on peat soils would be
needed for (3 man-years), and a plant phisiologist with experience with
flowering and in the use of growth regulators would be appointed for (3 man-
years). The Project would also provide for (4 man-years) of short-term con-
sultancies to assist in specific aspec-ts of the program as it develops, and
would contribute part of these funds to finance,the Program Specialist Post
assigned to the Deputy Director for Research Programs. The total cost to
the Project of internationally recruited specialists would be US$600,000.
Training and Fellowships
19.       Further training of present staff would be vital to the success
of the Pineapple Research Program. Apart from the Senior Scientist none
of the existing staff is trained to advanced levels and it is unlikely that
any of the additional staff to be recruited to the team would have higher
degree training. Where possible, it would be arranged that the trainee's
thesis subject was relevant to pineapple research. In addition, the Project
would provide for staff to work at overseas research institutions working on
problems relevant to the Malaysian pineapple program.
Land, Buildings, Equipment and Materials
20.       The land available at Jalan Kebun and Alor Bukit would be adequate
for the pineapple program. Some additional plant houses and ancillary build-
ings would be needed at Jalan Kebun and a small field laboratory at Alor
Bukit. The Project would provide equipment including farm equipment; research
equipment; vehicles; and workshop equipment. A substantial sum is needed for
fertilizer because pineapples are a demanding crop and the peat soils on which
they are grown are low in available nutrients.
Organization and Management
21.       The Pineapple Research Program would operate as a research section
of the Horticultural Crops Research Program and would be responsible through
the Senior Scientist to the Assistant Director for Producticn Research.
22.       The visiting scientists working in the Program would provide a
valuable infusion of experienced research personnel while several of the
present staff are overseas obtaining post-graduate qualifications. The



ANNEX 4
Page 5
visiting scientists will pursue active research programs and would not
operate solely as advisers.
Cost Estimates
23.       The estimated cost of all goods and services which would be
financed for the Pineapple Research Program is shown in Table 4.1.
April, 1975



MALAYSIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
PINEAPPLE RESEARCH PROGRAM
Coot EUti-otes - US$ x 1000 Eanivaloot
Year I                   Year 2                Year 3                   Year 4                    Year 5                   Year 6               Year. 1-6                   US x 1000
lSTEMS
Local     Foreign        Local      Foreign     Local      Foreign       Local      Foreign        Local      Foreign       Local      Foreign       Local      Foreign               Total
l SERVICES
1.  E.patriate Specialists
Senior Scientist (Agronomist), 3 MY             9.0        51.0          9.0        51.0         9.0        51.0                                                                                      27.0       153.0           180.0
Soil Fertility                 ,     Y           9.0       51.0          9.0        51,0          9.0       51.0                                                                                      2.          5.              8.
Short-torer  Conoultont            6 MY         6.0        34.0          6.0        34.0          6.0       34.0         6.0         34.0           6.0         34.0          6.0      34.0           36.0       204.0           740.0
2. Fellomohip.
Staff Pellooahip., 26.5 MY                      0          63.6          0          63.6         0          63.6         0           63.6          0            63.6         0         63.6          0           381.6           381.6
Subtotal I - Serviree                              24.0       199.6         24.0       199.6        24.0     199.6        24.0          97.6    9        7.0                               97.6         90.0        891,6           981.6
1   GOODS
1.   ldis
Plant Ho..eo (2)                               16.1        6.9          16.1          6.9                                                                                                            32.2        13.8             46.0
Loboratory Building, Northern Region           6.9          3.5          6.9          3.5                                                                                                            13.8         7.0             20.8
Insoot  -ouee, NUr-ery                         12.5        6.1          12.5         6.1                                                                                                             25.0        12.2             37.2
2.  Foro leveio,=ent - Fence Wire,c1lvert.,etc. 0-             9.6          0            9.6'       0          9.6          0            9.6                                                            0            38.4             38.4
3.  ParE  Equip=ent
Single a.le Tr-otor  (3)                       0           1.6          0            1.6        0          1.6                                                                                      0           4.8                4.8
Tractoro; 3 o 45 HP, 2 x 75 HP                 0           4.4          0            6.1        0          4.4                                    0           10.4                                  0            25.3             75.3
Tractor drawn trailer. (3) and tankers(3)   0              4.5                                  0          4.5                                    0            4.5                                   0           13.5             13.5
Mo-ers(S) Pert. broadcasters (2)
Crop drier (1)  Pompa (3)                    0           3.5          0            3.5        0          3.5          0            3.5          0            3.5          0          3.5          0            71.0             21.0
FPrn hand toola and i=plewnts                   0           1.6          0            1.6        0          1.6          0            1.6          0             1.6         0           1.6          0            9.6              9.6
Spore Parte, 15%                               0           2.3          0            1.9                   2.3          0            0.7                        2.9                    0.7          0            10.8             10.8
4. Pertiliter and Peoticides
Urea, 450 teno.,M$700/ton                      1.7         24.3          1.7        24.3        1.7        24.3        1.7           24.3          1.7         24.3          1.7        24.3         10.2        145.8            156.0
Phosphato, 180 tons 9 M$ 500/ton               0.5         6.9          0.5          6.9        0.5        6.9         0:5           6.9          0.5         6.9           0.5        6.9           3.0        41.4              44.4
atlgah,  90 tona ( M$400/ton                   0.3         2.8          0.3          2.8        0.3        2.8         0.3           2.8          0.3         2.8           0.3        2.8          1.8         16.8              18.6
5. Vehicles
4 W-drive  (I)  Trock (1), sparen               0           18.9                                                                                                                                     0           18.9              18.9
6. Laboratory Equipment
Infra-red apectrophotoeter (1)
Growth chamber                              0           18.5                                                                                                                                     0            18.5             18.5
CO2 Gas Analy.er (1) Leaf Area Meter(l)
Refrigerated centrifuge (1)                    0           38.0                                                                                                                                     0            38.0             38.0
Oven (2) lncubat-r (2) Microscopes (3)
Ph moters (2) Shakera (2) Bench (1)
Scittillation cannter (1) Plnchet
Conter (1)          0   o       20.8                                                                                                                                     0            20.8             20.8
Contrif.ge (2) Chromotography eq. (1)
Furnace (1) Micro Kjeldahl (2)
Flano photometer (1) Rotary Shaker (1)
Di.c Electrophoreeio  (1)                      0           9.5                                                                                                                                      0             9.5              9.5
Other Laboratory equipoent                     0           19.2         0             19.2                                                                                                          0            38.4             38.4
Che=icals, Gla ...re and Co-oaroble,           0           9.3          0            9.3        0          9.3        0              9.3          0           9.3           0          9.3          0           53.8              55.8
7. Warkahop Equipmont
Veritee iteme for JaSln Kebun Research
Station                   0           8.9          0            0.5        0         0.5        0              0.5           0           0.5           0          0.5          0           11.4             11,4
Subtotal !I   Goods                             38.0        221.1        38.0         103.0       2.5       71.3       2.5            59.2           2.5         66.7         2.5       49.6           86.0       571.7            657.7
PINEAPPLE RESEARCH PROGRAM - TOTAL                62.0        420.7         62.0         303.4     26.5      270.9       8.5           156.8           8.5        164.3         8.5      147.2          176.0      1463.3           1639.3
April 3, 19753



ANNEX 5
Page 1
MALAYSIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
MARDI - Research Program for Cocoa/Coconut
A. Introduction
1.        Almost 500,000 acres of coconut and about 40,000 acres of cocoa are
grown by smallholders in West Malaysia; coconut is also an important small-
holder crop in Sabah and Sarawak. Coconut production has declined as many
trees passed the peak production years; replanting and new planting has not
been sufficient to maintain production. Disease has also had its effect on
both coconut and cocoa production.
2.        GOM has instituted a vigorous Replanting and Rebahilitation Scheme
for coconut and a Cocoa Planting Scheme to encourage farmers to grow cocoa
under coconut. These programs achieved the replanting of about 7,000 acres
of coconut and an increase of 13,000 acres of cocoa in 1972.
3.        Smallholder coconut yields are generally lower than that obtained
by estates; probably due to the better management practices of the latter.
A study made in 1965 showed the average yield on smallholdings to be 665 lbs/
acre, compared to 1,300 to 1,600 lbs/acre for large estates. Many of the
smallholdings are on poorly drained coastal alluvial and peat soils; also
the small farmers do not use as much fertilizer, do not adequately control
weeds and undergrowth competitition, and do not adequately control disease
and pests.
4.        World coconut (copra, coconut oil and coconut) production is heavily
concentrated in South East Asia with Indonesia and the Philippines producing
about 50% of world production. Malaysia has the proper soil and climatic
conditions to increase its share of the market. Because of the particular
advantages of the lauric oils of coconut and palm kernel and the use of coconut
and cocoa in confectionaries it is envisaged that the demand for these products
will continue to be strong. The prices for coconut and cocoa products have
been consistently good over the past ten years and prices have recently
increased dramatically. Although the world market is expected to be good,
the local market, which now consumes more than 50% of the production, is
also increasing.
5.        The rehabilitation of existing plantings and the extension of the
area devoted to both coconut and cocoa would be of major benefit to the
Malaysian economy as a whole and to the small farmer in particular.



ANNEX 5
Page 2
6.        Recognizing the economic potential and the needs of smallholder
farmers, GOM, would continue the coconut and cocoa planting and rehabilita-
tion schemes. However these schemes require the support and assistance of
a systematic and intensified research program to solve the technical inade-
quacies that now restrict yields. Some of the principal constraints are poor
drainage in some, and disease and pests in most areas. The West Johore
Agricultural Development Project (314-MA) will help to eliminate drainage
problems in that area.
7.        Coconut and cocoa are faced with many other technical problems such
as cultural practices; intercropping, fertilization, weed control, variety
selection and development of hybrids.
8.        The industry is therefore in need of a strengthened and expanded.
research program to provide the technology to increase production and pro-
ductivity. Eventually the research program would be extended to Sabah and
Sarawak as well.
B.  Present Status of Research
Cocoa
9.        Conditions in Malaysia are well suited to the cultivation of cocoa.
The earliest cocoa planting in the country was at Jerangau in Trengganu where
unsatisfactory yields were obtained. However, within the last two years
experimental results have shown that yields of over 1,300 lb. per acre (mono-
culture) are possible when using planting materials of selected crosses.
Under coconut, yield levels of 1,000 to 1,500 lb. of dry beans have been
obtained in the Lower Perak area. In Sabah yields of 1,500 to 2,000 lb.
per acre are not uncommon. In fact, indications are that far higher yields
can be expected using improved planting materials and better management
practices. Basic conditions required for good cocoa growth and yield are
known, but this information needs to be strengthened and expanded by a sound
research program.
10.       There are at present 8 organizations carrying out limited research
on cocoa namely:
(a) MARDI
(b) Dept. of Agriculture (Sabah)
(c) FELDA
(d) Dunlop Research Center
(e) Prang Besar Research Center



ANNEX 5
Page 3
(f) United Plantation Research Department
(g) Borneo Abaca Ltd. (Sabah)
(h) Highlands Research Unit
Only the Dept. of Agriculture (Sabah) and Borneo Abaca Ltd. have any large
scale breeding experiments and are in a position to produce progeny tested
seeds.
11.       At present the bulk of the research activities of the organizations
is mainly directed towards meeting the particular manurial or cultural needs
of their respective organizations. Crop protection research has been limited
to testing of chemicals for control of pests and diseases as and when they,
appear, i.e. only short term considerations.
12.       In MARDI the cocoa research program covers a wider spectrum.  It
is designed to involve the various disciplines of breeding, agronomy, nutri-
tion, physiology, entomology, pathology and biochemistry in efforts to raise
the yield and quality of cocoa. The following areas are now being investigated:
(a) Crop Breeding - to produce genetically superior varieties or
clones it is essential to have access to diverse genetic sources
from which to select desirable characters. Fully appreciating
the limited genetic variation in the small collection of varieties
(Amelonado, Upper Amazon, Trinitario and Criollo) MARDI has taken
steps to build up a germplasm collection by introducting genetic
materials through exchange programs with international research
organizations and will extend this through direct prospecting
efforts among wild populations in Africa, South America or other
areas to be selected.
(b) Crop Husbandry - to ensure that the potentials of these
genetically superior varieties or clones can be realised.
(c) Crop Protection - in most countries where cocoa is grown the
trees suffer serious damage from pests and diseases. Fortunately,
in Malaysia there are no serious pathogenic diseases and pest
damage tends to be localised. Research is in progress to screen
for varietal resistance to cocoa die-back, stem canker and black
pod diseases. Apart from mammalian pests such as "musang",
squirrels and rats which attack mainly cocoa pods, insect pests
such as Helepeltis, cocchafer bettles, mealy bugs, etc., can be
causing extensive damage to the leaves and young shoots.
Research is currently being conducted to study the biology and
feeding habits of these pests to devise an intergrated approach
in controlling them.



ANNEX 5
Page 4
(d) Crop Processing - Cocoa processing research is required at the
farm level (drying) and at the mill level. There is very
little information regarding efficiency of such crop processing
methods and even less is known about the loss in oil quality.
Coconut
13.       Increased coconut productivity coupled with a suitable intercrop
would be a combination of major importance in a diversified agricultural
system. In the commercial estates, copra yields of close to one metric ton
have been obtained, and half that amount by smallholders. There is a need
to evaluate the existing methods of copra and coconut oil production, to be
followed by investigations to develop new improved techniques. Research in
some countries has indicated that it is possible to double the copra yield
by using selected hybrid seeds and improved management levels. MARDI is
currently investigating the following aspects of the coconut industry:
(a) Selection and Breeding - Considerable emphasis is given to
coconut selection and breeding because experience overseas
has indicated that with improved planting materials and better
management techniques, yields of up to 2 tons of copra per
acre are feasible. Due to the long breeding cycle of coconut
(more than ten years), the lack of vegetative means of propaga-
tion and low rate of multiplication, a germplasm collection is
necessary to provide a wide genetic base for selection.
(b) Crop Husbandry - When coconut is under planted with cocoa,
weeds are gradually shaded out and any fertilizer applied
not only increases cocoa yield but also coconut yield. MARDI
is looking into the fertilizer requirements of the intercropping
system and the feasibility of introducing other intercrops such
as coffee, pineapple, banana, and pastures in collaboration with
the other commodity research units. Most of the coconut acreage
is planted on coastal belts where drainage is a problem. With
improved drainage, coconut yield can be expected to increase
dramatically.
(c)  Crop Protection - Coconut pests and diseases are to a large
extent similar to those of oil palm. Crop protection measures
developed for the latter will no doubt be applicable to coconut
with slight modifications to take into consideration the
biological and morphological characteristics of the coconut and
intercropping situations. Research efforts will be focused on
developing control measures for Rhinoceros bettle and Pl2ycophora
sach. Leaf eating insects such as nettle caterpillars, Artona
catoxantha, etc. tend to attack palms sporadically and occasionally
reach epidemic proportions. An integrated control approach is
necessary for the pests as predators and parasites normally keep
their populations in equilibrium.



ANNEX 5
Page 5
(d) Crop Processing - Very little information is currently available
about processing either at the farm or mill level. It is
essential that research be conducted in collaboration with the
Agricultural Engineering and Product Utilization Units.
C. Cocoa Research Programs
14.       The research program consists of four broadly based areas of study
and objectives:
Objectives
The objectives of the MARDI cocoa research program are as follows:
(a) breeding and selection - to produce genetically superior
varieties/clones for commercial development;
(b) crop husbandry - to develop cultural practices such that
this genetic superiority is realised to the fullest economic
extent;
(c) crop protection - to develop improved crop protection measures;
(d) crop processing - to develop suitable crop processing
techniques.
15.       To achieve these objectives an intergrated multidiscriplinary
approach will be emphasised. This necessitates an understanding of the
physiological, biochemical, and genetical processes in the plant, and the
pest and disease patterns present in the crop.
Selection and Breeding
16.       Germplasm Collection:  Great emphasis will be given to germplasm
collection in the breeding program because the extent of the genetic varia-
bility will determine the rate of the selection progress. These materials
are the building blocks of the plant breeder and he can produce change only
to the extent of the variation provided for by his breeding populations.
17.       Furthermore, cocoa has only recently been introduced into Malaysia
and there is very little reason to presume that small random collection of
genetic materials (on which the present breeding program is based) introduced
into this country, is the best suited or adapted for local conditions.
18.       The present MARDI breeding program is based on a small collection
of Upper Amazons, Amelonado, Trinitario and Criolla clones acquired by the
Dept. of Agriculture during the 1950's and are grossly inadequate for any
breeding program.



ANNEX 5
Page 6
19.       The main source of natural cocoa populations is in the Upper
Amazon Basin. Germplasm collections have been established at various
research centres in Trinidad, Brazil, Costa Rica, Ghana and Nigeria,
based on several prospection efforts in the Amazon Basin. Cooperation
will be sought from these various organizations to assist MARDI in
developing similar collections.
20.       Inheritance Studies:  To develop any effective selection criteria,
MARDI needs to conduct inheritence studies to identify which components or
factors are critical to yield improvement, their level of inheritance, and
the correlation between them. This will allow the plant breeder to give
the right kind of priorities to each factor and to decide on the best way
of combining them to obtain the optimum bean yield.
21.       Breeding Methods:  Initially breeding methods would be based
mainly on experience developed elsewhere, because knowledge of the genetic
processes in cocoa is lacking for local populations. The bulk of the breeding
effort at present is devoted to hybrid crosses between individuals and clones
of different varieties, and from different geographic populations. A similar
approach would be adopted for the MARDI program and crosses or types of
combination which appear to show hybrid vigour would be tested. Clonal
selection offers the greatest scope for immediate yield improvement.
22.       Varietal and Clonal Testing:  Before any material can be considered
for commercial planting, it is necessary to adequately test them under a wide
range of environments. Furthermore, it is anticipated that this will allow
plant breeders to identify varieties or clones which are best adapted to
particular soil types or environments and also those which are more tolerant
to diverse conditions.
23.       Vegetative Propagation:  To fully exploit the benefits of clonal
selection, methods must be available to multiply very rapidly large quantities
of materials by vegetative means. Research projects to investigate fully the
different methods of vegetative propagation such as buddings and cuttings
have been given priority in research programs.
24.       Cultural Practices:  Cocoa is a relatively new crop in Malaysia
and cultural practices are largely adopted on a trial and error basis from
experience in other countries. Therefore there is considerable scope for
yield improvement in the expansion of research on cultural practices suitable
for local conditions.
25.       Cropping Systems:  Given that several cropping systems are possible,
there is a need to determine for each system the optimu.n cultural and fer-
tility requirements. Plant density is the second important aspect to be
considered and it can be expected also to affect the nutrient requirements
of the cocoa bush. In its natural habitats, cocoa grows under jungle shade
and for this reason, it was assumed that shade was required for optimum
growth and yield of cocoa, and attempts were made during its domestication



ANNEX 5
Page 7
to simulate this jungle environment. More recently however, it has been
demonstrated that it is possible to grow cocoa without shade and there is
ssufficient experimental evidence to indicate that much higher yields can
be expected. There appears therefore to be two cropping systems possible
i.e. growing cocoa with and without shade.
26.       Moisture requirements, though less easy to manipulate except
through the expensive method of irrigation or choice of site, is of
importance because cocoa appears to be a moisture-sensitive crop; this
aspect requires thorough investigation.
27.       Seedling Studies:  Seedling studies are required to determine
and develop optimum seedling and nursery management techniques and to
identify suitable seedling characteristics which are related to adult
yields.
28.       Flushing and Flowering:  Studies to provide comprehensive
information on the flushing patterns, flowering cycles and the incidence
of cherelle wilt are important because they represent periods of intense
physiological activity within the plant. Knowledge of these activities
will help in developing more effective cultural practices e.g. in timing
of manurial application to provide nutrients when they are most critically
required or can be most effectively utilized.
29.       Crop Protection Studies:  The need to develop economical and
effective crop protection measures requires very little emphasis. In
fact, the cocoa die-back problem has frequently been citied as the main
factor for the slow rate of expansion of cocoa in this country.
30.       Diseases:  Since cocoa is a relatively new crop in Malaysia, there
is a need to assess the extent of the disease problem in terms of the type
of diseases present and the extent of the crop losses they cause. Informa-
tion on the disease incidence for Peninsular Malaysia is now being compiled
and techniques for assessing crop losses must be established. Nevertheless,
it is clear that vascular streak die back, black pod and to a lesser extent
stem canker and root diseases will require immediate attention.
31.       Virus and bacteria do not now pose a serious problem with cocoa
in Malaysia, but in view of the difficulty of developing any effective
control measure once the disease is established (as in the case of the
cocoa swollen shoot disease in Ghana), particular attention is paid to
prevent its introduction and to minimise the risk of spread of the disease
should it be present.
32.       Insect and Mammalian Pests:  As in the case of disease, the
initial research activity is concerned with assessing the extent and
nature of the pest problem. At present, it appears the Helopeltis, and
the two cockchafers, Adoretus and Apogenia, require close attention.



ANNEX 5
Page 8
33.       Rodents, in particular the squirrels and rats, can constitute
a major pest problem in some cocoa growing areas. The extent of the crop
loss caused by these pests will need to be assessed. An understanding of
reproductive behaviour, food requirements, nesting and movement habits
provides the key to the development of any long term and effective control
measures, whether by chemical methods or cultural and sanitary practices or
both.
34.       Weed Control:  Weeds compete with the economic crop for mositure
and nutrients and frequently can harbor diseases. For this reason, in
plantation crops, expenditure on weed control measures forms a sizeable
item. In cocoa, weeds are a problem during the first few years of plant-
ing, after which they gradually become shaded out.
35.       Cocoa Processing and Storage:  Effective crop processing methods
which begin at harvesting, are necessary to ensure the maximum recovery of
good quality cocoa beans and are of special significance in a crop such as
cocoa where flavour is of particular importance. Insofar as extraction of
the beans from the pods is concerned, the main consideration is whether or
not a mechanical method might be used to replace the existing method of
manual pod breaking.
36.       Fermentation represents the most critical stage in cocoa processing
because unfermented cocoa does not posses the desired flavour characteristic.
Work carried out elsewhere has indicated that several factors can influence
fermentation. These include the ripeness of the beans, bean size, the in-
terval between harvesting and pod-breaking, the climate, the season, batch
size, the amount of mixing and the amount of aeration. All these factors
affect the duration of fermentation to various extents, some are interdepen-
dent and some are not easily subject to control.
37.       Both sun drying and artificial drying would need to be looked into
in terms of their effectiveness and economies. For artificial drying, both
small scale and large scale drying methods would need to be considered.
38.       As the acreage and yields of cocoa increase, the need for development
of suitable storage facilities would be studied. Storage would be developed
that would control pest and fungal infestations.
D. Coconut Research Program, 1975-1980
Objectives
39.       The objectives of the research program for coconut are similar
_o that set out for the cocoa program but greater concern is given to maxi-
mising the returns per acre through intercropping, as well as to maximise
the productivity of the coconut. Important modifications are necessary in



ANNEX 5
Page 9
the coconut program to take into account the long term nature of the crop,
the low rate of multiplication, and the lack of vegetative means of propaga-
t ion.
40.       Selection and Breeding:  Considerable emphasis is given to breeding
because this has to a large extent been neglected in the past and systematic
efforts to improve the crop through breeding have not been developed to any
degree in Malaysia.
41.       Germplasm collection:  The importance of germplasm collection in
determining the rate of selection progress has already been stressed in the
cocoa breeding program. In coconuts, the need to maintain a wide genetic
base is even more critical because of the long breeding cycle of more than
10 years. There is therefore, a need to carry on this work further and to
expand the collections of genetic materials. First, putting together mate-
rials from the various regions in Malaysia; secondly, to import materials
adapted to the particular climatic conditions of other countries, to form
an important source of variability. In the build-up of genetic resources,
attempts will be made to acquire materials from various countries through
their research organizations, including a collection mission to selected
countries.
42.       Inheritance Studies and Breeding Methods:  In evaluating and
developing any effective breeding method, an understanding of the inheri-
tance of the yield components is necessary. An understanding of the physio-
logical basis for the yield differences is obviously an important pre-re-
quisite.
43.       The bulk of the breeding effort in the world at present appears
to be concerned with production of hybrids between dwarf and talls. Expe-
riences elsewhere, in particular India, Ceylon and Africa have indicated
that such hybrids offer the best scope for yield improvements.
44.       There is no easy method of vegetative propagation but attempts
will be made to develop very rapid multiplication techniques through tissue
culture. Because of its similarity to the oil palm, it will be appropriate
to consider this aspect under the oil palm tissue culture program.
45.       The long life span of the coconut makes experimentation and breed-
ing in this crop extremely difficult and slow. Studies'on the seedlings may
prove to be extremely valuable if it can be ascertained that certain juvenile
characteristics are correlated with later yields.
46.       Cultural Practices:  Although coconut has been grown in Malaysia
for a long time, knowledge of the optimum cultural requirements is limited
because systematic research in this area has been lacking.
47.       Fertilizer and Moisture Requirements:  At present fertilizer
usage is minimal in coconut cultivation. However with improved cultural
practices, in particular adequate drainage, marked responses in yields to



ANNEX 5
Page 10
fertilizer applications have been reported. Moisture control is another
factor which can have a major role in crop improvement. A considerable
acreage of the coconut in Peninsular Malaysia is grown in coastal areas
where the main problem is inadequate drainage.
48.       Plant Density and Intercropping:  Maximum yields can only be
obtained if the palms are planted within an optimum density range. The
current practice is to plant the tall variety at approximately 60 palms/
acre and the dwarfs at approximately 100 palms/acre. Whether these are
the optimum densities for Malaysian conditions must be determined.
49.       Intercropping is an important project in the agronomic research
program. The potential for coconuts depends to a large extent on the scope
for intercropping or catch-cropping. Given that intercropping of coconut
should become an economic reality, it would be a natural outcome to evolve
systems of agriculture which would allow for maximising the return from both
crops.
50.       Crop Protection:  Coconut pest and diseases are to a large extent
similar to those for oil palms. Crop protection measures developed for the
latter will no doubt also be applicable to coconuts. To that extent, the
bulk of the crop protection studies n coconut will serve to supplement the
research efforts in the other crop except that consideration has to be given
to the different biological and morphological characteristics of the coconut
and to pest or disease problems specific to this crop.
51.       Crop Processing:  Effective crop processing methods are necessary
to ensure the maximum recovery of good quality products. The method of
processing may be separated in two phases. The first concerns the harvest
and extraction of the copra from the coconuts carried out by the farmer,
and the extraction of oil from the copra, carried out by small millers.
Since the small millers do not normally have effective process control, it
is difficult to assess the efficiency of the existing processes. The method
used for harvesting coconut and extraction of oil from copra must be thor-
oughly investigated.
E. Staffing
52.       As part of the project, professional research staff would be
upgraded and increased from the present 13 to 22 by 1980, a comparable
increase in supporting staff would also take place. The experience and
leadership of the unit would be strengthened by the provision of 10 man-
years of internationally recruited senior scientists consisting of a (a)
plant breeder, (b) pathologist and (c) a bio-chemist, each on a long term
basis (minimum 2 years each); and 4 years for short-term consultancies
(including a contribution to the cost of financing the Program Specialist
Post assigned to the Deputy Director for Research Programs). These scien-
tists are estimated to cost US$600,000 (table 5.1).



ALNNEX 5
Page 11
F. Fellowships and Training
53.       The internationally recruited scientist would provide on the job
training. InTaddition 32 man-years would be provided for post-graduate
degrees and study tours to upgrade existing and new local professional
staff. Fellowships would consist of 30 man-years for training at the MsC
and PhD levels and 2 man-years for short term study tours.
G. Land, Buildings, Equipment and Materials
54.       The unit has 400 acres of land for research at Telak Anson and
proposes to acquire and develop an additional 1,000 acres during the project.
A major building program would be required to service the existing 400 acres
and the proposed extension. Because of the importance of cocoa and coconut
in the states of Sabah and Sarawak a building program has been proposed there
also. Buildings would consist of laboratories, plant houses, processing
facilities, storage, offices, and staff quarters at the proposed sites.
55.       The project would require an extensive amount of laboratory equip-
ment, field equipment, and vehicles. Materials and supplies such as fer-
tilizers, herbicides, insecticides would be provided.
56.       The Project would also provide for the collection of germplasm
materials overseas to give a broader base to the breeding and selection
program.
H. Organization and Management
57.       The cocoa/coconut research program will be directed by a Senior
Scientist (Program Coordinator) responsible to the Assistant Director for
Production Research. There will be a particular need for close collabora-
tion with other commodity research programs in dealing with inter-cropping,
pest, insect and disease control. The unit will also work closely with the
Agricultural Products Utilization and Agricultural Engineering and Water
Management Units on aspects of product processing, product quality, irriga-
tion and other cultural practices. Extension will also play an important
role in disseminating information to the States and to the many small farmer
who would be the major beneficiaries of the results of tbis research program.



ANNEX 5
Page 12
I. Cost Estimates
58.       The estimated cost of all goods and services which would be fi-
nanced for the Cocoa/Coconut Research Program is shown in Table 5.1.
April, 1975



4,*                  4,o0-r0                          ,   4,  -?
                      C>                            4,40
>          .t.co4,.o o                                                        I- -
o              404.4,44s                                                     I 4- 04,0
044.400             0 *4' "-            t44 0444.40

* iI'                                     440404400 4*4.0
E     .-                        L          0                                                4,0
2 I E   .t'y232             3 ,(                  4000 30.    0       4.4
01*0                                                  3
34440                                       '4 "0              2
4,  0.4 0     4 400  0                     333                So
34   0  '1   44      444                   444         4,  4,  4004,-            -
4,              8                 4        0
-   4                      4,
-                   4                                                                  3
4, .4                            ,,,,, ..,.. .... .... oo'o    I 0   .o   0
000       010   4, 0
-                                                                                             04
4 4444,40' 004,04,0404,0444,04,4,4,4,4,04,4,4,4,4,04,.-'             0>0              444-       '14
4, 4, 0000 000000  0000000000  00 0   0 0 0  004.4                      000                 0       0
4,   ,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,*,  4,                                         . ,    K
.4444,  000       0          010   0000
41               '4
4, 4,      -                       4,4>4,4,44-4,4,                     4,         01.4  4,4,4,4,    04,
444,4,4,4,4044,44,4,44,44,4,44,4,0  4,04,'>  4,404,4.  04,04,   000  ,.  4,44
44 - 4,4,4,0 0 0 00 0 00   000   000 0  0004,   04,44   000            0                    0
4
0 4 '4' '''''''4'4*4''''4''444    '.4,,   444*4   444  04,0 004,'               010   4440'       2
:4  44444*444444,44   44440  4,44,4,4  4,404,4,    44  4,4,4, 004,'       00'  4 4          04,
o'o0 0 0 0000   0    -    4                                                                  '1
.4                        0    0    0  0 4,00  004,4           000  000        00   0 0
3040
2
2
44,4,                        00   0''          2           "V
:4,,,,f,                its isrim                               00
i
4444444444    "?  '    2
0        4,                                                                        I
*   4,4 4, 0    4,4,                               >44,4,                         4,14,4,           04,
0 0 0      coo                                     ,                          .i.V
o o    0-4,0                           oloo              4-
44'                                                                                I                04,
.2   '4444   444444444444   4444   4..,4   4,4,44   444444,444
0                                 04044                          b4K''
44 44 4'      444444444444444444,4444 4,04,  000  04,0 0000
0 0  0404        2
0.40   000  000  0000        0K   v4,00
0 4, 4,4,4,0000.44,440400044,4,0444,  004,004,4,0.4.4  00.44   0004,4,4,04,00      4,
*      2   0
o .-.004,00000000000000O00  000000004,00000000   000  0000
44   -. -  .4  - 44404,04,4,4,444,40400044              0104  000.4        0
O 44400004,0044 0.,0004 404,0,0.40  00.0,  .,o0.- . 0.4.00000   .444,440000    010   0000
4, fl0OO0o-oozo                     00  0o0,o   00.0000000  0000                014,  0000         -
IS *:qea



ANNEX 6
Page 1
MiALAYSIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
MARDI - Research Program for Livestock
A. Introduction
Livestock Production in the Malaysian Economy
1.        Livestock production accounts for less than 5% of the gross value
of agricultural production in Malaysia. Meat consumption is concentrated
mainly in the towns and among the Chinese sector of the population. Pork
is consumed solely by the Chinese, and beef, mutton and poultry by all
communities.
Projected Consumption of Meat in Malaysia 1968-80 /a
Consumption per Capita         Total Demand      Predicted Annual Growth
h&               (000 Metric tons)       in Demand 1968-80
1968     1975      1980   1968   1975   1980   1968   -   1980    (%)
Beef        1.7      2.2       2.6   17.4   27.5   37.4           6.6
Pork       14.6     18.1      21.1   53.6   78.7  103.3           5.6
Mutton      0.4      0.5       0.6    3.96   6.3    8.6           6.8
Poultry    5.3       6.8       8.2   55.1   85.2  117.9           6.5
/a   Source:  Ministry of Agriculture.
There are substantial imports of beef and mutton into Malaysia but only
small imports of pork and poultry meats, yet the market for pig and poultry
meat is larger than that for beef and mutton. About 4,000 cattle and 50,000
sheep are imported annually for slaughter.
2.        Sweetened condensed milk is the most popular dairy product.  It is
used for infant feeding by the lower income segments of the population and
by all groups in tea and coffee. Powdered whole milk and milk based infant
powdered foods are increasing in popularity, but reconstituted whole milk
is not popular. Consumption of imported sterilized and frozen milk is limited
by its high price. Fresh milk from smallholder Indian dairies and commercial
dairies accounts for about 7% of milk consumption, with 93% being imported.
The estimated demand for milk in 1980 is 9.2 million gallons compared with
6.0 million gallons in 1973.



ANNEX 6
Page 2
3.        In 1970 the total consumption of eggs was 1,200 million units and
it is estimated it will be 1,928 million units in 1980.
4.        The numbers of livestock in Malaysia, the numbers slaughtered
and the numbers imported annually are: 1/
No. Present          No. Slaughtered          No. Imported
Cattle Beef and
Draught              241,000      )
Cattle Milch            64,000      )            44,000                4,000
Swamp Buffaloes        230,000      )
Murrah Buffaloes         3,000      )            36,000                3,000
Goats                  333,000                   70,000               exported
Sheep                   38,000                   47,000               50,000
Pigs                   725,000                  927,000               exported.
Poultry /a           7,500,000               6,500,000
/a   Commercial Farms and Hatcheries.
The Cattle Industry
5.        Beef cattle numbers are static.  The major breed is the small bodied
Kedah-Kelantan, which are kept mainly in small herds. There is no tradition
in Malaysia of growing feed for cattle and they are normally pastured on
waste lands, forest margins and roadsides. The owners especially in the
case of Indian owners of dairy cattle also cut and carry grass for them from
these places. During the off-season, where double cropping of rice is not
practiced, the cattle graze on rice stubble. They also utilize by-products
such as rice straw and rice bran when these are available. Under these
conditions standards of nutrition and husbandry are poor and cattle product-
ivity is low.
6.        The National Livestock Development Authority (NLDA) is developing
33,600 acres of land in eight ranches. So far, they have sown 3,600 acres
of pasture and have 2,900 cattle of various breeds. They have plans to
increase productivity by crossing the local cattle with exotic breeds.
However, the cattle on these ranches will represent only 10% of the existing
cattle population and, because of competing claims for use of the better
land, cattle raising is likely to remain largely in the hands of small mixed
farmers.
1/   Source:  Ministry of Agriculture.



ANNEX 6
Page 3
7.        Improvement of the overall nutrition and husbandry of these animals
would immediately increase beef production. One method of improving nutrition
would be to feed agricultural by-products to these cattle. The availability
of these by-products in tons annually is: rice straw 1.25 million; rice bran
140,000; wheat middlings 30,000; palm kernel cake 40,000; oil palm sludge
250,000; pineapple bran 40,000; tapioca chips 45,000; and tapioca dry refuse
110,000. There are problems with rice straw and rice bran because of the
limited storage life of these materials. The large-scale use of these by-
products at the village level would require careful planning and organization.
8.        The major virus diseases and pleuropneumonia are absent from
Mialaysia. Bacterial diseases (anthrax, black leg and brucellosis) are rare.
Haemmorrhagic septacaemia, babesiosis and theileriosis are present as are
internal parasites. The common cattle tick (Boophilus microplus) is present
but the local cattle show considerable resistance. Assessment of tick
resistance would be essential in any program based on crossbred cattle where
one of the parent breeds was tick susceptible.
9.        Buffaloes contribute over half the Malaysian beef supply.  Most
of them are swamp buffaloes, weighing 900-1,000 lbs at maturity, but a few
Murrah buffaloes are kept by Indians for milk production. They are kept
in the rice areas and graze fallow padi. In these areas, the numbers are
declining due to double cropping of rice and farm mechanization. The growth
and reproductive potential of animals kept under good nutritional conditions
needs to be tested.
10.       Most of the natural milk is produced from Local Indian Dairy (LID)
cattle in small herds owned by smallholders of Indian extraction and is sold
directly in unpasteurised form. Some pasteurisation is done in the cities,
e.g. the milk from the NLDA herd at Behrang is taken to Kuala Lumpur for
pasteurisation and sale. In Malaysia the average milk production per lacta-
tion is 1000-1500 lbs. The Veterinary Department has attempted to improve
the milk production in the local dairies by inseminating LID cows with semen
from exotic breeds and on their farm at Kluang there is a program to develop
cross-bred cattle for the dairy industry.
The Pig Industry
11.       The pig industry in Malaysia is modern, with pigs kept under good
husbandry conditions in concrete or slatted floor piggeries. Piggeries in
excess of 100 sows are common. One million pigs are sladghtered annually
and the bulk of the pork is consumed locally in fresh forms. There is some
export to Singapore. The pig industry is based on the importation of
purebred stock of improved temperate zone breeds, to produce cross-bred
pigs. Breeding facilities are available locally. Artificial insemination
is common and sires are provided by the Veterinary Department. The pig
industry is well established and has advanced to the point where a perform-
ance testing program is needed to identify superior boars for AI service.



ANNEX 6
Page 4
Sheep and Goats
12.       Sheep and goats are kept in small flocks by Malay and Indian
farmers under village conditions. The plane of nutrition is low, internal
parasites are common, and the animals are small. Research has been done
by the Veterinary Department to determine the potential for increasing the
size of local goats by cross-breeding.
Poultry and Eggs
13.       The growth of the poultry industry since 1964 has been spectacular,
both in the production of chicken meat and eggs. About 90% of the stock
are bred from imported temperate-breed parent birds.
14.       The egg industry is highly developed, but the broiler industry
is less efficient. Many broilers are kept semi-intensively and efficiency
of food conversion is low and mortality high. They are marketed at about
12 week weighing 3 lbs or less. Newcastle disease, fowl pox and fowl plague
are controlled by vaccination. Respiratory diseases are common. Further
expansion in table bird production appears to offer the quickest means of
improving local diets with more animal protein.
Feedstuff Imports
15.       The pig and poultry industries are heavily dependent on imported
foods. It is estimated that feed imports are now of the order of M$ 200
million a year. Much of the current interest in field crops is concerned
with the production of a much higher proportion of these feeds within
Malaysia.
Present Status of Research
16.       Before the establishment of MARDI, livestock investigations were
carried out by the Veterinary Department. They were interested in the
breeding, health and nutrition of cattle, pigs and poultry, and had estab-
lished a number of experimental programs at several different centers. The
work was largely of an ad hoc nature, and lacked guidance from experienced
research workers. However, the Departments work in disease control is of a
high standard, and its activities have made valuable practical contributions
to the substantial growth and improved efficiency of the pig and poultry
industries during the 1950's and 1960's.
17.       When MIARDI assumed responsibility for livestock research it
established a Livestock Division divided into the four branches of animal
breeding and genetics, animal nutrition, animal physiology and animal husbandry.
The Division is responsible for research in these disciplines relevant to
improved production of beef and dairy cattle, buffaloes, pigs, sheep, goats
ad poultry.  To undertake a commodity oriented research program, units have
been set up for beef, dairy, swine, small ruminants, poultry, buffaloes and



ANNEX 6
Page 5
artificial insemination. These units include staff from the Crop Improvement
Division, and the Economics-Statistics and Project Development Division.
18.       The lack of experienced personnel in the livestock program is a
serious problem for MARDI. The Livestock Division did not take over trained
personnel, or existing programs and facilities as did some of the other
Divisions in the Institute. Of the 13 graduate staff, two have PhD, three
have MSc, four have BSc (Honors) and four have BSc degrees. The total Divi-
sional staff, including technicians and farm staff, is 55.
19.       The experimental facilities are very limited.  At Serdang there
are a number of temporary pens for cattle work and a limited holding area
of poor pasture for cattle.  The temporary facilities for poultry work
severely limit the scope of experimental work, and the pig studies are being
done in space provided by the Veterinary Department and on farms. The pro-
blem of facilities will be greatly improved once the 1975 building program
at Serdang is completed and also with the completion of the extension
facilities planned at the sub-station at Kluang in Johore and Bukit Ridan
in Pahang.
20.       At present, all the experimental work in progress is in animal
nutrition and is located at Serdang. The amount of work being done has been
dictated by the availability of staff and facilities. Also, up to July 1974,
the Division has lacked adequate direction because the Head of the Division
also held the position of Director of the Food Technology Research and
Development Centre, which absorbed much of his time and attention.
21.       The beef nutrition program is concentrating on evaluating local
feed sources. Using sheep as the screening animal, the digestibility and
utilization of several agricultural by-products has beeu determined. The
products tested were: rice straw, rice bran, copra cake, molasses, poultry
waste, tapioca chips and urea. Rice straw in association with urea and
molasses based diets has been utilized successfully in association with
other products such as tapioca.
22.       In a study with Kedah-Thai cattle with diets with different
roughage/concentrate proportions, growth rates as high as 0.43 kg/day were
recorded over 34 weeks. The quality of the research is good, but more atten-
tion to diets likely to be used in practice is required.
23.       The Dairy Unit has completed a survey to provide basic data on the
structure and productivity of the dairy industry in Malaysia. Other work in
progress is testing the value of different proportions of protein and
carbohydrates supplement for milk production and calf growth. An insemination
program using Jersey and Brown Swiss semen on LID dams has been commenced
as a first step in evaluating milk production from local cattle crossed with
exotic breeds.



ANNEX 6
Page 6
24.       The studies with pigs and poultry are largely concerned with testing
the effects of substituting locally produced carbohydrate concentrates
(tapioca and sago) for maize in production rations. The early indication is
that a higher percentage of substitution can be made without any decline in
production.
25.       Pasture research is being conducted by the Pasture Unit in the
Crop Improvement Division which has studies underway in plant introduction
and evaluation, plant nutrition, and animal production at both the Serdang
and Kluang Stations. Advice on pastures is freely available to the animal
husbandry workers through the Pastures Unit on which it is represented.
26.       This arrangement recognizes an important principle.  Research in
which different pasture treatments are being evaluated with a standard type
of animal is pasture research, and belongs in the hands of workers traine1
in plant science. Research in which different types of animals are evaluated
on a standard pasture is animal research, and belongs in the hands of research
workers whose training is in animal science. Because pastures are the major
resource for ruminant animal production this correct allocation of responsi-
bility, with the proper liaison machinery, will greatly assist MARDI's live-
stock research programs.
B. The Research Program on Livestock
27.       It is clear that if future consumption targets for livestock
products are to be met, a major effort in industry modernisation, and the
underlying research, are needed. The Project would aim to improve both
the scope and quality of MARDI's livestock research on all classes of
ruminant livestock, pigs, and poultry. It would provide experienced overseas
scientists to assist in planning and developing research programs, fund a
substantial fellowship program, and provide buildings, equipment, livestock
and materials for work at the Serdang, Kluang and Bukit Ridan Stations. In
this Program the provision of foundation livestock for animal improvement
programs is a particularly important feature.
Research Programs
28.       Fields of research in each of the Units would include an evalua-
tion of breeds. Local animals and their crosses would be compared under
the same conditions by measuring meat and/or milk production, efficiency
of feed utilization under different nutritional regimens, reproductive
capacity and carcass or milk quality. The nutritive value of agricultural
by-products would be determined and their incorporatior in feeding systems
for improved production would be investigated.  For rum-nants, a program
on the effect of pasture improvement and pasture management on production,
would be carried out by the Pasture Unit in the Field Crops program.



ANNEX 6
Page 7
Beef Cattle Research
29.       The cattle improvement program would be based on upgrading the
local stock rather than by their complete replacement with exotic breeds.
Some crossbreeding has been done in the past, but no objective comparisons
of performance have been made. Priority would be given to an evaluation
of the performance of local Kedah-Kelantan cattle and their crosses both
with European and Zebu breeds such as the Brahman. Performance testing
should be done at both high and intermediate phases of nutrition. Selection
for tick resistance will be an important aspect of the program.
30.       Feeding trials would be continued and expanded to determine the
nutritive value of agricultural by-products and locally produced supplements.
Their value in practical diets would be tested in feeding trials using
quantities of supplement likely to be economically practical in Malaysia.
31.       The Pasture Unit would have prime responsibility for studies of
pasture management, but close collaboration between the pasture unit and
the beef unit would be necessary if carcass quality and breed difference
studies were to be included in these trials.
Buffalo Experiments
32.       With buffaloes, the current observational trials are expected
to yield information on the breeding cycle of cows, the detection of oestrus,
their mating habits and the necessity for buffaloes to wallow.
33.       Studies of the performance of the Murrah and Swamp buffaloes would
be similar to those on beef cattle breeds. Experiments on the response of
buffaloes to different diets (including the feeding of concentrates) and
their performance on different pastures would also be done on similar lines
to the beef cattle program.
Dairy Cattle Research
34.       Precise information on the productivity of dairy cattle in Malaysia
is lacking. As a first step, the predominant LID cattle, and their crosses
with other dairy breeds, need to be compared in terms of milk production.
This study should include measurements of the response of these animals to
concentrate feeding as a supplement to pasture.
35.       Studies of different calf rearing systems should be undertaken to
determine the effects of the levels and types of starter diets on calf growth,
maturity, and subsequent production. Collaborative studies with the pasture
research workers would be undertaken to determine the value of different
pastures and pasture utilization systems in terms of milk production. Work
is also needed to develop efficient milk handling and storage equipment for
use by the small milk producer. TARDI's Agricultural Engineering and Water
Management Program would collaborate in the design of suitable equipment.



ANNEX 6
Page 8
Pig Research
36.       The present pig industry in Mfalaysia is based on the application
of sound management principles to herds bred from high producing stock imported
from temperate countries. Little selection has been done for production under
local conditions and the reproductive and growth performance of pigs in
Malaysia could be substantially improved through selection. A program of
testing would therefore be undertaken under the Project. It would be based
on crossbreeding and progeny testing among the principal breeds with selection
based on average daily gain, feed conversion efficiency and proportion of
carcass lean meat. This would involve on-farm studies of large numbers of
animals and careful control of nutritional regimes. Selection of the most
productive stock from existing herds for breeding would undoubtedly lead to
rapid upgrading of the population.
37.       The feeding experiments just getting under way at MARDI would be
developed into a comprehensive program to determine the value of locally
available feedstuffs and the protein and energy requirements of all classes
of pigs, including pregnant sows and gilts. Nutritional experiments would
also examine the possible partial replacement of protein meal in pig rations
by synthetic amino acids.
Poultry Research
38.       Broilers bred from stock of temperate origin do not do as well in
Malaysia as in their own countries. A program designed to breed stock well
adapted to local conditions, would be commenced.
39.       Feeding experiments are required with chickens of local and overseas
origin, using diets of varying crude protein and energy content and with
varying levels of amino acids, to determine the maximum production in the local
environment.
40.       The present work on the nutritive value of locally grown feeds
and locally available by-products would be expanded into a comprehensive study
of the value of these feeds in practical diets for broilers and layers.
Examination of these feedstuffs would also include studies on the effect of
different methods of processing on metabolizable energy.
41.       Although the duck industry in Malaysia is small, there is a growing
demand for duck meat and eggs, particularly by the Chinese population. At
present this demand is met mainly from imports from otlher Southeast Asian
countries. Studies involving breed selection and feeding would be undertaken.
In this work feeding tests with local feedstuffs comparing the production of
both meat-type and layer-type ducks on diets of varying protein and energy
o-ntent would be an important part of the program. Also studies would be made
Le compare methods of maximizing production under different management systems,
e.g. intensive, semi-intensive and range conditions.



ANNEX 6
Page 9
Staffing
42.       Under the Project, it is planned to increase the MARDI graduate
staff working on the livestock program from the present 13 officers to a
total of 35 by 1980. Also proposed under the project are post-graduate
fellowships to train 8 staff to Ph.D degree and 5 to Masters degree level
at overseas Universities and 4 man-years to be spent on short-term fellow-
ships at overseas research institutions (a total of 36 man-years).
43.       It is proposed that three experienced expatriate scientists would
be employed to assist in the initial phases of planning and developing the
cattle, pig and poultry programs. These would be assigned to the beef and
dairy programs (4 man-years), pig program (3 man-years), and poultry program
(2 man-years). Each of these scientists would have his own research program
and would not operate solely as an adviser. A provision would also be made
for another (2 man-years) of specialists consultancies to be used as required
during the project; this would inclufde a contribution to financing the post
of Program Specialist assigned to the Deputy Director for Research Programs.
This would provide a total of 18 scientists working in beef cattle, 6 on
dairy cattle, 6 on poultry and 5 on pigs.
Land, Building, Equipment, Livestock and Materials
44.       All the land required for the Livestock Research Program is now
owned by MARDI at its Serdang, Kluang and Bukit Ridan stations.  Animal
houses, yards, pens and ancillary buildings for these centres would be
provided under the Project. The Project would provide for the establish-
ment and maintenance of pastures and would also provide for field equip-
ment, research equipment and vehicles. A major Project item would be the
importation of a considerable number of foundation breeding stock from
overseas. The substantial cost of US$1,372,100 is justified since ade-
quate quantities of good quality animals are essential as a basis for an
effective breeding program. The Project would also provide stock feeds
and veterinary supplies.
Organization and Management
45.       The Livestock Research Program would be guided by a Senior Scien-
tist (Program Coordinator) responsible to the Assistant Director for Pro-
duction Research. The present sub-division of the work into Beef Cattle,
Dairy Cattle, Poultry and Pigs research units is appropriate and should
continue. Leaders should be appointed for each of these research sections.
46.       The overseas scientists working in the Program would take a lead-
ing part in planning, organizing, and developing the research programs, and
would be given leadership responsibilities at the discretion of the MARDI
Directorate, if no suitably qualified MARDI personnel are available. The
overseas scientists would operate as working scientists with their own re-
search programs.



ANNEX 6
Page 10
47.       Because the research would be carried out at three separate
locations, and the main analytical services of MARDI will be centralized at
Serdang, special arrangements would be needed for the preparation and trans-
port of experimental samples for analysis. The separation of staff in the
Beef Unit would place an additional responsibility of coordination on the
Unit leader.
Project Objectives
48.       The Project would develop more productive breeds of beef and dairy
cattle and develop more effective and economical methods of beef and milk
production. If, by the 1980's cross breeding and improved nutrition can
achieve a reasonable target of 100 lbs extra beef per carcass for 25% of
the annual number of animals now slaughtered, the annual value of the addi-
tional product would be M$ 6.4 million.
49.       Animal husbandry combined with pasture development research are
expected to achieve increases in animal production from beef breeding/fattening
enterprises of 100 lbs meat/acre/year. On a 30,000 acre area (above the size
of the present NLDC ranch scheme) the annual value of beef production would
be M$ 14.4 million.
50.       Substantial increases in milk yields from dairy cattle can be
expected as a result of the research in animal breeding and nutrition to be
carried out under the Project. This should lead to a reduction in the present
high price of fresh milk and stimulate the expansion of the very small dairy
industry in Malaysia.
51.       Intensive research by MARDI into all available feed sources could
achieve substantial import savings since feed costs represent over 70% of
the cost of production of pig meat and poultry. Already MARDI's research into
the substitution of locally produced for imported feeds has indicated a
potential annual saving of M$ 1.4 million for the Malaysia pig industry, and
expansion of this work should multiply this saving many times over. To this
must be added the additional output of pork and chicken meat resulting from
the breeding of better adapted and more productive stock.
52.       The training program would provide Malaysia with a group of well
trained research workers in animal breeding, animal nutrition, and animal
husbandry. These workers would be capable of conducting pioneering research
in a near-equatorial environment where little research in these fields has
been done. The value of this training should be reflected for several decades
in the form of continued increases in the output of valuable protein foods.
Cost estimates
53.       The estimated cost of all goods and services which would be financed
for the Livestock Research Program are shown in Table 6.1.
April, 1975



85A1Y701                                                                                                        000  6
Lioss.cok  -csrh P--cs
3 - 11001001~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~y.2Y-3Y                                                                           4Y                         
ant Pradottica ipnaislist, 4 no                             ~~~~      ~~~~      ~     ~~~~      ~~~~~~9.0  51.  9.0  510 9.0  510          9.0        51.0                                   3.                       4.
PIg Pradoct6ca Spaclaltsc, 3 no-                                         9.0       51.00            9.0       55.0           9.0        51I . 0                                                          05.00       5'3.0'      '100.0
Pai,rl  to- oalon seoIla.310-                                                     .        3.   9.0                   1.s1.0                                                                                                102.0        20.
Shoaa-csa~~~~~111 3cslat,20                       .         00            00        1.               30        170 .0                     10.0           5.0        17.0          3.0        10.0         18.0       002.0          00.
Sca.    alacf ls  30  YS                                         86.4           0          86.             0         8.4             0-         80.4           0           44           0           56.          0          51I.4        II8.4
Iotta     - Orryi-s                                3.0      jo3bS       -       0      056.4            30.0    256:4           25.0       205.4          12.0       154.4          3.0       103.4          99.0      1079.4       1318.4
Calf onto, barlsotag and 8asd6s  sObds           8.9        4.4             8.9       4.5                                                                                                                  17.0        8.8          26.7
Sandlot ohada                            ~~~~       ~~~~            ~~~~      ~~~~~~5.8  2.9  5.  .92.1                                                                                                         5.8          33.4
loll sad qootooslas P005                  5.~~~~~~~~~~~14  2.7       5.        0.7                                                                                                                  10.8        143.
IItIs  Ocltriag sods                                   22.4       11.2            22.:4     11 .2                                                                                                                 448        21.4          6.
F  cs  tc                                               40        27 .0           540      20.0                                                                                                                  109.0       54.0         140.0
tg0stotsos tocircot                      ~~         ~~~~            ~~        ~~~~~~~0 4.6  9 4.6                                                                                                   09.2                      9.0
lol,  -cacfssdc   -a aataIqpa                        26.1       13.             26.1       13.1                                                                                                                 52.2       I417.
81066ca patic-                                          3.5        17              3.5       1.               ..0                                                                                                             351.
-Ifsucy  tl, boil an  iss.-oi.    s.             1.5         97             1.         9.                                                                                                                   39.0       19.5          58.
rdloodf-ctaca   stsds                            38.3        91             10.3I      9.2                                                                                                                  54.        183           54.9
OSh001rdOr an   ars                                    11.6        5.9            11.6       5.8                                                                                                                  03.2       11.8          34.0
Xscatly' calf, boll sad  satlopal                      150   715      .            5.077.938.6                                                                                                                                58           40.44
relgsss,fact-ato  slcds                        32        1.              23.1      11.                                                                                                                   46.4       2309.
arlhbrdgs co  Yst.                                     11.6        5.8           I11.        5.1                                                                                                                  23.8       11.6          5..0
oaico                                                  50.1       25.0            10.1     23.1                                                                                                                 18.32       50.3          150.3
2. Psat Os-1-as
toaalr. .doc, Os...sc                                  0          3.0            0           3.8            0         3.8                                                                                         0         11.4           :1.'
3. Fan  Eoo- ac-
Po-sga hc.a.r.t.t  32) tt--as  75 00 (21
ftsIl..s (2) Isl    Pts . -sca                          0         15.9            0         15.9                                                                                                                   0         31.0          31.8
frok. S  a                                              0         9.7                                                                                                                                              0          9.7           9.7
Crapdisr  121, F.ad .111 (P7 scaIs"
oislhb-9dl   (33, slIc (1), ors  (13
gtladr  115                                         2.0       9.3            0         .9.3                                                                                                                   0.0       18.6          20.6
Iplcyt-t  (1). ailkiog sqcm-t.
asopst(1) ca86  1101 coldosaac-          0
'alo    af  (1) r-faignp-     (23                   0         23.9            0          22.9                                                                                                                  0         45.8          45.8
Pat-bls "Iug1680ahlct (2), . sl tonOllss2)
182lk.5  rqb i.c Al4 oqccpat                            0         21.8            0          32.0                                                                                                                  0         45.6          43.6
cod sitar aqoipacat                      ~~        ~~~~            ~~         ~~~~              ~~~0 7.1  0  0.1                                                                                     a         14.2          14.2
P  htorOs-atr  (2) crp Orlsr (42
Asqalamal                                             0        10.2                        10.2                                                                                                                0           30.4          20.4
Tocc.75 MP 12) ntsls-  (31
pccisac, calhbcidgs (11                         0        11.0                       11.0                                                                                                                 0          20.9           03.0
slIc (3 trpttt(4) Al  qol.oat                           1.8      12.0                        12.0                                                                                                                 2.8        14.0          31.8
I s-cot  750   30().  -rsls-  (4)
fo.L  il -c t                                           0        18.2                        20.2                                                                                                                0           204           20.
paS~  psrcs  155                                                 19.5                        I8.1I                                                                                                               0           37.6          37.6Z
4. pst-llss
Urs. 315 toIs 9 7.D2110                                 0.9       80              10         1.             1.3       15.0           18           8.19                     1.6           1.9         8.          9.~2       90.2
.Ostrs60tas89  302/I                         0.7       6.             1.0         8.             03         3.I16                     62             1.6        06.2          1.         I6.2         78         78'.3            .
.stsssS, Laro                                  0.9       8.8            1.3        23.1            1.7      '17.3           2.2        21.6           2.2        01.6           2.2        21.0        10.5       106.0         114.5
4 0.d-ln  (5)  Ttsl-or  (11  T-ot  (11
Irtladlns sososs                      ~~       ~~~~~~                                                                                                                                                ~    ~~~~~0 44.3  0  44.3  40.3
IMabcc  Opao-csO-  (i), daPa ft            (1)                                                                                                                                                               0           29.0           29.0
-o taorph (I)                                   0        29.0
aalooiincsa  (1) cissac ptnsosaa (1)                                                                                                                         0          27.9          ?7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  2.  ?.
Mraa~~~~~~~~~~a  (1) ~~~~~~~~~~0                   13.9             0          13.9
0210sI   -8ays-  11) sltnaa39.6                                                                                                                                                                                                       39.6
cflcalsoots (5)                           0        18.~     ~     ~~          ~~~~~~                                                                                                                    ~    ~~~0 191.803781.
OtrLabar-oy squlpso                                  0         8.9            0            8.99.                                                                                                                                       4.
0ch-cIs, glsoascd costnI                                           .3            0            8.2            0         0.2            0           8.2            0          8.20                     8.          0          49292
7. Liosslok
Parstood isis  15) sod 01s  80218 (30).sssolc                                     0.5       4.6                                                                                       0.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.5  .6  4.62   5.1":
Parb-ad -1si5ny  6a11 115) sod  bnlooos(180 .   1t26.6    265.3                                                                                                                                                 266        365.299
drkaU)  o  dto108(am.  lIc04                                                                                       .                                                                                        0.4         4.4            4.1
P-rb-sO isi  (ID) cod fss1c (903 s=a. cotia                                                                   5.0      50.2                                                                                        39        '.
psbd  atbo1Ils (20) cod cot  (24),slI                                                                53.9    538.8                                                                                        39        13.            9.
Ponbrad isI  (10)an  fs-l  (100) 'nfl                                                                                                                                                                                                     04.
boffola. sno                                                                      10.6    181.3                                                                                        06        15.            0.
Nabtd  sI  (110) andOssi  (102) IbarraIs65.
batboI.I   scr                                                                 18.9      185.7                                                                                       8.          8.            0.
9-s                                                   0         2.3            0            2.3            0         0.3            0          2.3             0          2.3           0          2.3         0          13.8          13.8
8. 086cr:2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ':
Pstcrinsoy sappllss                                                                      21.8            0         21.8                      22.8                      31.8        0           83.2          87.2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~21.  2.9  O.  -1  21 
51.06 Loan                                                                        6.8      65.8            6.6       65.8             0.6       65.8           0.6       61.8        28.6       283.1         289.6~~~~~~~~~~6.  65.  5.6 65.
Oo&k flI.GaOd                                          -                                                                                                                                                                                   9   - 
303.6      445.9-        279.6         372.7          134.7   1382.2             02.3     154.9            12.3      184.5          12.3      15.         737        06.0           398
-    -              -                          -                         -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~!.   -  II -  -9
foOl 3. 1975



ANNEX 7
Page 1
MALAYSIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
MARDI - Research Program for Agricultural Products Utilization
A. Introduction
1.        Agricultural products utilization research is most effective
when conducted as an integral part of the total food production and distribu-
tion system. Such integration was aimed at by the MARDI Act, which required
that the existing Food Technology Research and Development Centre would be
abolished and its activities incorporated in EARDI.
2.        The Project would achieve this aim by financing the development
and strengthening of the Agricultural Products Utilization Research Program
as an integral part of MARDI's agricultural research activities. It would
provide for expatriate scientists, fellowships, equipment and assist in
financing the construction of a quality control laboratory.
3.        Tne most obvious areas for farm products utilization research,
in direct support of commodity research programs are (i) rice storage and
processing, (ii) processing of pineapple, and other fruits, (iii) storage
and processing of field crops cuch as cassava (tapioca), groundnuts and
soyabeans, (iv) preparation of livestock feeds from rice and fruits by-
products and fieldcrop products, (v) processing of meats, (vi) establish-
ing standards and quality control criteria, and (vii) sanitation.
4.        Properly staffed and equipped, the Agricultural Products Utiliza-
tion Program has an important role to play in the Malaysian economy. There
is an urgent need to improve the rice milling quality and recovery rate, as
well as to utilize the byproducts of rice and other crops. Pineapple is a
valuable export crop. With some two million acres of peat soils suitable
for pineapple cultivation, the potential for production is limited only by
the quality and quantity of fruit produced and processed. Pepper, coconut
and cassava all have significant potential for local consumption and export.
In addition there is a need for production and processing of other field
crops and various by-products for livestock feed.
Status of Food Technology Research
5.        The agricultural economy of Malaysia has traditionally been based
on production and export of rubber and palm oil, and the production of rice.
Domestic production and processing of other food, feed and fibre crops has
received very little attention and the country has been heavily dependent



ANNEX 7
Page 2
on the import of these agricultural commodities. The government has now
embarked on a program of increased and diversified food production to reduce
imports and improve the nutritional standards of the population.
6.        Recognizing that food technology had an important role to play in
expanding agriculture production, for domestic consumption as well as for
export, GOM assisted by UNDP and FAO, agreed to establish "The Food Tech-
nology Research and Development Center" in January, 1966.
7.        The Plan of Operation stipulated that the project would be com-
pleted in five years (from November, 1967). It carried a budget of
US$1,070,200 from the United Nations Special Fund and US$1,170,000 (plus
US$100,800 for local operating expenses) from GOM. In addition, GOM made
additional funds available for staff and equipment and to meet inflated
costs of building construction.
8.        The objectives of the program were "To assist in establishing and
initially operating a Food Technology Research and Development Center (FTDRC)
and four field stations in order to conduct applied research on problems re-
lating to handling, storage, processing, and marketing of locally produced
foods and to provide advice and training in these fields to personnel at all
levels from Government and from industry; to improving the standards of the
existing industries and to explore investment opportunities In new food in-
dustries for local and export markets".
9.        The headquarters and main research facility was located at the
Federal Experiment Station in Serdang. Five field operational centers
have subsequently been established:
(a) Fruit and Vegetable Processing Station, Johore
Bahru.
(b) Fish Processing Station at Kuala Tengganu.
(c) Rice Processing Station at Alor Satar.
(d) Poultry and Egg Processing Station at Mergong.
(e) Fruit and Vegetable Station has been approved
and budgeted for Kuala Kangsar.
10.       The Food Technology Research and Development Center was divided
into 12 sections:



ANNEX 7
Page 3
Technological                             Service
a.   Rice Processing                      g.   Food Analysis and Control
b.   Fruit & Vegetable Processing         h.   Food Biochemistry & Nutrition
c.   Fish Processing                      i.   Food Microbiology
d.   Meat Technology                      j.   Food Engineering
e.   Animal Feedstuff                     k.   Food Packaging
f.   Cereals & starch                     1.   Food Marketing
At the end of the UNDP/FAO period assistance, only 5 of the 12 sections
were headed by qualified professional officers; 2 were in training and
five additional heads of sections were required for (a) rice processing,
(b) fruit and vegetable processing, (c) food analysis and control, (d)
food engineering, and (e) cereals and starch.
11.       Hiring and retaining qualified and in particular experienced staff,
has been a continuing problem of the center. The UNDP/FAO provided the cen-
ter with overseas fellowships and in-service training, and at the end of the
UNDP project assistance in April 1973, the staff consisted of 25 profes-
sionals, 11 of whom were on overseas fellowships. Thirty-five graduates
were assigned to the project; 10 resigned during the terms of the proj-
ect, including the first co-manager. Up to October 1, 1974 the Director of
the Food Technology and Development Center was also head of the Livestock
Research Division of MARDI, a most unsatisfactory arrangement.
12.       Under its constitution, the Center was established as a service
division of the Ministry of Agriculture with a Coordinating Committee to
formulate policies and programs of the Division of Food Technology. Mem-
bers are the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture and Fish-
eries, as Chairman, the Director of MARDI as Deputy Chairman, the Director
of the Food Technology Division as Secretary, Deputy Chairmen of the Fish
Industries Authority, the Livestock Corporation, and the Federal Agricul-
tural Marketing Authority, and the Directors General of the Division of
Fisheries, Veterinary Services, and the Agricultural Division. The last
three represent project development functions. This Committee meets appro-
ximately four times a year. The Chairman, Deputy Chairman, Secretary, and
the representative of the Agricultural Division serve as a Technical Work-
ing Committee which has authority to approve line projects.
13.       The major recommendations of the UNDP/FAO project Terminal Report,
"Food Technology Research and Development Center-Malaysia 1974", were:



ANNEX 7
Page 4
(a)  Appoint a qualified fulltime director.
(b)  Seek international assistance in recruiting
a director.
(c)  Recruit an expatriate food technologist.
(d)  Establish and fill a post for deputy
director.
(e)  Fill all research officer vacancies in:
(i) Rice Processing
(ii) Fruit and Vegetable Technology
(iii) Food Analysis and Control
(iv) Food Engineering
(v) Cereals and Starch.
(f)  Provide more overseas fellowships.
(g)  A qualified librarian and an officer for project
development are required. Documentation and dis-
semenation are important activities for the insti-
tute.
(h)  Other new activities to be considered by the
Institute:
(i) Edible Oil Technology
(ii) Dairy Technology
(iii) Spice and Beverage Technology.
14.       Since the end of the UNDP/FAO project assistance the Food Tech-
nology Research and Development Center has been restructured into five
divisions and 29 sections; and in October 1974 was transferred to MARDI
where additional re-organization and re-orientation will take place. The
5 Divisions, each under a Director are as follows: (i) Food Engineering
and Mechanization Technology, (ii) Processing Technology for Plant Mate-
rials, (iii) Processing Technology for Animal Materials, (iv) Quality
Control, and (v) Services and Development. However only 17 of the sec-
tions have scientifically or technically trained people on their estab-
lishment at present.                                         1
15.       There are 22 professional officers, 12 quasi-professional offi-
cers, 22 technicians and clerical staff, and 37 laboratory technicians
employed at the Centre. In addition there are 118 persons employed in
the administrative and other supporting capacities. The total complement
of personnel represents only 77% of the approved establishment.



ANNEX 7
Page 5
16.       A fruit and vegetable processing station at Tampoi (near Johor
Bahru) became operational in November 1967 in a building taken over from
the Department of Agriculture's canning section (established in 1938).
Nineteen persons are currently employed at this station, and all posts are
filled. Emphasis is on pilot plant product development, demonstrating im-
proved methods of drying, canning and handling of fruit products to improve
efficiency and quality. At Alor Setar a rice processing station became
operational in 1971 in temporary and inadequate quarters. A site at Bukit
Raya, next to a rice milling complex of the National Padi and Rice Board,
has been cleared and a new building will be constructed and completed by
the end of 1974. Major efforts are being made on examining various varie-
ties of padi for milling recovery, the setting up of rice standards, studies
on the method of parboiling of rice and small scale investigations into the
methods of drying and storing of padi and rice. A national survey on man-
agement and technical efficiency of rice mills is being conducted. This
station assists in the training of personnel from the National Padi and Rice
Board.
17.       Two additional stations are being developed.  The poultry and
egg station, at Mergong near Alor Setar, is expected to be operational
by the end of 1974. Four persons are already employed and 15 posts have
been approved for 1975. The station will study problems of slaughtering,
handling, storage, processing and transporting of meat, poultry and eggs.
A fruit and vegetable processing station at Kuala Kangsar, northwest of
Ipoh has been approved and budgeted. A total of 26 posts are expected
to be established for this station. It is also planned to set up a sta-
tion at Kuala Trengganu for fish meal studies. Two stations (in one
complex) are planned to be established in Pasir Puteh in Kelantan for
processing animal feeds and vegetable oil.
18.       Currently there are 32 line projects on which research is being
conducted. Many of these projects are short term and deal with development
programs requested by various government and semi-government agencies viz.
the Armed Forces, the National Applied Nutrition Programme, various State
Agricultural Departments, Food Industries of Malaysia, Farmers' Organiza-
tions, and State Economic and Development Corporations. Nutrition research
to develop high protein supplements for school feeding and programs for the
undernourished is an important component of the present program; research
in this area is intensive and effective. Publication of most of the reports
produced by the Center are restricted due to the policy of the government
in giving preference to government and semi-government agencies; during
negotiations it was agreed that research finding would be made available
to the public and private sector except for reasons of National Security.
The Center provides training in the establishment and running of food
processing plants to Farmers Organizations and State Economic Development
Corporations. It also provides quality control and other advisory serv-
ices to these agencies and the private sector.



ANNEX 7
Page 6
19.       The Center has good facilities and equipment adequate for most
of its on-going work. However the equipment would need to be supplemented
as more staff becomes available and programs are added.
20.       The current annual operating budget of M$2.6 million is supple-
mented by grants for specific special projects. It provides for all costs
for building and facility maintenance, administration and research at Serdang
and at the field stations.
Food Technology in the Malaysian Economy
21.       Malaysia has a long history of a rice milling industry, a cassava
starch industry, a soya industry, a palm oil industry, and a pineapple can-
ning industry. Today there are more than 25 companies involved in canning
various seafoods, meat, vegetables, fruits, oils, margarine, condensed and
powered milk, as well as canning and bottling of beverages. The major other
food processing enterprises are (i) bakeries, (ii) candy, confection and
noodle factories, and (iii) slaughter houses for livestock and poultry.
22.       The canned foods produced in 1973 were:
1973 MALAYSIAN CALNNED FOODS PRODUCTION /
No. of Cans    Consumption
(millions)
Sweetened condensed milk                  180          Local
Milk powder and beverages                  25          Local
Margarine                                   8          Local
Beer                                        5          Local
Pineapple                                 120          Export
Tuna                                        7          Export
Prawns                                      2          Export
Miscellaneous (Curry, pickles,             31          Local
sambal, baked beans, peas,
sweet corn, sardines, etc.)
/1   THE STRAITS TINES, March 20, 1974.
23.        Growth rate of the Malaysian canning industry has been slow.
The canning of pineapple (the second largest category) has been at a
standstill in recent years. Domestic consumption of canned foods (other
than milk and beverage products) is less than 5 cans per person per year.
Slowness in the growth of the canning industry in Malaysia is due to
shortages of quality raw material, inconsistency in supply, and lack of
consumer acceptance. Clearly there is scope for expansion of the local
canning industry.



ANNEX 7
Page 7
24.       In the proposal for the Second Malaysia Plan, 1971-1975, the
portion relating to the Division of Food Technology, Ministry of Agri-
culture and Co-Operatives, states, "The gross value as well as the
volume of sale of the food industry in West Malaysia occupies some 70%
of the total sales value for all industries, amounting to about M$600
million. Although well established, most of the food industries are
small and cater for the local market only. In the absence of organized
research, these small enterprises depend on experience for the production
of food items rather than scientific findings." This appears to describe
the industry of 1974.
25.       All levels and sizes of operations in the food industry from
the farmer to the consumer, and from the government industry to the cot-
tage industry can and would benefit from integrated food technology re-
search and development carried out by MARDI.
B. The Agricultural Products Utilization Research Program
26.       This research program introduces into the MARDI establishment
an Institute, albeit in a different format, which has an ongoing program
of research, which is directed at linking the producers and consumers of
agricultural products. The Project would assist not only in expanding its
activities, but more importantly in properly focusing it.
27.       It would achieve this through the provision of fellowships, ex-
patriate scientists research equipment, and the provision of a Food Quality
Research building.
28.       Training is an essential component of the Project and would con-
sist of 40 man-years of fellowships for post graduate and 4 man-years for
specialized training.
29.       The redirection of product utilization research into a vertically
integrated program would involve an extension of activities for pineapple
processing, cassava processing, rice processing, cured meat products as
well as an improvement in sanitation in food processing and food engineer-
ing. Additional emphasis would be given to selected projects for the im-
provement of products already commercially processed; the effort on new
product development and packaging would be of lesser priority.
Pineapple Processing
30.       There is need for improvements in pineapple processing technology,
mainly in problems of development and application of standards. The Program
would include studies on (i) improvement of engineering efficiency; (ii)
utilization of waste materials for production of juice, additional pine-
apple products, and extraction of bromelin, and (iii) disposal of waste
products.



ANNEX 7
Page 8
31.       Ongoing research on the development of a simple pineapple size
grading machine would be followed through. Research is being conducted
on the utilization of over-ripe fruit for wine and the conversion of
waste in to flakes for livestock feed; animal feeding trials will be
carried out in cooperation with MARDI. These research activities will
be strengthened and expanded under the Project.
Rice Processing
32.       Research on rice processing would be concerned with reducing
losses and producing a high quality product. Research beyond the farm
level would be primarily the responsibility of the program; this would
include control storage, drying, transport, milling, parboiling and the
utilization of rice by-products. Some of the research areas would be:
(a) milling deficiencies related to drying and
storage practices
(b) poor pre-milling conditioning and grading
(c) Lack of understanding and application of
standards
(d) poor quality of locally processed bran
(e) Poor maintenance and utilization of rice mills
(f) Low recovery and poor quality milled rice.
Cassava Products
33.       Cassava processing research would aim at expanding the market
for cassava products in all processed forms: (a) starch, (b) chips,
(c) pellets, (d) meal and (e) the utilization of waste for livestock
feed. Problems associated with cassava processing which require con-
tinuing research are: (i) location and capacity of plants, (ii) pro-
cessing techniques including, quality of water, types of equipment and
processes, factory layout and sanitary conditions, and (iii) quality
control.
Fish Processing
34.       The major requirements for research in the fish processing
industry are (i) improving quality, (ii) sanitation, and (iii) improv-
ing processing methods and efficiency. Research also needs to be done
on the utilization of fish by-products for livestock and fish feed.



ANNEX 7
Page 9
Meat, Poultry and Eggs
35.       Research in this field has only begun and would be strengthened
to support GOM's intention to expand meat production. The development of
the beef, poultry and egg industry require research in slaughtering tech-
niques, meat handling, meat processing, packaging, marketing and hygiene.
Some research has been carried out on the processing beef and buffalo meat
and pilot production of sausages. This would be continued. The poultry
and egg industry would receive special attention with the opening of a
station at Mergong by the end of 1974.
Livestock Feed
36.       The Agricultural Product Utilization Program would augment the
livestock industry through the development and promotion of a livestock
feed industry. A major problem is the lack of a dependable quality of
livestock feed supply. One of the contributions to the livestock industry
would be made through development of the use of by-products for feed, i.e.,
rice bran, cassava and cassava waste, copra waste, palm oil waste, pine-
apple waste, fish meal and bone meal.
Food Engineering and Sanitation
37.       General research would be undertaken to modernize the food pro-
cessing industry, primarily through the selection and development of machines
and methods to make the food industry more efficient. Focus would be on san-
itation and sanitation engineering.
Staffing
38.       With a staff of 25 professional officers, including 4 staff holding
PhD and 8 staff holding MSc degrees, the Program has the nucleus to build a
productive team of 40 or more research officers by 1980. Further training
and experience is required in order to provide qualified officers to lead
the divisions, sections and field stations.
Expatriate Scientist
39.       The Project would provide 15 man years of expatriate senior
research scientists to complement the young and enthusiastic team of
Malaysian professional research officers. Four areas of food technology,
in particular, require the assistance of senior scientists; (i) rice
processing, (ii) fruit and vegetable processing, (iii) quality control
and sanitation, and (iv) food engineering. These scientists are estimated
to cost US$900,000 (Table 7.1).



ANNEX 7
Page 10
Fellowships and Training
40.       Post graduate training of staff would be an important aspect of
the Project. It would provide 40 man years of fellowships for post grad-
uate training to MSc and PhD degrees and short term fellowships for spe-
cialized training and study tours. At the end of the project approximately
50% of the professional staff of the Agricultural Products Utilization Unit
would have benefited from such advanced training.
Land, Buildings, Equipment and Materials
41.       The unit has an excellent building complex at headquarters Serdang
which was constructed during the term of UNDP/FAO Project and adequate build-
ings have been or are being provided at the field stations. Quality control
and sanitation are the weakest links-in the food processing industry of
Malaysia; a modest building (costing US$81,600) is still required as a lab-
oratory for quality control and sanitation research is urgently required and
would be provided by the project.
42.       The project would provide equipment for the quality control and
sanitation laboratories and supplement existing equipment to strengthen the
fruit and vegetable processing program. Equipment for controlled atmosphere
storage research is required for conducting studies in the preservation of
fresh fruits and vegetables so as to provide a regular fresh market supply.
Cost Estimates
43.       The estimated cost of all goods and services which would be fi-
nanced for the Agricultural Products Utilization Research Program is shown
in Table 7.1.
April, 1975



MALAYSIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND KITENSSION PROJECT
AGRICULIURAL PRODUCT UTTLIZATION RESEARCH PROORaM
Cost Estimates - US$   1000 x 9si-alsnt
ITEMS                                            Year 1                  Year 2                 Year 3                    Year 4                   Year`                    Year 6Years 1-6
Local      Foreigh      Local     Foreign       Local       Foreign      Local       Foreign       Local      Foreign      Local       Foreign     Local       Foreign       Total
I - SERVICES
i. Expatriate Specialists
Senior Scentio t (Peocessing), 4 MY           9.0       51.0          9.0       51.0          9.0        51.0          9.0        51.0                                                          36.0        204.0         240.0
Rice Processoing and Storage
Ri.. Proc.s.i.g ..d SL.L.,:g                                                                                                                  ~~~~~~ ~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~19.0  102.0  120.0
Specialist,  2 MY                9.0        51.0         9.0       51.0
Ouality Control Specialist, 3 MY                                                                                       9.0        51.0           9.0          51.0       9.0         51.0        27.0       153.0         180.0
Shorlten Cpnaultanta, 3 NlY                   4,5       25.5          4.5       25.5          4.5        25.5         4.5         25.5           4.5          25.5       4.5         25.5       27.0        153.0         180.0
Foedproeeesing Engineer,  3 MY                                        9.0       51.O          9.0        51.0          9.0        51.0                                                           27.0       153.0         190.0
2. Followships
Staff Fello-ships, 44 MY'                     0        105.6          0        105.'          0         105.6          0         105.6           0           105.6       0          105.6       0           633.6         633.6
Subtotal I - SEiVICES                         22.9       233.1         51.5      264.1        22.5        233.1         3L.5       294.1          13.5         182.1      13.5        192.1       135.0.     1396.4        1133.6
II - 0D0S
1. Buildings
Quality Costrel Laboratory                  27.1        13.7         27.1       13.7                                                                                                             54.2        27.4          81.6
2. Vehicles
Truck (1), Pick-up (1), Station-
waggon (1) Vans (3)                      0         24.1                   24.1                                                                                                             0           48.2          48.2
3. Research Equipoent
Fruit Reaearch
GiORac  machine (pineapple)                   0          10.2                                                                                                                                    0            90.2          10.2
Rico Storage research                         0          20.4                                                                                                                                    0            20.4         20.4
Starch procesing studies                     0          16.3                                                                                                                                                 16.3          19.3
Pepper processing research                                                                                             0          20.4                                                           0           20.4          20.4
Cocos processing research                                                                      0         16.3                                                                                    0            16.3          16.3
oc p .ilrtP Control
Media equpr.ent                                                                                0         74.1                                                                                    0            74.1         74.1
Inoculators equipment                                                                          0          9.4                                                                                    0             9.4          9.4
necubation eqoipsasnt                                                                         0          34.3                                                                                    0            Z4.3         34.5
Autoclave and acceasories                                                                      0          6.5                                                                                    0             6.3           6.3
Microaealytical facilitios                                                                     0         34.3                                                                                    0            34.3          34.3
Sterilising and washing equipFent                                                              0         14.9
Analytical balance (1)  Ashing
equipment, chrPmwt-graphy
oquipm6nt, nteriliaig chemicals                                                                          26.7                                                                                    0            26.7          26.7
Other laboratory equipment                                                                     0         5323.0
Instrumentation                                                                                0        204.1                                                                                    0           204.1         204.1
Controlled Atosaphere Research
Gas diffusion  meter and  harts                                        0        40.8                                                                                                             0            40.8          40.5
Hontor colorioeterr    (1)
Roitdifitcs (2)                                                       0         20.4 4                                                                                                                        20.4          20.4
Astomrtic  Control equipenit                                          0         32.7                                                                                                             0            32.7          32.7
Fruit and Juices Equipment
Thernobreak (1) juice transfer pumps,
tubular ensler                                                                                 0         19.6                                                                                    0            19.6          19.6
fille  for vics  nd sei-visou                                                                                                                                                                                 10.2          10.2
products                                                                         0          10.201.2                                                                                                          12
Vegetable Oils Research
Bleaching and deodorising equipment                                                            0         49.0                                                                                    0            49.0          49.0
Solvent eotractor, Screw'press expeller                                                        0        244.9                                                                                    0           244.9         244.9
PS11etiser                                                                                     0        102.0                                                                                    0           102.0         102.0
Dewaxing equipment                                                                             0          53.1                                                                                                53.1          53.1
Subtotal !I - GOODS                             27.1       64.7         27.1     131.7           0        952.4          0           20.4                                                          54.2       1189.2        1243.4
AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTS UTILISATION                                                                                                                       3
RESEARCdi PROGRAM          -     TOTAL          49.6      317.8         58.6     415.8          22.5      1165.5        31.5        304.5           13.5        182.1       13.5       182.1       189.2      2187.6        2777.0
April 3, 1975



ANNEX 8
Page 1
MALAYSIA
AGRICULTUPAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
MARDI - Research Program for Agricultural Engineering and Water Management
A. Introduction
1.        Malaysia has a relatively high land to labor ratio in comparison
to most South East Asia countries. Thus the availability of labor and energy
could become a constraint to intensification and extension of agriculture
production, particularly at the peak planting and harvesting periods (see
Chart No. WB 9036 prepared by R. Wijewardene, MARDI/FAO Chart).
2.        It is therefore necessary to develop selective mechanization sys-
tems to supplement the labor and facilitate increased agricultural produc-
tion in these peak periods. Padi has traditionally been cultivated with
labor and draft animals; however the workanimal population is too small to
make a significant contribution to the energy available for paddy produc-
tion, and the use of tractors has increased rapidly in recent years.
3.        About 75% of the padi land preparation operations (plowing, ro-
tavating, harrowing and leveling) in West Ralaysia now makes use of tractors.
The tractor population in Malaysia is estimated to be about 8100, 4-wheel
units and 5,000 single-axle (power tiller) units. 1/ The total number of
4-wheel tractors used for arable agriculture (primarily rice) appears to
be stabilizing at about 2,100 units; contractors own approximately 1,400
of these tractors. It is significant to note that while the demand for
4-wheel tractors appears to be leveling off, the demand for single-axle
tractors is rapidly increasing; 1973 sales are estimated to be about 1,900
units and the total number in use is estimated to be 5,000. While 4-wheel
tractor sales have tended to level off, the horsepower per unit has risen
dramatically:
1/   1972 figures, Department of Agriculture - Note:  It has been estimated
that more than 2,100 of the 4-wheel units and the majority of the
single axle units are used for rice cultivation. Single axle tractor
figures have been adjusted according to 1973 sales.



ANNEX 8
Page 2
Year            % less than 40 BHP         % over 60 BHP
1965                 55                         0
1969                 14                        32
1972                  1                        81
This trend of increase in horsepower-per-unit is rather alarming because it
appears to be associated with the deteriorating flotation and traction con-
ditions in the irrigated double cropping system.
4.        Moreover, the second crop must be grown and harvested during the
rainy season when it is difficult to provide adequate drainage and water
control. The most difficult field operations are land preparation and har-
vesting; also drying and storage of the wet season crop can be extremely
difficult.
5.        Conditions observed at the MUDA Irrigation Sclheme are a prime
examiple of the mechanization and water control problem. The MUDA project
is forging ahead in spite of the difficult field conditions. Larger and
more sohpisticated tractors are being used to overcome the traction and
flotation problems; but these are only temporary solutions. The use of
conventional track type combine harvesters have been virtually abandoned
and the project is experimenting with other harvesting machines.
6.        The traditional system of harvesting and storing of padi has
always been inefficient and wasteful. Increased yields through high yield-
ing varieties, fertilizer and irrigation make it essential to introduce
new technology for harvesting, drying, storing and handling. The labor
peaks and the problems of harvesting the second crop during the wet season
are a serious constraint to further intensification and extension of padi
production.
7.        Preservation of grain quality for feed and food have assumied
added importance in Malaysia as production of feed and food grains increased.
Drving to safe storage moisture and mainitenance of dry, clean storage is es-
sential for all the crops. Research will need to be- directed towards eco-
nomical, effective metliods of drying, hiandling and storing these crops at
all levels.  Losses fronm the field to thie consumer may exceed 15%.  Simple,
effective on-farm preservation methods are urgently required.
S.        In addition to padi rice, the production of maize, sorghum and
soyabeans and otlher field crops require at least some degree of mechianization
in 'Salaysia.  fliis is particularly true in land preparation, planting and
harvesting. Timeliness of field operations becomes critical when a crop is
included in rotations or in a inultiple cropping systen.
9.        It is thus apparent that Agricultural Lngineering (mechanized
land preparation, planting, harvesting and storage) are directly related



ANNEX 8
Page 3
to water management in modern agriculture. The cultural practices and
associated mechanization applied must be compatible with erosion control
measures, drainage and irrigation systems which promote effective and
efficient water use as part of an integrated modern farming system.
Equipment, tillage practices, planting seasons and harvest seasons must
be selected to take best advantage of the degree of water control avail-
able.
10.       Agricultural engineering and water management principles are
being applied to tropical agriculture through appropriate design on a
fully integrated crop production basis. The usual adoptive approach
of mechanizing each manual operation of rice for example (flooding,
plowing, puddling, leveling, weeding, crop cutting, threshing, winnowing,
drying and storage) have lead to expensive and sophisticated machinery
and systems. Instead a new "integrated systems" approach using all
forms of modern technology, from plant breeding to engineering should be
developed to produce efficient farming systems, taking into account also
the social conditions 4n which the farming system takes place.
11.       It is with these problems in mind that MARDI is pursuing a re-
search program including agricultural engineering and water management.
This research will also include the social and economic aspects of tech-
nology both in maximizing labor use and production, and in making farming
and farm work more attractive.
Status of Agricultural Engineering and Water Management Research in M4ARDI
12.       When MARDI became operational in 1971 the Soil, Water and En-
gineering Division was one of the six Divisions in the Institute. Water
Management and Agricultural Engineering was a branch in that Division.
13.       From the very beginning water management and agricultural en-
gineering have been grossly neglected and understaffed. Due to organizational,
manpower and budgetary limitations the branch has been unable to conduct an
adequate research program and supporting services for the commodity research
programs.
B.  The Agricultural Engineering and Water MIanagement Research Program
14.       The Agricultural Engineering and Water Management Research Pro-
gram would pursue the following objectives:
The development of systems and techniques - in association with
the other crop research programs - for increasing the income
and productivity of:
(a) the farmer
(b) farm-land



ANNEX 8
Page 4
15.       These objectives would give rise to the following research:
(a) the development of new, innovative techniques with
tools and equipment which can be constructed locally
for crop husbandry and processing, and through im-
proving the efficiency of operation of equipment and
services already used by the farmer.
(b) the development of techniques for increased farm-
land productivity such as 'double' and 'multiple'
cropping.
(c) the development of techniques for simple on-farm
processing to increase the value of farm produce
leaving the farmers hands.
(d) the development of techniques for coping with
particular padi problem areas and problem soils
such as peat.
(e)  encouraging the development of a healthy local,
agricultural machinery industry, and relieving
the farmer of the high margins on imported
machinery and implements.
(f) the development of techniques for processing of
new crops such as fibres; (cotton, kenaf, jute,
etc.) and for utilizing available energies (solar,
wind, etc.).
16.       Specific lines of research have been developed to provide a clear
program of work and objectives based on the best current knowledge, and upon
which to plan personnel and funding requirements. Flexibility is however
essential to ensure that programs remain topical and current.
17.       The Project would finance expatriate engineering scientists,
fellowships for training local professional and technical agricultural
engineering staff, the supply of vehicles, laboratory equipment, work-
shop equipment, plant equipment, machine shop equipment and testing
equipment.
18.       This would provide the staff and equipment required to support
the commodity research programs, carry out essential agricultural engineering
and related water management research, and provide coln7lete workshops
services for station operation and maintenance at Serdang, Bumbong Lima
and Bertam Estate; and workshop supporting services for all other stations.
19.       Plans have already been completed for the construction of build-
ing (workshops, stores, offices and laboratories) to provide the facilities



ANNEX 8
Page 5
at Serdang for the Agricultural Engineering, Water Management and Workshops
program. Cost of the entire complex exceeds M$900,000 and it planned to let
contracts in 1974 for the construction of selected buildings costing appro-
ximately M$500,000.
20.       The main center for Agriculture Engineering and Water Management
will ultimately be at the Bertam Estate. Some further expansion of work-
shop and related office facilities will be required at Serdang during the
3rd plan period; however the most essential building construction will be
required at Bertam Estate and is estimated to cost M$455,000. These build-
ings should be completed in 1977 to facilitate moving the Program from
Serdang to Bertam when more local professional staff become available in
1976.
21.       The Agricultural Engineering group in addition to its research
input will also provide the workshops, facilities and staff to serve the
needs of the other MARDI groups. The organization of a service unit would
ensure career opportunity for all disciplines operating under a commodity
oriented research program. This organization will permit each specialist
to serve the commodity groups as required and provide maximum mobility and
efficiency. Staff will have the opportunity to obtain varied experience
and their performance and career can be assessed and guided by their appro-
priate disciplinary service division.
Agricultural Engineering and Water Management in Rice
22.       Agricultural engineering and water management research are playing
an increasingly important role in reducing the land, labor and machine con-
straints for padi production. The problems have become particularly acute
with irrigation and double cropping and the resultant "off-season" harvest.
A fully integrated biological and engineering research to developing suitable
padi "farming systems" include the following activities:
Activity No: A-1 4-Wheel Tractor Mobility Studies & Implement Trials:
(a) Mobility Studies
(i) Effect of Water-table control on soil cone-index of
paddy soils varying in clay content.
(ii) Mobility-limiting cone-indices of tractors and power
tillers using various traction aids such as standard-
tyres; deep-lug-types; cage-wheels; half-tracks, Dondi-
Tracks; etc.



Page ij
(1h)    1:1   Im.plement Studies:
(i)  Comparison of costs, time, weed-control, and crop
response under varving tillage systems using mould-
board-plough; disc-plough; Tine-tilling; Rotary-
tilling; Disc-tilling (and combinations) towards
evolving the most economic tillage practise for seed-
bed preparation.
(c) Tractor-D!arvester Trials:
(i) Trials of rice-harvesting machinery including the
stripper harvester, tractor-mounted-harvester etc:
for nobility, economy of operation, efficiency, etc.
Activity `'o:  A-2 Farm Production Systems:
(a)  Power-Tiller-Development
(i)  Performance and handling trials of thc I-;RI poowcr-
tiller, Landmaster, and developmlent of power-tiller
design suitable for local (Malaysia) mianufacture.
(ii) Performance trials of the MARDI power-tiller in
conjunction with Dent. of Agriculture for extension
purposes.
(b) Tillage-Implermient Trials
(i)  Comparison of costs, time, weed-control, and crop
response under varying tillage-implement practises
towards identifying "miuiimum toilage" system.
(ii) Design and development of the implements for the
MARDI power-tiller which will achieve the objective
of "minimum-toilage."
(c) Stripper-Harvester Development:
(i)  Trials with the  'Poynter" and IRRI stripper-harvesters
to establish feasibility for operation under Mialaysian
conditions, and adapt the development for operation
with the HARDI power-tiller.
(d) Ultra-low Volume (IJLV) Sprayer Eauipment Trials:
(i)  Trials with both the battery driven and engine-powered
nLV sprayers for insecticide as well as weedicide
anplication in comparison with standard knapsack and
;1mist-blower' spray systems (high volume) for ease and
economics of operation.



ANNEX b
Page  7
(e) Fertilizer-Insecticide Applicator Development:
(i) Trials with the IRRI and similar sub-surface fertilizer-
insecticide applicators. An appropriate design is being
developed for farmer extension.
(f)  Development of "On-farm" facilities for cleaning, drying, storage:
(i) Paddy, harvested at optimum of 20-22% moisture content needs
cleaning, drying and storage on the farm. Simple equipment
suitable for use on the farm are being tested and evaluated
for feasibility within a systems approach, these include
domesticly fabricated equipment for farm drying such as
solar driers, desicant driers, heated-air driers etc.
Activity No: A-3 Post Harvest Systems:
Provisions have been made to train personnel for these programs,
one in drying systems, and the other in grain storage systems.
Agricultural Engineering and Water Management in Field Crops
23.       Agricultural engineering and water management research in support
of the Field Crops Research Program is concerned with field production equip-
ment, irrigation and erosion control. Field production mechanization and
water control are directly related to some of the rice program activities
since field crops will be produced both in rotation with padi and as the
principal crop. Horticultural crops, because of similarities in mechani-
zation requirements are treated basically as part of the field crops activi-
ties. Trials would be conducted with trickle irrigation in closely spaced
horticultural and vegetable crops.
24.       The 'power-tiller' being developed under rice equipment and for
field crops would have particular benefit for the vegetable farmer, for
preparation of the soil, making up beds, seeding and inter-tillage. The
engineer will need to develop the most appropriate range of tools for the
variety of crops grown.
25.       Apart from the potential for Ultra Low Volume (ULV) system for
vegetable and horticultural spraying, there is considerable scope for
herbicide applications which will carry protection against the possibility
of drift on to the crop being grown. Two such applicators are currently
under development, one using a peristaltic pump and the other on the
'paint-roller' principle.  These appliances could have very important advan-
tages for control of weeds whlich is a high cost operation in oineapple
growing,
26.       In addition to the development of equlpmlent for pineapple produc-
tion and handling; major eimphasis will be given to the developi:,ent of suitaoi-c



AI4NEX 
Page 8
cultural practices (including water management) for Deat soils associate.l
with pineapple production.
Activity No: C-1 Development of Implements and Tools for Multiple Cropping:
Development of range of implements for the MARDI 'power-tiller'
to enable its adaptation to upland cropping (multiple) cropping
systems, inclusive of implements for ploughing; rotary tillage;
rotor-ridging; ridge-breaking, row-seeding, inter cultivation,
threshing and cleaning.
Activity No: C-2 Development of Equipment for On-Farm Processing of Tapioca
and Groundnut:
(a) Development of suitable root slicer/chipper/shredder
(b) Development of groundnut thresher and shells
(c) Development of crop drier
Activity No: C-3 Development of Herbicide Applicators:
Two types of applicator are planned for development'
(a)  Contact roller type (similar to IRRI design)
(b) Shrouder sprayer type
Activity No: C-4 Development trials with kenaf netting-decortication
equipment and procedure:
Trials with commercially available decorticators will be
followed by the development of a simple low-power decor-
ticator for use on small holding operations.
Agricultural Engineering and Water Management in Horticultural Crops
27.       Agricultural engineering and water management studies in horti-
cultural crops are as follows:
Activity No. D-1 Cocoa and Coconut Handling and Drying:
Laboratory studies followed by pilot plant trials, into
simplified systems of cocoa handling and drying for use
on small-holder plantations.
Activity No. D-2 Study into by-products of Coconut Industry - dessicated
coconut and Coconut Fibre Processing
Activity No. D-3 Development of irrigation systems for horticultural crops
(a) trickle, (b) 'Mini' sprinkler



ANNEX 8
Page 9
Activity No. D-4 Development of (horticultural) tillage equipment range to
match the MARDI power tiller
Activity No. D-5 Development of Pesticide Applicator for weed control in
horticultural crops (e.g. pineapple)
Engineering Activities in Livestock
28.       The principal objective of the engineering research in the live-
stock research program would be to design and develop structures and facili-
ties compatible with Malaysian social, economic and climatic conditions. In
pursuance of this objective the following activities would be undertaken.
Activity No. E-1 Designs for Poultry Structure and Facilities
Activity No. E-2 Designs for Goat/Sheep Structure and Facilities
Activity No. E-3 Designs for Swine Structure and Facilities
Activity No. E-4 Designs for Cattle (dairy) Structure and
Facilities
Activity No. E-5 Development and testing of simple equipment
and systems for feed mixing, concentration,
storage and delivery
Activity No. E-6 Development of livestock effluent disposal
and conversion (methane and manure) systems
Staffing
29.       Agricultural Engineering professional staff now consists of one
young Malaysian Agricultural Engineer (BSc Agri. Engr. 1973); and 5 non-
agricultural engineering graduates temporarily assigned to the Program.
Five agriculture diplomates were sent on overseas fellowships for training
in Agricultural Engineering in 1973, and 5 additional candidates are expected
to be selected for overseas fellowships in 1974/75, ultimately leading to a
total 17 professional agricultural engineers in the Program by 1980.
30.       Engineering research and support services are severely limited,
and will continue to be unless an immediate input of internationally re-
cruited series scientist becomes available. Initially it will be necessary
to appoint an experienced foreign agricultural engineer as Senior Scientist
(Program Coordinator). In addition, it will be desirable to contract short
and long term agricultural engineering specialists to assist with commodity
and line research programs.
31.       A total of 15 man years of internationally recruited expertise
(costing US$900,000) will be required by the Agricultural Engineering, Water
Management and Workshops Services Program; including an internationally



ANNEX 8
Page 10
recruited Senior Scientist as head of the program. These engineers will
provide vital support to the commodity research programs, conduct agricul-
tural engineering and water management line research programs and provide
workshops services and mechanical support for field research program oper-
ations, station operation and station maintenance.
Training and Fellowships
32.       The internationally recruited senior scientists will provide
on-the-job training for support staff; technicians, mechanics, machinist,
draftsman and other skilled craftsman required to support all MARDI pro-
grams as well as all station and equipment maintenance and operation.
In addition they will provide for training of local counterpart profes-
sional officer who will assume responsibility for the program of the
unit.
33.       MARDI has provided for the training of 7 engineers and water
management professional research officers to the BSc level. however addi-
tional post graduate training will be required in order to provide the
knowledge and experience necessary to execute meaningful research pro-
grams. The Project would provide 21 man years of fellowships for training
and education to MSc and PhD degrees and 3 man years of fellowships would
provide for short-term specialized training at overseas universities and
research institutes.
C. Land, Buildings and Equipment
34.       Land is available at the headquarters, Serdang and all field
stations for implementation of this Program. Most of the projects will
be conducted in collaboration with commodity programs, thus land has
already been allocated as part of the other programs.
35.       Buildings, offices, workshops, laboratories have already been
designed and approved for Serdang; construction is expected to begin in
1974. Sufficient funds have been allocated to complete 5 of eight build-
ings; the remaining buildings would be provided as part of the Project.
36.       The Project would provide for construction of buildings and
facilities at Bertram Estate; and servicing workshops at Parit and
Tanjong Karang.
37.       A large equipment component for workshops, laboratories, and
field equipment would be provided for support to all MARDI programs and
for station maintenance and operation. Some prototype fabrication
equipment, construction materials and field equipment are required to
conduct engineering research. Water management equipment, field and
laboratory, is required to support commodity programs and to conduct
basic and applied research.



ANNEX 8
Page 11
Organization and Management
38.       The Agricultural Engineering and Water Management Research Pro-
gram comprise four main units:
(a)  Agricultural Engineering Research
(b)  Water Management
(c) Workshop and Pool
(d) Design and Survey
39.       The Program would be headed by an internationall recruited senior
research scientist to organize, plan and supervise the activities of the
four principal groups. He would be assisted by other expatriate and local'
staff.
40.       The water management group would be headed by a local professional
officer and would work in close collaboration with the agricultural engineers
and the Department of Irrigation Development (DID). DID would provide most
of the required irrigation expertise.                       1
41.       The design and survey, and workshops groups would be headed by an
internationally recruited senior scientist and would be responsible for (a)
detailing design of prototypes, (b) the fabrication of prototypes, (c) the
modification of machines and equipment, (d) detailing designs for stations,
and research program land development including irrigation systems, (e)
detailed design of farm and station structures and the maintenance and
operation of station and program farm equipment.
42.       A foreman would be in charge of (a) service and repair workshops,
(b) prototype workshops, and (c) the machinery pool and equipment opera-
tions. An agricultural engineer would have overall supervisory responsi-
bility for these functions at headquarters and all field stations.
D. Cost Estimates
43.       The estimated cost of all goods and services which would be fi-
nanced for the Agricultural Engineering and Water Management Research Pro-
gram is shown in Table 8.1.
April, 1975



MALAYSIA
'AE3RICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
Agricultural Engineering and Water Management Research Progra-
Coat Estimate US8 x 1000 Equtvalent
Year I                Year 2                  Year 3                  Year 4                 Year 5                 Year 6                   Years 1 - 6
Legal      Foreign     Local      Fereign      Locat      Fureien      Local      Pumeig      Lecal    Fe-ige       Local      Foreign      LecaI      Feure        Tete1
I - SERVICES
1. EZpatriate Specialists
SBnier Agricultural Engineer 5 MY (Year 1, paid by FAO)                                   9.0        51.0         9.0       51.0        9.0         51.0        9.0        51.0         9.0        51.0       45.0       255.0        300.0
Machinery Engineer, 3 MY                                                                  9.0        51.0         9.0        51.0        9.0        51.0                                                       27.0       153.0        180.0
Storage and drying Enginner, 3 MY                                                         9.0        51.0         9.0        51.0        9.0        51.0                                                       27.0      153.0        180.0
Fare Structuree, 3 MY                                            9.0          51.0        9.0        51.0         9.0        51.0                                                                              27.0       153.0        180.0
Shenttern cInsultancie, I MY                                     1.5           8.5        1.5         8.5         1.5         8.5        1.5          8.5       1.5         8.5         1.5         8.5         9.0       51.0          60.9
2.   Fll1-ehipo
Staff FellovshipF, 24  MY                                        0           57.6         0          57.6         0          57.6       0           57.6        0          57.6         0          57.6         0         345.6        345.6
Subtetal I - SERVICES                                              10.5        l17.1        57.5       270.1        57.5       270.1       29.5       219.1       10.5       117.1        10.5       117.1       135.0      1110.6       1245.6.
II - GOODS
1. Buildings
Workshhp - Serdang                                              68.0         34.0        68.0        34.0                                                                                                     136.0        68.0        204.0
Office-   - Serdang                                             32.7         16.3        32.7        16.3                                                                                                      65.4        32.6         98.0
Lhboratory - Bertram                                                                     34.6        17.4        34.7        17.3                                                                              69.3        34.7        104.0
Workshop - Bertram                                                                       27.2        13.6        27.2        13.6                                                                              54.4        27.2         81.6
W-rkhhp -  Fari and Tanjuog Earnig                                                        6.8         3.4         6.8         3.4                                                                              13.6         6.8         20.4
2 . Fern Equipment
STall Carm tracturn and implenents                                                        0           5.1         0           5.1       0             5.1       0           5.1                                 0          20.4         20.4
75 HP treeter and a.oeciated equipmnnt                          0             8.2         0           8.2         0           8.2                                                                               0          24.6         24.6
Thresher, (5) combine(l) ,  ther harnesting equipmeet           0             9.0         0           9.0         0           9.0                                                                               0          27.0         27.0
Drying, niurage, handling equipment                             0            13.3         9           6.1         0           6.2        0            6.1                                                       0          31.7         31.7
rreF.ere (2), planes (2), ditchers (2), ether
lend development equipment                                  0            10.2        0          10.2                                                                                                       0         :23.4         20.4
Spare parts, 15%                                                              6.1                     5,8                     4.3                     1.7                    1.0                                0          18.9         18.9
3.   Vehicles
Microbus (4), pick-up, 4-wheeldrive (4),
tiailer (4), Truck (1)                                          0            42.6         0          42.6                                                                                                       0          85.2         85.2
Moter cnr (1)                                                    3.2           4.9                                                                                                                               3.2        4.9          4.9
Spare paste, 15%                                                              7.1                     6,4                                                                                                       0          13.5         13.5
4. Laboeatory Equipmn..t
Electronic ar-ing equipment                                                               0          16.3                                                                                                       0          16.3         16.3
Phetegraphir and viauel aid equipment                                                     0           2.2                                                                                                       0           2.2          2.2
Farn Prodacte Proesnuing                                       0             7.2          0           7.3                                                                                                       0          14.5         14.5
Hydr-graphic, vater gaugieg aqaipurnt, pumpe,
Flownetero, inCiltroetersr, irrigatien sprapy, ete.            0              12.2        0          7.2          0          7.2                                                                                0          26.6         2686
W.aUrkhohP Equipment
Ferm mechinery servicing equipment                             0              12.2        0          12.3                                                                                                       0          24.5         24.5
Vehicle Servicing  Equipment                                   0              12.2        0          12,3                                                                                                        0         24.5         24,5
Diesct  eqaipment                                              0              12.2        0           7.3                                                                                                       0          19.5         19.5
Hand turls and inotrumennt                                     0               8.2         0           8.2        0          8.2                                                                                 0          24.6         24.6
Stesee and supplies                                            0               6.1        0           6.1         0          6.1                                                                                0          18.3         18.3
Machine  tuols                                                 0              20.4         0          10.4        0         10.4                                                                                 0          41.2         41.2
6.   Other
Design Office
Drafting equipment                                             0              4.3                                                                                                                                0         4.3          4,3
Blueprint xeproduction equipment                                0               8.1                                                                                                                               0          8.1          8.1
Field Egqipment
Survepey-' equip ent                                           0               2.0         0           2,1                                                                                                       0         4.1          4.1
Protetype Fabsicntien end tenting
Tenting nquipment                                                                          0           6.8        0          6.8         0           6.8                                                         0         20.4         20.4
Materials and components for prototype,
cun-tructi-n and testing                                       0              13.6        0           13.6        0         13.6         0          13.6         0          13,6         0          13.6         0        81.6          81.6
Bubtotal II - G0OOD0                                           103.9-          270.14      169.3       290.2      68.7       139,          0          33,         0          19.70
AGRICULTURAL  ENGINEERING RESEARCH PROGRAM - TOTAL                 114.4           387.5       206.8       560.3      106.2       38E,.5     28.5         25.h        10.5        136.8      10.5        130.7      476.9      1857.2       2334.1
April 3, 1975



MALAYSIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
Increasing Small Rice - Farmer Productivity
Through Appropriate Mechanization
300
LII TRADITIONAL
SYSTEMS MECHANIZATION
200                          o                                                                             F-rg   
.2n50F                     <          WE,                L                             ,0.-.,.,:2
i::                     [~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~u
LU~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U
0     Hw
200                       F_~~~~~~~
EL
w                                  cn~~~~ 
<CT. 150V                       DECIJAN.                         FEB.MAR.
eW 0
LU~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L
4                        W~~~~~<<
0                       <~~~~c
LLI~~~~~~~~
100                                                                                   I W
_j n                          .                             I
50~~~~~~~~~~~
LLL
This chart illustrates the peak labour involvement, in man-hours-per-ten-day
period on a typical three-acre farm in Malaysia farmed traditionally; as
vvell as the realistic levels to vvhich this involvement might be reduced and spread
over the growing cycle through appropriate mechanization.
World Ban k-9036(R)



ANNEX 9
Page 1
ALAYSIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
MARDI - Project Development Unit
A. Introduction
1.        The MARDI Act specifies MPARDI's responsibilities for disseminating
its research findings to the extension services, for maintaining liaison with
other organizations whose activities are relevant to its programs, and for
sociological research relevant to agriculture. The Project Development Unit
is responsible for these activities in MARDI, including regional verfication
trials to provide information on local adaptation of research findings for
the extension service and also to define local problems that may need further
research.
2.        It is recognized by both MARDI and the Federal Department of Agri-
culture that effective mechanisms for liaison between research and extension
are essential if the benefits of agricultural research are to flow quickly
and effectively to the farming community. The establishment of formal
extension liaison links has been proposed by the Department of Agriculture,
and both parties recognize the need to ensure maximum contact and interaction
between the research and extension services. With positive encouragement,
the existing links should develop into detailed and fruitful cooperation.
Present Status of Development Unit
3.        Unlike some of the research units in MARDI, the Project Develop-
ment Unit did not take over an existing function of the Department of
Agriculture. Thus a completely new team has had to be established since
1971 which, by mid-1974, had recruited a total of nine graduate officers.
Effort so far has been concentrated mainly on setting up effective field
verification teams with six of the graduates being employed on the field
verification program. To date these have operated exclusively in crop
development, because the livestock program has not yet produced a signi-
ficant flow of information for regional evaluation.
Regional Evaluation Program
4.        In 1973 the Unit conducted 25 field verification trials at 38
sites in the States of Kedah, Kelantan, Trengganu, Selangor, Malacca and
Johore. The two principal crops studied were rice and groundnuts, but a
considerable range of other field crops, fruit crops, vegetable and tree



ANNEX 9
Page  2
crops were included in the program.  The leader of the Project Development
Unit holds a PhD degree in extension, which should facilitate the development
of regional evaluation programs.
5.        Because this activity represents a vital link between the .LA@RDI
research program and the extension services of other agencies, mIost of these
field evaluation studies have been conducted in co-operation with the
Departments of Agriculture and Farmers' Associations.  The Project Develop-
ment Unit in MARDI is fully aware of the need to forge strong links with
the extension services in the Departments of Agriculture at both the Federal
and State levels, and of tihe advantages of positive collaboration in the
conduct of field verification trials.
Information Section
6.        No staff has yet been appointed to the Information Section of the
Project Development 'Jnit but the need to have this Section fully operational
as quickly as possible is fully appreciated.  The Section would provide
information on MARDI research findings to extension agencies through the
media of seminars, lectures and workshops at the Institute's headquarters
and regional stations.  So far, the activity undertaken in this area has
been done by '!ARDI research workers on an ad 'noc basis.  Tt is planned
that they would continue to be fully involved in future extension liaison
activities through the Information Section. The Section's staff would be
increased progressively to enable it to cope with the increasing flow of
research results.  The Section would also be resDonsible for publishing .ARDI
research findings iTn a rorm suitable for use bv extension workers.
Sociological Studies
7.        Work has now commenced on rural sociological studies within the
Project Development Unit. Three B.Sc. graduates have been recruited, but
to date no surveys have been completed. Rural sociological activity is
one of the areas where the interests of the Federal Department of Agri-
culture and of MARDI converge.  The Department of Agriculture, with its
responsibility for the extension services, has a direct concern with
sociological investigations into various aspects of farmer acceptance
of new agricultural technology.  It is logical that the Department should
continue to concentrate on this aspect of sociology, while the MARDI group
would cover broader aspects such as the impact of technology on social
structure, and the interaction between social change and the Institute's
research programs.  Current studies involve topics such as mechanization
and employment and rural income distribution. The studies are of particular
importance in the endeavour to improve the lot of Msalaysia's small farmers.



ANNEX 9
Page 3
B. The Project Development Unit
Description
8.        The Project would substantially aid the expansion of MARDI's
Project Development Unit during its formative phase. Funds would be
provided for some experienced overseas personnel to assist in program
planning and development, for 24 man-years of fellowships for post-graduate
training of MARDI staff, and for equipment and materials needed to support
the Unit's activities.
Staffing
9.        Regional Evaluation Studies:  Under the Project it is planned to
expand the present program of crop evaluation/verification studies to
include similar studies on the evaluation of livestock and freshwater
fishery findings. This expansion would require ten additional graduate
staff, plus supporting technical and field staff. It is planned that a
number of these regional evaluation studies would be carried out in East
Malaysia with the collaboration of the Sarawak and Sabah Departments of
Agriculture, after agreements to that effect have been r&ached between the
Federal and State Governments concerned.
10.       Information Section:  Six graduate officers would be recruited to
set up the Information section which would be responsible for organizing
regular programs of workshops, Lectures and seminars in collaboration with
MARDI research workers. The Section would also prepare a variety of
material for use by extension specialists and field extension workers.
11.       Rural Sociology:  The present team of three rural sociology
graduates would be expanded to six. This would provide adequate strength
in this group which will be giving important guidance to MARDI management
on social change which would be taken into account in deciding the priority
and emphasis in MARDI's research programs. An internationally recruited
senior research specialist in rural sociology would be recruited for three
years. He would advise and assist in program planning and execution during
the critical formative phase when two or three of the local staff would be
overseas for post graduate training.
12.       Technical Assistance:  The Project would provide two interna-
tionally recruited research specialists durino the first three years of
implementation. One would be a senior scientist who could assist thle
senior MTARDI personnel in planning the scope and operations of the Unit,
and the second would be the rural sociologist mentioned above. An addi-
tional 12 man-months of expatriate time would also be provided to allow
for short-term assistance in specific aspects of the program.



ANNEX 9
Page 4
13.       Overseas Fellowships:  A total of 24 man-years of fellowship
funds has been included to provide for overseas post-graduate training for
MARDI officers. This would be available for training at either the MSc. or
PhD levels at the Institute's discretion.   In addition, flnds would be
provided for 36 man-months to be spent by MARDI staff in short-term training
visits to overseas institutions.
Land and Buildings
14.       No land purchases would be required for the Project Development
Unit, and the buildings already approved for MARDI would be adequate for the
Unit's activities.
Equipment and Materials
15.       It is proposed to provide under the Project equipment to a total
value of US$292,800. Most of this is for the purchase of vehicles to
service the Project r velopment Unit's program of regional verification of
research results. This covers 17 vehicles for use in Peninsular Malaysia
and 15 for use in Sarawak and Sabah after 1977. Also printing equipment
will be needed for preparing printed material for use in extension liaison,
and by the extension agencies. Fertilizer to be used in crop and livestock
verification projects at a large number of sites in both Peninsular Malaysia
and in Sarawak and Sabah and minor equipment needs would be provided by
the Project.
Organiation and Management
16.       The Project Development Unit would operate as one of the Units
responsible to the Assistant Director for Research Services.
17.       The two international scientists would be expected to contribute
significantly to overall planning and evaluation of the Unit's activities,
and in the planning and implementation of sociological studies. This would
have particular value early in the project when a considerable proportion
of the present MARDI staff would be overseas on post-graduate study. The
visiting scientists would have individual work programs, and will not act
solely as advisers.
18.       It is important that the roles of MARDI on the,one hand and the
Agricultural and Veterinary Departments and other agencies with extension
responsibilities on the other should be clearly defined. Research is
MARDI's function, but regional verification would be a joint activity
involving both MARDI and the extension agencies. Verification at the
district level is the responsibility of the extension agencies, and MARDI
would not compete with the agencies at this level.  Both MA4RDI and the
extension agencies are concerned with different aspects of tCe training
cf extension -oorlkers, while the agencies are concerned wit- lnvestigations
into the effectiveness ol extension methods,



ANNEX 9
Page 5
19.       To promote efficiency of operations of this research-extension
interface, an Extension-Liaison Committee would be set up to establish
effective links between research and extension, and to define and co-
ordinate the activities of iMARDI and the extension agencies in areas of
mutual concern. This committee would have senior representatives from
M4ARDI, the Department of Agriculture and the Veterinary Department, RISDA,
FELDA, RRIM, FOA and YIPIB. Where appropriate, sub-committees would be
set up to deal with extension for the main crop and livestock activities.
Project Objectives
20.       Through its impact on the effective transfer of results from
research to extension and of field problems from extension to research,
the Unit would have a profound effect on the value of all MARDI research.
The achievement of all benefits expected to flow from this Project would
therefore be substantially dependent upon the effectiveness of the Project
Development Unit.
21.       Implementation of the proposals would accelerate the development
of an effective extension-liaison group within 'MARDI staffed by a well-
trained group of extension and information specialists and rural sociolo-
gists.
22.       By facilitating the expansion of Project Development activities
to service the States of Sabah and Sarawak, the project would develop
closer ties between agricultural research and extension activities in
these States and Peninsular M1alaysia. 1/  This would be of considerable
advantacve to Sarawak and Sabah as it would enable the growing resources of
'IARDI to be brought to bear on their agricultural problems.
Cost Estimates
23.       The estimated cost of all goods and services whiich would be
financed for the Project Development 1nit is shown in Table 9.1.
April, 1975
1/   It is expected that this extension into Sabah and Sarawak would be
effected by 1977, after agreement between the Federal and State Govern-
ments !have been reached.



MALAYSIA
AGRICULTvRAL RESEARCH 4ND EXTENSION PROJECT
Project DeveloPomnt Unit
Cost Estimate U8 x 1000 Euvivaeont
ITEM                                      Year I                     Yeor 2                 Year 3                    Year 4                   Year 5                    Year 6                Yea. 1-6
Local      Foreign        Local       Forein      Local       Foreign       Loca        Forsign       Local       Forisn       Local    Forcisn        Local      Foreign       Tot-l
I- Sl'RVICES
S. NlRo7trj.atce ecEOS Into
S-bi- Spcialiat,    3 MY                     9.0          51.0          9.0         51.0         9.0         51.0                                                                                    27.0        153.0       180.0
R-ral S-i.ologit, 3 MY                       9.0          51.0          9.0         51.0         9.0         51.0                                                                                    27.0        153.0        180.0
Sbortterm CIocultoocion, 1 MY                1.5           8.5          1.5          8.5         1.5          8.5-         1.5          8.5          1.5        8.5          1.5        8.5           9.0         51.0        60.0
7. Ccl Iaa,htps
_2.
Stuff Fe11o5-hipa, 24 MY                    0            57.6          0          57.6          0           57.6          0           57.6         0          57.6          0         57.6         0           345.6        345.6
Subtotul T - SERVICES                      19,5         168.1         19.5       168.1         19P5         168.1         1.5        66.1          1.5        66.1          1.5      66.1          63.0        702.6        765.6
II - GODSS
1. Fertiliaert
UrSa, 78 to- @ M1  700/ton                   0.4           3.7          0.4          3.7         0.4          3.7          0.4          3.7        0.4          3.7          0.4        3.7          2.4          22.2        24.6
Phouph.te, 27 t.oc ( MS 500/ton              0.1           1.0          0.1         1.0          0.1          1.0          0.1          1,0        0.1          1.0          0.1        1.0         0.6           6.0          6.6
P.at-h, 34 tona L M$ 400/ton, Lie,
T-ac- ElSment.                          0.2           1.9         0.2          1.9          0.2          1.9         0.2           1.9        0.2          1.9         0.2         1.9         1.2          11.4         12.6
PrutSatdci , oboaelloneouo ahenicalo         0.2           2,0         0.2          2.0          0.2          2.0          0.2          2.0     -  0.2          2.0          0.2        2.0         1.2          12.0         13.2
2.  Vehicl
4 W-drive  (32)                                                         0          45.7          0           45.7          0           45.7        0           39.2          0         32.7         0           209.0        209.0
Spar.p-rto,  15%                                                        0           6.9          0            6.9          0            6.9        0            5.9          0         4.9          0            31.5         31.5
3. Re-oa-h_ Equipaent
Wlcighlog  -ahI-es (24)                                                 0           14.7                                                                                                            0            14.7         14.7
Soiltoat kito (22), P.akett
Calculatars (22) C-r.to (22)
Vlaaal a Ida (10) Film paojoato-a(6)                                    0           19.6                                                                                                            0            19.6         19.6
III cetiuralecors  KEqabi-aat                0             3.0          0           3.0          0            3.0          0            3.0        0            3.0          0          3.0         0            18.0         18.0
.,btwalJ  LI   COSDS                           0.9           11.6         0.9          98.5        0.9          64.2         0.9          64.2       0.9          56.7        0.9         49.2        5.4           344.4       349.8
PROJECI D1RR.VJ. RPMNT PS0RRE   TOTA20 4                       1720.4        0.4       266.6        20.4         231.3          2.4       130.3         2.4      .122.8-         2.4      115.3        66.4         1047.0       1115.4
April 3, 1975



ANNEX 10
Page 1
MALAYSIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
MARDI - Central Services
Introduction
1.       IMARDI plans to provide central services for analytical chemistry,
computing activies and library services, but for various reasons associated
with staff, accommodation, and financial shortages, these have not yet been
established. Now that the quantum of research activity is rapidly increasing,
it is important that these services should be set up and equipped as soon
as possible. The Project would provide some major items of basic equipment
for analytical chemnistry, and strong support in equipment and material for
the establishment and development of the library. The Project would also
provide a computer system to be shared by MARDI and the Department of
Agriculture but a detailed study wiil be conducted before equipment and
costs are defined.
In addition central workshop facilities for all of IMARDI's research groups
would be provided by the Agricultural Engineering and Water Management
Research Program. (Details in A,nnex 8).
Equipment for Central Analytical Laboratory
2.        The various MARDI research programs will generate very large
numbers of plant, soil and "animal" (feeds and faeces) samples requiring
chemical analysis. It is expected that when MARDI is fully developed, a
total of 300,000 to 400,000 element determinations would be required each
year. MARDI plans to handle this large analytical load at a Central
Analytical Laboratory using labor saving and accurate modern instruments,
such as the atomic absorption spectrophotometer and an auto-analyzer.
3.        In order to ensure that adequate up-to-date equipment is avail-
able so that the Central Analytical Laboratory can become fully operative
at an early stage, the Project would finance several of the key items. The
first basic items needed would be an Auto-analyzer with block digester and
an atomic absorption spectrophotometer.
4.        This equipment would provide routine analysi- for the individual
elements of most common interest in plant, soil and animal research, e.g.,
in the case plant analysis, total nitrogen, phosphorus, potassium, calcium
and a range of trace elements. Special analysis such as those required
to determine particular forms of nitrogen or phosphorus would be the
responsibility of the section concerned, and would not be offered by the
Central Service.



ANNEX 10
Page 2
5.        In many cases, MARDI scientists would be interested in the levels
of a broad spectrum of elements in their experimental materials, particu-
larly where new crops or new areas are concerned. In these cases, an
instrument capable of providing a rapid scanning of a wide range of ele-
ments is more suitable than the standard procedures for single or small
numbers of elements. To do this work an emission spectometer system would
be required - e.g., the ARL Quantometer which is capable of scanning, reading,
and printing out the levels of 20 elements in one minute. This system also
provides a rapid method for sulphur determination. Quantometer instruments
in use in agricultural research laboratories in both USA and Australia have
proven to be an invaluable aid in commodity-oriented research programs.
6.        The Project would provide MARDI with an emission spectrometer
(ARL Quantometer or similar system). The purchase would be phased for the
third year of the Project so that the standard instrumentation for the Central
Analytical Laboratory could first be set up and the necessary standards for
calibrating the emission spectrometer could be established.
Computer System for MARDI and Federal Department of Agriculture
7.        Computer services are standard in all agricultural research
institutions in the 1970's, and even at this early stage of development MARDI
is already hiring eight hours of computer time a week. Usage is at present
restricted by the small number of scientists in MARDI who have sufficiently
advanced training to enable them to use computers. With the planned large
increase in graduate staff over the next six years, and the large post-graduate
training program which would be supported by the Project, MARDI would require
a medium sized computer installation. MARDI would not share computing re-
search facilities with the University of Agriculture at Serdang, because
experience elsewhere has demonstrated the severe difficulties which would
arise when facilities shared between institutions with similar requirements
come under pressure. Moreover, a computer at the University would be used
for teaching and training purposes which would restrict MARDI's access to
such computer facilities to an unacceptable degree.
8.        On the other hand, sharing with the Department of Agriculture would
be feasible, provided that the equipment installed had adequate capacity.
The major need of the Department is for data storage and retrieval, partic-
ularly for its major soil classification work which is largely non-competitive
with the research requirement which is mainly for the calculation of data
normally stored elsewhere.
9.        The selection of equipment to serve the future needs of MARDI and
the Department of Agriculture requires the advice of persons with-a thorough
knowledge of modeii equipment, and skilled in the use of computers for the
specific purposes envisaged by MARDI and the Department of Agriculture.
The Project would finance a study by suitable consultants acceptable to
the Bank to survey the need of MARDI and the Department of Agriculture and
define appropriate systems and equipment to meet them. The study would in



ANNEX I10
Page 3
particular assess the adequacy of existing transmissions facilities. The
cost of such a study is estimated At US$20,000. Until the study is completed,
it would be impossible to estimate the cost of a suitable computer. The
estimate of $1.5 million shown in Table 10.1 is purely notional until the
study has been completed.
Library Equipment and Mlaterials
10.       At present, MARDi has virtually no library and borrows its materials
from other agricultural libraries. This is most inefficient and restricting
for a major scientific institution.
11.       A library area of 10,000 square feet is provided in the new
building complex at Serdang scheduled for completion late in 1975, but
until it is properly stocked and equipped, the library will not be able
to function effectively. The Project would provide funds to obtain back
issues over the last 10 years of approximately 100 of the key journals in
agricultural and related sciences, plus a basic reference library of 4,000
books to back up the diverse MARDI programs. The Project would also cover
subscriptions to 800 current journals for a five-year period, and the
provision of some photocopying, microfilm, and microfile equipment.
Cost Estimates
12.       The estimated cost of all goods and services (other than Central
Workshop facilities) which would be financed for central services, is shown
in Table 10.1.
April, 1975



4ALAYSIA
AGRICDLT'URAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
C.otral Facilities
Coat Eatinota US6 a 1000 Eaoiv-l-nt
Year 1                     Year 2                     Year 3                     Year 4                      Year 5                  Year 6                     Ye.ro  I - 6
rI'ndu,H                                                                 LocalI       Foreign       Local       Foreign        Local        oign         LooI        Foreign        Local       Foroigo        Lo..l       Foreign      L l         Frign         otal
I   GOODS
Lib-rry
Deference libr-ry  of 4000 texto @  6 25                              0            50.0           0          25.0            0           25.0                                                                                       0            100.0       l0o.o
-uch nmbero of 100 -elected -ciontific jouroal.
for  10 y        lroc  1500 Volumoc @530 (Pr-t co
tnicrofilo)                                                          0            15.0           0          15.0            0           15.0                                                                                       0           45.0          45.0
Subscriptio- to 800 current jouroalJ @$75 per
yoar for 6 y-ero                                                      0            60.0           0          60.0            0           60.0         0            60.0          0          60.0            0           60.0        0           360.0       360.0
Pbotocopyiog, mcr'ofilming and tioroiiloh
-nd other librory oqOipm,nt                                          0             15.0           0          30.0                                                                                                                   0           45.0         45.0
Ce-trol A-olyticol Lbhorotory
Auto aooly-or, bltx  adigeter                                         0            19.3                                                                                                                                             0            19.3        19.3
Aborebtion cpLctrophoto. eter                                                                     0          22.2                                                                                                                   0           22.2         22.2
EDosolon Spectroreter                                                                                                        0          250.0                                                                                       0          250.0        25o.o
Consultants for complter rolutremecta  study
(rotroactioc floanclng)                            0           20.0200                                                                                                                                                                    00
1'     r t-fi.i9                                                                                                                     0            20.0                                                             0              0O       120.0
Computer -                                                                                        0         750.0           0           750.0                                                                                      0          1500.0       500.0
0          179.3           0         902.2            0         1100.0         0            60.0          0          60.0            0           60.0        0         2361.5       2361.5
/'  rerovsional for -    tiroting purpoDc  only.   To bh  --eoded in doe coor- g in light of  oo..oltent' ficdion5.
April 3. 1975



ANNEX 11
Page 1
MALAYSIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
Department of Agriculture - Extension-Liaison Unit
A. Introduction
1.        Strengthening of Malaysian extension services is essential to
building up its agricultural production capacity particularly in the small
farmer sector. Extension is an essential element to promote the flow of
research results to the farmer, particularly the small farmer who would
not normally have access to new technology. The reverse also holds; a good
extension service will provide the feed back mechanism from the farmers to
the researchers.
2.        In Malaysia, the Federal and State Departments,of Agriculture and
the Veterinary Department are responsible for most extension at the farmer
level . Annex 1 outlines the relationships between the State and Federal
Departments, and also the problems of the extension services within these
Departments. These services lack adequate strength and training at the
field level, and do not have groups capable of establishing the required
links with MARDI, or of processing MARDI and other research information
into forms suitable for extension at the local level.
3.        These deficiencies are acknowledged by both the Departments of
Agriculture and the Economic Planning Unit (EPU) of the Malaysian Prime
Minister's Department. They have requested that the establishment of an
Extension-Liaison Unit in the Federal Department of Agriculture and Rural
Development be included in this Project, as the first step in strengthening
the capacity of the Department to disseminate information, to improve in-
service training, and to forge stronger links with MARDI and other research
and extension authorities in Malaysia.
4.        They further requested that provision be made for a comprehensive
study of extension in Malaysia with the objective of formulating a national
plan for the upgrading of Malaysia's extension services. This plan would
be submitted for possible funding under a future Bank Project.
Present Scope and Functions of the Federal Department of Agriculture
5.        The Department of Agriculture has a Director General, two Deputy
Directors-General and seven service or technical branches each with its
own director as follows: (i) Planning and Evaluation, (ii) Crop Produc-
tion, (iii) Crop Protection, (iv) Soil and Analytical Services, (v) Farm
Mechanization, (vi) Education and Training and (vii) Extension.



ANNEX 11
Page 2
6.        The Department's main role today is as a central service, data
collection, and advisory agency to other Departments operating in the
agricultural sector. In association with its data collection and service
functions, the Department also undertakes some studies of economic and
social aspects of agricultural production and development. One of its
main extension-associated activities is carrying out field trials in
collaboration with the extension services of t'he State Departments of
Agriculture, to test and adapt new crop technology to local conditions.
7.        The Department has a role in agricultural  education.  It is
responsible for the five Institutes of Agriculture in West Malaysia
awarding Certificates in Agriculture. These Institutes train the field
extension staff employed by the State and Federal extension services.
The Department also carries out a considerable volume of lower-level edu-
cation through local schools and courses for farmers and rural youth.
8.        In the regulatory field, the Department is responsible for
setting, administering and policing the standards applicable to fertili-
zers, pesticides and seeds. It is also responsible for plant quarantine
matters. The collection and publication of agricultural statistics is
one of its more important services to other government agencies and to
commerce.
9.        One important area of study still being carried out by the
Department of Agriculture is its soil survey and land use classification
work. These studies lead to soil and crop suitability classifications
which are valuable to farmers and extension workers. This soils work is
of a high standard and because of its immediate connection with field
extension, there are strong reasons for its retention within the Depart-
-nent, rather than handing it over to MAI0I.
10.       Each of the technical branches of the Department has extension-
oriented functions which are channeled and implemented thirough the State
Departments of Agriculture.  The Federal Department's Extension and
Advisorv Branch co-ordinate these activities.
Extension Service of the State Departments of Agriculture
11.       Thle extension services have mainly relied on informal contacts
between field officers and farmers to educate and influence producers to
adopt improved practices in crop and livestock production, management
and marketing.  Recently, recognition of the critical pro'blem presented
bv lack of management skills in the farming community has led to a
widening of the activities of the Federal Extension Branch to enable it
to assume the role of a management agency by:
(a) providing management expertise to existing farmer
organizations
(b) promoting group efforts by individual farmers in
obtaining new technology and services



AlNNEX 11
Page 3
(c) teaching farmers modern management methods for farms and
farmer organizations.
12.       The Federal Extension Service supports the State Departments of
Agriculture by supervising and co-ordinating State extension services.
The Chief Agricultural Officer in each State is a member of the Federal
Service.  It also provides funds, personnel and material assistance,
trains personnel for the States, and supplies technical information for
their use. To perform these functions the Federal Extension Service is
organized into seven units:
(i)  Communication and information
(ii) Farmer development
(iii) Development of farm families
(iv) Rural youth development
(v)  Farm management
(vi) Public relations and special projects
(vii) Coconut replanting and rehabilitation
B. The Extension-Liaison Unit
Description
13.       The Project would be the first phase in upgrading llalaysian
extension services. It would establish an Extension-Liaison Unit within
the Extension Branch of Federal Department of Agriculture to promote the
effective transfer of 9AJRDI research findings to the Department and
their subsequent dissemination to the State extension services. The Unit
would have the training of field extension workers as a major responsi-
bility. The Project would provide: (i) buildings and facilities
(ii) expatriate expertise to assist in planning and implementing the pro-
gram and (iii) fellowships to provide post-graduate training for the
Unit's staff.
Detailed Features
14.       The Extension-Liaison Unit would be established within the
Department's Extension Services Branch and would be headed by an Assistant
Director. It would be organized into four separate groups dealing with
?'rojects, Communications, Data Processing and a specialized Subject Hviatter
Section. The Unit would be staffed by 18 graduate officers supported by 46
technical and administrative staff. These groups and their responsibilities
are shown in Chart WB 9155.



AiNEX I1l
Page  4
15.       The Projects Section would be responsible for formulating develop-
ment projects and for conducting pilot project studies. In these activi-
ties it would establish close collaboration with the Project Development
Unit in MARDI to capitalize on the opportunities for collaborative work
between the two organizations.  The Section would also carry the evaluation
process forwarded through the Department's own trials at the district level.
In addition, the Projects Section would study farm management extension and
would be organized to take account of rural family and community structures.
16.       Close liaison with the relevant officers in MARDI would also be
established by the Subject Matter Section Group. Their function would be to
collect information on crop production, soils, crop protection, farm
mechanization and farm management, for application at the district level,
and to convert it to a form suitable for use by extension personnel and
farmers.
17.       The Communications Section would be concerned with developing
media and materials in a form suitable for teaching farmers.  It has been
a serious weakness that much of the existing literature is designed for
the consumption of extension personnel rather than the farming community.
It is essential that effective material and procedures for farmer extension
be designed and used. The Communications Section would 'also have the
important responsibility of training extension workers.
18.       The Data Processing Section would have a support function in rela-
tion to the other groups in the Unit by collecting, processing and report-
ing on agricultural statistics of concern to them. It will also have a
wider function in the efficient collection processing and evaluation of
agricultural data useful to other groups in the Department of Agriculture,
other government agencies, and commercial institutions.
19.       The essential link between the Department's Extension-Liaison
Unit and MARDI would require close attention by both organizations to
ensure the effective transfer of information, both from research to exten-
sion and from extension to research. A committee structure would be
desirable to assist this process, and collaborative work by officers of
the two organizations, particularly in the area of regional verification
of research findings, should be a key activity of the Unit. Some links of
this nature have already been forged, and their promotion would be
facilitated by the Project.
Technical Assistance
20.       Internationally recruited experts would be required for planning
and implementation of the project and have been requested by GOIM. The person-
nel required would have experience in broad areas of extension planning and
implementation, Familiarity with local problems would also be an advan-
tage.



ANNEX 1 1
Page  5
21.       The Projects would finance the services of an extension specialist
for one year at the commencement of the Project to assist the unit in overall
planning. He would also assist the Department of Aariculture in preparing
a comprehensive national Agriculture Extension Project for possible Bank
participation. Eight more man-years of expertise would become available
under the Project. It is visualized that the phasing of service should be
left flexible so that an individual consultant could serve from one up to
four years in the Unit. The areas where this expertise would be required
are: (a) crop production/protection; (b) soil/agricultural mechanization;
and (c) farm management/home economics. The total cost of these specialist
services would be US$540,000.
Fellowships
22.       Because of the extreme shortage of graduate personnel with
adequate training in extension, and the lack of graduate and post-
graduate training for Departmental officers in various aspects of exten-
sion, funds would also be provided for training courses for State and Federal
field officers.
Officers both in the existing Departmenit of Agriculture and the proposed
new Extension-Liaison Unit would be selected for these fellowships.  le
cost to the Project for these fellowships would be US$1,353,600.
C. Land, Building and Equipment
Land
23.       The land required for the new headquarters building would be
provided by GOM.
Building
24.       The Project would finance the construction of a central head-
quarters for the Unit. The headquarters would have administrative/
instructional and accommodation facilities, specialized audio-visual
communication facilities, a conference room, a library, a documentation
facility and space for recreation.
25.       The headquarters would be in Kuala Lumpur at the main Department
of Agriculture site where it would have close contact with the Depart-
ment's existing branches. The cost of additional buildings for the Pro-
ject would be US$1,496,000.
Equipment
26.       The new Unit would have a substantial need for equipment
both to set up the headquarters building as a teaching center and to



ANNEX 1 1
Page 6
provide basic equipment for the Unit's training, demonstration and
extension activities in the States. The total cost for materials and
equipment under the Project would be US$603,000.
27.       Computer:  The Department of Agriculture urgently needs com-
puter facilities to support its extension and agricultural service func-
tions, as well as its soil survey data. The computing service in the
Department would be operated by the Data Processing Unit in the Agricul-
tural Extension Center to serve the following functions:
(a) Storage and retrieval of agricultural data geared to extension
work;
(b) Storage and retrieval of data gathered from soil surveys and
land use surveys made by the Department's soil and analyti-
cal services branch;
(c) processing of data for the Farm Group Subsidies and the Coconut
Replanting and Rehabilitation Schemes;
(d)  analysis of farm'management projects.
28.       These computer facilities would be shared with MARDI (Annex 10,
paras 7-9).
D. Organization and Management
29.       The Extension-Liaison Unit would operate as part of the Extension
Branch of the Department of Agriculture under the Director of Extension. The
Unit would be headed by an Assistant Director, and each of its four sections
would have a Senior Agricultural Officer as Section Head. The structure of
the Unit is shown in Chart WB 9155.
30.       Special attention would be given to liaison with the Farmers'
Organization Authority (FOA) to ensure effective planning of extension
activities through the FOA Agricultural Development Centers. An Exten-
sion-Liaison Committee would be set up for liaison with MARDI and other
relevant agencies. This committee should have senior representatives of
the Department of Agriculture, MARDI, the Veterinary Department, RISDA,
FELDA, RRIM, FOA AND MPIB.
31.       Sub-committees with responsibility for liaison in particular
crops or specialist service areas would also be established. They would
include representatives of other agencies with extension or research respon-
sibilities. This would minimize the risk of competitive activity between
those agencies in both the investigational and extension fields, and would
also aid in defining the responsibilities of each organization, as well as
providing a venue for the detailed'planning of collaborative work.



ANNEX 11
Page 7
E. Project Objectives
32.       The Project would strengthen the Extension Service and related
activities of the Federal Department of Agriculture, and improve its
capacity to channel advice to Federal and State Departments and organi-
zations on new crops and improved crop technology. It would also provide
a useful channel for feeding important problems encountered in the field
back to MARDI for investigation.
33.       It would strengthen the relationship between the Federal and State
Extension Services so that agricultural development in all States is equally
served, and operates in conformity with Government policies and objectives
laid down in Malaysia's Five-Year Plan.
34.       It would assist in coordinating the extension activities of all
organizations involved in rural development, thus providing a mechanism
for an integrated approach to the problems of rural communities.
F.  Cost Estimates
35.       The estimated cost of all goods and services which would be financed
to provide the Department of Agriculture with a new Extension-Liaison Unit,
is shown in Table 11.1.
April, 1975



nI ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -g..                                                             o.        0 O  1-  N       0      0 e:  0 0     0  ,;w                              0 0   0    0 0 0 0  0  0 0  0  0    
L   p JN                                                                                                                  U    G                         | O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 0 2
> U |  N O r                                                                                                              O              O                I O 0 q~~~~~~~~00  2
w1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                                                                                   0i 0 .  0 0 00000000;  -;-02 
e~~~~~~~~                         ~~ ~~~~ 0 0                            00 0 0000                                                                                                   8<
o |  g  {   Z  4    d  sD  ,>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
>1  V111MfitN                                                                       
0    N



MALAYSIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
Department of Agriculture
Extension Liaison Unit
DIRECTOR OF EXTENSION
Extension Liaison Unit
(New)
'(existing)
ASSISTANT DIRECTOR I                                                                                                           ASSISTANT DIRECTOR 11
(SUPERVISORY/COORDINATION                                                                                                           (PROJECT DEVELOPMENT)
Devel pment  |       Farm                   Commulication             Farmers'                 Rurat                 Phic Relations                                _.COMMUNICA S            NG            PROJECTS              SUBJECT  AATTER
ofFar                 Management             anid                         eeop nYutad
Fmiie                 Extenision              Informations                eeop nt               Development            Special Projc
cFmm,lesicatronslstudies                                project Dor,,tScl oation
-documentation                   data collector           plomt poject               crop ppOdu-in-|
-mass medi                      data pr.ocessing        farm ma-gnaecir             rolls
- visa at ids                    r ePortiig               05tensmiOn                 crop protect-o
-development of teaching      --farm management        --groap actio                 , echani-tion
materials                      studies                -oath, fa,nmf-es and         home,,n CUrso-,
existinge                                                                                        training extnsion               com,pt,er                farrd devetoj1,nent
'(as in Organization and Scope of Fni,ctroiri
Extension and Advisory Branch
Wirfd Banrk --1fflhRf



ANNEX 12
Page 1
MALAYSIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
Project Costs and Financing
A. Project Costs
Total Costs
1.        Total Project Costs estimates at US$108.5 equivalent are
based on 1974 constant dollars. The FE component is $28,500,000.
Physical contingencies estimated at 5% were added to the
estimated base costs.
Price contingencies differ between expenditure groups.
They are:
On local costs: Fifteen percent in project year 1 (1975),
decreasing at an annual rate of 1% to 10% in project year 6 (1981).
Total for the project period is 54.3%.
On Equipment: Total for the project period is 21.0%.
On expatriate salaries and fellowships: At a rate of 5%
per annum applied to the FE component of the "Services" group of
costs. Total for the project period is 14.5%.
The summary of Cost Estimates is shown in Table 12.1. Subsidiary
tables are shown in the appropriate Annexes.
Computer Cost Estimates
2.        The estimates include an amount of $1.5 millio'n for a computer
for joint use by MARDI and the Department of Agriculture for research
and administrative, soils and other data, storage purposes. The computer
cost estimates brought back by the appraisal mission were reviewed by the
Bank's Computer Activities Department. They found the estimates of both
cost of the computer and cost and feasibility of transmission facilities,
as well as the computer needs of a large research establishment, were in
all likelihood underestimated by MARDI and the Department of Agriculture.
Following this advice, a letter was written to the Director of MARDI, on
the Bank's findings. The letter also advised him to engage a consultant
to review their computer needs and costs, and that the Bank would finance



ANNEX 12
Page 2
the estimated cost of the consultant's ($20-30,000) out of the Project Loan.
Until this study is to hand, the $1.5 million estimate shown in the attached
Summary of Costs table is purely notional. The estimates will be updated
when the consultant's study is to hand.
3.        Of the project's base cost, about 60% is absorbed by local and
expatriate salaries, the balance being for equipment, livestock and current
expenditures. Local salaries are about 50% of all costs, and expatriate
salaries make up about 43% of total FE costs.
4.        Local staff cost estimates are shown in Table 12.2 and the
extent of expatriate services to be engaged are shown in Table 12.3.
Table 12.4 shows the relationship between local staff, staff fellowships
and expatriate staff. The table indicates that the substantial expendi-
ture on expatriate salaries is necessary to maintain staffing levels at
an acceptable level, while local staff are away on fellowships.
B. Financing Plan
5.        The FE component of the Project would be financed as follows:
Services
Expatriate Staff                100% of FE expenditure
Fellowships                     100% of FE expenditure (if dura-
tion is longer than 9 months,
includes cost of family travel
and living expenses)
Support for Overseas Missions
for the collecting of gene-
tic material                    100% of FE expenditure
Project monitoring              100% of FE expenditure
Goods
Fquipment                       100% of FE expenditure, CIF
Ma lays i.a
Tivestocl                       Q00% of FE expenditure, CIF
Malaysia
Fuildings                       33% of total contract value
(estimated FE Component)



ANNEX 12
Page 3
6.        The sum of physical and price contingencies and the rounding
factor would be kept in the unallocated Category of the Loan Agreement.
7.        Retroactive financing would be made available for the computer
consultant's study ($20,000) necessary to determine the precise computer
needs, associated transmission, training and staffing requirements of
MARDI and the Extension-Liaison Unit, and the cost of the hardware.
April, 1975



',ALAYS IA
A&RICLLLIRAL ltSLRqCUi AL)  0. SION   0, - I.:
lotnaro of Cost CEelnatec
002S 1220 icclcvaloen
Ye    I                  Yar 2                    Yer 3                    Yar 4                          seori              Yean 6earoI-6
Local      P-reigo       Local      Foreign       Local      F             Locl      Foi            Lcal                     Local      Fore,         Local     ForeLgn   Tot..l            or e
I,  11.RDT
Pl_napple Research Prognen                                   62.0        420.7        62.0        303.4        26.5         270.9        8.5        156.8         8.5         164.3        8.5         147.2        176.0      1,463.3      1,639.3      Table 4.1
Field Crops ReTearob Fh ognos                               101.9        724,6        99.5        565.7        48.0        421.7        48.4       417.3         30.4         315.3       15.9         270.6       344.1       2,715.2    3,059.3        Tobll  3.1
gle  Reerh rgon123.9                                                     435.7       124.2         312.3       33.9         312.2       14.9       210.7         14.9         210.2        5.9         159.7       318.2       1,211.0      2,028.5      Cable 2.1
Lv-to.k Reoe.r-h Program                                    285.5        549.0       309.8         629.1      164.7      1,638.6        J33.        359.9        24.3         308.9       15.3         25379        832.7      3,743.4      4,57268       Table 6.1
C ... /C .....   Re..earob frega-                           116.2        489.3       319.3        611.9       230.9         436.6       15.3        262.1        16.1         307.2        2.9         2 17 .2      705.9      2,348.3    3,054.2        Toblo 5.1
Feodon/Ctisatl RtesLte Reneer-h p-ogean                    4916        317. 8       58.6        415.8        22.5      1,115.5        31.5        304.5        13.5         182.1       13.5         182.1        189.2      2,087.8    2, 777 0       Thbl  7.1
Agnicoltorol inglesering and wRoer
Mlanagement ROsear.   Program                             114.4        387.5       206.8        560.3       106.2        389.5        28.5        252.1,       105          136.8       10.5         130.7       426.9       1 857.2      2 334.1      Table 8 1
ftojeet Dlen-e ope   Unit                                    20.4         179.7       20.4         266.6       20.4         232.3        2.4        130.3         2.4         122.8         2.4        115.3         68.4      1,047.0    1,115.4        Table 9.1
Central leroiree-/                                             -         179.3          _         902.2          -       1.100,0                     62.0          -           68.0          -          600            _       2.361,5      2,361.5      rable 10.1
lob-total I                                                 873.9      3,682.6   1,200.4        4,637.3       651.7      6,007.8       182.7    2.129,0         121.3       1.808.1        79.9      1,340.7    3,109,9       19,835.5   22.945.4
11. Deeortamet of Aseloaltone
ExtenseLn Liolino Unit                                      339.9        499.1       351.6         753.5      364.6         755.5       12.0       299.6         12.0         2996         12.0        299.6     1.092.1       2.906,9    3,999.0         Tabll  11.1
S.b-total It                                                339.9        499.1       351.6         253.5      364.6         755.5       12.8        299.6        12.0         299.6        12.0        299.6    1.092m1        2,906 6    3.999.0
III.  Staff ad Loegi Contn
MARDT - snpa-t-nt of Agri-oltare
getne..en of Liaison mUit
Staff Cnts2                                               3,242.8                  3,978.0            -    4,861.6             _    5,413.9            -      6,044.5             -    6,584.9             -    3n,179.7             _    30,125.7        Tabl  12.2
Loeml Research Con571 50%  f 0 alarLeF-                   1,621.4                  1,989.0            -    2,430.8             -    2,707.0            -      3,022.2            _    3,292.4              -    15,0.2.8             -    15,062.8
Pr-jeer Mo    narisg-             -                                        20.8    -                20.0                     20.0          -         20.0                      28.8          .20.0
Sab-total III                                            4,864.2           20.0   5,967.0           20.0                     20.0   1,120.9          20.0    9,066.7           20.0   9,877.3           20.0   45,188.5           120.0   45,308.5
IV.  F-tlect Boan Co-ae (S.b-eotale I + IT + III)              6,078.0       4,201.7   7,519.0        5,418.8   8,308.7        6,783.3   8,315.6    2,438.6         9,200.0       2,127.7   9,969.2        1,860.3   49,390.5       22,862.4   72,252.9
V.  PhyRi-al Contingencies, 551                                 303.9         210.1       376.0        270.5      415.4         339.2       415.8       123.9        460.0         106,4      498.5          93.0    2,469.6        1,143.1      3,612.7
VT. Prolec- Coste in-lodfag PhY.ecol Cenfi-gaeeiga
(IV 4 V)                                               6,381.9       4,411.8   7,895.0        5,681.3   8,724.1        7,122.5   8,731.4       2,6C2.5      9,660.0      2,234.1   10,467.7        1,953.3   51.860.1       24,005.5   753865.6
VTI. frion Costingemelen
-on lecal goals                                        628.8             -    1,923.7             _    3,454.7             -    4,976.9            -      2,245.0            -   10,286.0              .    29,17429             -    28,184.0
-       on sqoipmn                                         -         120.3          -         451.0          -       1072.5                    2^4.1            _         268.2          -         301.1    2              2,417,2      2,417.2
- em empotrtate  amlanies and fellow-hipa                    -          49.9          _          183.3         -          292,6         -         343.4           -         368.3          -         394.7           -       1,632,2    1,632.2
ob-total VII                                                478.6         170.2   1,823.7          634.3   3,454.7        1,365.1   4,976,9         547.5     7,245.0         636.5  10.206.0           695,8   28,184.9        4,049.4    32.234,4
Ptoject TotFI Cost (V1   + VI)                           6.860.5      4.582.0   9,718.7         6.315.6  12.178.8        8,478.6  13,708.3       3,150.0   16,905.0        2,870.6  20,673.7        2,649.1   80,045.0    28.055.0  188,100.8
Ronding Factor                                                                                                                                                                                                          -         445.0        445.0
PROJECT COST                                                                                                                                       6                                                             808045.0    28,500.0  108,545.0
Leo Seoff Costa
L32,125.7           -    30,125.7
lot P-ejer-t Coats                                                                                                                                                                                               49,913.3      28,580.0    78,419.3
1/  8Lbjec,  to findlogo of omputeoneo Iants
2/   -sooptiem  made:  Re--orrh 0Tc ace node op as folloo1         :
Staff cents  66.6%
Op-rations costs  334'%
All coats 100.07.
(B..ed on CSIRO ompeodit.r.a)
3/  "Thren wise =en"  elarLem and teaoel rosti, 0.33 MM/Year
Aprll 3, 1975



MALAYSIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCHI AND EXTENSION PROJECI
STAFFING AND SALARIES
EtabblihlLoont Cost ElRot      -tos
1974 1-                             1975                                  1976                                   1977                                    1978                            1979                                1980
.                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~2/                                                             2/                                    2/                                     2/
PRO0RAM                     Prof-.SPtonal  Sob-Profss  tonal  ProFessllonal  SoR-profostoonl  Profess onal  S,,b-PrnfrstoraC   Prof sasioal   -oh- rofosslonaT   Profosoitnal  Sob-lPeotesslooalfProfesIloot Soh-Profestonal Irro o jol C b-Proo
STAFFPING  1'
MARDEI Staff slots for:
RleI                             17                32                20                 40                 23               46                    25                 50               27                   54                 30               60               37                  64
pIo.appla                         9                 6                12                 24                 13               26                    14                 28               15                  30                  16               32               18                  36
Llvostoob                       14                  6                20                 40                 20               40                    21                 50               30                  60                 33                66               35                  71
Field Crops                      11 22                               15                 30                 20               40                    25                 50               30                  60                 35                70               38
Crop  itt Szt ston               22                14                25                 39                 28               49                    30                t(l               33                  AR                 35                70               4"                  84.
ETo ItWsrloaaodator Rgt.   7                        3                 7                 12                  7               14                    12                 24               12                  24                  17               34               17                  34
Cocoo/CoUooor                    11                11                L3                 16                 15                30                   I                  34               19                  TD                 21                42               2                   76
Pro/oat Uoooloea=et              10                 6                11                 22                 It               28                    19                 36               127                 44                 75                SO              2? l5o
Ceosral foIefittso                -                  -3                                  3                  35                                                       10                 7                  10                  7               10w                                  10l
AUD Tona   D...101                                106               126                226                145              278                  174                349               195                 366                219               434              238                 472
b.ladres for staff                                                                                                                  IS a  1II00
Pnof1as2onal 3/                                                           2,268                                2,6t0                                   3,132                                 J,510                                 3,902                             72124
SuR-Profosa- onal .,868                                                                                        2 224                                   2,752                                 3,088                                 3,472                             7,776
Juntor Rasoseob 47                                                        1,356                                                                                                              7 6  ,6   ,316                        2,b608                           9>3/3
Dtront Staff roots                                                        5,432                                 6,502                                  7,948                                8,914                                 tOI 01b                          1W7092
Soloresa on. roast 5                                                      2.173                                 2,600                                  3a?                                   2,93,66                              4;007                             4 3S7
Aonnul stAiff ooasstooolD ouR-total                                      7,605                                 9,102                                 11,127                                12,48U                                14,015                            I,4
DEPT      taff alato for:                                                                                                                     STAlFFING 
OP     ERtors io/Liaiao- Unit                                                S                  10                9                  20                   18                 46                18                46                  18               46               10                 40,
AGRIC.
NS    1000
SoRsolos for ataff
5Rb-yrofelDlonal 3/                                           90                                   162                                    324                                  324                                   324                               374
S.b-Pfo ...Rt-1 -                                                            85                                   160                                    368                                  366                                   368                               Ifs
Dioret Staff ...t0                                                          170                                   322                                    692                                  692                                  692                                692
salory 00-roas: 1007.                                                       170                                   322                                    692                                  692                                  692                                697
fotrnoion-Llatson Unit )                             a
Ao.oal staff  oots                                                          34                                    644                                    784                                784                                     784                                U
sob-tot 1
PROJECr STAPP COSTS TOTAI                                                 7,945                                 9,746                                  11,911                             13,264                                14,nI9
IIS $ EquIva1t                                                        3.242,8                              3,978.0                                4,961.6                             5.41 1.9                            4,1144 .                                   9
1/  Or beard  to 1974;   Slots 1975-Ro
2/  Resrarrh A-1-stools only;  r-rludino .l,nt or r-s- ar-      h Aes itato   sod Teri:l-d   anc
3/  Profooslosi na      817 DCOoliuraron::nilmrr  hlowo to  olulmn ah=ye
Soh-Profeosiooots:t*Aou0T/vernron:wldrr sI:ooo In onIoln abone
4/  Nuab-r of Sob-P-nfass lanai   slt!f    2 a MS31'31
:  Peopo-rtro-Ily to total MAR0I staff   o-t  -   40G2
April 3, 1975
J-, 



ANNEX 12
Table 12.3
MALAYSIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION IIAISON PROJECT
Man-Years of Expatriate Specialists
Program              Agricultural Scientist        Engineers          Other      Total
MARDI                 Long-            Short-   Long-   Short-   Long- Short
Term           Term      Term    Term       Term Term
Field Crops             13               9         -        -        -      -     22
Agr. Engineering and
Water Management       -               -        14       1         -      -     15
Pro.ject Development     3               -         -        -        3      1      7
Rice                    11               3         -        -        -      -     14
Product Utilization      -               -         3        -        9      3     15
Pineapples               6               h         -        -        -      -     10
Livestock                9               2         -       _         _      _     11
Cocoa/Coconut            6               4         -        -        -      -     10
Dept. of Agriculture
Extension-Liaison
Unit                 1               -         -       -         -     8       9
TOTAL             49              22        17       1        12    12    103
November 21, 1974



ANNEX 12
Table- 12.4
MALAYSIA
AGRICULTURAI RESEAROj AND EXTENSI PROJECT
Staff Development Prograul/
Staff at End of Prolect Year                                                      Gross and
Effective
Staff
PROGRAM                                          1                                                                   Total                     Percentages
PEOGRMf                             ~     ~ ~       ~ ~       ~ ~~          ~     ~ ~          ~~1  2  3  4  5  6mam ycars         Yrsl-6
STIA I F I b G               N U h B  R  S
MIRDI
Rice Research Proxr, Local Staff                20.0      23.0       25.0      27.0      30.0      32.0               157.0                        1007.
Mimes Fellowships                                7.1        7.2       7.2       7.2       7.2       7.1               43.0
Plus Expatriate staff                            3.5       3.5        3.5       1.5       1.5       0.5                14.0
lVet effective working staff                                                                                        127.0                         807.
Pineapple Research Program, Local Staff         12.0       13.0      14.0      15.0      16.0      18.0                88.0                        1007.
minus Fellowships                                6.5       4.0        4.0       4.0       4.0       4.0                26.5
Plus Expatriate Staff   -                        2.7       2.7        2.7       0.7       0.6       0.6                10.0
Net effective working staff                                                                                          71.5.                        81.
Livestock Research Frogr_, local Staff          20.0      20.0      25.0       30.0      33.0      35.0               163.0                  .     1007.
Minus Fellowships                                6.0       6.0        6.0  *    6.0       6.0       6.0                36.0
Plus Expatriate Staff                            0.3       3.4       3.4        2.3       1.3       0.3                11.0
Wet effective working staff                                                                                         138.0                         85
Field Crops Research Prograx. Local Staff       15.0      20.0       25.0      30.0      35.0      38.0               163.0                         1007
Minus Fellowships                                9.0       9.0        9.0       9.0       9.0       9.0                54.0
Plus Expatriate Staff                            4.5       4.5       4.5        4.5       2.5       1.5                22.0
Yet effective vorknlg staff                                                                                         131.0                        8an
CocoaJCconut Research Pro=rs. Local Staff    13.0        15.0      17.0       19.0      21.0      22.0               107.0                        1007.
Minus Fellowships                                5.3       5.4       5.3        5.4       5.3       5.3                32.0
Plus Expatriate Staff                            2.0       2.0       2.0        1.0       1.0       1.0                10.0
Net effective working staff                                                                                         85.0..                        807.
Crop Utilization Research Progrsm, Local Staff 25.0       28.0      30.0      33.0       35.0      40.0               191.0                        1007.
Minus Fellowships                                7.3       7.4       7.4       7.3        7.3       7.3               44.0
Plus Expatriate Staff                            2.5       3.5       2.5       3.5        1.5       1.5               15.0
Met effective vorking staff                                                                                        162.0                          857.
Agricultural Engineering ad
Water Management, Local Staff                   11.0      14.0      19.0      22.0       25.0      29.0               120.0                        1007.
Mgus Fellowships                                 4.0       4.0       4.0       4.0        4.0       4.0               24.0
Plus Expatriate Staff                            1.2       4.1       4.1       3.2        1.2       1.2               15.0
Net effective working staff                                                                                         111.0                         92%
Project Develojxent Unit, Local Staff           11.0      14.0      19.0      22.0       25.0      29.0               120.0                        100t
Minus Fellowships                                4.0       4.0       4.0        4.0       4.0       4.0                24.0
Plus Expatriate Staff                            2.2       2.1       2.1        0.2       0.2       0.2                 7.0
Ret effective working staff                                                                                         103.0                         86%
Central Facilities, Local Stafi-/                3.0       5.0       7.0        7.0       7.0       7.0                36.0                        100%
Department of Agriculture
Extension Liaison Unit, Local Staffa'           15.0      29.0      64.0       64.0      64.0      64.0               300.0                        1007,
Minus Fellowships                                9.0      17.0       17.0      17.0      17.0      17.0                94.0
Plus Expatriate Staff                            2.5       1.5       1.5        1.5       1.0       1.0                 9.0
Net effective working staff                                                                                         215.0                         72
1/ Local staff data: Frau Table 12.2
Expatriate data:  From Table 12.3; short-term consultancies assumed spaced evenly throushout project period; this may or may not in fact be the
Fellowship data: Derived from Table I to Annexes 2-10; Fellowships will be taken up more or less evenly throughout project period
2/ No Fellowships or Exatriate Staff forseen now.
3/ Unit is to be created fr9i scratch; nuabers include full professional staff plus recent graduates at sub-professionai level of eaployeent
throughout the Departunt of Agriculture to staff the unit.
April 3, 1975



ANNEX 13
Page 1
MALAYSIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
Project Disbursement and Procurement
A. Introduction
1.        The Project would provide the foreign exchange component (US$28.5
million equivalent) for the procurement of goods and services for MARDI.
Total project costs are summarized in Table 12.1. These estimates include
a physical contingency and different price contingencies for the various
expenditure categories (Annex 12, para 1). All costs are expressed in
constant 1974 US dollars. The goods and services to be financed fall into
three broad categories and for each category, different procurement proce-
dures would be used.
2.   The three categories are:
(a) Provision of expatriate specialists services
Senior research scientists would be engaged to actively
participate in the various research programs. Periods of
engagement would range from short term consultancies to
3-5 year long term appointments. These would all be senior
scientists. The FE cost of their services would add up
to $51,000 per man year. This figure includes air travel,
provision for medical care and permanent and total disability
benefits, life insurance, accidental death and dismemberment
benefits, contributions to a retirement plan (which may
already exist in the expatriate's home country) children's
educational benefits, and for long-term appointments, a fare
paid return trip to the home country for the expatriate and
his family every two years. An amount of $9,000 equivalent
per annum is estimated for local financing of these items
and for housing and amenities in Kuala Lumpur and the daily
return transportation from Kuala Lumpur to Serdang, a dis-
tance of about 30 kilometers.
(b) Fellowships
These would permit MARDI staff to further their skills by
advanced studies at overseas Universities. Long term fellow-
ships (which form the bulk of the fellowships) would lead to
MSc and PhD degrees. Short-term fellowships would permit



ANNEX 13
Page 2
MARDI staff to participate in short overseas training
courses. Cost estimates are based on $1,200 per month for
return air travel for staff member and his family to an
overseas University, and special living allowances, etc.,
whilst overseas. The staff member's local salary would
continue.
(c) Goods (other than livestock, feedstuff and fertilizer)
The Project would assist in providing the F.E. component of
Buildings and other capital requirement (mainly research
equipment and farm machinery) and current expenditure
required for the research effort in the commodity research
programs, the back-up research groups, the Project Develop-
ment Unit and central computer and library facilities and
the Department of Agriculture's Extension-Liaison Unit.
(i) Buildings
The FE component of the various buildings to be financed
under the project is estimated at 33% of total building
costs, i.e. in line with estimates by the Malaysian
Public Works Department.
(ii) Equipment
All equipment is to be imported and their FE component is
estimated at 100% of C.I.F. value.
(d) Goods (livestock, fertilizers, feedstuffs)
It is likely that most of these items would be imported.
A local freight component (about 10%) is added where
appropriate.
B. Disbursements
3.        The projection of expenditures over the project period of May 1975
to December 31, 1981, indicates that the program is essentially based on the
provision of physical facilities during the first three years of the Project.
Concurrent with the early development expenditures is the provision of spe-
cialist services and fellowships. These services expenditures, as well as
other current expenditure, such as fertilizers or research consumables, ex-
tend throughout the project period. The estimates in the cost tables with
the various Research Program Annexes and the Summary shown in Table 12.1 are
shown in the year when commitments are made. Disbursements would commence
about 6 months after commitments. A disbursement schedule is shown in Table
13.1.  The Project's completion date would be December 31, 1981.



ANNEX 13
Page 3
C. Procurement
4.        Because of the different nature of the three major expenditure
groups which would be financed under the Project (para 2) different pro-
curement procedures would be followed:
(a) Expatriate Services
(i) Specialists would be selected by the Director of MARDI
on the advice of his staff, on the basis of expected
highly specialized contributions the scientist could
make to MARDI's various research programs. The Director
would forward two conformed copies of contracts with
specialists to the Bank prior to forwarding withdrawal
application.
(ii) Extension-Liaison Unit
Similar arrangements would apply for the engagement of
specialists.
(b) Fellowships
The Director of MARDI and the Assistant Director of the
Extension-Liaison Unit would select recipients of these
Fellowships from amongst their staff. The Directors
would enter into an agreement with the Institute of
Learning and the Fellow concerned. The Bank would
finance the FE expenditures arising from these agree-
ments.  The agreement between MARDI and the Extension-
Liaison Unit and the staff Fellow would in all cases
contain a clause which would require the Fellow to
return to MARDI's, or the Department's, employment
upon completion of the Fellowship for a period of not
less than 1-1/2 years for each one year of fellowship.
The agreement would also provide for, and the Bank would
finance, the FE component of international travel and
expenses by the Fellow's family for fellowships in excess
of 9 months' duration.
(c) Goods (other than livestock, fertilizer and feedstuffs)
(i) Buildings - No major buildings are to be built under
MARDI's program, but numerous small field laboratories,
plant houses, and feed stalls, etc., are required in
Serdang and in the various local research stations.
The Extension-Liaison Unit would construct a number
of hostel and office blocks in Kuala Lumpur. Inter-
national competitive bidding in accordance with Bank



ANNEX 13
Page 4
Group Guidelines would be followed. The
Malaysian Public Works Department would be respon-
sible for design and supervision of construction of
the building works. None of the works is large enough
to warrant prior approval of the Bank. The Bank would
finance 33% of expenditures against proof of progress
payments. Because of the small size and scattered
nature of the buildings to be constructed it is not
expected that the contracts will be of interest to
international firms. Malaysia has an experienced and
competitive construction industry fully capable of
handling building contracts to be financed by the
Project.
(ii) Equipment
(a) Farm Equipment would be bulked to make up contracts
of sufficient size to attract bids from overseas
manufacturers or their local agents. Competitive
bidding in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines
would be followed in preparing invitations to bid,
advertising and awarding of contracts. The
Bank would finance 100% of FE of the CIF value of all
equipment purchased. For any contracts in excess of
$100,000, the Bank's prior approval would be sought
before invitations to bid are advertised and con-
tracts are awarded. For other contracts (equivalent
of less than US$20,000) would be let according to
normal Government Procedures which are satisfactory.
A margin of preference of 15% would be given to
local manufacturers in bid evaluation.
(b) Research Equipment would be bulked to make up con-
tracts of sufficient size to attract bids from for-
eign suppliers or their local agents. International
competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group
Guidelines would be followed in all bid procedures,
however for contracts estimated to cost equivalent
of less than US$20,000 would be let according to
normal Government Procedures which are satisfactory.
For any contracts in excess of $100,000, the Bank's
prior approval would be sought before invitations to
bid are advertised and before contracts are awarded.
(c) Goods (livestock, fertilizer, feedstuffs)
(i) In about the third year of the project period, MARDI
would import cattle, pigs, goats and poultry to broaden
the genetic basis of the proposed livestock breeding



ANNEX 13
Page 5
program. The imported 'ivestock would be bought at
high costs, but at the end of their useful breeding
life could be sold only at local prices for consumption
purposes. To finance livestock purchases, a Livestock
Fund would be set up within MARDI. The Fund would be
used to administer the purchase and sale of livestock.
The Fund would therefore initially be US$1,234,700
equivalent and M$ 302,800 from Project funds set aside
for purchase of the imported stock, plus sufficient
local funds by MARDI for the purchase of local stock
for evaluation trials under the pasture program.
Proceeds from livestock sales would be credited to
the Livestock Fund, which would not be used for
any other purpose than replenishment from time to
time as required, of both imported and local stock.
Since the Livestock Fund would derive income from
the sale of all local, crossbred and imported stock,
it is anticipated that enough funds would be generated
to purchase further imported and local stock as and
when required. The Fund would be administered by a
Committee chaired by the Director of Mardi and member-
ship of which would inc'lude the Senior Assistant Director
for Research Programs and Assistant Director for Devel-
opment and Administration. Requests for stock purchases
would be made to this Committee by the Field Crop Senior
Scientist and the Livestock Senior Scientist. After
the initial financing of the Livestock Fund no further
external funds will be provided for the importation of
livestock.
(ii) Suitable exotic livestock and semen to be purchased
would be available only from a few sources in the
world. The Director of MARDI would submit to the
Bank a list of not less than three countries from
which it is proposed to seek supplies to ensure
freedom from foot and mouth disease for the purchase
of beef and dairycattle, and swine fever. Embassies
of these countries would be notified of the intention
to buy livestock and simultaneously Malaysian Embassies
in the nominated countries would place advertisements
in the press inviting offers from interested suppliers.
The Bank's prior concurrence would be required for all
invitations to bid and the contracts for the supply of
suitable dairy cattle, beef cattle, and Murrah and
Swamp buffalo; the concurrence would inr'ude concur-
rence on price, age, quality, source and suitability
of the livestock for the project.



ANNEX 13
Page 6
(iii) The Director of MARDI would ensure that standard
General Conditions of Contract would be prepared
for the purchase of all classes of livestock and
this standard format would be approved by the Bank
once, for all classes of stock.
(d) Whilst it is expected that most of the goods and
services would be imported and the Project would
disburse 100% of the landed cost, however the project
would only disburse for 70% of the purchase price of
imported goods purchased locally. Disbursement for
locally manufactured goods, purchased after compe-
titive bidding, would be on the basis of 100% of
the local expenditure.
April, 1975



AINEX 13
Table 13.1
MALAYSIA
LSKIGULTURJRi  RE$Js4RCH hD EXT-JSL   PRC'vCT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursementsl/
IBRD/IDA                                    Accumulated
Fiscal Year                                  Disbursements
and Quarter                              US$ x 1000 Equivalent
1975r/76
1st
2nd
3rd
4th
1976/77
Ist                                         1,000
2nd                                         3, 500
3rd                                         6,ooo
4th                                         7,500
1977/78
lst                                         9,000
2nd                                        10,900
3rd                                        12,5 00
4th                                        15,C000
1978/79
lst                                        17,000
2rnd                                       19,400
3rd                                        20,200
4th                                        21,000
1979/80
1st                                        21,800
2nd                                        22,500
3rd                                        23,200
4th                                        23,900
1980/81
1st                                        24,600
2nd                                        25,400
3rd                                        26,200
4th                                        27,000
1981/82
1st                                        27,800
2nd                                        28,500
Assnming loan signtng by May 31, 1975
February 3, 1975



ANNEX 14
Page 1
MALAYSIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
Justification and Benefits
A. Introduction
1.        Society has for a considerable time supported research, whether
through public appropriations or through private support. By such support,
society indicates that it values research. It values new knowledge for
its own sake and in this sense, research is a consumption good. It also
values research for the support it gives to economic wellbeing (agricultural,
engineering, medical and other applied research) and since there is a time
lag between expenditure and actual contributions to economic wellbeing, this
kind of research is an investment good.
2.        Since the applied research emanates from within the economic
system, conceptually it is possible to view it in economic terms. The
investment in research is made because society and its decision makers
desire a change in the aggregate production function. The investment is
therefore a demand derived from a-priori notions that a shift in the produc-
tion function is not only desirable but also possible. The supply function
is new technology, in itself an intangible good in most cases, 11 but having
the potential to change production functions by increasing the efficiency
of resources used in the productive effort.
3.        Whilst research can thus conceptually be viewed in a demand and
supply context, it is different from normal demand and supply relationships.
It is different for two reasons:
(a) most of the capital employed in producing the supply
is human capital
(b) the production process, i.e. the time when impact of a
specific program is available, is beset by a degree of
uncertainty far in excess of other production processes
(para 8).
1/   But not in all, e.g. HYV Seeds.



ANNEX 14
Page 2
4.        Decision making in resource allocation.  To take the first point
first, research is the outcome of intelligence and specific training applied
to the removal of constraints. As a result, and as is evident from the cost
estimates shown in the preceding annexes, a large portion of the project cost
is applied to the furthering of skills, it is the application of capital to
enhance the productivity of costs already sunk in the training to first degree
level of the research scientists and the importation of skills from overseas
as complementary inputs.
5.        The investment in human capital creates experts in the "how" of
research but not in the "why" of research. Even if they were expert in the
"why" of research, their advice would lead to price - and hence investment-
distortions since the capital thus created would influence the investment'
pattern in itself. In this, the human capital is different from capital
created in the form of dams or roads, which would not have an interest
themselves in creating more dams or more roads. The establishment or expan-
sion of research organizations based solely on the advice of the research
establishment and the judgement of its own merit, must be suspect because
of this unique reason.
6.        On the other hand, if a social benefit-cost analysis is to be
carried out as a proxy for a distorted pricing mechanism, the benefit-cost
analysis also will be distorted because parameters, such as timing - resource
requirements - evaluation of risk, for the analysis must be derived from
within the research establishment. Exante benefit-cost analysis of research
is therefore likely to be as suspect as a scientist's judgment on the merit
of his research.
7.        Decision making under undue risk.  As to the degree of risk, the
second reason mentioned in para 3, cost of research is unknown. In this,
too, investment in research is different from investment in the more tradi-
tional fields of investment in which the Bank operates. In building a dam,
an irrigation system or a road, the resource requirements are pretty well
known before the construction of these facilities commences.
8.        This is not the case in research.  As an example:  if in Malaysia
as a result of the increase in the cost of Nitrogen, a decision is made that
more research on Nitrogen fixation is desirable, 1/ research objectives can
be set: the development of a legume cropping system which will fix and
release for use by other crops, 25 lbs. of N per acre more than currently
is being produced. If this could be done, then Malaysia would potentially
benefit by 25 lbs. of Nitrogen on not less than, say, 1 million acres,
1/   This decision was in fact made during discussions between the appraisal
mission and MARDI staff. It accounts for the increased investment in
rhizobium research shown in this appraisal report and the minor invest-
ment in this subject shown in the preparation report.



ANINEX 14
Page 3
valued at US$17,500,000 per annum. Both the technical objectives and the
economic merit are specified. But the cost of achieving the stated tech-
nical objectives are unknown, in part because the time element required to
attain the technical objectives is not known (3 years, 5 years, impossible?),
nor the resource requirements, because at the outset of the research, a
journey into the unknown, no knowledge exists on the failures which may
arise or new research direction to be followed in any of the elements of
a complex biological-agronomic and hence, economic - system.
9.        This example sustains the statement made in the preceding para-
graphs that because of the undue degree of associated risk, given present
methodology, ex ante benefit cost analysis of a program of research in
agriculture is at best less adequate, as a decision making tool, than in
other more traditional fields of investment.
Appropriation of benefits
10.       In agriculture, most importantly, appropriation of the benefits
after attainment of the research objectives, is fraught with further uncer-
tainty. Research undertaken by private enterprise, where one decision-
maker both initiates the research and implements the findings, would rea-
sonably readily permit quantification and appropriation of the benefits
flowing from the research objective once attained. In agriculture, partic-
ularly in underdeveloped countries where a low level of farmer education is
the rule rather than the exception, the decision to implement new technology
flowing from research is in the hands of untold decision-makers, each one of
whom will tend to maximise his private welfare 1/ and each one of whom has
his own valuation of risk inherent in change. Neither the maximisation of
numerous private welfare functions, nor the assessment of private risk situ-
ations may coincide with society's welfare function as viewed by those re-
sponsible for social and economic planning.
11.       Whilst research therefore may result in an upward move of pro-
duction functions, individual operators will nearly always tend to operate
below them. How much below, and for how long is imponderable and depends
on research's companion - information transmittal - and the accuracy with
which planners have judged the private welfare optima of the farmer-deci-
sion maker.
B. Historical and Analogue Decision Criteria on Research and Extension Expenditure
12.       Neither benefit-cost analysis alone, nor scientific opinion alone,
L.or that of economic or social planners alone, can therefore, ex ante, provide
1/   See:  Musgrave and Lesueur in "Drought", Ed. J. Lovett (1973).



ANNEX 14
Page 4
either justification for, or estimate benefits flowing from, a research proj-
ect. Rather justification and benefit and cost assessment must be found in
a concensus of all these, based on analogue, historical and empirical evidence,
known physical constraints on the production functions, and the social and eco-
nomic targets which society's leaders have set. All this together, the con-
census of "wise men" must set the scenerio within which the investment decision
must be made. It is the reason why in this research project, as was done in
the Bank's research project in Spain, that a council of eminent scientists
would be appointed to monitor the progress and the direction of MARDI's on-
going research.
13,       Whilst physical constraints on an upward movement of the various
agricultural production functions, and hence the research objectives as now
perceived in Malaysia, have been more fully dealt with in Annexes 2-10, the
following may assist in reviewing the analogue and empirical evidence which
is available on the desirability of expanding agricultural research in
Malaysia.
14.       Empirical evidence on benefits flowing from research.  On October 16,
1973, Professor Evenson addressed a memorandum to the Consultative Group on
International Agricultural Research on comparative research expenditures in
a large group of countries. In this memorandum, he reviewed the compara-
tive state of research in the world, reviewed what data were available and
delineated the data which would be required to adequately assess economic
and social returns to research programs. He also produced inter-Nation
comparisons on a host of research coefficients, and provided a selected
bibliography of ex-post benefit-cost analyses on estimated output per
research dollar, and/or internal rates of return flowing from a group of
agricultural research projects. The bibliography is shown in Table 14.1.
It appears from the data in this Table that, for a number of single crop
research programs, and for a more limited group of aggregate output studies,
historical evidence is available that society derives appreciable benefit
from its investment in agricultural research.
15.       Using some of Evenson's inter-country comparisons on key parameters
in agricultural research and extension expenditures, this Annex compares a
selected group of thirteen Asian countries, all characterized by a major
rice sub-sector, with four major developed countries which have a substan-
tial agricultural export (Australia, Canada, New Zealand, USA). The compari-
son is shown in Table 14.2 together with per capita income data for these
countries.
16.       This table demonstrates clearly the total research and extension
expenditures per farm in the four developed countries are of a different,
significantly higher order of magnitude than of the Asian countries, in
which group Japan is of a different order of magnitude than the other Asian
countries.



ANNEX 14
Page 5
17.       From these analogue 1965 data, it is clear that at that time,
Malaysia was spending far less on research and extension than most other
Asian countries. There is, therefore, prima facie evidence that the deci-
sion made not long after, in 1967/68, to expand agricultural research and
extension through the formation of MARDI appears to be soundly based.
18.       Regression of Research Extension Effort and Aggregate Net output
per ha. A skeptic might conceivably argue that because per capita incomes
are higher, the four developed countries and Japan can afford to spend more
on research, and that research therefore is a luxury consumption expendi-
ture.
19.       To test this skepticism, a regression analysis was carried out
as follows:
The raw data on key research and extension expenditures shown in
Table 14.2 were ranked. A research-extension effort ranking
order (1965 data) was established and is shown in Table 14.3.
The ranking order thus established for the Asian countries only 1/
was regressed with aggregate productivity per ha 2/ in the sample
group of countries in 1970. 3/
The regression equation giving the best fit was:
y = a + bx
in which y = aggregate net output per ha 3/
x = research extension effort ranking order 4/
20.       The regression showed that:
y = 657.47 - .36.66 x
(R      -    0.628)
1/   The four developed countries, Australia, Canada, New Zealand, U.S.A.,
were left out of this regression. Much of their output derives from
grazing systems. Moreover the different order of magnitude of their
effort in this field suggests that they belong to a different statis-
tical population.
2/   Assuming a 5-year research - adoption lag.
3/   Source:  Country data from Bank policy paper on Land Reform.
4/   Source:  Table 14.3, last column.



ANNEX 14
Page 6
It is evident therefore that a relationship exists between
the research-extension effort ranking order and the aggregate output per
ha in the sample group of countries. For every notch upward on the re-
search-extension ladder, the country concerned can confidently expect
that an increase in aggregate output per ha will follow. Graph 9115 (at
end of this Annex) is a graphic demonstration of the relationship. In
this graph, Malaysia is not shown since both its research-extension effort
and its aggregate net output per ha are distorted by the rubber industry.
21.       Research, therefore, is not luxury consumption - it is a necessary
prerequisite to increasing aggregate productivity per ha.
22.       There seems, therefore, good empirical (intercountry comparisons)
and ex-post evidence which suggests that investment in agricultural research
per se will lead to an upward movement in the agricultural production func-
tion. This applies both to aggregate functions and to single crop research
programs.
C. Research and Malaysia Planning Targets
23.       There rests the economic planners' appreciation of the need for
agricultural research. It is a derived demand for research, stemming from
their planning targets. The Bank's Agricultural Sector Survey shows the
following expected growth rates in demand for agricultural products during
1968-1980. 1/
Growth Rate                                    Commodity
High (more than 6%)                       Oil Palm Products 2/
Fresh Milk
Beef
Mutton and lamb
Poultry meat
Intermediate (4.5-6%)                     Vegetable oils (other than coconut)
Coconut oil
Coffee
Reconstituted milk
Pork
Eggs (fresh)
Butter
Animal oils
1/   Source:  IBRD Agricultural Sector Survey - Malaysia, Vol. III.
2/   Source:  Derived from IBRD "Development Problems and Prospect of
Malaysia", Vol. 1, Annex 4, Table 2.



ANNEX 14
Page 7
Growth Rate                                    Commodity
Moderate (3.0-4.5%)                       Wheat
Sugar
Fruits
Vegetables
Pineapples
Low (Less than 3%)                        Rice
24.       There seems to be ample evidence that from a planning point of
view, research could be justified to sustain three industries, palm oil,
coconuts and livestock. Palm oil because in Malaysia, it is a new industry
whose main technology input has been imported, and livestock because scien-
tific evidence is available that the state of technology of livestock pro-
duction is low in the field of animal science. Production potentials in
meat output or milk production have not reached levels comparable to major
animal product agricultural systems elsewhere (Annex 6).   Moreover, a major
research effort is needed in feeding livestock on indigenous materials since
currently Malaysia is importing about $80-90 million worth of livestock feeds
which could perhaps be replaced by growing local substitute feeds or pastures,
neither of which are currently available and on which basic knowledge in
Malaysia is absent. Coconut technology is most inadequate and prior research
is required before replanting schemes, improved agronomy and management can
be properly based.
25.       Whilst these planning targets would indicate that research on
fruits is a less urgent task, an exception could be made for pineapples
because of a potential to reach markets outside Malaysia. These markets
are currently being lost to, e.g. Taiwan, because of the absence within
Malaysia of suitable canning varieties and a poor state of farming and pro-
cessing technology, resulting in excessively low utilization rates (Annex 4).
If Malaysia's export earnings base is to be widened, one of the planning
targets included in the current Five Year Plan, then here is an additional
crop on which research expenditure could be justified. Such justification
could be found also on social grounds. The Malaysian pineapple industry is
wholly based on peat soils and but for 2-3 large growers, is a smallholder
operation without alternative means of income on this type of soil. But
research on other crops in the fruit group should not be encouraged.
26.       As to rice, in the lowest group of growth rates, again social
disederata intrude to modify purely economic planning criteria. Rice is
wholly a smallholder industry and the rice grower is in the lowest rural
income group. Since total rice acreage in Malaysia is limited, income
targets for this economically deprived group can only be raised by inten-
sification of production and justification for rice research can therefore
be found on social grounds (Annex 2; Annex 8). One might argue that on
purely economic grounds Malaysia should concentrate on those crops, where
it has a comparative advantage, such as rubber, and that it should import
other food products. Whilst from a purely economic point of view this is



ANNEX 14
Page 8
correct, the supply situation in grains, including rice, is precarious. On
supply grounds alone, research on rice is justified. It minimises risk of
supply failure.
27.       Given these economic and social planning criteria, justification
for agricultural research by MARDI can be sustained for the following in-
dustries:
Oil palm
Livestock products and a derived research demand for
Livestock pastures, feeds and field crops
Coconuts
Pineapples
Rice and supporting research in water management and
food quality enhancement.
D. Analogue Data in Malaysian Rubber Industry
28.       In less developed countries, where private research in agriculture
is almost unknown 1/, continued public and political support is needed. In
particular Malaysia in this respect is fortunate in that it is the home of
the Rubber Research Institute of Malaysia (RRIM), a world centre of excel-
lence in its field. Malaysia is justifiably proud of this Institute and
public support towards agricultural research is therefore perhaps elicited
more easily than in other less developed countries.
29.       If MARDI is to receive the continued support from the public purse
it needs, then its achievements should match those of the RRIM. What are
these achievements? The answers, unfortunately are clouded because of the
absence of most pertinent data.
30.       Nevertheless, some approximations can be made.  Between 1963 and
1973 the yield per acre of estate-produced rubber increased from 658 to
1240 lbs/tapped acre and for smallholder-produced rubber from 390 to 805/lbs
tapped acre. The average for the two groups are 516 lbs/tapped acre in 1963
and 956 lbs/tapped acre in 1973. 2/
1/   In developed countries a rairiy large amount of privately fuiided ie-
search is undertaken, but this is largely in the fields of agricultural
engineering and machinery, and seeds production.
2/   Source:  Malaysian Rubber Research and Development Board (MRRDB).



ANNEX 14
Page 9
31.       These data were tested in a simple model:
Increase in productivity = I + Y
1 + (L + C)
in which Y = annual percentage rate of increase in yield
per tapped acre 1963-1973
L = annual percentage rate of increase in labour
consumption per tapped acre 1963-1973
C = annual percentage rate of increase in capital
expenditure per tapped acre 1963-1973'
32.       The model in fact states that any of the increase in productivity
per acre which cannot be explained by the con4entional inputs of labour and
capital is due to new technology, i.e. the supply function of research and
extension.
33.       "Y" is the model is the average rate of increase in rubber yield
shown in para 30. It is 6.66% per annum. "L" is unknown, but concensus of
opinion of industry leaders in Malaysia with whom this was discussed, is
that it has not risen, in fact it is likely to have dropped. In absence of
better data, it is therefore taken as Zero. As to C, two expenditures may
vary, i.e. fertilizers and pesticides. The latter are rarely used, and the
fertilizer data supplied by the MRRDB indicate that in the 1963-1973 period,
the rate of consumption has drcpped by 0.5%. The figure is consistent with
opinions expressed by industry leaders. They all stated that fertilizer
consumption would have dropped due to improved knowledge, the outcome of
research of the RRIM, on fertilizer technology (e.g. leaf analysis, better
knowledge of soils, application times, rates and mixtures, etc).
34.       The model, therefore, indicates that in the period 1963-1973, new
technology improved yields per tapped acre of rubber by 7.5% per annum.
Some industry leaders indicated that some of the yield increase was attribu-
table to replanting. Using new clones and new knowledge on spacing, etc.,
itself is an outcome of improved technology, established by research. In
any case, whatever the source of the contribution of replanting, most of
this took place in the mid-sixties and cptimal yield age has therefore not
been reached yet, and the factor can be ignored for the present purpose.
35.       A calculation was also made on the relationship between the total
expenditure made by RRIM since 1951 and the increase in rubber yield in the
1963-1973 period. 1/ The relationship was determined by a distributive lag
1/   Mr. A. Egbert of CPS kindly carried out the statistical analysis, which
was based on data and information supplied to him by the appraisal mission.



ANNEX 14
Page 10
procedure in which various lengths of lags, and combination of lags, between
research expenditure and increased yields were tried. The statistical rela-
tionship was significant and it was established that:
Y   =  -25.06 + 0.00634  Et-8
Because of yield variability, obviously not related to research, the parameter
0.00634 should be reduced to 0.00364. The equation therefore establishes,
that, all other factor inputs having remained constant in the analysis period,
for each M$ 1000 spent on research a yield increase of 0.00364 lbs/acre fol-
lows 8 years later on each acre of rubber produced in Malaysia (currently
3,432,000 acres of mature rubber). Current research expenditure is M$ 32
million per annum. Given these parameter and a price of rubber at US$0.26/lb,
the value of this research in 8 years time would be about US$42,000,000 if
discounted at 10% per annum.
E. Yield Increases due to Research and Extension in other Crops in Malaysia
36.       Rubber research in Malaysia has been carried out by the RRIM since
1925 and one may assume that in the research-output production function of
rubber, the marginal return to research could be smaller than for other
crops in Malaysia which have a far shorter history of research. If there-
fore due to research, rubber productivity has risen by 7.5% per annum over
the past 10 years, it is a pessimistic assumption, nevertheless adopted here,
that for other crops now the subject of research by MARDI, marginal returns
would be at least equal to 7.5%.
37.       How valid is the assumption that what research could have effected
in rubber, can be effected in other crops? A perusal of the staff establish-
ment of the RRIM indicates that most of its staff work in the normal disci-
plines associated with agricultural research. Few are real rubber technolo-
gists; most are agronomists, entomologists, plant pathologists, statisticians,
soil scientists and the like. Their specialists still are entirely trans-
ferable to other crop research.. The fact that Mr. Hadji Ani, until June
1974 Deputy Director of MARDI, was at that time appointed Director of the
RRIM, supports this assertion. It is therefore not unreasonable to postulate
that what the RRIM establishment has achieved, and is achieving after 50 years
of single crop research and possible diminishing marginal returns, could be
duplicated by MARDI. Moreover, if MARDI could not match the RRIM effort,
in due course the political goodwill now backing MARDI would evaporate.
Marching RRIM's research record is therefore not only desirable, it is a
condition for survival.
38.       Of all MARDI's research programs, four have objectives which, if
attained, sooner or later, lend themselves to a tentative and partial ex-ante
quantification purely for establishing the cost of lags between commencement
of research and attainment of benefits. These four are:



ANNEX 14
Page 11
rice research program
pineapple research program
livestock research program
that part of the field crop research program
which deals with fodder crop research
39.       The key unknown is the time it will take to achieve these targets
of: (i) reduced reliance on rice importation, (ii) better on-farm and off-
farm technology of pineapple production, (iii) better stock quality and
management techniques, and (iv) the development of pastures and pasture
management and the growing of grain crops for feed production respectively
through research on key constraints and work towards ultimate farmer adoption.
40.       Assume that the whole of the 5-year research and extension liaison
program was devoted to these four targets, that currently known technology
was disseminated more efficiently and that the skilled body of researchers
could improve unit output of the farm commodities by 7.5% 1/ as their col-
leagues in the rubber industry have done, then based on current acreages and
outputs, the following rates of return could be anticipated over a 35 year
project period.
Research Extension Lag in years           3          5         8
Investment period in years                6          6         6
Commencement of benefits in year          9         11        14
Rate of return                         33.7%        27%     21.3%
41.       The rates of return are therefore not dissimilar to those shown
in the bibliography quoted by Evenson in Table 14.1.
42.       As to the various lag periods, no knowledge is available to
nominate one lag period with a higher degree of confidence than any of the
other two. With the current poor status of extension services in Malaysia
(Annex 1 and 11), the logical assumption is to regard a longer lag period to
1/   The application of the 7.5% rate of yield improvement is not a pure
increase in output. The outcome of the research is not known, it could
be an increase in yields, it could be a lowering in unit price of pro-
duction, it could be due to quality enhancement, it could be due to a
reduced risk factor in production due to better farming standards; it
most probably is a combination of any of these factors. The 7.5% is
purely an indicative minimum, an industry "betterment factor", i.e.
without the research and extension effort the industry would have been
worse off by 7.5% over time. The application of 7.5% to quantitative
1974 production data was therefore purely for computational purposes.
It does not necessarily mean that output will increase by 7.5% in the
nominated time slice.



ANNEX 14
Page 12
be nearer the truth than a shorter one. The observable improvement in rates
of return (about 2% for each one year reduction in lag time) for the shorter
lag period justifies the preparation of a follow-up Extension Project aimed
at complementing and rounding off the Extension-Liaison Unit proposed under
the Project. What should also be undertaken is the multiplication of tangible
new technology, i.e. a project or projects dealing with the multiplication and
distribution of HYV seeds and other planting material, and the spreading of
improved genetic material through the livestock industry.
F. Summing Up
43.       Whilst no single criterion by itself could justify the investment
in an Agricultural Research and Extension Project in Malaysia, there are a
number of indications which together could provide the justification. These
are:
(a) In 1965 Malaysia was spending comparatively less on agri-
cultural research and extension than most other Asian
countries. The decision made in 1967/68 to expand such
research in Malaysia through the creation of MARDI appears
to be justified, on these gounds (para 17);
(b) There is evidence that physical constraints exist on cropping
areas, or cropping technology of crops which on social and
economic planning grounds need expansion in aggregate output
(paras 23-27). These constraints can only be removed through
the introduction and/or adoption of new technology (Annexes
2-9).
(c) Rates of return, based on analogue evidence from the rubber
industry, which if applied to some basic data for four
commodity groups, indicate that a reduction of the research-
extension lag is a justifiable objective (para 40);
(d) Derived from the success of the RRIM, there is in Malaysia
a climate of justifiable pride in, and political and financial
support for, a program of research in agriculture. This
favourable climate emanates from the work of the RRIM. Since
agricultural research is at the best of times, a long-term
effort, such support is absolutely essential. Industry and
political support for agricultural research (paras 28 to 35)
is perhaps the best guarantee that research objectives can
be attained (Annex 1).
(e) There is ex-post evidence from other countries on the basis
of rates of return to individual crop research programs and
on aggregate output per ha, that agricultural research is
a sound national investment (Table 14.1);



ANNEX 14
Page 13
(f) There is evidence that a definite relationship exists between
aggregate net output per ha and the research-extension effort
in a selected group of 12 Asian countries (paras 19, 25).
44.       Of overriding importance is the fact that the major beneficiaries
the research and extension effort are Malaysia's small farmers. The better-
ment of this economically and socially deprived group is the objective of
the creation of MARDI.
G. Conclusion
45.  (1)  Whilst no one of the foregoing indicators in isolation could
provide full justification for the Agricultural Research
and Extension Project - taken together, they indicate
that the Project would be beneficial to Malaysia's agricul-
tural sector and its smallholders in particular.
(2) It will be necessary to ensure on a systematic basis that
research objectives are reviewed regularly
, research methods and resource requirements are
reviewed regularly
. research resources are expended efficiently,
if stated objectives are to be attained and if agricultural
research is to remain relevant to the needs of Malaysia's
agricultural sector.
46.       This systematic review would be facilitated by a panel of monitors
and by the institution of a Planned Program Budgeting System (PPBS) in MARDI.
The monitors would ensure external efficiency and the PPB System would pro-
vide the necessary internal guidance to MARDI management on the efficient use
of the available research resources.
April, 1975



MALAYSIA                                  ANNEX 14
Table 14.3
AG2ICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
Ranking Order3/ of Research - Extension Effort
Ratio of
Research                                                         Research
Expenditure                                                      Extension
to Value of      Research        Extension         Total         Effort
Agricultural     Expenditure     Workers           (1)+(2)+(3)   Ranking
Product          per Farm        per Farm          -             Order 3/
Country             (1)               (2)            (3)               (4)           (5)
Asian Countries
Burma               15                 ?              ?                15            15
India               12.5 2/           15              7                34.5          11.5
Indonesia           16                16              9                41            13.7
Japan                4                 5              3                12             4
Malaysia            12.5 _/            9              8                29.5           9.8
Nepal                ?                13             13                26            13
Pakistan            11               12               7               30             10
Philippines          6                6              10               22              7.3
South Korea         14                11              5                30            10
South Vietnam       10               14              14                38            12.7
Sri Lanka            7                10             11                28             9.3
Taiwan               9                 8              6                23             7.7
Thailand             3                 7             12                22             7.3
Developed Countries with Substantial Agricultural Exports
Australia            1                 1              ?                 2             1
Canada               2                 3              2                 7             2.3
New Zealand          8                 4              1                13             4.3
U.S.A.               5                 2              4             > 11              3.7
1/   Ranking order based on data shown in Appendix 1.  The ranking order is continuous for
both Asimnand Developed Countries with Substantial Agricultural Exports.
2/   Half rankings (e.g., 12.5) indicates equal raiking (e.g., 12/13)
3/   Effort ranking order is:   (4)
n
April 3, 1975



MALAYSIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
REGRESSION OF RESEARCH - EXTENSION
RANKING. ORDER AND NET OUTPUT
PER HA. FOR 11 ASIAN COUNTRIES
800 
* Japan
750-
700 -
65
650
v = 657.47 - 36.66 x
R = -0.628
600
550
a    500
wL   450
r~                     \         \South Korea
>  400
C-,
350
<    300 _
F-                      Srilanka          0 Indonesia
z
250  -                             South Vietnam
Pakistan *    \  Nepal
200  -
Thailand e      
T   Philippines
150  -
* India
100                                     \
Burma*
50
0
5          10          15         x
RESEARCH - EXTENSION RANKING ORDER (1965) -
1 / Data based on table 1 @.3, last column
2/ Data based on Bank Policy Paper on Land Reform                   World Bank-9115(2R)



MAI;AYSI2.                             *ANNEx 14
Table 1L.1
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
Studies on Summary of Implicit Technology Generation Function"
Estimated Marginal
Country (commodity)       Output per            Internal
Study             Time   Period        Research Dollar        rate of return
1.  Griliches        U.S.A.  (aggregate)           $7                    --
(1964)               1949-1959
2.  Latimer, R.      U.S.A.  (aggregate)          ----               significant
(1964)               1949-1959
3.  Evenson          U.S.A.   (aggregate)       $10-12                   47
(1968)               1949-1959
4. Khaldi, N.        U.S.A.   (aggregate)           not calculated  but high
returns implied
5. Tang, A.          Japan    (aggregate)                                35
(1963)               1880-1938
6.  Ardito-Barletto  Mexico   (crops)             2.9                   5-93
(1970)               1943-1963
7.  Peterson         U.S.A.   (poultry)           1.4                    21
(1966)
8.  Evenson          South Africa (sugarcane)      15                    40
(1969)               1945-1958
9.  Evenson          Australia    (sugarcane)      35                    50
(1969)               1945-1958
10. Evenson           India    (sugarcane)          40                    60
(1969)               1945-1958
11.  Hayami & Rhttan  International                  not calculated, but high
(1972)               1955-1965                 returns implied
12.  Kislev and       International
Evenson (1973)       1955-1968
Applied Research
LDC's                                          21
DC's                                           21
Scientific Research Related
to agriculture
LDC's                                           60
DC%t                                           36
3/ Sourcet Consultative Goup on International Agricultural Research;
Memorandum by Prof. Evenson of October 16, 1973
April, 1975



MALAYSIA
AGRICUL'TURAL RESEhRCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
Agricultural Research and Extension - Country Data-
(1965)
Publications in
Ratio of                                 Agricultural
Research                                  Services
Research               Extension         &xpenditures                               (number of
Per                                                       to value of   Research
Capita  Expenditures Scientists  Expenditures WPrkers  Agricultural  Expenditures  Extension   Publications
Income  (thousand    (man-year)  (thousand                Product        per Farm      WTrkers       Abstracted
u.s$.1/  U.S$   )                   U.S.$  )                              (U.S.$)       per Farm    in 1962-68
Asian Countries
Burma            80        93            39            -         1262      C4Oh                            -             1
Ceylon            100    1395            87            -           200     o.58            1.19           0.17          72
India             110   12000          1462            -        56000      0.15            0.25           1.15        1551
Indonesia         80      131            54            -         6000      0.01            0.01           o.49          76
Japan            2130   62500          4500        36310        14126      0.98           10.34           2.33        2197
Malaysia          400     820            32            -          317      o.15            1.81           0.70          62
Nepal              90     419           142            -           200       -             0.31           0.1,           -
Pakistan          130    5014           654          6037        9000      0.23            0.41           0.7h         41o
Philippines       240    7078          1256            -          617      0.69            3.27           0.28         435
South Korea      290    1325            294            -         3217      0.11            0.57           1.38          50
South Vietnam    230      547            40           -            95      0.25            0.29           0.05          19
Taiwan           430    1922            401            -         1100      0.28            2.38           1.36         325
Thailand         210    8428            442            -          502      1.13            2.62           0.16          36
Developed Countries with Substantial Agricultural Exports
Australia               56364          2085                         -      2.11          223.67            -          2347
Canada                  40217          1483         26450        2904      1.28           83.61           6.04        2917
New Zealand     v        6000           479            -          472      0.55           82.19           6.47         822
U.S.A                  350000         13800        178000        6233      0.81           94-34           1.68       21092
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
1/   Per capita incomes as shown in World Bank Atlas. 1973 edition                                                             (D
2/   'aper of October 13, 1973 of CGIAR
April 3, 1975



IBRD 11238R
7-    . . 1t  .. -   .,<   *10            l2~                                       g3~                                       104         APRIL 1975
MALAYSIA
N >'  .                                     AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND
- d8ee,   - .                                                       X                                                    EXTENSION PROJECT
- ,pM,9                 ~~T H'A f L- A N D 
JJ,    o _         ,4         .                    .                                                             .A        Mardi research centers  and field Stations
Kongar                                                                                                                      *         Agricultural products utilizaton  research centers
. .-.- \( L /                                                  -                                                               - -{\1>gmp (Food technologyl
Jitra  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~     ~       flt~~~~~~~5pQ~~~~~ ~Federal roads and raut. numbers
I                                  ~~~~~~~~~Other p-icipal roads
Alor Ontar                                      I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Shr
Mergotg                                                                                          dctng                    -         State baundaries
6'  ! tv    K  E    /A   H  2  t   0    \  \   -  - International boundries                    6-
*          2                    PureiN. Ko~~~~~mpong
C'                            \J'u  I"'    Tonch                ,,     Rein          p0          20          40 60
Sangei1Potoni        I           /                 1' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0                 20     40      6O     89     190
Bambog Limo                                                                    Kla Aa Krpi          3KILOMETERS
GeorgeTown/Urna
RiIVIV                           -Gf                                                  <                           Kecg                uala
-%NANG   e                                              P"Jy<                                                               T r   tNrengganu
.     . A          EP    F  /g, R    A       /f    g        g   5  Z A  N97 A   V A  L7
KualaKurau                                                               G                                         G [  A    /v    \'
PortWed-
3or                                                          t        je<)$ )  g   R % Kucla  orn
.'~Kua   K         't                           rW 1K
~~~Panit ~~~~~~~~KuoloLipis
-        elo  Anss                3t 3Sel Baglng
Hilir Perqok                               )      Raub                                                        Kuontor                    S    o   u        t
stteo  5'< g~~~~~~~~P  A    A;    A                                                                                   hi 
SE/A   NOC      (~~~~~   Bentong                              rn          n
          Tanjong Koroeg>                           16  h                                                           emr
Kuala SelangoS
P r,j cng   Kajang 3'
.~'  -    i, 77 o dstoesrrsbwt on rhi nap do nor i                               s  e                       /            /        \a,
A npt  d.--et r  ... epr..o, by th,                                                     ms          ;          k \)
.-   a~ ~~~d Wqfrfillwes .Dcsn                                                                 ,       A       m       m     9      mt                  -     2> 
WerPrP~eekd ;- Yit lol          --                f     5Mersing
. 9  .~~~~~~~~ "t                                          CCA/    
eve          Xj   Kh60681CtjR ljt                                                 C                 MotocoN           > S                         ' ! /     
-7
PHILIPPINE .i   uang                                                                                                                           2
Batu Poo
South   Chdnc    So                    ,\                   f 
A    L   A   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                       Ko~~~~~~~~~~~~~~to Trnggi
.           ,!,  ~~~~t      y ._         B  RUNEI,        A-                    >        i           <
ii,  -                                                                                                        .                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ohore Aahru
~ \%*~r  /~                                  '~INDONESIA~                                  
~~~                                                         '~~~~~~~                                      *   /              S~~~~~~~~~~~~INGAPORE
9 ~)f   ttScz,SsNGAPoRE    i eiAI r6tAnrs   >      . S      m   a  f r 0t .      \S       .8''                                                       G       P       R
I .    ..0't'N >....  N   E  S.  I   Al'.{.IF                                                                                                                                ^    103'      1014'



