CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1155 TUN
Loan Agreement
(Third Education Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
DATED AUGUST 13, 1975


﻿CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1155 TUN
Loan Agreement
(Third Education Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
DATED AUGUST 13, 1975


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 13, 1975, between REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in the
financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by making
the Loan as hereinafter provided; and
(B)   The Borrower has indicated to the Bank that it has decided, within
the framework of an integrated education, to extend by 1981 to about 95% of
all its fifth and sixth grades in its primary education system its program on the
"Initiation aux Travaux Manuels" (hereinafter called ITM);
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the foregoing,
to make the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions hereinafter
set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank,
dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were fully set
forth herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements
of the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)   "Prior Development Credit Agreements"     means the agreements
No. 29 TUN, dated September 17, 1962 and No. 94 TUN, dated September 16,
1966, respectively, all between the Borrower and the Association, as such
agreements may be amended from time to time; and such term includes the


﻿4
Development Credit Regulations No. I of the Association, dated June 1, 1961,
as made applicable to such agreements, all agreements supplemental to the said
Development Credit Agreements and all schedules to the said Development Credit
Agreements;
(b)   "CNFC" means the "National Center for Continuous Education"
(Centre National de Formation Continue) of the Borrower located at Korba;
(c)   "INSE" means the "National Institute for Educational Sciences"
(Institut National des Sciences de l'Education) of the Borrower established and
operating under the laws of the Borrower pursuant to Decree No. 69-238, dated
July 9, 1969, as amended by Decree No. 72-275, dated September 8, 1972;
(d)   "ONA" means the "National Bureau of Handicrafts" (Office National
de l'Artisanat) of the Borrower established and operating under the laws of the
Borrower pursuant to Law No. 59-133 of October 15, 1959;
(e)   "UNFT" means the "National Union of Women of Tunisia" (Union
Nationale des Femmes de Tunisie) established and operating under the laws of
the Borrower pursuant to Decree No. 61-62 of January 25, 1961;
(f)   "OTTEEFP" means "Bureau      for Tunisian Workers Abroad, of
Employment and Vocational Training" (Office des Travailleurs Tunisiens a
l'Etranger, de l'Emploi et de la Formation Professionelle) an etablissement public
a caractere industriel et commercial established and operating under the laws of
the Borrower pursuant to Law No. 67-11 of March 8, 1967, as amended by Law
No. 73-8 of January 31, 1973;
(g)   "ITMA" means the "Introduction to Manual Agricultural Work
Program" (Initiation aux Travaux Manuels Agricoles) of the Borrower consisting
of the introduction of manual agricultural training curricula in the fifth and sixth
grades of the primary schools, including mainly practical work related to local
farming and animal husbandry, and being part of an integrated education;
(h)   "ITMI" means the "Introduction to Manual Industrial Work Program"
(Initiation aux Travaux Manuels Industriels) of the Borrower which aims to
introduce manual industrial training curricula in the fifth and sixth grades of the
primary schools, including metalwork, woodwork, construction and electricity, and
being part of a coherent integrated education program;
(i)   "DSP" means the existing "Directorate of Statistics and Planning"
(Direction des Statistiques et de la Planification) established within the Borrower's
Ministry of Education;


﻿5
(j) "PIU" means the "Project Implementation Unit" to be established by
the Borrower as provided in paragraph (b)(i) of Section 3.01 of this Agreement.
(k)   "Project Director" means the director of PIU referred to in paragraph
(b)(iii) of Section 3.01 of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and
conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to eight million nine hundred thousand dollars ($8,900,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement, as
such Schedule may be amended from time to time by agreement between the
Borrower and the Bank, for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree,
to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the goods, works
and services (other than consultants' services) for the Project to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be procured in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1980 or such later date
as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such
later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of eight and one-half
per cent (8-1/2%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-annually on
March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan
in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this
*         Agreement.


﻿6
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial,
educational and engineering practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b)   The Borrower shall:
(i)         without limitation   or restriction on the generality of the
provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 3.01 of this
Agreement, establish and thereafter maintain under the
supervision of experienced and competent staff, in adequate
numbers, within the Directorate of Primary Education within
its Ministry of Education, a Project Implementation Unit to be
with such powers and responsibilities as set forth in Schedule
5 to this Agreement and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services, staff and other resources required to
enable PIU to carry out its responsibilities. For this purpose,
the Borrower shall: (A) cause PIU to call upon the services of
qualified staff and any competent entities, including the
Direction des Bdtiments et du Mate'riel of its Ministry of
Education, and (B) cause such Direction to use the services of
consultant architects and assign three members of its staff to
supervise the physical execution of the Project.
(ii)        cause PIU    to collect data to measure the progress of the
educational aspects of the Project and to send such data to the
Bank, as soon as reasonably possible, in a form acceptable to
the Bank; and
(iii)       cause PIU to be headed, during the carrying out of the Project,
by the Director of Primary Education of its Ministry of
Education, and cause such Director to retain the services of at
least two full-time qualified and experienced staff to assist him
with the execution of the Project.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in the carrying out of the
Project, the Borrower shall employ experts and consultant architects whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank.


﻿7
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall cause
all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly upon
their preparation, the plans, specifications, lists of equipment and furniture
(including specifications), reports, contract documents and construction and
procurement schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof or
additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower shall: (i) maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose the use thereof
in the Project; (ii) enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit the facilities
and construction sites included in the Project and to examine the goods financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant records and documents; and
(iii) furnish to the Bank all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request
concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods
and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all such
action as shall be necessary to acquire prior to the start of the construction of
the facilities included in the Project all such land and rights in respect of land
as shall be required for the construction (and operation) of the said facilities.
(b)   Without limitation or restriction on the generality of the provisions
of paragraph (a) of this Section and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower undertakes to select all the sites for the construction of the facilities
under Part A. 1 and 2 of the Project in accordance with the criteria listed in Schedule
6 to this Agreement.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall:
(a)   not later than six months after the date of this Agreement, or such
other date as the Bank may otherwise agree, take such measures as shall be necessary


﻿8
and appropriate to coordinate the activities of OTTEEFP, UNFT, ONA, its Ministry
of Agriculture, its Ministry of Education, the Conseils de Gouvernorat of Medenine
and Kairouan and any other agencies charged by the Borrower with the carrying
out of Part C of the Project;
(b)(i)      not later than six months after the date of this Agreement, or
such other date as the Bank may otherwise agree, appoint an
officer responsible to the Inspecteur Regional de l'Enseignment
Primaire in each of Medenine and Kairouan regional centers with
such powers as shall be necessary to follow the post-primary
non-formal education program in each of the governorates and
to ensure the coordination of the activities related thereto; and
(ii)        in order to ensure the success of the post-primary non-formal
education program, take such measures as shall be necessary to
assign a full-time specialist in non-formal education to each of
the Medenine and Kairouan regional centers included in Part C
of the Project from among the beneficiaries of the fellowships
included in Part D.4 of the Project at the time they finish their
training.
(c)   no later than two years after the date of this Agreement, or such
other date as the Bank may agree, establish, in each regional center referred to
under Part C of the Project, a tracer 'system to maintain records of the subsequent
employment of the trainees of each such regional center and of their respective
satellite centers referred to under Part C of the Project.
(d)   no later than one year after the date of this Agreement or such other
date as the Bank may agree, recruit an adequate number of qualified and
experienced teacher-trainers for the Ecoles Normales to be equipped under Part
B.1 of the Project, under terms and conditions of employment which shall give
such teachers rank and benefits at least equivalent to those they had at the time
of their recruitment.
(e)   to take all such measures as may be required to ensure that ITM courses
be given appropriate weight in the evaluation of trainees in the schools referred
to in Part B of the Project.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall:
(a)   no later than one year after the date of this Agreement, or such other
date as the Bank may agree, furnish to the Bank a detailed outline, agreed to


﻿9
by the Borrower and the Bank, of each study to be carried out under Part D. 1
of the Project, and thereafter carry out such studies in accordance with such
outlines; and
(b)   cause DSP to be, at all times, staffed with qualified and experienced
personnel in adequate numbers to enable DSP to conduct its study program and
other activities for which it is responsible.
Section 3.08. Without limitation or restriction on the generality of the
provisions of paragraph (b) of Section 3.07 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall
take all such actions as may be required to retain qualified and experienced
permanent staff to fill all positions budgeted for DSP in its budget for the year
1975.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making loans to, or with
the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in normal circumstances, special security
from the member concerned but to ensure that no other external debt shall have
priority over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of foreign
exchange held under the control or for the benefit of such member. To that end,
if any lien shall be created on any public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security
for any external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the benefit
of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation, realization or distribution
of foreign exchange, such lien shall, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso
facto and at no cost to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in creating or
permitting the creation of such lien, shall make express provision to that effect;
provided, however, that, if for any constitutional or other legal reason such
provision cannot be made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of
its political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall promptly and at no
cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the
Loan by an equivalent lien on other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b)   The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any lien created on
property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely as security for payment of the
purchase price of such property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course
of banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after
its date.
(c)   As used in this Section, the term  "public assets" means assets of the
Borrower, of any political or administrative subdivision thereof and of any entity
owned or controlled by, or operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower


﻿10
or any such subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange assets held by
any institution performing the functions of a central bank or exchange stabilization
fund, or similar functions, for the Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting
practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of
the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall, no later than one year after the date of
this Agreement, or such other date as the Bank may agree:
(a)   establish, and thereafter maintain, within the Directorate of Primary
Education of its Ministry of Education an Evaluation Unit, and provide such unit
with such specialists and other staff as shall be necessary to: (i) monitor the
progress, development and integration of the ITM program in collaboration with
the Inspections Regionales de l'Enseignement Primaire; and (ii) develop new
programs and new teaching methods for primary schools in collaboration with INSE,
the CNFC, the Ecoles Normales and any other competent institutions.
(b)   entrust to INSE or any other competent institutions, evaluation studies
on the effectiveness of (i) the post-primary non-formal education program referred
to in Part C of the Project, and (ii) the ITM polyvalent experimental program
referred to under Part A of the Project; and
(c)   furnish to the Bank (i) the outlines of the studies referred to in
paragraph (b) above, and (ii) the results of such studies.
Section 4.04. (a) The Borrower shall cause the buildings and equipment of
the schools included in the Project to be adequately maintained and shall cause
all necessary renewals and repairs to be made thereto.
(b)   The Borrower shall operate the educational institutions and facilities
included in the Project in accordance with appropriate administrative and
educational policies and practices and with due regard to economy.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c)
of the General Conditions:


﻿11
(a)   PIU  has been established with such power and responsibilities as
provided in paragraph (b)(i) of Section 3.01 of this Agreement and has started
its operations.
(b)   The staff referred to in paragraph (b)(iii) of Section 3.01 of this
Agreement have been appointed in PIU and have assumed their duties.
Section 5.02. The date January 13, 1976, is hereby specified for the purposes
o-f Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Ministre Delegue' aupres du Premier Ministre charge du
Plan of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Le Ministre D6l6gu6 aupris du Premier
Ministre charg6 du Plan
Ministere du Plan
I Rue de Beja
Tunis, Tunisia
Cable address:
Ministere du Plan
Tunis
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿12
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the Disttict of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
By /s/ Amor Ardhaoui
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR                                        U
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Willi Wapenhans
Director, Regional Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
Regional Office


﻿13
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each
Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated              % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)   Civil works                  3,000,000            16%
(2)   Furniture, equip-            4,300,000            100% of foreign
ment and spare                                    expenditures or
parts                                             95% of the ex-
factory price of
locally procured
goods
(3)  Technical assistance                              100% of foreign
expenditures
(a)   Fellowships un-           200,000
der Part D.4 of
the Project and
consultants'
services other
than those in-
cluded in para-
graph (b) of
this Category
and Category (4)
hereof
(b)  Consultants'               500,000
services for
the studies in-
cluded in Part
D.1(a), (b) and
(c) of the.
Project
(4)  Consultants' serv-              300,000           50%
ices under Part
D.1(d) of the Project
(5)   Unallocated                    600,000
TOTAL        8,900,000


﻿14
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule the term "foreign expenditures" means
expenditures in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other than the
Borrower.
3.    The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compliance with the
policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan shall be disbursed on account
of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods
or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of any item
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan decreases or increases, the Bank
may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage
then applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank.
4.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of expenditures:
(a)   prior to the date of this Agreement;
(b)  in respect of Category (3) of the Allocation of the Proceeds of the
Loan set forth in paragraph 1 of this Schedule unless the Borrower: (i) has filled
the vacancies in DSP, as provided in Section 3.08 of this Agreement; (ii) has
furnished to the Bank detailed outlines of the studies included in Part D.1(a),
(b) and (c) of the Project, in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.07(a)
of this Agreement; and
(c)  in respect of Category (4) of the Allocation of the Proceeds of the
Loan set forth in paragraph 1 of this Schedule unless the Borrower and the Bank
have agreed on the components of the education projects referred to in Part D. 1(d)
of the Project.
5.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or the disbursement
percentages set forth in the table in paragraph I above, if the Bank has reasonably
estimated that the amount of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category,
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the
extent required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are
then allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are
not needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully
meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category may
continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.


﻿15
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the procurement of any
item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to
in this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or limiting
any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan Agreement, by
notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿16
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is part of the Borrower's program to:
(i)        introduce a more relevant primary school curriculum    and
increase the efficiency of the Borrower's primary school system;
(ii)       extend to about 95% of all fifth and sixth grades in its primary
education system its ITM program within the framework of an
integrated education;
(iii)      establish an experimental post-primary education and training
program for some of the pupils of the sixth grade of primary
education who will not have access to secondary education and
are not permitted to repeat, to assist their integration in the
economic. life of their local areas; and
(iv)       provide support for educational reform studies through assistance
to the Borrower's Ministry of Education.
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:    Extension of the Borrower's ITM program
1.   Construction, furnishing and equipping of about 55 primary school facilities.
2.    Conversion of two classrooms in each of 156 existing primary schools into
ITM workshops and equipping of same.
3.    (a)  Construction, equipping and furnishing of about 18 ITM polyvalent
centers to be dispersed throughout the country; and of about 22 new
ITMI.
(b)   Equipping of about 210 new ITMA schools to be located in the
governorates of Medenine and Kairouan.
Part B:    Teacher Training
1.   Construction, equipping and furnishing to expand five existing Ecoles
Normales located at Tunis, La Marsa, Kairouan, Gafsa and Sfax, respectively,
including in each such institution:


﻿17
(a)   about 75 workshop places (15 each in woodwork, metalwork,
construction, electricity and home economics); and
(b)   purchase and use of agricultural equipment for two groups of 30
students each.
2.    Expansion of the National Center for Continuous Education at Korba
through:
(a)   Construction, equipping and furnishing of:
(i)         the additions and remodelling necessary to increase total
enrollment capacity from about 175 to 250 students and
boarding space from about 150 to 175 students;
(ii)        about  5   model workshops (woodwork, electricity,
construction, metalwork, home economics/nutrition);
(b)   purchase and use of agricultural equipment for about 30 students.
Part C:    Post Primary
1.    Establishment (including construction, remodelling, equipping and furnishing)
of an experimental post-primary non-formal education center at Medenine, and
of six satellite centers at Alfja, Zarzis, Ben Gardene, Tatahouine, Beni Kheddache
and Jerba (Guellala), providing for about 125 additional places at Medenine and
about 170 places in the satellite centers to supplement existing capacity in
non-formal education institutions, thus resulting in a total of about 1,640 places.
2.    Establishment (including construction, furnishing and equipping of facilities)
of an experimental post-primary non-formal education center at Kairouan, and of
two satellite centers at Sbeikha and Hadjeb, providing for a total of about 390
places.
Part D:     Technical Assistance *
1.   A program of studies including:
(a)   a study of the relationships between the education-training system and
the job market;
*    See exhibit to this Schedule.


﻿18
(b)   studies of possible education reform measures;
(c)   a study identifying specific priority areas for education investments
and preparation of selected education projects suitable for external
financing; and
(d)   preparation of plans related to construction and equipment for the
education projects referred to in paragraph (c) hereof.
2.    a study evaluating the polyvalent ITM   program;
3.    a study of the eventual development of the post-primary program of the
Borrower referred to under Part C of the Project, and on the evaluation of such
program; and
4.    provision of fellowships to train Tunisians abroad.
The Project is expected to be completed by Juiie 30, 1979.


﻿19
EXHIBIT TO SCHEDULE 2
Specialists and Fellowships
man/months
(estimated)
Specialists
Training and Employment                                        12
Education Planner/Economist                                   24
General Education/Curriculum development                       18
Technical Education/Equipment                                  18
School Survey Norms and Standards                             18
Information Systems/Programmer                                12,
Non-formal Education                                          1
Tracer Systems/Evaluation                                      12
II.  Short-term consultancies for the                               18
Planning Unit, the Evaluation Unit
and the Project Implementation Unit
III.  Fellowships
Education Planning (2 x 8 months)                              16
School Survey (1 only)                                        12
Non-formal Education (3 x 12)                                 36
Tracer Studies and Evaluation (2 x 3 months)                   6


﻿20
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                                (expressed in dollars)*
September 15, 1980                                        90,000
March 15, 1981                                            90,000
September 15, 1981                                        95,000
March 15, 1982                                           100,000
September 15, 1982                                       105,000
March 15, 1983                                           110,000
September 15, 1983                                       115,000
March 15, 1984                                           12000
September 15, 1984                                       125,000
March 15, 1985                                           130,000
September 15, 1985                                       135,000
March 15, 1986                                           140,000
September 15, 1986                                       145,000
March 15, 1987                                           150,000
September 15, 1987                                       160,000
March 15, 1988                                           165,0
September 15, 1988                                       170,000
March 15, 1989                                           180,000
September 15, 1989                                       185,0
March 15, 1990                                           195)000
September 15, 1990                                       205,000
March 15, 1991                                           210,000
September 15, 1991                                       220,000
March 15, 1992                                           230,000
September 15, 1992                                       240,000
March 15, 1993                                           25000
September 15, 1993                                       260,000
March 15, 1994                                           270,000
September 15, 1994                                       28500
March 15, 1995                                           295,000
September 15, 1995                                       310,000
March 15, 1996                                           320,000
September 15, 1996                                       335,000
March 15, 1997                                           350,0
September 15, 1997                                       3650
March 15, 1998                                           380,000
September 15, 1998                                       395,000
March 15, 1999                                           410,000
September 15, 1999                                       430,000
March 15,1 2000                                          435,000
*  To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a currency other
than dollars (see General Conditions, Section 4.02), the figures in this column
represent dollar equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿21
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums payable oin
repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the principal amount of the
Loan pursuant to Section 3.05(b) of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                                Premium
Not more than three years                               1%
before maturity
More than three years but                           2-1/4%
not more than six
years before maturity
More than six years but not                            4%
more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but                          5-1/2%
not more than sixteen
years before maturity
More than sixteen years but                         7-1/4%
not more than twenty-one
years before maturity
More than twenty-one years but                         8%
not more than twenty-three
years before maturity
More than twenty-three years                        8-1/2%
before maturity


﻿22
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.    General Procedures
1.   Except as provided in Part A.2 hereof, contracts shall be let under procedures
consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under World
Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in April 1972, as revised
in October 1972 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of international
competitive bidding.
2.    (a)   Items or categories of items of furniture and equipment costing less
than $3,000 equivalent shall be included in one miscellaneous category the total
amount of which shall not exceed $330,000 equivalent, or such larger amount as
may be agreed by the Borrower and the Bank, for the whole Project.
(b)   With respect to any contract for furniture and equipment included
in said miscellaneous category, the Borrower may procure such goods on a basis
of reasonable and competitive procurement procedures, including but not limited
to the solicitation of price quotations from not less than three suppliers.
(c)   The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after the execution
of any such contract and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first application
of withdrawals of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract, a
summary and analysis of the price quotations.
B.    Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for Domestic
Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the supply of
goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry)
price for imported goods, or the ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured
goods; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales
and similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded; and (iii) the
cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other expenditures incidental to the
delivery of goods to the place of their use or installation shall be included.
2.    Goods manufactured in Tunisia may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
(a)   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall clearly
indicate any preference which will be granted, the information required to establish


﻿23
the eligibility of a bid for such preference and the following methods and stages
that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b)   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the
following three groups:
(1)   Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Tunisia if the
bidder shall have established to the satisfaction of the Borrower
and the Bank that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes
a value added in Tunisia equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory
bid price of such goods.
(2)   Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured in Tunisia.
(3)   Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c)   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared among
themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import taxes on goods to be
imported and any sales or similar taxes on goods to be supplied domestically, to
determine the lowest evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison, a bid
from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
(d)   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) above, the lowest
bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall be further compared with the
lowest evaluated bid from group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the
imported goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs duties and other
import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the importation
of the goods offered in such group C bid, or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of
such goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group
A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award;
if not, the bid from group C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph
(c) is the lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.    Review of Procurement Decisions by Bank
1.    Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts.
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000
or more:
(a)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, for
its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and other


﻿24
bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures to
be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Bank's concurrence before
it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Bank of the name of the bidder
to which it intends to award the contract and the reasons for the intended award
and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report
on  the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together with the
recommendation for award and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the intended award would be
inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for such determination.
(c)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the Bank's
concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked or
prequalification invited.
(d)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the Bank
promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such
contract.
2.    With respect to each contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank, promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect
of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with the analysis
of bids, recommendations for award and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the contract
was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the
Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
3.    The Borrower shall obtain the Bank's concurrence to any changes in any
of the contracts referred to in this Schedule which shall be expected to involve
a price increase exceeding 10% of the contract price; for requesting such
concurrence, the Borrower shall provide the Bank with an explanation of the
proposed change.


﻿25
D.    Procurement of Furniture and Equipment - Supplemental Procedures
The following procedures shall apply to the procurement of furniture and
equipment in addition to the procedures set forth or referred to before in this
Schedule.
1.    Items shall be grouped so as to permit such bulk procurement as shall be
consistent with appropriate technical and procurement practices. Insofar as
practicable, contracts for such items shall be for not less than $50,000 equivalent.
2.    Contracts for items costing less than $2,000 equivalent shall not be sent
to the Bank for financing.
3.    Before inviting bids, the Borrower shall send to the Bank for its concurrence
the following:
(a)   lists of all items required for the Project and the proposed grouping
thereof, showing the specifications and the estimated unit price of each item and
the total price of each category of items. The list shall identify only those items
or categories of items costing $3,000 equivalent or more. Identified items shall
be indexed, coded and numbered for identification with the Project institution,
courses anO space for which they are required. Amendments to such list shall also
be sent to the Bank for its concurrence; and
(b)   draft standard documents for inviting tenders, forms of contracts and
a description of the method to be used for inviting bids on an international basis,
including the proposed advertising procedures. Bidding documents shall specify that
bidders niust bid for at least 60%, or such other percentage as shall be agreed
between the parties to this Agreement, or each package, and that the Borrower
may make awards for less than one package if judged more economical.
4.    Procurement of furniture and equipment shall be limited to: (a) those items
specified in the agreed lists mentioned in sub-paragraph D.2(a) above and identified
in contract documents by such indices, codes and number as appear in such lists;
and (b) the amount approved for the miscellaneous category mentioned in paragraph
A.2(a) of this Schedule.
5.    The Borrower shall send to the Bank, after bids have been evaluated, a
summary and analysis thereof, and obtain the Bank's concurrence before awarding
a contract. In case of a contract to be awarded to other than the lowest bidder,
the Borrower shall send to the Bank a brief justification of the proposed award.


﻿26
6.    Promptly after bids have been evaluated and the contract has been awarded,
the Borrower shall inform the Bank through the Director of PIU that the goods
contracted for are in accordance with the quantities and specifications in the list
concurred in by the Bank under paragraph D.2 above.


﻿27
SCHEDULE 5
Project Implementation Unit
PIU shall be responsible for the coordination, carrying out and supervision
of the Project, and, specifically, in collaboration with the Direction des Bdtiments
et du Mat6riel of the Ministry of Education, for:
(a)   preparing comprehensive implementation charts reflecting the planned
timetable of activities and responsibilities on which the carrying out of all aspects
of the Project shall be based. The charts shall be prepared as the first step in
implementing the Project, and the Bank shall be given a reasonable opportunity
to comment on the planned timetable before it is put into effect;
(b)   initiating the selection of consulting architects, the approval of their
terms of reference and the administration of their agreements;
(c)   making the necessary arrangements for briefing consulting architects;
(d)   reviewing and approving or arranging for the review and approval by
the appropriate authorities of all reports, plans, specifications and other material
related to the Project;
(e)   preparing basic equipment and      furniture lists with the help of
appropriate specialists from among participating agencies and the technical
assistance personnel provided under Part D of the Project;
(f)   making all necessary arrangements for finalizing bid documents, calling
bids, evaluations and awarding contracts relating to the Project;
(g)   undertaking liaison with the relevant departments, agencies, ministries
and instrumentalities of the Borrower and with the Bank to ensure the efficient
and expeditious implementation of the project;
(h)   the keeping of records, including financial records, of the execution
of the Project; and
(i)   preparing quarterly progress reports in respect of the Project for the
Borrower and the Bank.


﻿28
SCHEDULE 6
Criteria to Identify and Select
Sites for the Schools included
in Part A.1 and 2 of the Project
1.    The criteria to identify existing primary schools included in Part A.2 of the
Project are the following:
(a)   Schools must have more than eight classrooms or more than 640
registered pupils; and
(b)   Schools must have been built on a site which allows less than five
square meters per registered pupil.
2.    The criterion to select sites for new schools included in Part A.1 of the
Project is the following, namely, that the sites must allow at least eight square
meters per registered pupil or fifteen square meters per pupil-place, and have at
least a total of 4,500 square meters. This criterion represents the minimum required
in the case of urban schools, and, whenever possible, sites shall be larger to allow
for expansion of the school, the eventual establishment of playfields and the
organization of other activities.


