CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1115 MA
Project Agreement
(Agricultural Research and Extension Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
AND
THE MALAYSIAN AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND
DEVELOPMENT INSTITUTE
DATED MAY 30, 1975


﻿CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1115 MA
Project Agreement
(Agricultural Research and Extension Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
AND
THE MALAYSIAN AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND
DEVELOPMENT INSTITUTE
DATED MAY 30, 1975


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 30, 1975, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank)
and THE MALAYSIAN AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
INSTITUTE (hereinafter called MARDI).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between Malaysia
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make
available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty
eight million five hundred thousand dollars ($28,500,000), on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that MARDI
agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as hereinafter set forth; and
WHEREAS MARDI, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter
set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Loan Agreement and in the
General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. MARDI shall carry out Part A of the Project described in
Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate agricultural, administrative, financial and engineering
practices.
Section 2.02. MARDI undertakes that the specialists included in the Project
for MARDI will be recruited and the fellowship program included in the Project
for MARDI will be managed under arrangements to be agreed upon between the
Bank and MARDI.


﻿4
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the goods, works
and services (other than consultants' services) for the Project to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be procured in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) MARDI undertakes to insure, or make adequate provision
for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan made available to it by the Borrower against hazards incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation,
and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable
by MARDI to replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, MARDI shall cause all goods
and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan made available to it by
the Borrower to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.05. (a) MARDI shall furnish to the Bank, promptly upon their
preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and work and
procurement schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof or
additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b)   MARDI: (i) shall, not later than six months after the date of this
Agreement or such other date as may be agreed between the Bank and MARDI,
establish and maintain a system of records adequate to record the progress of the
Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and services financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan made available to it by the Borrower, and to
disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall, without limitation upon the
provisions of paragraph (c) of this Section, enable the Bank's representatives to
visit the facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to examine
the goods financed out of such proceeds and any relevant records and documents;
and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank all such information as the Bank shall reasonably
request concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan so
made available to it and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c)   MARDI shall enable the Bank's representatives to examine all plants,
installations, sites, works, buildings, property and equipment of MARDI, except
such as may be excluded by the Borrower for reasons of national security, and
any relevant records and documents.
Section 2.06. MARDI shall, not later than six months after the date of this
Agreement, or such other date as may be agreed between the Bank and MARDI,
establish a timetable to be agreed upon between the Bank and MARDI for
implementing a planned program budgeting system.


﻿5
Section 2.07. (a) MARDI shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views
with the Bank with regard to the progress of Part A of the Project, the performance
of its obligations under this Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes
of the Loan.
(b)   MARDI shall promptly inform     the Bank of any condition which
interferes or threatens to interfere with, the progress of Part A of the Project,
the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or the performance by MARDI
of its obligations under this Agreement.
Section 2.08. MARDI shall establish and maintain for the purchase and sale
of livestock a livestock fund under conditions of operation acceptable to the Bank.
Section 2.09. MARDI shall employ one competent Senior Scientist each,
with qualifications aand experience acceptable to the Bank, for its Agricultural
Products Utilization Research Program, and for its Agricultural Engineering and
Water Management Research Program.
Section 2.10. MARDI shall publish its research findings in scientific and
technical journals and make available to all sections of the food processing and
utilization industry its research findings in the fields of food utilization and food
technology, provided the Borrower has not prohibited the publication or release
of such findings for reasons of national security.
Section 2.11. MARDI shall engage eminent scientists, acceptable to the Bank,
to undertake periodic review A of its on-going research programs.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of MARDI
Section 3.0 1. (a) MARDI shall at all times conduct its operations under
competent and experienced management, in accordance with appropriate
administrative, financial, engineering and agricultural practices.
(b)   MARDI shall at all times operate, maintain, renew and repair its
facilities, plant, equipment and machinery in accordance with appropriate
engineering and management practices.
Section 3.02. MARDI shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers,
or make other provisions satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such risks
and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.


﻿6
Section 3.03. MARDI shall, not later than six months -     the date of this
Agreement or such other date as may be agreed between the Bank and MARDI,
maintain its salaries for graduate and diplomate staff at least at the same levels
as those offered to staff with similar training and experience by the Rubber
Research Institute of Malaysia and the Borrower's University of Agriculture.
Section 3.04. Except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree,
MARDI shall, not later than nine months after the date of this Agreement, engage
in consultation with the Bank, a program specialist, in order to assist its Deputy
Director (Research) in planning, implementing and coordinating research programs.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. MARDI shall maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices, its operations and
financial condition.
Section 4.02. MARDI shall: (i) have its accounts and financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish
to the Bank as coon as available, but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year, (a) certified copies of its financial statements for such
year as so audited and (b) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope
and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish
to the Bank such other information concerning the accounts and financial
statements of MARDI and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date
upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of
MARDI thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:


﻿7
(i)        the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in
accordance with its terms; or
(ii)       a date twenty years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)   If the Loan Agreement terminates in accordance with its terms before
the date specified in paragraph (a)(ii) of this Section, the Bank shall promptly
notify MARDI of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the Loan
Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated
by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.
For MARDI:
The Malaysian Agricultural Research
and Development Institute
P.O. Box 208
Sungai Besi
Serdang Selangor, Malaysia


﻿8
Cable address:
MARDI
Kuala Lumpur
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf
of MARDI may be taken or executed by the Director of MARDI or such other
person or persons as such Director shall designate in writing.
Section 6.03. MARDI shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the
authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the person or persons who
will, on behalf of MARDI, take any action or execute any documents required
or permitted to be taken or executed by MARDI pursuant to any of the provisions
of this Agreement.
Section 6.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN  WITNESS    WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Bernard R. Bell
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
THE MALAYSIAN AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH
AND DEVELOPMENT INSTITUTE
By /s/ M. Khir Johari
Authorized Representative


﻿9
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement
A.    General Procedures
1.    Except as provided in Part A.3 hereof, contracts shall be let under procedures
consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under World
Bark Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in April 1972, as revised
in October 1972 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of international
competitive bidding.
2.    (i) In the case of contracts for livestock and semen, the requirements of
the Guidelines relating to advertising shall be deemed to have been satisfied when
(a) MARDI has furnished to the Bank a list of not less than three countries from
which it is proposed to seek supplies so as to ensure freedom from foot and mouth
disease in the case of beef and dairy cattle, and swine fever; (b) MARDI has notified
the embassies of such countries in Malaysia of its intention to purchase livestock
and simultaneously, the embassies of the Borrower in such countries have advertised
in the presses of such countries inviting offers from interested suppliers.
(ii) Similar equipment shall be bulked to make up contracts of sufficient
size to attract bids from foreign manufacturers or their local agents.
3.    (a) The contract for the purchase or lease of the computer referred to in
Category (3)(c) of paragraph I of Schedule I of the Loan Agreement shall be
let according to procedures acceptable to the Bank.
(b)   Contracts for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of not more than
$20,000 shall be let according to the normal procedures of the Borrower.
B.    Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for Domestic
Manufacturers
1.    For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the supply of
goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry)
price for imported goods, or the ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured
goods; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales
and similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded; and (iii) the
cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other expenditures incidental to the
delivery of goods to the place of their use or installation shall be included.


﻿10
2.    Goods manufactured in Malaysia may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
(a)   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall clearly
indicate any preference which will be granted, the information required to establish
the eligibility of a bid for such preference and the following methods and stages
that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b)   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the
following three groups:
(1)   Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Malaysia if the
bidder shall have established to the satisfaction of the Borrower
and the Bank that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes
a value added in Malaysia equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory
bid price of such goods.
(2)   Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured in Malaysia.
(3)   Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c)   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared among
themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import taxes on goods to be
imported and any sales or similar taxes on goods to be supplied domestically, to
determine the lowest evaluated bid of each group. The lowest evaluated bid of
each group shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.
(d)   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) above, the lowest
bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall be further compared with the
lowest evaluated bid from group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the
imported goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs duties and other
import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the importation
of the goods offered in such group C bid, or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of
such goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group
A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award;
if not, the lowest evaluated bid from group C shall be selected.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by Bank
1.   Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:


﻿11
With respect to all contracts for livestock, and to all other contracts estimated
to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more:
(a)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, for
its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and other
bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures to
be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Bank's concurrence before
it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b)   Promptly after the bids have been received and opened, the Borrower
shall inform the Bank of the names of the bidders and the respective amounts
of the bids.
(c)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Bank of the name of the bidder
to which it intends to award the contract and the reasons for the intended award
and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report
on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together with the
recommendation for award and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the intended award would be
inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for such determination.
(d)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the Bank's
concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked or
prequalification invited.
(e)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the Bank
promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such
contract.
2.    With respect to each contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank, promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect
of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with the analysis
of bids, recommendations for award and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the contract
was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the
Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.


