 IEG
                                                                                                Report Number: ICRR14735

                    ICR Review
                    Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                        Date Posted: 04/20/2015

               Country: Cote d'Ivoire
             Project ID: P110020                                                    Appraisal               Actual
         Project Name: Rci- Emergency                Project Costs (US$M):                        94                 175.2
                         Urban Infrastructure
                         (fy08)
  L/C Number:                                         Loan/Credit (US$M):                         94                 139.1
      Sector Board:      Urban Development            Cofinancing (US$M):

           Cofinanciers:                             Board Approval Date :                                  06/12/2008
                                                              Closing Date:             09/15/2012          03/31/2014
          Sector(s):       Urban Transport (30%); Water supply (30%); Wastewater Collection and Transportation
                           (15%); Solid waste management (15%); Sub-national government administration (10%)
          Theme(s):        Urban services and housing for the poor (40%); City-wide Infrastructure and Service Delivery
                           (40%); Municipal governance and institution building (20%)

Prepared by:               Reviewed by:            ICR Review                 Group:
                                                   Coordinator:
Victoria Alexeeva          Ridley Nelson           Christopher David          IEGPS1
                                                   Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:

Original Objective: "to increase access to and improve the quality of urban infrastructure and services in the two
largest cities of the Recipient, Abidjan and Bouaké." (Financing Agreement of July 25, 2008 , Schedule 1, p.5;
Emergency Project Paper p.3).

Revised Objective: "to increase access to and improve the quality of urban infrastructure facilities and services in
Abidjan, Bouake and other selected cities." (Financing Agreement of July 20, 2010 , Schedule 1, p.4; Emergency
Additional Financing Project Paper, p.9 ).

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
Yes
 If yes, did the Board approve the revised objectives/key associated outcome targets?
Yes
 Date of Board Approval: 06/17/2010

c. Components:
Original Components

1: Urban Water Supply (appraisal US$28 million; additional financing of US$12 million; actual US$35.9 million). This
component aimed at (i) increasing the water production capacity in Abidjan by (at least) 4,000 m3/hour by drilling and
equipping production boreholes and expanding the capacity of some treatment plants; (ii) reinforcing primary
distribution networks in selected areas of Abidjan (Djibi and Petit Bassam); (iii) expanding distribution networks in
Bouaké; (iv) connecting some neighborhoods in Abidjan to the distribution system; (v) increasing access by installing
20,000 subsidized service connections, 65 standposts in Abidjan and 33 standposts in Bouaké; and (vi) providing
water to 38 primary schools and two health centers in Abidjan that lacked access to potable water services.

2. Urban Sanitation (Sewerage) (appraisal US$15.2 million; additional financing of US$12 million; actual US$20.85
million).The activities under this component included: (i) rehabilitation of two main pumping stations
in Abobo and Marcory and the pumping station and pre-treatment plant at Koumassi-digue; (ii) rehabilitation of five
secondary pumping stations in Cocody, Koumassi, Marcory and Treichville; and (iii) connection of the secondary
sewers in Abobo, Adjame and Treichville to the main interceptor.

3. Solid Waste Managemen t (appraisal US$12 million; additional financing of US$7 million; actual US$13.42
million).The activities under this component included: (i) a Clean City Program to remove all unsanitary or informal
solid waste disposal sites in the city of Abidjan; (ii) rehabilitation of Williamsville transfer station to enable solid waste
storage and transportation to the landfill site with appropriate means; (iii) a mass media campaign to sensitize
communities about health and environmental risks associated with inappropriate management of solid waste,
including a component on HIV-AIDS; (iv) institutional support to improve the institutional environment and
capacity of all stakeholders, including local governments, for the supervision of service performance in their respective
jurisdictions; and (v) improvement of living conditions of communities living in the vicinity of the disposal site of
Akouedo, including the construction of a health center and an extension to the existing school (6 additional
classrooms).

4. Urban Roads Rehabilitation (appraisal US$28 million; additional financing of US$19 million; actual US$61.93
million). The activities under this component included: (i) rehabilitation of seven roads that
were no longer in operation due to their poor condition, including drainage works; (ii) construction of a footbridge
extending pedestrian walkways in two underserved neighborhoods, and a 120-meter bridge and a road to improve
accessibility of new residential areas, and conversion of one of the most congested spots at Rivera 2 into an
interchange; (iii) horizontal and vertical signage, including installation of standing road signs, and painting of road-
surface markings; and (iv) rehabilitation of six heavily degraded roads totaling 7 kilometers in Bouaké, supplementing
the 5- road, 11-kilometer rehabilitation program funded by the European Commission.

5. Municipal Contracts (appraisal US$7 million; actual US$1.21 million).This component included: (i) urban,
organizational, and financial audits of the 10 selected municipalities to carry out a needs assessment of services,
infrastructure, management, organization and finances and determine, through a participatory process, a Priority
Investment Program (PIP), a Priority Maintenance Program (PMP) and a Municipal Adjustment Program (MAP); (ii)
accompanying measures to be identified during the audits to support local governments.

Revised Components

New activities were added under the four components (1-4) in line with the additional financing (AF) in 2010 to scale
up basic urban services in the selected areas and expand the scope to additional cities. The fifth component (5) was
not revised.


d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:
 Project cost: The actual project cost was US$175.2 million, which increased from the appraised estimate of US$94
million due to scale- up of the activities and expansion of the project's reach to additional cities.

Financing: Bank’s original grant in the amount of US$94 million and an additional financing (AF) grant of US$50
million disbursed at US$139.1 million at project closure. The AF grant amount comprised US$15 million financed from
the IDA's Crisis Response Window. A parallel financing was provided by the French Development Agency (AFD) to
finance the loading tower and ocean outfall complementing the project’s activities on the sewage system in Abidjan.

Borrower contribution : No counterpart funding was required from the Borrower in line with Bank's Operational Policy
(OP) 8.00 - Rapid Response to Crises and Emergencies. At project closure, the Government contributed US$36.07
million to cover the cost of additional activities, and a 12-month extension of the Clean City program (ICR, p.7).

Dates: The project closing date was extended twice by a total of 1.5 years from the original closing date of September
15, 2012 to March 31, 2014. The first extension was for one year to September 15, 2012, in conjunction with
Additional Financing (AF) approved on June 17, 2010 to scale up the project's activities in Abijan and Bouaké and
extend the coverage to other selected cities, in particular Korhogo, Man, Agboville, Assinie, Attiguei, Mayo and Tinhou
. The project objective was revised during the AF restructuring to reflect the expansion to other cities. Also, the targets
and intermediate indicators were updated in line with the expanded project scope. The second extension to March 31,
2014 was approved on February 27, 2013 to allow completion of the project activities, following IDA’s 6- month
suspension (December 2010 – April 2011) during the post-election crisis.
3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

 a. Relevance of Objectives:
Original and Revised Objectives
High.
At appraisal, the delivery of basic municipal services in Côte d'Ivoire was hampered by lack of maintenance and
investments in infrastructure during the political and military crisis of 2002-2007. In addition, increase in urbanization,
largely compounded by crisis- led population displacement, contributed to increased pressure on the existing
infrastructure and services, in particular in the country's largest cities of Abidjan and Bouaké. The project development
objectives were relevant to the Government of Côte d'Ivoire's (GoCI) poverty reduction strategies and the 2014-2016
National Development Plan with focus on post-conflict recovery and delivery of basic infrastructure to sustain social
and political stability in the country. The project objectives remained relevant to the latest Bank's Country Partnership
Strategy FY2010-2013, which aimed at improving infrastructure and basic services. They were also relevant to the
Bank's Interim Strategy Note FY2008-2009 at appraisal, with the main goals to support stabilization and peace
building, and assist war- affected populations through provision of basic services.

 b. Relevance of Design:
Original and Revised Objectives
Substantial.
The statement of the development objectives was clear, and there was a clear causal chain between the activities
financed by the project and outcomes related to the attainment of the project objectives. For example, the investments
in urban water supply and sanitation, solid waste management, and urban roads rehabilitation in Abidjan and Bouaké
(Components 1-4) were intended to increase access to and improve the quality of urban infrastructure and services in
these two cities. The introduction of municipal contracts in ten municipalities was to mitigate the risk of
"over-centralization of resources on the largest cities and help build up capacity across the urban fabric of the country"
(Emergency Project Paper (EPP), p.2).

The inclusion of the two largest cities, Abidjan in the south and Bouaké in the north, in the project design was
important from a peace-building point of view, as described in the project paper (EPP, p.2). The country was divided,
with the north controlled by the rebels and the south controlled by the Government in Abidjan.

The project design did not change under the revised objective. The scope of activities was scaled up in some of the
communities in Abidjan and Bouaké, and extended to other selected cities, as captured in the revised objective (EPP,
p.1).


4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):

Original Objective: to increase access to and improve the quality of urban infrastructure and services in the two
largest cities of the Recipient , Abidjan and Bouaké. Rated Substantial.

Revised Objective: to increase access to and improve the quality of urban infrastructure facilities and services in
Abidjan, Bouake and other selected cities . Rated Substantial.

* A split rating is used to assess the project's efficacy, as the objective was officially revised at 2010 restructuring. The achievement
of the original objective is assessed in relation to the original targets, and the achievement of the revised objective is assessed
against the revised targets when applicable.


Outputs

Urban water supply:
     400 km were constructed of primary and secondary water supply networks.
     38 schools were connected to the water network, as planned.
     88 community water standposts were constructed and 15 standposts rehabilitated (total 103), exceeding the
      original target of 98 but not achieving the revised target of 132 standpoints.
     5 boreholes were drilled and equipped, and five water towers were constructed.
     The water treatment plant at Abatta was rehabilitated and expanded.

Urban Sanitation (Sewerage):
     21 pumping stations were rehabilitated and 2 new stations constructed (original target: 21; revised target: 28).
    36 km of sewers were constructed connecting three communities to the main interceptor.
    4.7 kilometers of surface drains and a surface water treatment and outflow plant were constructed (target 4km).
    The dredging works to clean the Abidjan lagoon were not implemented as planned (target 270,000 m3). The ICR
     reports that this was due to delays in the works on the upstream watershed financed by the African Development
     Bank. The dredging works were planned to be completed under another Bank- financed Emergency
     Infrastructure Renewal Project (ICR's Results Framework; p.43).
    The water quality monitoring system was established and functioning, as planned.
    1.5 million people were informed about proper hygiene and sanitation practices through a mass-media program
     (target 1.2 million).

Solid Waste Management:
    845,000 tons of solid waste were collected and dumped at disposal site as part of the Clean City Program.
    No transfer stations were built by project closure. The number of transfer stations was reduced from 25 to three
     due to the scarcity of sites meeting the design criteria; three stations were completed in October 2014 with
     government funds (ICR's Results Framework; p.43).
    A study was completed to develop strategy of sustainable solid waste management for the city of Abidjan.
    As part of improvement of living conditions of the communities living in the vicinity of the disposal site of
     Akouedo, six classrooms were constructed for the primary school with two offices for teachers and sanitary blocs
     (latrines) for students. Along with extension of the health center, a total of 10,800 vaccinations were administered
     against tetanus, yellow fever, typhoid and hepatitis.
    7,000 people were employed as waste collectors exceeding the target of 4,500.

Urban Roads Rehabilitation:
    230 km of roads were rehabilitated in Abidjan, Bouaké, Man, and Agboville (target 184 km).
    182.6 kilometers of drains were constructed to prevent surface water build-up and flooding (target 182 km).
    A bridge was constructed to connect zones 7 and 9 in Cocody;
    the Riviera 2 underpass was constructed.
    A footbridge was constructed to link the neighborhoods of Williamsville and Bracodi.
    Road safety markings, traffic lights and signs were installed on 157 km of main roads in Abidjan.

Municipal contracts:
    Audits were carried out for 10 municipalities, and priority investment plans were prepared for these municipalities
     as planned (Results Framework). The ICR p .13 reports that, based on these, the Government increased annual
     minimum fiscal transfer per municipality from FCFA 28 million to FCFA 100 million.


Outcome

Urban water supply:
    The number of people in urban areas with access to 'improved water sources' increased from 3.2 million to 5.75
     million at project closure, surpassing the original (3.5 million) and revised (4.5 million) targets.
    35,586 new household connections were provided, against the target of 32,000. The ICR p.44 adds that 35,000
     connections were subsidized for poor households.
    The average hours of water supply service in utilities targeted by the project increased from 16 to 20 hours per
     day, as targeted.
    Water production increased from 35,000 m3 per day to 122,800 m3 per day, surpassing the target of 92,500
     m3/day.
    According to the survey conducted by the Project Coordination Unit in Abidjan (3,867 people surveyed), almost
     all households reported to have water each day and 60% attributed that to the project’s improvements in the
     water supply system. 14% of the interviewees reported improvements in health and 2% in hygiene (ICR, p.14).

Urban Sanitation (Sewerage):
    The number of people in urban areas with access to "improved sanitation" increased from 2.99 million to 3.6
     million at project closure, surpassing the original (3.3 million) and revised (3.4 million) targets.
    21,500 new sewer connections were provided under the project, falling far short of the target of 310,000.
    The target for reduction of waste water flow discharged into the Abidjan lagoon by 14,000 m3 per day was not
     achieved. The ICR reports that 14,000 m3/day of waste water were pre-treated but then discharged into the
     Abidjan lagoon.

Solid Waste Management:
    The number of people in urban areas with access to regular solid waste collection increased from about 3 million
     to 4.5 million, surpassing the target of 4 million.
    The waste collection rate (ratio of waste collected and dumped to the disposal site to total waste produced)
     improved from 50% to about 75% against the target of 80% (ICR's Results Framework, p.45).
    The survey conducted by the PCU in Akouédo village and in the neighborhoods within the municipalities of
     Abobo, Cocody and Marcory revealed mixed results. In particular, Akouédo villagers did not see any
     improvement regarding waste collection, due to the proximity of the garbage station. In the surveyed
     municipalities, all agreed that household waste collection had improved; the frequency of collection increased but
     varied within the neighborhoods (ICR, p.35-36).

Urban Roads Rehabilitation:
    The number of people in urban areas with access to all-season roads within a 500- meter range increased from
     2.8 million to 3.2 million, exceeding the target of 3.12 million.
    According to the survey conducted by the PCU (200 people and shop owners were surveyed along five roads
     rehabilitated under the project, i.e., three in the municipality of Cocody and two in Abobo), all expressed their
     satisfaction with the roads commenting on the increased mobility, reductions in travel time, and restored public
     transport (ICR, p.14).


5. Efficiency:

No economic or financial analyses were done at appraisal as this was not required for emergency projects. The
economic and financial analyses were carried out at project closure covering the project infrastructure investments.
The ex-post economic rate of return (ERR) at a 12% discount rate was estimated at 26% and Net Present Value
(NPV) of US$25.3 million. Six sets of benefit streams were considered: (i) revenue generated by a water supply tariff;
(ii) fee paid by households to connect to the sewerage network; (iii) health benefits accruing from sewerage
investments; (iv) fees paid by households for waste collection; (v) income benefits from works and solid waste
collection; and (vi) road- user cost savings. The financial analysis was carried out for the water supply, solid waste
management and road rehabilitation investments; at a 12% discount rate the Internal Rates of Return (IRRs) was
estimate at 23% and Net Present Value (NPV) of US$44.5 million with a Cost/Benefit ratio of 2.5 (ICR, p.12).

Despite a satisfactory ERR, in terms of cost effectiveness, a number of activities/ outputs were not carried out or
completed as planned by project closure. In the case of new sewage connections, achievement was well short of the
target, and there was continued discharging of sewage into the lagoon.

Efficiency is assessed as substantial.

 a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
    re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                  Rate Available?                           Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

     Appraisal                         No

     ICR estimate                     Yes                                       26%                                     99%
                                          * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



 6. Outcome:
   The relevance of objectives is rated high, and that of design substantial. The objective was achieved to a
substantial extent; there were minor shortcomings for both the original and revised objectives. Efficiency is rated
substantial. The project's outcome rating under both the original and revised project development objectives is
Satisfactory.
  a. Outcome Rating: Satisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:

    Financial risk. The country's tight fiscal situation could pose a risk to financing maintenance of the water,
     sewerage, solid waste infrastructure, and roads rehabilitated and constructed under the project.

    Political and security risk : The political situation remains fragile in a post-conflict environment. Social
     disturbances could destabilize the provision of basic infrastructure services.
   a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Significant

8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

 a. Quality at entry:
    The project was prepared in five months pursuant to OP/BP 8.0 Rapid Response to Crises and Emergencies.
The project design was built on the Bank's long-standing interventions and the continuous dialogue between the
Bank and the GoCI during the crisis period. The Bank team worked closely with expert staff, consultants and
implementing agencies to update and correct data from the available studies (ICR, p.6, 14). Overall, the risks
assessment and identification of mitigation measures were adequate. The main risks of lack of political stability,
corruption, deteriorated governance, and the weak control environment were to be mitigated through
strengthening of the Coordination Unit, updating the existing computerized accounting system, annual technical
and financial audits, regular supervision missions together with national authorities, and agreement on special
procedures that would allow project funds to bypass cumbersome national procedures. The M&E design was
adequate (see section 10a below).

   Quality-at-Entry Rating:                       Satisfactory

 b. Quality of supervision:
    The supervision missions were carried out twice a year. The project team was adequately staffed with
experienced and technically qualified staff (water, transport, procurement, financial management, M&E,
safeguard, and social) (ICR, p.14). The ICR p.16 adds that the project team leader and the staff responsible for
roads, procurement, financial management and safeguards were in-country for most of the life of the project. Aide
memoires were detailed, reflecting discussions and agreements with the Government, implementing agencies,
donors and partners, and clear action plans to keep implementation on schedule. The ICR p. 14 reports that the
Bank project team coped effectively with weak local construction companies and municipalities, and consulted
community representatives and traditional village chiefs regularly. In 2010 the project team was awarded the
“Africa 2010 Excellence Award”. Implementation progress was rated satisfactory throughout the life of the project
(ICR, p.7). While political and social stability remained fragile and government actions on contract arrangements
and payments slow, the team worked closely with the PCU to keep works, procurements and payments on schedu
le in order to achieve the project's objectives. There were no major issues with M&E implementation (see section
10b below).


   Quality of Supervision Rating :                Satisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating :              Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

 a. Government Performance:
    The Government's strong commitment to improving urban services was evidenced from the provision of
funding to expand the project activities in improving urban services. The Government financed a 12-month
extension of the Clean City program with daily collection of waste, and paid the salaries of civil servants assigned
to the project. The Government also stepped in to subsidize new water supply and/or sewerage connections for
poor families when this became an obstacle during implementation. As the ICR p. 15 describes, the Government
was sensitive to complaints of citizens at Port Bouet who objected to the rehabilitation of the loading tower in
Abidjan, and paid for a study to come up with an alternative design. The Government actions on contract
arrangements and payments were slow, however, i.e., late payment and arrears with solid waste collectors, and
arrears in payments for water consumed by the Government. The ICR p.15 attributes this to the political turmoil
and instability and the weakening of municipal administrative capacity as a result of the crisis.

   Government Performance Rating                                 Satisfactory

 b. Implementing Agency Performance:
    The project was implemented by the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) within the Support Mission for the
Conduct of Municipal Operations (MACOM). The ICR p.10 reports that this was an experienced implementation
implementing agency with proven ability to work with the technical departments responsible for water, sewerage,
solid waste, roads and transport. The PCU organized regular meetings with the agencies responsible for the
implementation of water, sewerage, garbage and roads components, local governments, contractors and donors.
The Project Coordination Unit was quick to recruit staff for safeguards, social and M&E activities and later an
internal audit to strengthen its capacity in these areas. The PCU and the implementing agencies maintained close
contact with the Bank and produced the required project reports in a timely manner (ICR, p.15-16). It worked
proactively to come up with solutions to compensate for slow Government decision-making on contract
arrangements and payments to keep implementation on schedule (ICR, p.15).

   Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                    Satisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                       Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

 a. M&E Design:
   The project's indicators were appropriately linked with the intermediate objectives. The key indicators included
baseline data and measurable targets set at appraisal (EPP, Annex 2). The design of the M&E system was simple,
with two outcome indicators: (i) number of additional people getting access to potable water, and (2) number of people
benefiting from improved sanitary conditions in targeted areas. One intermediate indicator was identified for four
components, and three indicators under the urban sanitation component (EPP, Annex 2).

The results framework was revised at AF restructuring to expand the number of key outcome indicators, and update
the targets and intermediate indicators in line with the expanded project scope. The ICR p.8 notes, with reference to
the Government's findings, that while the quantitative nature of the results framework improved, some of the baseline
data were based on outdated studies, and some of the data in the aide memoires were imprecise.

The Project Coordination Unit (PCU) was to compile the data and information collected by the executing agencies for
distribution to the Monitoring & Steering Committee (MSC).

 b. M&E Implementation:
   The PCU collected and consolidated implementation data, including key indicators, in a satisfactory manner to
monitor the project's progress, as reflected in the AF Project Paper in 2010 (ICR, p.8). In 2013, the GoCI initiated a
number of studies to correct the base data. In addition, the Government provided limited data on the economic impact
of the improvements of the road network and conducted interviews with beneficiaries to obtain a sense of their
satisfaction with the project results. A cost-benefit analysis of the four project components was carried out at project
completion, which is not required under OP/BP 8.00 for emergency operations.

 c. M&E Utilization:
   The M&E framework allowed the Government and the Bank to maintain an adequate picture of progress and
issues, and allowed the MSC to alert the Government to take action to keep implementation on schedule (e.g., when
customers were unable to pay the cost of water supply and sewerage connections and when citizens objected to
rehabilitation of the loading tower at Port Bouet).

M&E Quality Rating: Substantial




11. Other Issues

 a. Safeguards:
This was a Category “B” project that triggered two safeguards policies – OP4.01 Environmental Assessment, and OP
4.12 Involuntary Resettlement.

The ICR p. 9 reports that the ratings of safeguards were satisfactory throughout the project.

Environmental Assessment and Management .The Environmental and Social Management Framework (ESMF) and
Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF) were prepared and published in 2008. To ensure compliance with the
frameworks, the PCU recruited a safeguards and a social expert in January 2009 to work closely with the National
Environmental Agency (Agence Nationale de l’Environnement).
Involuntary Resettlement . Together with the Bank’s safeguards specialist based in Abidjan, the PCU staff processed
Resettlement Action Plans (RAPs) for four project sites: the footbridge at Williamsville; the underpass at Riviera 2; the
road at M’Badon; and, the bridge and connecting road over the ravine in Cocody. The ICR p.49 specified that
unforeseen impacts to local residents occurred during the rehabilitation of the M’Badon road (restrictions on access to
shops) and construction of the Cocody zone 7-9 bridge (for damage to third parties during the opening of a site access
road). The ICR p. 9 reports that the RAPs provided compensation to all 639 persons affected by temporary closures
causing loss of income due to works at these sites.

b. Fiduciary Compliance:

Procurement and financial management were rated satisfactory throughout the project, according to the ICR p. 9.
Three post-procurement reviews conducted showed full compliance with procurement rules and procedures, and
opinions of all external annual audit reports were unqualified.

c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):


d. Other:



12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review                 Reason for
                                                                                     Disagreement/Comments
                      Outcome: Highly Satisfactory          Satisfactory        There were minor shortcomings in
                                                                                project's efficacy and efficiency, in
                                                                                particular under the urban sanitation/
                                                                                sewerage component.
          Risk to Development Significant                   Significant
                     Outcome:

            Bank Performance: Satisfactory                  Satisfactory

       Borrower Performance : Satisfactory                  Satisfactory

                Quality of ICR:                             Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:
 Lessons from the ICR, adapted by IEG:

    Emergency projects benefit from simple implementation arrangements and having the project team leader
     in-country. This project engaged existing governmental agencies responsible for water, sewerage, solid waste
     and roads, without creating new agencies. The project team based in the country for an emergency project is
     an important element in the achievement of the objective.

    Keeping cities clean requires continuous efforts and not just a single campaign . Behavior change is a major
     part of improved solid waste management services and should be supported by a long-term strategy
     combining awareness-raising and economic incentives.

    Management of standpipes should be accompanied by awareness -raising campaigns. These include
     awareness about illegal water sellers and managers. Also, the financial situation of standpipe managers
     requires continued improvements, e.g., through proper pricing policies and the construction of kiosks for these
     managers.
    High costs of sewerage connections need to be addressed . The real costs of such connections are too high
     for potential poor beneficiaries, and there is a need for subsidies to help poor families to pay for their new
     sewerage connection. The payment of connections could be deferred over several years.

14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes      No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:

The ICR is concise and results-driven. Lessons are useful and evidence based. ICR's Annex 3 offers a thorough
economic and financial analysis. The ICR is, however, hard to follow on the achievement of sanitation and waste
management activities. More details and insights into the project's implementation issues would have been useful, in
particular for a post-conflict country like Cote D'Ivoire. The ICR used a split rating but assessed the achievement of
the original objective at the time of restructuring in 2010 rather than at project closure. Original objectives should be
evaluated at project closure, not at the time of revision/ restructuring (the share of disbursements at the time of
restructuring determines the final outcome). There are a number of inconsistencies in the data, for example the
Results Framework (p. x) does not indicate the revised target for outcome indicator 3, which was increased by
100,000 for the number of people with access to improved sanitation (AF EPP, p.11); the ICR's Results Framework
and Annex 2 have different output values for the number of rehabilitated pumping stations, and the number of new
household water connections. The information should have been updated on completion of the works at Port Bouet
that were to be completed in October 2014, before the ICR's report date of January 2015.
 a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
