Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 7000-GH
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
PRIORITY WORKS PROJECT
December 17, 1987
Infrastructure Division
Country Department IV, Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and ma' be used hy reeinipntc I Iv in t - r 'rfi'nn   nf



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                Cedis ¢
US$1.0       -      175 Cedis
1.0 Cedi             US$0.0057
FISCAL YEAR
January 01 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
METRIC SYSTEM
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ACC        -    Accra City Council
ADRP       -    Accra District Rehabilitation Project
ADRU      -    Accra District Road Unit
BHC        -    Bank for Housing and Construction
DC         -    Direct Contracting
DRUs       -    District Roads Units
ERP       -    Economic Recovery Project
GHA       -    Ghana Highway Authority
GOG       -    Government of Ghana
ICB       -    International Competitive Bidding
IFAD      -    International Food Agricultural and Development
ILO       -    International Labour Organization
KCC        -    Kumasi City Council
KDRU      -    Kumasi District Roads Unit
LCB       -    Local Competitive Bidding
LS        -    Local Shopping
MLG       -    Ministry of Local Government
MWH       -    Ministry of Works and Housinq
MARH      -    Ministry of Roads and Highways
PWP        -    Priority Works Project
PAC        -    Project Advisory Committee
PAMSCAD   -    Program of Action to Mitigate the Social Costs of Adjustment
PPF       -    Project Preparation Facility
SA        -    Special Account
SAC       -    Structural Adjustment Credit
SHC       -    State Housing Corporation
SOE       -    Statements of Expenditure
SSNIT     -    Social Security and National Insurance Trust
S-TCC     -    Sekondi-Takoradi City Council
STDRU     -    Sekondi-Takoradi District Roads Unit
TCC       -    Tema City Council
TDC       -    Tema Development Corporation
TDRU      -    Tema District Roads Unit
TSC       -    Technical Services Center
UKODA     -    United Kingdom ODA
UNICEF    -    United Nations Children's Fund
WFP        -    World Food Program
WHO       -    World Health Organization



FM OFMCIAL UK ONLY
GHANA
PRIORITY WORKS PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY                                                  i
I.   PROJECT BACKGROUND                                                   1
A.  Addressing the Social Costs of Adjustment                        1
B.  The Urban Sector                                                 2
C.  Rationale for Bank Involvement                                   5
II.  THE PROJECT                                                          5
A.  Prcject Objectives                                               5
B.  Project Description                                              5
C.  Project Cost and Financing Plan                                  6
D.  Emplovment Generation                                            9
E.  Justification. Benefits and Risks                                9
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION                                              10
A.  Institutional Arrangements                                      10
B.  Action Plan                                                     15
C.  Procurement                                                     15
D.  Disbursement                                                    16
E.  Accounting and Auditing                                         16
F.  Contractual services, Technical Assistance and Training         17
IV. AGREEMENTS, CONDIT::ONS & RECOMMENDATION                             18
A.  Agreements and Conditions                                       18
B.  Recommendation                                                  19
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission (September/
October 1987) consisting of Messrs. K. Robotham (mission leader), C. Banes
and M. Bagarani, (Consultants), and Ms. A. Artaza (Operations Assistant).
The mission was assisted by Messrs. G. Gattoni, (Principal Urban Planner,
AFTIN), T. Pankaj (Economist) and R. Goethert, (Consultant). The Report
was typed by Mrs. H. Kofi and Mrs. G. Monaghan.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their offcial duttesi. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ANNEXES
1.   Infratructure Needs of the Secondary Cities
2.   Detailed Description Infrastructure Rehabilitation
and Maintenance
3.   Detailed Description Urban Upgrading
4.   Detailed Description Housing Consolidation
5.   Detailed Description Sites & Services -
Site Development
6.   Detailed Description Sites & Services -
Site Consolidation
7.   Detailed Description TSC & GHA Support
8.   Technical Assistance and Consultant Services Summary
9.   Employment Sumary
10. Project Costs, Financing and Cash Flow
11. Procurement
12. Disbursement
13. Economic Analysis and Poverty Impact
14. Institutional Arrangements
15. Action Plan & Project Schedule
Maps:     IBRD Nos. 21016 and 21017: Ghana Priority Works Project



REPUBLIC OF GHANA
PRIORITY WORKS PROJECT
Documents in the Proiect File
Project Files                                                        AIC No.
A. Reports and Studies Related to the Proiect
A-1 Preliminary Urban Sector Report (Report of 1986
Sector Mission), October 1, 1987.                                 BR
A.2 GHANA: Program of Actions to mitigate the Social
Costs of Adjustment, Report for Donor Conference
(Draft Confidential), October 6, 19871.                         D08102
A.3 Staff Appraisal Report, Republic of Ghana, Accra
District Rehabilitation Project, February 27, 1985.               BR
A.4 Serviced Land Development, Site and Services
Project - Tema, Reinhard Goethert, Consultant.                  D08103
B. Selected Workina Papers
B.1  Infrastructure Rehabilitation and Maintenance.                  D08104
B.2 Draft Project Details, Base Maps and Terms of Reference
for the engagement of consultants, the Infrastructure
Rehabilitation and Maintenance Component.                       D08105
B.3  Housing Consolidation Project Details.                          D08106
B.4  Urban Upgrading Project Details.                                D08107
B.5  Sites and Services Project Details.                             D08108
B.6  Economic Analysis Working Papers.                               D08109



\   n~-2~
\   ~IS
X   5?~z~



REPUBLIC OF GHANA
PRIORITY WORKS PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMP.RY
Borrower:            Republic of Ghana.
Beneficiaries:       Ministry of Works and Housing (MWH), Ministry of
Roads and Highways (MRH) Ghana Highway Authority
(GHA), Accra City Councii (ACC), Tema City Council
(TCC) Kumasi City Council (KCC), Sekondi-Takoradi City
Council (S-TCC), and Bank for Housing and Construction
(BHC).
Amount:              SDR 7.8 (US$10.6 million equivalent).
Terms:               Standard (40-year term).
On-lending Terms:   A share of the credit amounting to US$0.3 million
equivalent would be onlent from the proceeds of the
credit by the Government of Ghana (GOG) to BHC to
finance site consolidation in Tema.  GOG would on-lend
to BHC at an annual interest rate of 13X for period not
exceeding 25 years with 2 years af grace, and BHC would
on-lend IDA proceeds to qualified borrowers at an
annual interest rate of at least 152 for a period not
exceeding 20 years with 2 years of grace. GOG would
bear the foreign exchange risk.
Project              The project would support a special 2-year program of
Description:         priority labor-intensive public works which would
generate about 10,000 productive jobs and help
alleviate urban poverty, cushion the effects of
impending public sector lay-offs, rehabilitate and
maintain urban infrastructure, relieve the acute
shortage of houslng, begin the process of completing
and divesting existing Government owned housing units,
and demonstrate more cost-effective approaches to the
provision of shelter for the urban poor. Given the
specific objectives of the project and its short 2-year
duration, institutional development objectives would be
limited to those critical to successful project
implementation. Project components would include:
infrastructure rehabilitation and maintenance works in
Accra, Tema, Kumasi, and Sekondi-Takoradi; urban
upgrading (Accra--West Nima and East Maamobi); housing
consolidation (Accra and Koforidua); sites and services
--site development and credit for site consolidation
(Tema); and support to the Technical Services Center
(TSC, of MWH and to GHA for project preparation,
monitoring and project preparation studies.
Proiect Risks:       The main risk is that the short-run implementation
capabilities of existing agencies may be overextended,
leading to implementation aelays and the breakdown of
supervision and financial control. This would be
adaressed under the project by strenQthening the
managerial capacity of the implementIng ministries and
agencies through the recruitment of qualified staff and
the employment of local private consultants where
necessary.



- ii -
Zstimated Protect Costs3       Local           Forei           Total
- ~~~(US$ iiIUons)-----
Infrastructure Rehab.        3.7              2.4             6.1
and Maintenance
Urban Upgrading              2.4              2.0             4.4
Housing Consolidation        1.1              0.9             2.0
Sites and Services
- Site Development           0.2              0.2             0.5
- Site Consolldation         0.6              0.3             0.9
TSC and GHA Support          0.4              0.7             1.1
Total Base Cost              8.4              6.6            15.0
Physical Contingencies       0.8              0.7             1.5
Prlce Contingencies          0.2              0.1             0.3
Total Project Cost           9.4              7.4            16.8
Percentage of
Financing Plan               Local    Foreign    Total         Total
-------- am mii ion) ----    ------------
Government of Ghana a/       1.3        0.0       1.3          8
IDA b/                       5.6        5.0      10.6         63
Cofiiiancing                 2.5        2.4       4.9         29
Total                        9.4        7.4      16.8        100
Estimated Disbursements
FY88           FY89            FY90
Annual                       2 2 b/           6.7             1.7
Cumulative                   2.2 -            8.9            10.6
Economic Rate of Return:       30?
Maps:     IBRD Nos. 21016 and 21017:  Ghana Priority Works Project
a/ Includes approximately US$0.8 million equivalent in taxes.
b/  Includes financing of pro ect preparation costs through US$1.0 million
equivalent PPF and deposits in revolving funds of US$I.2 million
equivalent.
AF4IN
December 1987



I PROJECT BACKGROUND
A. AddrossinR the Social Costs of Adiustment
1.01      In July 1987 the Bank participated in an inter-agtncy 11 workshop
with the Government of Ghana's (GOG) Social Sector Task Force convened to
p           develop a program of actions to mitigate the social costs of adjustment
(PAMSCAD). During the workshop GOG proposed that urgent measures be taken
to address the needs of the urban and rural poor who have suffered a
protracted decline in real income and living standards during the past
decade and who now face increased competition in the labor market as a
result of measures to retrench some 45,000 persons from the public service
and 20,000 from the public enterprise sector in 1987-89 under the second
phase of GOG's Economic Recovery Program (ERP). 2/ The workshop focussed
on five main areas: employment and redeployment; food, nutrition and
health; education and adult literacy; small farmers and women in develop-
ment; and shelter. Some 17 short-term interventions were identified at an
estimated total project cost of US$75 million equivalent. Among the
measures identified was a special 2-year program of priority labor-inten-
sive urban works, the Priority Works Project (PWP), which would build on
activities presently being undertaken under the IDA-funded Accra District
Rehabilitation Troject (ADRP). 3/ The objectives of PAMSCAD are briefly
outlined below.
Program of Actions to Mitigate the Social Costs of Adjustment (PAMSCgA
1.02      In order to understand the context and rationale behind PAMSCAD,
it is essential to understand the severity and impact of the economic
decline of the 1970s and early 1980s. During this period, real incomes
fell substantially; the vast majority of Ghanaians, many of whom were
already in difficult economic conditions, experienced a decline in living
standards; the social and economic infrastructure fell into disrepair; and
high inflation and a fixed nominal exchange rate contributed to declining
exports and periodic foreign exchange crisis. The ERP, has managed to
reverse this downward trend and place the economy once again on the growth
path. But despite promising medium-to-long term growth prospects, the
economy is characterized by widespread poverty and economic hardship.
Moreover, the ERP will not be able to alleviate the economic hardship of
many of the poor and vulnerable groups in the short run. Indeed, some
components of the ERP have and will exacerbate the economic problems of
1/   Including IFAD, ILO, UKODA, UNICEF, WFP, and WHO.
2/   The first phase of ERP began in 1983 and was supported by several IDA
credits.
3/   Credit 1564-GH.



- 2 -
certain vulnerable groups in the short run, and this may impede the 8Us-
tainability of the recovery program itself.
1.03      PAMSCAD is a response to this set of difficult conditions.  It
seska to address the needs of vulnerable groups who are in a precarious
condition due to the adjustment progrAm or due to the earlier period of
economic decline. These vulnerable groups include small farmers, mainly in
the Northern and Upper regions. TheJ. roductivity is low, and they face
unemployment and hunger during the leai. season. The vulnerable groups also
include low income and under-emplo;ed urban households, and retrenched
workers from the public and private sector.
1.04      The project proposals in PAMSCAD have been chosen on the basis of
several criteria. In particular, projects were chosen if they had a strong
poverty focus; high economic and social rates of return; modest institu-
tional requirements to ensure ease and speed in implementation; and in
sensitive areas, high visibility to enhance confidence in and sustain-
ability of the ERP. The set of projects that has been chosen include labor
intensive public works projects that provide employment to the rural and
urban unemployed and underemployed, while improving their economic and
social infrastructure; a supplementary feeding and nutrition education
program to address the nutritional needs of mothers and children in poor
households; projects to improve the access to education services and
facilities by vulnerable groups; an essential drugs scheme to address the
health needs of vulnerable groups; and a strategy to help the mobility of
the redeployed into productive jobs. As one of the central components of
PAMSCAD, PWP was selected for IDA financing because of our current involve-
ment in relevant labor-intensive programs in the urban sector under ADRP.
B. The Urban Sector
Population and Urbanization
1.05      Ghana's population was estimated at 12.2 million in 1984, Al and
the rate of population growth during the intercensal period (1970-84)
averaged 2.6Z per annum. According to the 1984 census, approximately 31Z
of Ghanaians lived in urban areas, and the intercensal urban growth rate
(3.2Z) was somewhat higher than that for the country as a whole. Of the
nine administrative regions into which the country is divided, the Greater
Accra Region was by far the most highly urbanized, with 83Z of its 1.4
million people living in towns of more than 5,000 population. Accra, the
capital city, had a population of about 900,000 in 1984, and together with
the other three urban areas which have city status (Kumasi, Sekondi-
Takoradi and Tema) accounted for almost 502 of the total urbar population.
Additional data on the secondary cities are presented in Annex 1.
4/   Date of last census.



-3-
Sector Tssues and Strategy
1.06      Ghan.. used to have one of the most highly developed system's '1
local Goverrnments in West Africd   However, political and economic ir.st.
bitlity during the 1970s and early 1980s led to the neglect and conseque',t
deterioration of urban institutions to such an extent that local Goverr-
ments couldl no longer effectively deliver even the most basic servik-,
Under ERP, the Coverruietit began to take measures to encourage greaL , ;. .
government autonomy dad to decrease reliance on the national budget.   ,
Bank supported this effort through a US$22 million equivalent (SDP  "' .
million) IDA credit for the Accra District Rehabilitation Project in  Y
This project has progressed steadily and has begun to address some (it tt.u
basic institutional, financial, muanagerial problems in Acera as well a-:
helping to improve Accra's basic infrastructure and services. Despite th.s;
statt, much more needs to be done to consolidate the gains made in AcctL
and to spread these gains to the secondary cities. Given the success oc
ERP and the progress that are being made in restructuring the directly
productive sectors, GOG is now beginning to shift its attention to locrI
GovernnleTit reform, and to improving basic infrastructure, services and
housii g.  Tue PVP, though limited in its scope, would further tiiese ohj
tives.
1.07     T'he basic issues that need to be addressed in the sectoL inciil.t:
strengthening the capacity of the central and local government authoritics
to plani, finance, manage and maintain urban intrastructure ar.d services;
anU strengthening the housing finance and delivery systems to improve
policy foimation and management, increase the flow of funds to the sectui,
develop more appropriate savings and financing instruments and mechanisms,
and remove obstacles to the efficient functioning of the housing market.
W4hile ADRP has begun to address some of the basic institutional, financial
and physical problems of Accra, the needs of secondary cities have been
largely ignored.  In each of these cities local government administration
is weak, thie rate base has been neglected and roads, drains, water supply,
streetlighting, sanitation and garbage collection systems and services
require major improvement. In regard to housing, GOG estimates the acc(avn-
mulated deficit at about 250,000 units, and the average annual requiremtr,t
over the next twenty years at 20,000 units--far in excess of current StLppJ.ly
and capacity. Even though there is an acute shortage of dwelling units on
Accra and the other major urban areas, GOG estimates that there are abocv
5.000 uncompleted units throughout the country belonging either to the
Governnment or to parastatals.  Given the pressures on the central budcg:,.
institutiousi veaknesses at the central government level and the finan -.ic
and managerial xweaknesses of the housing parastatals, it is not possih.½- iu
complete thiese units without outside assistance, much less to embark 01i a
major program to begin addressing the housing needs of the population.
1.08      To consolidate and spread the gains of ADRP and further Bank
assistRrnce to thte sector, a Second Urban Project is proposed (Urban IT
FY90). This project would focus on resource mobilization, cost recoveL,x,
institutional development and improving infrastructure maintenance and
programming in Kumasi, Sekondi- Takoradi, Tamale and Tema as well as Acr e.~
and on improvii,g t-ie housing finance and delivery system, rationalizij.; s.;id
strengthening eyist ing institutions and removing obstacles to tlhe eff!. 4A Jv
functioiiiig of t.he housing nmarket.  Sector work in preparation for Urban T 1



began in October 1986 and will be completed by the end of FY88. The PWP is
proposed for insertion into the above program between ADRP and Urban II at
the recommendation of the PAMSCAD mission. This mission identified the
urgent need for a project that would provide short-term employment relief
until the economy is able to generate a significant increase in jobs. In
the long term, it is expected that the macroeconomic adjustments that are
now underway would result in greater public savings, a decrease in the
resource gap and a consequent increase in the capacity of the public sector
to provide the domestic resources to sustain an ongoing infrastructure
rehabilitation and maintenance program. At the same time the increasing
private sector economic activity resulting from the adjustment process
would create expanded employment opportunities that would obviate the need
foL: specisl programs of public works such as the PWP which are designed to
provide short-term employment relief. Longer-term resource mobilization
and institutional issues would be addressed in the Urban 1I project which
would also assist in the development of a sustained capacity to implement
and finance essential worts. However, it is difficult to predict with
accuracy the time profile of the response of the economy. If private
sector employment is not sufficiently robust, or if there is a delay in
Urban II and/or there is a need for continuation of the priority works pro-
gram, this would be considered. A brief summary of the infrastructure
needs of the secondary cities is presented in Annex 1, and a copy of the
preliminary urban sector report is included in the project file.
The Accra District Rehabilitation Project (ADRP)
1.09       The objectives of ADRP are: to remove transport bottlenecks in
Accra which were constraining economic recovery; to mobilize municipal
revenues; to demonstrate cost effective improvements in basic infrastruc-
ture in a small central area of Accra; and to strengthen the capacity of
institutions responsible for infrastructure maintenance and urban project
management. These objectives are to be achieved through: infrastructure
rehabilitation, including road and drainage rehabilitation and maintenance,
and basic infrastructure upgrading in East Maamobi; and resource mobiliza-
tion and municipal revenue mobilization. Progress to date includes: a 264Z
increase in municipal revenues from ¢88 million in 1985 to an estimated
0320 million in 1987; the revaluation of property in Accra, the installa-
tion of new rating, billing and collection systems in the Accra City
Council (ACC); the recruitment of a financial advisor to restructure ACC's
financial management and accounting systems; the strengthening of the Accra
District Roads Unit (ADRU) enabling it to undertake more effective road and
drain maintenance, management and programming activities, the strengthening
of the Technical Services Center (TSC) of the Ministry of Works and Housing
(MWH) enabling it to undertake more effective program design, project
preparation and project management activities; the construction of motorway
III (8.5kms) and rehabilitation of Motorway II 4.5kms, completing the outer
Ring Road under the supervision of the Ghana Highway Authority (GHA); the
upgrading of East Maamobi (802 complete); routine and periodic maintenance
of about 200kms of roads and drains; and street marking and signage in the
central area of Accra.



C.  Rationale for Bank Involvement
1.10      The Bank has been assisting GOG to develop a special program to
address the social costs of adjustment. The PWP is an important component
of this program and provides an opportunity to make concrete the Bank's
commitment to addressing the social dimensions of adjustment in Ghana and
in other countries. Also, other agencies and donors have indicated a
willingness to assist GOG in this effort, given Bank leadership. More-
over,Bank involvement in the urban sector under ADRP has resulted in
significant physical, financial and institutional improvements, providing
an adequate framework for the proposed project. Because of its experience
with labor-intensive urban works projects under ADRP, the Bank is in the
best position to assist GOG to develop an effective urban works program.
II THE PROJECT
A. Project Obiectives
2.01      The primary objective of the PWP is to support a special program
of priority public works which would generate about 10,000 productive Jobs
over a two-year period beginning April 1988, and thus help to alleviate
urban poverty and cushion the effect of the impending lay-offs in the
public sector. This objective would be accomplished through the financing
of labor-intensive priority urban subprojects with high economic and social
rates of return. Other project objectives include helping to rehabilitate
and maintain essential urban infrastructure; helping to relieve the acute
shortage of housing; beginning the process of completing and divesting
existing Government-owned housing units; and demonstrating more appropriate
and cost effective approaches to the provision of shelter for the urban
poor. Because of its focus on employment generation and quick implementa-
tion (2 years versus the normal 5-7 years), PWP would not attempt major
institutional or financial reform. These objectives are being effectively
pursued under ADRP and would be furthered under the proposed Second 'ban
Project.
B. Prolect Description
2.02      The project includes the following components:
(a)  Infrastructure Rehabilitation and Maintenance (irn four cities--
Accra, Tema, Kumasi and Sekondi-Takoradi): Extension of works
being undertaken under ADRP including: (i) Drainage--desilting
and excavation of earth channels, cl.earing of existing open-lined
channels, construction of key lengtha of new open drains and
culverts; (ii) Roadworks--road cleansing, provision of kerbs, key
intersection improvements, bus bays, patching of areas of road
deterioration, and sidewalks; (iii) Traffic Management--inter
section and lane marking, safety and road name signs, and pedes-
trian 'zebra' crossing; (iv) Sewerage (Tema only)--replacement



- 6 -
of failed sewer lines; (v) Streetlighting--rehabilitation of
columns and lanterns on important roads aid intersections (Accra
and Sekondi-Takoradi only); and (vi) Markets (Kumasi only)--reha-
bilitation of drains and walkways.
(b)  Urban Upgrading (Accra):  Extensica of works being undertaken iii
the most extensive slum areas in Accra under ADRP including:
(i) provision of roads, water supply, secondary and tertiary
drainage, streetlighting, and public sanitary conveniences
(KVIPs) in West Nima; (ii) provision of tertiary drainage in East
Maamobi; and (iii) paving the Odaw stream in East Maamobi and
West Nima.
(c) Housing Consolidation (Accra and other cities): A pilot sub-
project to complete 200 of the 5,000 uncompleted units; 100 for
rent to government employees, and 100 for sale through the Bank
for Housing and Construction (BHC) to the private sector;
td) Sites and Services (Tema): (i) site development--A pilot sub-
project including the development of 400 serviced plots for sale
to companies, organizations and individuals for low-income
housing; (ii) Credit for Site Consolidation--a line of credit to
BHC to assist companies, organizations and individuals, to
finance the construction of low income housing units on the sites
and services plots; and
(e) TSC and GHA Support: Fur.ding for TSC and GHA to assist in
preparing, managing and monitoring the project, undertaking
studies to improve employment generation under the project and
undertaking studies to prepare future projects.
Components "a" and 'b" would form the core of the labor-intensive works
related to PAMSCAD, while 'c" and Id" are pilot components designed to test
certa:.n approaches for addressing housing and poverty alleviation issues,
prior to the proposed second urban project. Detailed descriptions of
project components are presented in Annexes 2 to 7.
C. Proiect Costs and Financing Plan
Project Costs
2.03      The total cost of the project is estimated at US$16.8 millicn
equivalent and the foreign exchange component is estimated at US$7.4
million equivalent, 442 of total project costs. A summary of project costs
and the financing plan is presented below. Base costs have been estimated
in Cedis at September 1987 and converted into US dollars at US$1 = ¢175.
Physical contingencies have been estimated at 1OZ, and price contingencies
are based on estimated foreign cost escalation of 32, 1% and 1% for the
years 1987, 1988 and 1989 respectively--representing the region's best
estimate of expected price increases during the project implementation



- 7 -
period. 5/ The pro ect would be implemented over a two-year period ending
December 3!, 1989, and the closing date would be June 30, 1990.
Financing Plan
2.04      An IDA credit to GOG of US10.6  million equivalent would
finance 63Z of total project cost (66? net of taxes). This credit
would be on standard IDA terms for 40 years with 10 years of grace.
COG would directly contribute US$0.8 million equivalent, or 52 of
total project costs. The Social Security and National Insurance
Trust (SSNIT) would finance the local cost of the site consolidation
component through a loan of US$o.5 million equivaisnt (3Z of total
project costs) to BHC at an annual interest rate of 5% for a period not
exceeding 25 years, with 2 years of grace. Cofinancing totalling US$4.9
million equivalent (29Z of total project costs) is being sought, and
although no difficulties are envisaged, it is unlikely that a firm commit-
ment will be obtained before Board presentation. In order to expedite
project preparation and test implementation capabilities, project prEpara-
tion costs and the costs of works such as drain desilting, which require
minimum preparation lead-time, would be started in advance of project
effectiveness (see para 3.01) and would be financed through a US$1.0
million equivalent PPF.
2.05      Onlending.  A small share of the IDA credit amounting to US$0.3
million equivalent would be onlent by GOG to the Bank for Housing and
Construction (BHC) to assist in financing site consolidation on the lots
that would be developed at Tema. GOG would onlend to BHC at an interest
rate of 13Y 6/ for a period not exceeding 25 years with 2 years of grace.
BHC would onlend the proceeds of the credit and SSNIT loan (see para 2.04)
to qualified borrowers at an interest rate reflecting the weighted average
cost of these funds to BHC, plus a spread of 2Z to cover overhead and
profit, for a period not exceeding 20 years with 2 years of grace. 7/  The
foreign exchange risk would be borne by GOG.
5/   This methodology assumes that exchange rate fluctuations will
automatically adjust for differentials between local and foreign
inflation. However, when convertions are made to Cedis the local
costs may be underestimated. Cedi equivalents will need to be
re-estimated periodically at prevailing exchange rates.
G/   The current Bank standard variable rate of 8? plus a 5Z foreign
exchange risk premium.
7/   BHC would finance 60? of the estimated cost of low income housing
construction. Qualified borrowers would include companies and
organizations purchasing blocks of lots to build affordable housing
for sale, lease or rent to tleir lower and middle level workers, as
well as individual workers. (See Annex 6 for details.)



REPUILIC OF MM
PRIORITY  OS PECT
Suary Project Costs and Financing el
(Dat Cast as at Septeber, 1"7D
Percentap
Local       Foreign        Total         of Dm  Cost
Project Costs                                                (USt p000)
Infrast. Rehabilitation & Naint"nance
- Accra                                         1,771          1,048        2,819              19t
-Th11                                             439            253          692               5S
- Kusasi                                          910            654        1,465              101
- Sekondi I Takoradi                              667            459        1,126               8S
Sub-Total                                        3,688          2,415        6,102              411
Urban Upgrading                                  2,432          1,964        4,396              29
Housing Consolidation                            1,051            947         1,998             13S
Sites and Services - THu
- Site Oevelopant                                 230            228          459               3?
- Site Consolidation (Line of Credit to OKC)    603              322          926               6S
TSC Support 6 Future Proj. Preparat.               353            752        1,105               7S
Total Dase Cost                                  8.358          4,629       24,997             100?
Physical Contingencies                           936            663        1,499              I0?
Price Contingencin                               155            121          276               21
Total Project Cost                               9,349          7,412       16,761
s....         8*33         ......
Percentage
of Total Cost
Project Financing
hovernnt of Shkaa                                  gOO              0          go0               51
wovernent of 6hans/SSNIT                           462              0          462               3S
IDA                                              5,574         4,"99        10,573              63?
Cofinanciers                                     2,513          2,414        4,926              29?
Total  Project Finacing                          9,349          7,412       16,761             1t00
53383         8*333        3332c33
a/Totals say not add up due to rounding.
Includes Tate estimated at USS 0.8 aillion equivalent.
Du  costs iewo conwrtd free Cedi to US9 at an nchange rate of US  I a Cedi 175.
Price contingecin  wre "tieated on the basis of foreign inflation rats of 3?
for 1"7 sad I1 per annuo for I1   - 90.



- 9 -
2.06      Cost Recovery.  Deposits on sales and mortgage repayments would
recover the cost of the completed housing units which would be sold on the
open market, and the costs of the site development and site consolidation
components. Land costs at Tema would be partially recovered through land
lease charges by Tema Development Corporation (TDC), the owners of land
that would be serviced under the project.
2.07      Detailed costs estimates for each component are presented in
Annex 2 to 7 and consolidated in Annex 10. The details of project financ-
ing and a quarterly cash flow are also presented in Annex 10.
D. Employment Generatior
2.08      About 10,800 man years of employment would be supported directly
and indirectly over a two-year period at an estimated average cost per job
of about US$1,400 equiva'lent. The infrastructure rehabilitation and
maintenance component would generate about 5,600 man-years of employment
while the urban upgrading, housing consolidation, sites and services, and
site consolidation components would generate about 3,400, 900, 300 and 500
man years respectively. Details on employment generation are presented in
Annexes 2 to 7 and summarized in Annex 9.
E. Justification, Benefits and Risks
2.09      Justification.  The protracted decline of the economy during the
1970s and early 1380s resulted in a substantial decline in real incomes and
living standards. It also led to decline in public expenditures on basic
infrastructure and services. These factors have placed the urban and rural
poor in a particularly vulnerable position to cope with the fundamental
changes taking place in the economy. The removal of s'-bsidies, recent
shortfalls in grain production due to delayed rains, and increases in the
relative prices of tradeables following a sixty-fold depreciation of the
exchange rate sin- April 1983 are contributing to an increase in the cost
of living. These factors, in conjunction with increased competition in the
labor market from retrenchments in the public and private sectors, threaten
to depress real wages and temporarily increase unemployment and underem-
ployment. If unaddressed, these issues could generate considerable opposi-
tion to the reforms and put the whole adjustment process at risk. Urgent
action is needed because by October 1987 roughly 20,000 public sector
employees will have been la'd off, and the private sector will also have
started to shed labor. By creating about 10,000 short-term jobs, the
project would help to relieve urban poverty, cushion the impact of the
impending layoffs while fundamental longer-term programs are put in place.
2.10      Benefits.  The immediate justification for the project lies
essentially in the benefit of employment generation. However, all the
project components proposed are essential items that need to be undertaken
in any case, and are justified on their own merits. Project benefits would
include: reduced vehicle operating costs, travel time, traffic congestion
and accidents; improved health, sanitation, water supply, street lighting



- 10 -
audc other amenities; improved environment; increased prulwrty           )n,I
increased supply of housing.  It is expected that about 70 .30X  if 1>Ljf
exroaditure would directly or indirectly benefit the urban poofi   Because
, lack cf detailed data, the economic return calculations are est imate;J or
ar. indicative basis. The infrastructure rehabilitation and mair,tenance.
woi'ks i41Z of total project base costs) is estimated to yield an ERR of
rihout  4t, based on estimates prepared for similar works under the ongo)ig
A..". indicative ERRs (based on partial benefits) have been estimated f1-L
-t.ht-e  ompunents, as follows: 25Z for urban upgrading (29Z of project
cost.-, 31% for housing consolidation and completion, (13Z of project
costs), and 262 for sites and services (92 of project costs).  No benefits
coo.'' De estimated for the remaining components of institution building and
the 1ires of credit (8Z of project costs).  The combined ERR for the
Pi0iect is about 30Z as a weighted average of different components.
TDernFils are presented in Annex 13.  Due to the conservative assumptions
-r, particularly in not counting many project benefits, the estimated ERR
s ."u'1) be treated as indicative of the minimal range of project leturnrs.
f 13      Risks.  The main risk is that the short-run implementation
c;n.i913ties of existing agencies may be overextended, leading to imple-
R_-6LeV5on delays and the breakdown of supervision and financial control.
ln  s-ould be addressed under the project by strengthening the managerial
cayfpcivy of the implementing ministries and agencies through the recruit-
yaent of qualified staff and the employment of local private consultants
Ai-J'§vc necessary.
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Institutional Arrangements
3.01      The main responsibility for project implementation would Ycs{dc
wlit.h she Ministries of Roads and Highways (N-H) and of Works and HouLsing
0thj.  Both ministries and GHA are presently responsible for executing
Afl'P  a!nd PWP would build on existing, well-established systems and capa-
hi7'>t::Ses MRH would be responsible for the implementation of the infra-
.rui-re rehabilitation works components in Accra, Tema, Kumasi and
Seloncri.iTakoradi, and this responsibility would specifically reside with
Pr agency of MRH. Certain works such as drain desilting and road
dlervta fe requiring minimum preparation lead-time would be implemented
p,r:ioi so project effectiveness (see para 2.04).  The implementation of
thc-- w-orks would also be GHA's responsibility.
3.r2      TSC, would be responsible for the implementation of the urban
uppgrading, housing consolidation and sites and services components. BHC
would assist MWH and TSC to implement the two latter components. This
,reangement would enable TSC to focus on technical issues within its
compntence, and draw upon BHC's considerable financial and commercial
c-:?rIence to assist with sales and financing of houses and sites.



- 11 -
GHA's Role and Responsibilities
3.03      GHA, as indicated above, would be tesponsible for t- implementa-
tion of the infrastructure rehabilitation componcnt, and thi. esponsibi-
lity would be discharged through district roads units (DRU's) reporting to
GHA regional supervisors in each of the project cities: the Accra District
Roads Unit (ADRU); the Tema District Roads Unit (TDRIJ); the Kumasi District
Roads Unit (KDRU); and the Sekondi-Takoradi Pistrict Roads Unit (STDRU).
These units already exist in Accra, Kumasi id Sekondi-Takoradi, and
include technical and administrative staff drawn from the respective City
Councils and GHA. With the exception of he Accra unit (ADRU) which is
currently being assisted under ADRP, DRUs require considerable technical
and managerial strengthening, and consultants would be employed by GHA for
this purpose (see para 3.05). GHA, in consultation with MRH and the Tema
City Council would indicate to the Bank by negotiations whether to estab-
lisih a unit for Tema or to extend the role of ADRU to include supervision
of rehabilitation and maintenance works in Tema. GHA would also take steps
to activate and strengthen all DRUs to enable them to undertake their
responsibilities under the project. GHA's direct responsibilities would
include overall program management; finance and accounting; employment of
consultants; the program, budget and staffing of DRUs; the technical and
financial supervision of the road units; procuring tools and equipment for
the works; liaising with the respective City and District Councils; report-
ing on financial status of the component to TSC on a quarterly basis; and
reporting on the physical and financial status of the component to the Bank
on a quarterly basis.
3.04      Roads Units' (DRU) Responsibilities.  The respective DRUs would
be responsible for: detailed identification of the infrastructure rehabili-
tation works to be executed in each city or district; preparation of
detailed designs, estimates and contract documentation; award of contracts
for works; timely procurement of tools and equipment for works, with GHA's
assistance; supervision of works contracts; settlement of claims for work
done; preparation and maintenance of project accounts; monitoring physical
and financial progress; reporting project performance to GHA and the
respective City or District Councils on a monthly basis; and liaising with
other agencies of the respective City or District Councils in the implemen-
tation of the works. GiA would employ local consultants to assist each DRU
to implement the project. (See Annex 2 for further details.)
TSC's Role and Responsibilities
3.05      TSC, as noted in para 3.02, would be responsible for implementing
the urban upgrading, housing consolidation and sites and services compo-
nents, and would be assisted by BHC. TSC's responsibilities would include:
overall program management; financial monitoring; consolidation of project
accounts; project audits; and studies to prepare future projects. TSC
would employ consultants to assist with the implementetion of each compo-
nent and strengthen TSC's managerial capacity (see Annexes 3 to 7).
3.06      Urban Upgrading.  TSC has established an Upgrading Department
(UD) which would be responsible for implementing this component of the
project. UD's responsibilities would include: preparation ot detailed
designs, estimates and contract documentation for the upgrading of the West



- 12 -
Nimna and East Maamobi project sites; obtaining any necessary permits and
approvals; estimating and settling any compensation claims; award of
contracts; technical and financial supervision of works; settlement of
claims for work done; employment of consultants to assist with project
preparation and supervision; ensuring compliance with project objectives
and budget; and preparing quarterly reports on physical and financial
progress for submission to the Bank. (See Anner 3 for further details.)
3.07      Housing Consolidation.  TSC would be responsible for unit comple-
tions, while BHC would be responsible for sales and financing. In order to
undertake its responsibility, TSC has established a Housing Consolidation
Department (HCD). HCD's responsibilities would include: identifying the
units to be completed; negotiating with relevant Government agencies and
the State Housing Corporation (SHC) for transfer of units to TSC/MWH;
preparing detailed estimates, designs and contract documentation; obtaining
any necessary official permits and approvals; award of contracts; technical
and financial supervision of works; settlement of claims for work done;
liaising with BHC on the transfer of completed units to BHC for sale to
private individuals; employment of consultants to a8sist with project
preparation and supervision; ensuring compliance with project objectives
and budget; preparing quarterly reports on physicsl and financial progress
for submission to the Bank. BHC would be responsible for all arrangements
connected with the sales of the completed housing units including: negotia-
tions with TSC on the location, types of units to be sold; evaluating cost
of sales and agreeing transfer price with TSC; liaising with TSC on comple-
tions; developing a sales program; determining the fair market value of the
units through the employment of qualified independent valuers; establishing
mortgage arrangements including deposit and payment schedules; taking
deposits; granting and servicing mortgages; ensuring that titles are in
order and arranging for title transfers; opening and establishing project
accounts and undertaking project audits acceptable to the Bank, including
mortgage accounts; providing TSC with quarterly physical and financial
progress reports; and making repayments to GOG out of deposits from sales
and the proceeds of mortgage repayments. (See Annex 4 for further de-
tails.)
3.08      Sites and Services.  TSC has established a Sites and Services
Department (SSD) which would be responsible for implementing this component
of the project. SSD's responsibilities would include: negotiations with
Tema Development Corporation for transfer of the proposed site to TSC;
preparation of detailed design, cost estimates and contract documentation;
obtaining any necessary permits and approvals, award of contracts; techni-
cal and financial supervision of works; settlement of claims for work done;
employment cf consultants to assist with project preparation; ensuring
compliance with project objectives and budget; liaising with BHC on the
transfer of developed plots to BHC for leasing by BHC to companies, organi-
zations and individuals; and preparing quarterly reports on physical and
financial progress for submission to the Bank. BHC would be jointly
responsible with TSC for negotiating appropriate lease and sublease ar-
rangements with Tema Development Corporation. They would also be solely
responsible for disposal of the serviced lots to companies, organizations
and individuals. (See Annexes 5 and 6 for further details.)



- 13 -
BHC's Role and Responsibilities
3.09      BHC, as indicated above (para 3.01) would be responsible for for
the sale of completed housing units to the private sector and the sale or
lease of sites including the financing of housing units. Responsibilities
would include: liaising with TSC and the Tema Development Corporation on
the size, location, timing, cost, servicing and leasing of the developed
lots; negotiating appropriate sub-lease arrangements with TSC and the
Corporation: negotiating with SSNIT for the funds for the local costs of
site consolidation and with MWH/TSC for funds for the foreign costs;
marketing the project to factories in Tema to elicit participation in the
project on appropriate terms; making all arrangements connected with
subleases between qualified applicants and Tema Development Corporation;
negotiating and executing loan and mortgage agreements with qualified
applicants; opening and establishing project accounts and undertaking
audits on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank; servicing loans
and mortgages; providing TSC with quarterly physical and financial progress
reports; and making quarterly repayments to GOG and SSNIT out of loan
repayments by qualified borrowers. In order to effectively undertake its
tasks, BHC's housing division would be strengthened under the project
through the employment of an internationally recruited consultant who would
be responsible for liaising with TSG and for monitoring the technical and
financial aspects of the housing consolidation program on BHC's behalf.
(See Annexes 4 and 6 for further details.)
Project Coordination
3.10        To ensure project coordination, an Interministerial Committee
comprising the PNDC Secretaries for Roads and Highways, Works and Housing,
and Local Government d/ would be established to provide policy direction
and monitor overall project implementation. This committee would be
assisted by senior officers of the respective ministries, the Ministry of
Finance and Economic Planning (M?EP), TSC and GHA. Project advisory
committees, (PACs) would also be established in each project city to provide
local prlicy guidance to the roads units, ensure coordination with work of
the City or District Council and monitor project performance. PACs in each
city would be chaired by the City Chairman, and comprise representatives
from the City Council, GHA, TSC and the local private sector. The commit-
tee would be appointed by the City Chairman in consultation with GHA and
TSC and would meet monthly. 9/
8/   The Ministry of Local Government (MLG) is indirectly involved in the
project through the City Councils.
9/   The core personnel of these PACs already exist, and helped identify
the components at appraisal.



_ 14 -
3.11      The institutional arrangements for the project are summarized in
the table below. Organigrams outlining overall project relationships and
flow of funds are presented in Annex 14.
Component                       Responsibility                 Comment
Infrastructure Rehabi-         GHAIDRUs                   GHA responsible for
litation and Maintenance                                  overall program
management and DRUs
for implementation
in each city.
Urban Upgrading                 TSC                       TSC's urban upgrad-
ing department (UD)
fully responsible.
Housing Consolidation           TSC/BHC                   TSC's housing conso-
lidation department
(HCD) responsible
for technical
asrf2cts, BHC respon-
sible for sales,
mortgages etc.
Sites and Services
- Site Development             TSC                        TSC's site and
services department
(SSD) responsible
for site develop-
ment.
- Site Consolidation           BHC                        BHC responsible for
sale/lea.e of lots,
mortgages, etc.
ProjiActImplementation Studies
3.12        In order to maximize the employment supported by the project,
both TSC and GHA would undertake studies of the manpower requirements of
the works to be executed and take steps to ensure that works are designed
in the most labor-intensive manner possible within the constraints of
technical and economic feasibility. These studies would involve a careful
analysis of the techniques to be employed in executing the works, substi-
tuting labor-intensive for other technologies where feasible, and a careful
accounting of employment generation during project implementation. TSC and
GHA would also establish quarterly employment budgets and report on employ-
ment generated each quarter as part of their aormal quarterly project
reporting respornsibilities to the Bank.



- 15 -
B. Action Plan
3.13      As noted in para 2.01, the proposed two year project implementa-
tion schedule is much shorter than is typical for the region (see disburse-
ment profiles in Annex 12), and will only be achieved if critical project
activities are closely monitored. Particular obstacles that would have to
be overcome include GOG's slow contract approval procedures and the untime-
ly supply of counterpart financing, tools, equipment and materials for
works. In order to ensure quick and successful project implementation, GOG
would establish special project approval procedures, and GHA in consul-
tation with DRUs would order essential tools and equipment and material
prior to the start of works. To assist in project preparation, implementa-
tion and monitoring, action plans have been developed for each component
for the period up to the commencement of the first phase of works (June/-
July 1988). These action plans would be the first of a series of rolling 6
months plans which would be updatAd on a quarterly basis by TSC and GHA in
consultation with the Bank. Updating of the Action Plans would coincide
with, and be a part of GHA's and TSC's quarterly project reporting respon-
sibilities to the Bank.
3.14      Detailed project preparation and implementation of works would be
programmed to occur in four overlapping phases as follows:
Detailed Engineering
hasing            Documentation & Bidding       Execution of Works
Infrastructure  Other
Rehabilitation  Works
I                     Dec. 1987 - Jan. 1988          Feb. 1988 - May 1988
II            I       Dec. 1987 - May 1988          June 1988 - Dec. 1988
III           II      July 1988 - Dec. 1988         Jan. 1989 - June 1989
IV           III      Jan. 1989 - June 1989         July 1989   Dec. 1989
Phase I of the infrastructure rehabilitation works would include works,
such as desilting and clearing, which would be started prior to project
effectiveness in order to test implementation capacity of the DRUs (see
paras 2.04 and 3.01). Project preparation is now in progress, and is
expected to be well advanced by Board presentation. The implementation
schedule for the project is presented in Annex 15. Project effectiveness
is programmed for April 1, 1988, and the closing date for the project would
be June 30, 1990 (see para 2.03).
C. Procurement
3.15      Because of the employment generation objectives of the project,
the small and scattered nature of most of the works and the short imple-
mentation period, the project is unlikely to interest foreign contractors
unless they are already operating in Ghana. For this reason, the bulk of
the procurement under the project (60Z of total and 51Z of IDA financing)



- 16 -
would be through local competitive bidding (LCB). These procedures have
already been reviewed and found acceptable to IDA.  Implementation of the
infrastructure rehabilitation component would focus on direct contracting
(DC) for labor utilization GHA's existing *single-manw form of contract
with competitive schedules of rates. Given the nature of the works and the
need to mobilize quickly, this arrangement would be the most efficient one
to pursue, and it is not expected to exceed an aggregate of US$2.0 million.
Single items bplow US$100,000 equivalent, with an aggregate amount not
exceeding US$1.5 million equivalent would be procured through local shop-
ping (LS) requiring a minimum of three quotations from reputable suppliers.
Ex ante review would be required for the first five contracts and for any
subsequent contract exceeding US$300,000 equivalent. Standard LCB, LS and
"single-man" contracts would be prepared and submitted to the Bank for
approval prior to project effectiveness. A summary of procurement arrange-
ments is presented in Annex 11.
D. Disbursement
3.16      In order to facilitate project implementation, Special Accounts
(SAs) would be established for TSC and GHA. These accounts would be
established in foreign currency in a commercial Bank on terms and condi-
tions satisfactory to the Bank. TSC and GHA would make withdrawals from
their respective SA to finance the eligible percentage of approved PWP
expenditures. An advance of US$0.6 million would be made to each SA after
project effectiveness, upon receipt of withdrawal applications for these
advances. Monthly requests for replenishment of SAs would be submitted by
TSC and GHA. Each replenishment request would be accompanied by copies of
bank statements from the commercial bank holding the SA. Applications
would also be accompanied by full supporting documentation or, in the case
of smaller contracts, certified statements of expenditure (SOEs) for all
eligible subproject expenditures. Disbursement by TSC and GHA for project
components would normally be on the basis of architects or engineers
certificates against approved contracts, or, where appropriate, against the
certified SOE's of approved ministries or agencies. Full contract documen-
tation would be required for all eligible expenditures except for civil
works of less than US$50,000 equivalent or other contracts of less than
US$20,000 equivalert. Detailed contract and disbursement documentation
would be retained by TSC and GHA and made available for inspection by
periodic Bank supervision missions.
3.17      The amounts to be disbursed by IDA under the project are indica-
ted in Annexes 10 and 12. Disbursement would be on the basis of 95Z of
local expenditures and 100Z of foreign expenditures for all project compo-
nent except site consolidation. In the case of the site consolidation
component, the Bank would only disburse 100Z of foreign expenditures; local
expenditures would be financed by SSNIT (see Para 2.04).



- 18 -
secondary cities and to prepare future rehabilitation projects. Because
training is well provided for under ADRP, only 2 man-months of project
specific training would be provided for. This training would include short
(1-2 week) project management courses aimed at improving project implemen-
tation. The details of contractual services, technical assistance and
training are outlined in Annexes 2 to 7, and summarized in Annex 8.
IV.  Agreements, Conditions and Recommendation
A. Agreements and Conditions
4.01      The following condition gas fulfilled prior to negotiations:
Finalization by GOG (MWH/TSC) of the terms of reference for the employment
of consultants for the design and contract documentation for the housing
consolidation, urban upgrading and sites and services components.
4.02      Agreements were reached on the following at negotibtions:
(a)  The action plan for project implementation (see paras 3.14, 3.15
and Annex 15);
(b)  The procedures for contract evaluation and approvals would be
expedited (see para 3.14);
(c)  The terms and conditions for SSNIT financing (see para 2.05 and
Annex 6);
(d)  The terms and conditions for BHC participation in the project,
including the terms and onlending rate on IDA and SSNIT funds and
the terms for the sale of completed housing units (see paras 2.02
"c" and Rd", 3.10 and Annexes 4 and 6);
(e) The terms and conditions for the leasing and subleasing of land
for sites and services development and site consolidation (see
paras 2.02 "a" and 2.06 and Annexes 5 and 6);
(f)  The terms and conditions for MWH/TSC acquisition of uncompleted
units from SHC (see para 2.06, 3.08 and Annex 4);
(g)  The terms and conditions for the transfer of completed units from
KI4H/TSC to BHC (see paras 2.02 nc", 3.02, 3.08 and Annex 4);
(h)  Progress reporting, accourLcing and auditing, including form,
content frequency and responsibility (see paras 3.19, 3.20 and
3.21);
(i)  GOG contribution to project cost (see para 2.04);
(J)  The conditions of procurement and disbursement, including ar-
rangements for the timely procurement by GHA of tools and



- 17 -
E. Accounting and Auditing
3.18      TSC would maintain consolidated accounts for the entire project
and detailed accounts for all components with the exception of infLastruc-
ture rehabilitation and maintenance and GHA supporting activities. De-
tailed accounting for the latter would be GHA's responsibility. TSC and
GHA have already established appropriate project accounting systems: TSC
under ADRP. and GHA under various Bank-supported highway sector projects.
However, GHA would be required to ensure that each DRU establishes appro-
priate accounting systems; and TSC would be required to recruit a qual,fied
financial analyst for the post of financial controller and strengthen its
accounting support staff.
3.19      Technical assistance and consulting services would be provided
under the project to TSC and GHA to help strengthen their project account-
ing capabilities and the accounting capabilities of DRUs. Short-term
assistance would also be made available at the end of each financial year
to ensure that project accounts are in order, that financial statements
suitable for auditing are drawn up, and that the project is audited by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. Audited financial statements
acceptable to the Bank would be submitted to the Bank within six months of
each financial year. Statements of expenditure (SOE's) would be included
in the audit and specifically addressed in the Audit Report.
Quarterly Reporting
3.20      In addition to their annual accounting and audit reporting
responsibilities, TSC and GHA would be required to prepare annual and
quarterly budgets for each component (including employment budgets--see
para 3.05), update these budgets quarterly and provide the Bank with
quarterly reports on actual and projected expenditure and employment for
each project component, sub-component and disbursement category. These
reports would be due one month after the close of each quarter, and form
part of TSC's and GHA's quarterly project reporting responsibilities to the
Bank.
F. Contractual Services, Technical Assistance and Training
3.21      Assistance would be provided under each of the project components
to strengthen the capacity of implementing agencies to prepare and execute
the project. About 560 man months of engineering and other consulting
services would be required, and about 80? of this would be provided by
local firms and individuals. The main area of assistance would be the
employment of consultants to assist TSC and GHA to undertake the detailed
design, contract documentation and contract supervision of the works
component and to strengthen the accounting systems of the DRUs. A total of
about 410 man months would be required for these activities. About 60 man
months of technical assistance would be provided to TSC and GHA directly to
help improve and manage project financing, budgeting, accounting, auditing
and reporting activities, while 90 man months would be provided to under-
take studies of the housing and infrastructure needs of Accra and the



- 19 -
equipment for infrastructure rehabilitation and maintenance works
(see paras 3.33, 3.16 and 3.17);
(k) The program for strengthening and/or establishment of DRUs in
Accra, Tema, Kumasi and Sekondi-Takoradi (see para 3.03 and
Annex 2);
(1)  The establishment of an interministerial steering committee for
the project, and PACs in Accra, Tema, Kumasi and Sekondi-Takoradi
(see para 3.11, Annexes 2 and 14);
(m)  The program for strengtheiing TSC through the rer-uitment of a
qualified financial advisor, accounting assistants, qualified
core staff for the proposed new departments and consultants (see
paras 3.06, 3.07, 3.08, 3.09, 3.19 and Annexes 3 to 7); and
in)  The scope of the drain desilting and road clearance workb that
would be started prior to project effectiveness (see paras 2.04
and 3.01).
4.03      The following would be conditions of disbursement:
(a) the establishment by TSC of arrangements satisfactory to IDA for
the acquisition from QHC of an adequate number of the units (at
least 50 units) required for the housing consolidation component;
(b) the execution of a subsidiary Loan Agreement between BHC and
SSNIT for the financing of the local costs of the sites and
services (site consolidation) component.
B. Recommendation
4.04      On the basis of the above actions and agreements, the proposed
project would be suitable for an IDA credit of US$10.6 million equivalent
on standard terms.
AF4IN
December 1987



- 20 -
ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 2
GHANA
PRIORITY WORKS PROJECT
The Infrastructure Needs of the Secondary Cities 1/
1.        Kumasi.  Kumasi, with a population of about 500,000 in 1984, is
Ghana's second largest city, the capital of the Ashanti Region, and the
center of the most productive agricultural region of the country. The
average rate of population increase during the intercensal period 1970-84
was 2.5Z. Despite its critical role in the national economy, Ku-Iasi's
infrastructure and services have been severely neglected. In 1986 it was
estimated that as little as 20Z of the road network was in a serviceable
condition. GOG, with assistance from the German Democratic Republic has
recently embarked upon a program to rehabilitate approximately 100 km.
(50Z) of primary and secondary roads, but much remains to be done,
including improvements in drainage, streetlighting, traffic signals and
sanitation. There are still 4,000 bucket latrines in the city; and it it
estimated that only 40Z of solid waste is being collected. The 8,000 stall
Kumasi Central Market, one of the largest in Africa and the hub of the
regional agricultural (food) economy, is overcrowded, subject to flooding
and without adequate sanitary facilities. The city's thousands of
micro-enterprises occupy marginal flood-prone land with poor access to
infrastructure and services, and many residential areas are very poorly
serviced.
2.        Tema.  Ghana's main port and industrial center, Tema had a
population of about 190,000 in 1984. Built as a new town in the 1960's,
Tema's fortunes have mirrored and flowed with Ghana's changing political
and economic circumstances. Despite this, Tema has experienced the highest
population growth in the intercensal period (4.5Z p.a.) and is fast becom-
ing a suburb of Accra just 27kms away. Although infrastructure provision
has been generally of a high standard, maintenance has been neglected.
Roads are pot-holed and significant sections of the sewer pipe-lines have
collapsed creating a public health hazard, and the main pumping stations to
the sea outfall have long ceased to function. Also significant informal
settlements have developed within the city limits without the benefit of
some basic service,.
3.        Sekondi-Takoradi.  Thi capital of the Western Region, Sekondi-
Takoradi with an urban population of about 175,000 in 1984, is Ghana's
second largest port. Although the population is growing very slowly
(0.6Z p.a.), there is a significant potential for industry, coammerce and
possibly tourism. However, poor infrastructure retards development. Only
about 23Z of the primary roads are surfaced and even these are badly in
1V   Population datA nra fnr th  a  inVi tr ti          -



- 21 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 2
need of repair. Also, the water system meets only 50? of the estimated
demand, solid waste collection is inadequate and sanitation is a serious
Droblem. The port, which is the center of the local economy, is badly
teteriorated and is be'ng rehabilitated with Bank assistance (Credit
t 74-GH).
4.        Tamale.   Although not yet classified as a city, Tamale, the
capital of the Northern Region, with a population of about 170,000 in 1984
was the second fastest growing urban area during the intercensal period
(392 p.a.). Tamale's infrastructure is in very poor shape. Because of
unreliable electricity supply for pumping, water supply is inadequate and
irregular. Also, domestic sanitation is very bad, with over 2,400 bucket
latrines in operation and open defecation in many areas of the town. Only
272 of the roads are paved, though these are in fairly good condition.
Like most other cities and towns, refuse collection systems are inadequate.



- 22 -
Annex 2
Page 1 of 9
GHANA
PRIORITY WORKS PROJECT
Detailed Description
Infrastructure Rehabilitation and Maintenance Component
Sunmiary
1.        Objective: (a) To help alleviate urban poverty and cushion the
effect of impending layoffs in the public sector; (b) to rehabilitate and
maintain existing urban infrastructure.
2.        Description:  Rehabilitation and maintenance of drainage,
roadworks, traffic management, streetlighting and markets in Accra, Tema,
Kumasi and Sekondi-Takoradi.
3.        Location:  Accra--mainly inside the Ring Road; Tema--mainly in
communities 1-10; Kumasi--mainly inside the bypass roads; and Sekondi-
Takoradi--mainly central business districts and urban arterials.
4.        Estimated Cost: Total, US$6.8 million equivalent (01,194.1
million); Accra-- US$3.2 equivalent (0551.7 million); Tema--US$0.8
equivalent (0135.5 million); Kumasi US$1.6--million equivalent (0286.6
million); Sekondi-Takoradi--US$1.3 million equivalent (0220.3 million).
5.        Financing:  IDA--100Z foreign and 902 local; GOG--10Z local; in
order to test implementation capabilities some works costing about US$0.5
million equivalent and requiring minimal preparation would be started prior
to project effectiveness. a:id be financed through a PPF.
6.        Economic Rate of Return:   Approximately 402.
7.        Employment Generation: 1/  About 5,600 man-years; average cost
per job US$1,220 equivalent.
8.        Implementation Responsibility: Overall--MRH/GHA; Accra--GHA/ADRU;
Tema--GHA/ADRU/TDRU; Kumasi - GHA/KDRU; and Sekondi-Takoradi - GHA/STDRU.
9.        Commencement of works:  February 1, 1988 for drain desilting and
road clearing; June 1, 1988 for other works.
1I    Includes indirect employment generation estimated 15Z of direct.



- 23 -
Annex 2
Page 2 of 9
9.        Commencement of works. February 1, 1988 f(ir drain denilting and
road clearing; June 1, 1988 for other works.
Detailed Description
10.       This component would include rehaBilitation and maintenance works
in Accra, Tema, Kumasi and Sekondi-Takoradi utilizing labor-intensive
methods. Activities would include: Drainage--desilting and excavation of
earth channels, clearing of existing open-lined channels, construction of
key lengths of new open drains and culverts; Roadworks--road cleansing,
provision of kerbs, key intersection improvements, bus bays, patching of
areas of road deterioration, and sidewalks; Traffic management--intersec-
tioni and lane marking, safety and road name signs, and pedestrain 'zebra'
crossing; Sewerage--(Tema only) replacement of failed sewer lines;
Streetlighting--rehabilitation of columns and lanterns on important roads
and intersections; and Markets (Kumasi only)--rehabilitation of drains and
walkways in Kumasi Central Market and Ahinsan Market.
11.       Financing:  This component would be financed from the proceeds of
the credit. In order to test the implementation capabilities of the DRUs,
some works, amounting to about US$0.5 million equivalent and requiring
minimal preparation, would be financed through a PPF (see para 21 below).
12.       Details of the institutional arrangements and the status of
project preparation are presented below, and estimates of quantities, costs
and employment generation are presented in the accompanying tables.
Institutional Arrangements:
13.       GHA's Role and Responsibilities:  GHA would be responsible for
the implementation of the infrastructure rehabilitation component. This
responsibility would be discharged through urban roads units (DRU's)
reporting to GHA regional supervisors in each of the project cities: The
Accra District Roads Unit (ADRU); the Tema District Roads Unit (TDRU); the
Kumasi District Roads Unit (KDRU); and the Sekondi-Takoradi District Roads
Unit (STDRU). With the exception of TDRU, the nucleus of all the district
roads units exist. A DRU would be established in Tema'by GHA, in
consultation with the Tema District Council or, alternatively, ADRU would
be requested to supervise the implementation of the Tema component. GHA
would take steps to activate and strengthen all DRUs to enable them to
undertake their responsibilities under the project.
14.       Responsibility for overall program management would reside with
GHA, including: finance and accounting; employment of consultants; the
program, budget and staffing of DRUs; the technical and financial
supervision of the road units; procuring tools and equipment for the works;
liaising with the respective City and District Councils; reporting on
financial status of the component to TSC on a quarterly basis: and
reporting on the physical and linancial status of the component to the Bank
on a quarterly basis.



- 24 -
Annex 2
Page 3 of 9
15.       Roads Units' Responsibilities:  The respective DRUs would be
responsible for: detailed identification of the infrastructure
rehabilitation works to be executed in each city or district; preparation
of detailed designs, estimates and contract documentation; award of
contracts for works--utilizinK competitive bidding for works where
feasible, but focussing or "one-man" contracts on the basis of sole
sourcing where competitive bidding is impractical or would defeat the
employment objectives of the project; timely procurement of tools and
equipment for works, with GHA's assistance; supervision of works contracts;
settlement of claims for work done; preparation and maintenance ot project
accounts; monitoring physical and financial progress; reporting project
performance to GHA and the respective City or District Councils on a
monthly basis; and liaising with other agencies of the respective City or
District Councils in the implementation of the works.
16.       Consultant Services to Suppcrt Roads Units:  Local private
consulting firms would be employed to assist DRUs to undertake their
responsibilities under the project. Consultants would be mainly, though
not solely responsible for: preparing detailed designs, cost estimates and
contract documentation; assisting the roads units with contract supervision
and reporting to GHA; and providing accounting and programming support to
DRUs where necessary.
17.       To support the work of DRUs, the project would finance the
purchase of one four-wheel drive vehicle and one personal computer for each
unit. Also, the project would assist in providing funding for project
overheads in order to ensure that work can proceed even in the event of
shortfalls in local counterpar. funding, albeit at a reduced pace.
18.       The Composition of the Roads Units:  Each DRU would be headed by
a qualified chief engineer with at least five years experience in
infrastructure rehabilitation and maintenance works and contract
management. The chief engineer would be assisted by at least two other
graduate engineers, a qualified accountant, an assistant accountant, a
computer programmer, and at least four assistant engineers or works
overseers. As a temporary measure, consultants may be requested to supply
DRU staff, with the exception of the chief engineer and accountant who
would be 'core" employees of the units. Also, GHA and the City or District
Council may second qualified staff to DRUs on a temporary vasis to ensure
that DRUs are adequately staffed to effectively implement the project.
19.       Liaison with City and District Councils:  In order to give policy
guidance to the work of DRUs and to ensure that the proposed works meets
with city and district priorities and is coordinated with other city and
district activities, a Project Advisory Committee (PAC) would be
established in each project city. This committee would be chaired by the
City or District Chairman, and comprise representatives of GHA, the City or
District Council, TSC, the local private sector and the chief engineer of



- 25 -
Annex 2
Page 4 of 9
the roads unit. 3/ This committee would be appointed by the Chairman of
the City or District Council in consultation with G5±A and TSC, and would
meet monthly to review the physical and financial progress of the project
and to resolve coordination problems.
20.       The Future Role of the Roads Units:  The activities to be
performed by TRUs in each project city would normally be performed by a
section of the City or District Engineer's Department. Because these
departments are relatively weak, GOG has established DRUs and placed them
under the direction of the GHA. These units, to a greater or lesser
degree, draw upon the staff resources of GHA and the City and District
Councils, and are responsible for urban road maintenance. They would, as
noted above, be strengthened under the project. However, their long-term
future is unclear. GOG proposes to establish a Department of Urban Roads
(DUR) which would take over the existing responsibilities of GHA in regard
to these units. The role of the proposed DUR vis-a-vis the City and
District Councils has not yet been clearly established. From the Bank's
perspective, it would be preferable that the City Engineer's Departments in
the respective City or District Councils be eventually strengthened to
provide adequate direction, supervision and financing for DRUs, with DUR
providing technical support and policy guidance. These issues are,
however, beyond the scope of the existing project but would be addressed in
the proposed Second Urban Project (Ghana II, FY90).
Status of Project Preparation
21.       The cities were reconnoitered and preliminary project identi-
fication made during an October 1986 Sector Mission. Detailed identifi-
cation was made and cost estimate prepared by officials of ADRU, Kumasi
City Council and Sekondi-Takoradi City Council during September and October
1987. Terms of reference for the employment of consultants have been
prepared in consultation with the Bank, and local private consultants will
be employed by GHA to prepare detailed designs, cost estimates and contract
documents. Works are scheduled to begin by June 1, 1988. However, in
order to test the implementation capacity of the DRUs certain works, such
as drain desilting and road clearing which require minimum preparation
lead-time, would be started on February 1, 1988, i.e. ahead of project
effectiveness (scheduled for April 1, 1988). The Action Plan and
implementation program for this component is presented in Annex 15.
Relevant Documents in Proiect File
22.       The following documents are in the Project File: (a) Preliminary
Urban Sector Report outlining the infrastructure needs of the secondary
3/   The core of these PACs already exist and assisted in project
identification and appraisal.



- 26 -
Annex 2
Page 5 of 9
cities, October 1, 1987; (b) maps of Accra, Tema, Kumasi and Sekondi-
Takoradi indicating detailed location of proposed infrastructure
rehabilitation and maintenance works; (c) estimates of quantities and cost
estimates provided by zity officials at appraisal; and (d) ADRP Staff
Appraisal Report No. 5327-GH, February 27, 1985.



-27-                                                       Annex 2
Page 6 of 9
REPU9tIC OF 6i
................... _  -.
MIORITY  MS PROJECT
Dettaled Unit Costs
(has Cost As at Sot. 19"7)
COIPOINT                              Quantity/Unit           Unit Cost           Total Cost          Nanpowr
----_                               .... .........          -----                ....... .. ...      -------
(Cpda)             (Cedi '000)        (man year
IIRSTRUCTURE REHM. & MINT.
..........  ........
ACCRA
Civil Morks (Inc. rehab.& sint.)
Drainage
desilting/elnavation                         259,662 Co                  300                77,99              1,082
clearinl(rocurr.onp. x 2yrs)                   11,284 ko                 300                 3,335                47
construction                                    5,141 Co             20,000                102,027               420
Roadorks
cloaring(rocurr.exp. x 2yrs)                  149,628 so                   6                   S99                15
kerbing                                       46,147 la                1,460                67,375               199
road nRa   signs                                1,594 ia                 900                 1,435                16
patching - uphalt                              23,064 ss               1,300                29,983                39
patching - premix                             57,660 so                  900                51,994                94
bus bays                                           39 ea            110,000                  4,334                49
Traffic  anagemnt
lane markings                                117,097 Is                  61                  7,142                30
,ntmrsaction Barkings
- sajor                                           45 ea            110,650                  4,999                 9
- minor                                          240 ua             27,662                  6,646                12
Pedestrian facilities
'ebra  crossings                                 369 ea              6,275                  2,316                10
sidewalk construct (20 wide)                  27,292 Is               2,400                 65.502               334
Strnatlighting
rehabilitation
- poles                                           94 #a             39,500                  3,219                 5
- brackets/fittings                              126 ea             56,1US                  7,064                 1
- lamps                                          719 ma              5,600                  4,020                 1
Sub-total                                                                                    440,936                 0
Supervision (2?)                                                                               9,919                73
Sub-total Civil Mlrks                                                                         449,755
Tech. Assist.a Design & Suprvasn.                     61 la/mo         525,000                 31,795                 5
Equipment and Tools                                4,325 itmms        various                   11,969
Sub total                                                                              493,409            2,436
Phys. Cant.                                                                             49,341               244
Price Cont.                                                                              9,960             n.a.
Tetal                                                                                  551,710            2,690



- 28 -
Annex 2
Page 7 of 9
REPIKIC v Swi
RIOAITY NM   PUECT
Setaded Unit Costs
(iiiO Cost as At let. MW7Y
COIP    T                           kantityIUulit         ULit Cost             Total Cost        Na epow
(Cei)             (Cei '000)        (Iwo yeu)
INFRASTRUCTURE REON. I MAINT
TEMA
Civil Works (Inc. rehab.& aint.)
Drainago
dnilting/oxcavation                          48,050 Ca                300                14,415              200
clearing(recurr.exp. x 2yrs)                  4,207 km                300                 1,262               18
construction                                  1,345 Co             20,000                26,908              110
hoaduorks
cloaing(recurr.exp. x 2yrs)                  52,855 u                   6                   317                5
silt removal                                 19,220 Co                $00                 5,766               80
kerbing                                       S,766 le              1,460                 8,419               94
road nalo signs                                 121 *a                900                   109                1
patching - asphalt                           22,242 is              1,300                29,915               36
bus bayv                                         16 la            110,000                 1,797               20
Traffic hanagte"nt
lIne markings                                29,551 le                 61                 1,903                8
intertectian mrkings
- major                                         12 1             110,650                 1,392                2
- oinor                                         38 le             27,660                 1,063                2
Pedostrian facilities
'zebral crossings                                So us              6,275                   362                2
Sewerage
Rehabilitation                               10,187 le              1,900                19,336              109
Sub-total                                                                                 110,854
Supervision (2X)                                                                            2,217               18
Sub-total Civil Works                                                                      113,071
Tech. Assist.: Design & Suprvisn.                   12  o/oe         525,000                 6,054                1
Sub-total Equipmnt and Tools                       6U  ite          various                  2,037
Sub total                                                                           121,162              707
Phys. Cont,                                                                          12,116               71
Price Corat                                                                           2,204             n.a.
Total                                                                               135,483              777



-29-                                                     Annex 2
Page 8 of 9
REPUIIC OF 6IANA
PtIORITY MOS POJECT
Detaled Unit Costs
_         _. .... .. ..
Ih. Cost as at Sept. 1"7
COMPfEIT                             Owtity/iUnit             Unit Cost           Total Cost         hMnpoae
(Cedi)             ICedi '000)        (un year)
IWfRASTRUCTURE REIN. I IAINT.
KUNASI
Civil Works (Inc. rhab& saint.)
Drainage
desilting/gemavation                           15,696 Co                 300                 4,709                65
cloaring(recurr.nsp. x 2yrs)                    1,09  ke                 300                    330                5
construction                                      776 Co             20,000                 15,569                64
pipe culvert ('e diel)                            262 a               16,200                 4,561                14
Roadwarks
clearing(recurr.ekp. x 2yrs)                  85,049 is                    6                   510                 8
gravelling                                   244,094 so                  133                32,465                66
road name signs                                 1,201 es                 800                   961                 a
patching - presix                             23,930 is                  900                25,947                47
Central Market
filling                                        4,997 Ca                 620                  3,098                20
pavesent                                      25,947 so                2,000                51,894               170
pipe drain (.q9  disi)                         2,941 a               16,200                 47,639               144
pipe drain (1.9. disi)                            384 a              67,900                 26,101                63
U-drain construction                              721 Ce             23,540                 16,966                59
Ahensin market
gravelling                                     16,337 se                 133                 2,173                 5
Sub-total                                                                                    232, 972
Supervision (221                                                                               4,650                39
Sub-total Civil Works                                                                         237,581
Tech. Assist.: Dnign I Suprvisn.                      26 ma/so         525,000                 13,622                 2
Equipment and Tools                                1,634 itm            various                 5,093
Sub total                                                                              256,296               778
Phys. Cant.                                                                             25,630                79
Price Cant.                                                                              4,659             nan
Tot4l                                                                                  296,585              856



- 30 -
Annex 2
Page 9 of 9
REPU9KIC OF P4A
...... ......... _.
PRIORITY  MO PROJECT
ktaili Unit Costs
(lis Cost as at Sept. 1"7)
COMPOIINENT                           Quntity/Unit            Unit Cost           Total Cost          Nanpoer
ICidi)             (Codi '000)       umn yJer)
INFRASTRUCTURE REHAB.  MAINT.
SEXONDI/ AIORADI
Civil borks IInc. rhab.& maitnt,)
Drainage
doeilting/excavation                          21,498 Co                  300                 6,449                90
clearing(recurr.exp. x 2yrs)                    2,49  ko                 300                    750               10
construction                                    1,974 Cs             20,000                 37,479               153
Roadvuks
clearing(recurr.exp. x 2yrs)                      413 Ha             60,000                 24,794                42
roaid name signs                                  114 ea                 700                     90                I
intersection  improvements                          3 ea            797,300                  3,831                16
bus bays                                           10 la            110,000                  1,057                12
patching o4 failed pavement                    2,114 Co               2,250                  4,757                30
reurfacing                                    64,868 so                  700                45,407                26
ressaling                                      66,424 is                4O                  29,227                27
Traffic Managument
lane markings                                 57,276 la                  61                  3,494                IS
road signing                                      119 ea              3,000                    357                 2
Pedntrian facilities
'zebra, crossings                                 124 ma              6,275                    779                 3
sidewalk construct, 12  wide)                   2,691 Is              2,400                  6,458                33
Streetlighting
rehab. of columns/lanterns                        271 sA             50,000                 13,550                 9
Sub-total                                                                                    179,468
Supervision (2X)                                                                               3,569                30
Sub-total Civil Works                                                                         192,037
Tech. Assist.i Design t Suprvisn.                     17 Wa/mo         525,000                  9,091                 I
Equipment and Tools                                2,37?  itm        various                    S,911
Sub total                                                                              197,030              500
Phys. Cont,                                                                             19,T03                50
Prict Cont.                                                                              3,573             n.a.
Total                                                                                  220,306              550



- 31 -
Annex 3
Page 1 of 4
GHANA
PRIORITY WORKS PROJECT
Detailed Description
Urban Upgrading Component
Sumnmary
1.        Obiective:  (a) To help alleviate urban poverty and cushion the
effect of impending layoffs in the public sector; (b) to rehabilitate and
improve urban infrastructure; and (c) to demonstrate more cost effective
approaches to the provision of shelter for the urban poor.
2.        Description:  Provision of roads, water supply, primary,
secondary and tertiary drainage, streetlighting and public sanitary
conveniences (KVIPs).
3.        Location:  West Nima and East Maamobi.
4.        Estimated Cost:  US$4.9 million equivalent (¢860.3 million).
5.        Financing:  Cofinancing--100Z foreign and 90Z local; GOG--1OZ.
local.
6.        Economic Rate of Return:  Approximately 25Z.
7.        Emplosment Generation lh   3,446 man years; average cost per job
US$1,426 equivalent.
8.        Implementation Responsibility: MWH/TSC.
9.        Commencement of Works:  July 1, 1988.
Description:
10.       This comporent would include construction of roads, water
supply, secondary and tertiary drainage, streetlighting and public sanitary
convenience (KWIPs) in West Nima; construction of tertiary drainage in East
Maamobi; and paving (stone pitching) the Odaw stream in East Maamobi and
West Nima utilizing labor-intensive methods. As far as possible, the
community would be involved in the works under the supervision of the
contractor. The community would be particularly involved in the provision
of domestic sanitation, and the funds in the project for KVIP construction
would be provided in the form of a pool supervised by TSC and loaned to
1/   Incl'des indirect employment, estimated at 15Z of direct.



- 32 -
Annex 3
Page 2 of 4
community groups and individuals for public or private KVIP construction.
TSC would also assist the community to develop program to improve and
maintain domestic sanitation.
11.       Financing and Cost Reco-ery:  This component iould be financed
from the proceeds of cofinancing, which would be sought, on terms and
conditions similar to those for the IDA credit. No direct cost recovery is
proposed. Cost would be indirectly recovered through the rates which are
currently being revised under ADRP.
12.       The institutional arrangements fo.. this component are outlined
below, and data on population, incomes, property values, land use,
quantities cost and employment generation arg presented in the accompanying
tables.
Institutional Arrangements
13.       TSC would establish an Upgrading Department (UD) which would be
responsible for implementing this component of the project. UD's
responsibilities would include: preparation of detailed designs, estimates
and contract documentation for the upgrading of the West Nima and East
Maamobi project sites; obtaining any necessary permits and approvals;
estimating and settling any compensation claims; award of contracts;
technica and financial supervision of works; settlement of claims for work
done; employment of consultants to assist with project preparation and
supervision; ensuring compliance with project objectives and budget; and
preparing quarterly reports on physical and financial progress for
submission to the Bank.
14.       UD would be headed by a qualified architect or civil engineer
with at least five years of contract management experience including
previous experience with urban upgrading works. The department head would
be assisted by a qualified civil engineer or architect, and a qualified
quantity surveyor. This group would form the *core" staff of UD. The
department would not be expected to undertake detailed project preparation
and supervision work itself, but to employ local private consultants for
this purpose. UD would focus instead on overall project managesient,
coordination, and monitoring. Annex 2 presents organigrams outlining the
main institutional relationships.
Status of Project Preparation:
15.    The sites were identified during the July i987 PAMSCAD mission.
Cost estimates were prepared during appraisal by TSC on the basis of
projected final costs for the existing East Maamobi project being financed
under ADRP. To complete project preparation TSC would prepare TOR for
consultants and submit to the Bank for approval. Works are scheduled to
begin by July 1, 1988. The Action Plan and implementation schedule are
presented in Annex 15.



- 33 -
Annex 3
Page 3 of 4
Relevant Documents on Proiect File
16.       Documents on file include ADRP SAR No. 5327-GH, February 27, 1985
and TSC summary outlining proposed project and cost estimates.
Population Incomes. Property Values and Land Use a/
East Maamobi.        West Nima
(a)  Population - 1984 ce-isus (persons)    11,500                21,000
(b)  Population density (persons/HA)             650                 850
(c)  Estimated housing stock (unito)             634                 920
(d)  Average household size (persors)              3.6                 3.6
(e)  Average number of households/
housing unit (HH/unit)                      8.5                 8.5
(f)  Estimated number of households (HH)    5,400                  7,800
(g)  Monthly household income 1987
(1984 household survey data
adjusted to 1987)      1
.i) 25th percentile (¢ month)             3,750                3,750
(ii) 50th percentile e¢ month)             6,560                6,560
(iii) 75th percentile (0 month)            12,190               12,190
(h) Population below poverty threshhold
1984 (Z)                              67-100                67-100
(i) Property values
(i) mud brick compound house,
10 rooms, - pe'r room selling
price 1984 (0/Room).                50,000              50,000
(ii) 3 room single family cement
block - selling price
1984 (0/Room).                   100,0001            100,000
(iii) Rents, 1987 (0/Room)                6-800.00             6-800.00
(j) Land use (Maamobi actual, Nima proposed)
(i)  Residential (HA, (Z))           24.00      (80)      37.45   (80)
(ii) Commercial  (HA, (Z))            0.15      ( 5)       2.35   ( 5)
(iii) Circulation (HA, (Z))            5.85      (15)        7.00   (15)
1        30.00    (100)        46.80  (100)
a/   Data from ADRP SAR, report No. 5327-GH, dated February 27, 1985,
pp. 76 and 77, and from TSC, October, 1987.



Annex 3
Page 4 of 4
REPUB1L IC OF S
........... ..............._
PRIORITY WNRMS PROJECT
Detailed Unit Costs
...- - -- -    -..-.
(lase Cost as at Set. MI7)
COMPONENT                             Quantity/Unit           LInit Cost          Total Cost          ManpoWr
(Cadi)             (Cedi '000)        (M  Yor)
URI" utlaDINB
Wit Nis&
Road  orks                                              4 km         13,410,000                  76,202              265
Foot laths                                              5 ko           1,243,500                 5,49                 20
Primary drains                                          2 k          74,900,000                 135,344              470
Secondary drains                                       14 ko         17,402,000                239,278               U31
Tertiary drains                                        8Ok            1,042,000                   9,023               28
Toilets KVIP I 5 copartmnts)                           35  s             771,300                24,994                ^4
Mater Supply Network                                   11 ko          5,376,300                  60,204              209
iste Collection Stations                               22 ea            431,500                  9,493                33
Electricity lines                                       4ke          11,805,700                 64,100               230
Dmolition and Site clearance                   total                  various                    0,360                29
Sub-total West Nisa                                                                            6435649
East mamodbi
Prisary drains                                          I km         76,900,000                 84,590               294
Tertiary drains                                        11km           1,041,700                  11,000               38
Sub-total East "Macobi                                                                           95,590
Supervision (31)                                                                                21,937               183
Tech. Assist.t Design I Suprvisn.                       31 ma/mo         525,000                 16170                 3
Sub total                                                                              769,346            2,724
Phys. Cant.                                                                             76,935              272
Price Cont.                                                                             14,054             na.
Total                                                                                 840,335             2,997



- 35 -
Annex 4
Page 1 of 4
GHANA
PRIORITY WORKS PROJECT
Detailed Description
Housing Consolidation Component
Summary
1.        Objective: (a) To help alleviate urban poverty and cushion the
effect of impending layoffs in the public sector; (b) to help alleviate the
acute shortage of housing; and (c) to begin the process of completion and
divestiture of Government owned housing assets.
2.        Description:  Completion of 200 uncompleted housing units, 100
for Government - 100 for sale to phe private sector.
3.        Location:  (a) Accra and the secondary cities;
4.        Estimated Sub-Project Costs:  US$2.2 million equivalent (¢391.1
million).
5.        Financing:  IDA--1002 foreign 90Z lcoal; GOG--10Z local.
6.        Economic Rate of Return:  Approximately 31Z.
7.        Employment Generation 1/   944 man years; average cost per job
US$2,368 equivalent.
8.        Implementation Responsibility:  MWH/TSC/BHC.
9.        Commencement of Works:  July 1, 1988
Description
10.       This component would include the completion of 200 uncompleted
units--utilizating labor-intensive methods. The units have been selected
from inventory of uncompleted Government-owned units, estimated to number
5,000 throughout the country. In order to maximize completions, the
threshhold for inclusion of units in the project was established at 50Z
completion. However, this threshhold was lowered in the case of the
smaller, less expensive types of units. Some of the units selected for
completion are presently owned by Government ministries and the balance by
SHC. SHC units would be valued and acquired by TSC prior to disbursement
against this component. On completion, TSC would hand over about 100 of
the units (including--SHC



- 36 -
Annex 4
Page 2 of 4
units) to various ministries for rental to civil servants. The remaining
100 completed units would be transferred to BHC for sale to the private
sector at market prices.
11.       Financing.  Part of the!proceeds of the IDA credit would be
utilized to finance 100Z of tne foreign and 90% of the local costs of this
component. The proceeds of the loan would be made available to TSC to
complete the housing units, and as noted above, TSC would transfer 100 of
the completed units to BHC at cost (including land cost) plus 5% to cover
TSC overheads. BHC would sell the units on the open market at market value
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
13.       Cost Recovery.  Cost would be partially recovered through the
sale of approximately 100 units at market prices.
14.       Details of the institutional arrangements for this component are
presented below, and the accompanying tables indicate the unit types that
would be completed, ownership, present state of completion, completion
costs, proposed selling prices and direct labor generation.
Institutional Arrangements
15.       TSC.  As noted above, TSC would be responsible for unit
completions and BHC for sales and mortgages. TSC would establish a Housing
Consoli.dation Department (HCD) which would be responsible for implementing
this component of the project. HCD's responsibilities would include:
identifying the units to be completed; negotiating with relevant Government
agencies and the State Housing Corporation (SHC) for transfer of units to
TSC/MWH; preparing detailed estimates, designs and contract documentation;
obtaining any necessary official permits and approvals; award of contracts;
technical and financial supervision of works; settlement of claims for work
done; liaising with BHC on the transfer of completed units to BHC for sale
to private individuals; employmenit of consultants to assist with project
preparation and supervision; ensuring compliance with project objectives
and budget; preparing quarterly reports on physical and financial progress
for submission to the Bank.
16.       HCD would be headed by a qualified engineer or architect with at
least five years contract management experience. The department head would
be assisted by at least one qualified engineer or architect and a qualified
quantity surveyor. This group would form the "core" staff of HCD. The
department would not be expected to undertake detailed project preparation
but to utilize local private consultants to provide technical support for
this purpose. HCD would focus instead on overall project management,
coordination and monitoring.
17.       BHC.  BHC would be responsible for all arrangements connected
with the sale of the completed housing units including: negotiating with
TSC on the location, types of units to be sold; evaluating cost of sales
and agreeing transfer price with TSC; liaising with TSC on completions;
developing a sales program; determining the fair market value of the units



- 37 -
Annex 4
Page 3 of 4
through the employment of qualified independent valuers; establishing
mortgage arrangements including deposit and payment schedules; taking
deposits; granting and servicing mortgages; ensuring that titles are in
order and arranging for title transfers; opening and establishing project
accounts and undertaking project audits acceptable to the Bank; providing
TSC with quarterly financial progress reports.
18.       In order to effectively undertake Its tasks, BHC's housing
division would be strengthened under the pros ect through the employment of
an internationally recruited consultant who 4lould be responsible for
liaising with TSC and for monitoring the technical and financial aspects of
the housing consolidation program on BHC's behalf. (BHC was appraised in
detail in 1985 and is being strengthened under the Republic of Ghana, Road
Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project, Credit 1601-GH, and further
appraisal and strengthening is planned under the proposed Financial Sector
Adjustment Credit (FY88). Annex 14 presents organigrams outlining the main
instit-itional relationships.
Status of Project Preparation
19.       TSC has identified the units for completion and prepared comple-
tion estimates for appraisal. Detailed project preparation work is pro-
ceeding, and TSC consultants should be employed by November 30, 1987.
Works would be programmed to begin on July 1, 1988.
Relevant Documents on Project File
20.       Document on the project file include:  (a) list of units indicat-
ing detailed location, completion and completion costs; (b) data on SHC
unit types, costs, selling prices and rental charges; (c) estimates of
employment generation; and (d) appraisal data on BHC from SAR, Ghana Road
Rehabilitation Project No. 5479-GH, dated May 14, 1985.



- 38 -
Annex 4
Page 4 of 4
REPUDLIC OF 6H
PRIORITY  ORS PROJECT
Detailed Unit Costs
(alae Cost as at Sept. l7)
Average
C+O*O#T                               Quantity/Unit           Unit Cost           Total Cost          ""npoar
--- -- --                  -- -- ---             . ....               ... . .. .
(Cedi)             (Cedi '000)        ("e  year)
HOUINB CONSOLIDATION
-----------------  Average
I C"p.
Sovernment Units
-Flats & Mouscs          752                          95 la
State Housing Corp.Units
-Type SHI               301                           66 Ia
-Type SH3               689                           19 la               1,140               220,090               634
-Type SH5                602                           5 *a
-Typo SH6                602                          15 la
-Type SH6A              551                            6  a
-Type SH7                702                           4 ec 
Sub-Total                                                                                       222,080
Superviuion (52)                                                                                  11,404               95
Total Cosplotion - 200 units                                                                    239,484
Tnch. Assist.: Design & Suprvisn.                      210 ia/to         525,000                110,250                19
Sub total                                                                              349,734              746
Phys. Cont.                                                                             34,973                75
Price Cant.                                                                              6,389             .e&.
Total                                                                                  391,096              921



- 39 -
Annex 5
Page 1 of 5
GHANA
PRIORITY WORKS PROJECT
Detailed Description
Site and Services: Site Development Component
Summary
1.        Objective:  (a) To help alleviate urban poverty and cushion the
effects of impending layoffs in the public sector; and (b) to demonstrate
more cost effective approaches to the provision of shelter for the urban
poor.
2.        Description:  Development of 400 serviced lots at Tema for sale
to companies, organizations and individuals for low income housing.
3.        Location:  Tema, South of Community No. 3.
4.        Estimated Cost:  US$0.5 million equivalent (090.0 million).
5.        Financing:  IDA--100Z of foreign, 90Z local; GOG--10  local.
6.        Economic Rate of Return:  Approximately 26Z.
7.        Employment Confirmation 1/ : 279 man years; average cost per job
US$1,841 equivalent.
8.        Implementation Responsibility:  MIWH/TSC.
9.        Commencement of Works:  July 1, 1988.
Description
10.       The component would include the servicing of approximately 7
hectares of land located south of Community 3 in Tema including the devel-
opment of about 400 basic servic.ed plots for low-income workers in Tema.
Servicing includes the provision of paved roads, bitumen sided lanes and
footpaths, water supply, electricity, street lighting, public sanitary
conveniences (KVIPS), paved market area, a community center and a playing
field. The site would be developed in two approximately equal phases of
200 plots and leased in blocks through BHC to companies, organizations and
11 Includes indirect employment, estimated at 15Z of direct.



- 40 -
Annex 5
Page 2 of 5
individuals for housing for workers.  These grour5 ;.ould be responsible for
site consolidation.
11.       The site would be serviced in blocks, i.e., service connections
would not be initially provided to each plot. However. networks and
systems would be sized and designed to enable future individual connec-
ticns. The standard of servicing would be roughly comparable with that
being provided in the existing upgrading component in East Maamobi under
ADRP. Provision would be made for off infrastructure, with the exception
of sewerage. Since KVIPs are proposed, sewerage is not considered essen-
tial at this time and is omitted in order to minimize lot development cost.
12.       Two basic residential lot types are proposed:  60 m2 (702 of
lots), and 100 m2 (30? of lots). These lots would be suitable for the
initial development of initial "Chamber and Hall' units and the later
addition of another bedroom. This level of development compares favorably
with the typical low income compound houses at East Maamobi and at Ashaman
-- the informal settlement adjoining Tema, and with the smaller units that
have been developed in Tema by the Tema Development Corporation.
13.       TSC would provide standard plans, advice and technical assistance
to individuals and groups wishing to purchase lots. However, developers
would be free to build unit types of their own in consultation with TSC,
BHC and the Tema Development Corporation. The Corporation owns the land
and would be making it available to TDC for development on a lease basis,
and for subleasing to developers. The term of the lease would be 50 years,
with an option to renew and the Corporation would charge ultimate
developers an initial deposit and a monthly land rent. This reflects the
existing well-established practice at Tema. On completion of Phase I of
site servicing, TSC would transfer the plots to BHC who would make the
necessary arrangements for sub-leasing to developers and for site
consolidation. The Corporation would retain responsibility for the common
areas, roads, etc. TSC would not embark upon the development of Phase II
until 50? of the Phase I lots have been taken up (firm offers made), and
steps would be taken to use the lessons learnt from the development of
Phase I to improve the design and implementation of Phase II.
14.       The proposed land use is as follows:
HA        Z
Residential Lots                     4.20      61
Public
- Market Area                        0.60       9
-  Sports Field                      1.20      17
Circulation                          0.88      13
6.88     100



- 41 -
Annex 5
Page 3 of 5
15.       Financing:  Part of the proceeds of the IDA credit would be
utilized to finance 1002 of foreign and 90? of local expenditures. Site
consolidation would be separately financed (see Annex 6).
16.       Cost Recovery:  Land costs would be recovered through lease
payments by allottees to TDC. Servicing costs would be recovered through
cash or mortgage repayments to BHC (see Annex 6, para 13).
17.       An outline of the institutional arrangements for this component
is presented below, and details of quantities, costs and employment genera-
tion are preserved in the accompanying table.
Institutional Arrangements
18.       TSC would establish a Sites and Services Department (SSD) which
would be responsible for implementing this component of the project. SSD's
responsibilities would include: negotiations with Tema Development Corpo-
ration for transfer of the proposed site to TSC; preparation of detailed
design, cost estimates and contract documentation; obtaining any necessary
permits and approvals, award of contracts; technical and financial supervi-
sion of works; settlement of claims for work done; employment of consul-
tants to assist with project preparation; ensuring compliance with project
objectives and buidget; liaising with BHC on the transfer of developed plots
to BHC for leasing by BHC to compailies, organizations and individuals; and
preparing quarterly reports on physical and financial progress for submis-
sion to the Bank.
19.       SSD would be headed by a qualified architect or civil engineer
with at least five years experience with urban design and contract manage-
ment. Experience with planning for low income families and housing finance
would be an advantage. The head of SSD would be assisted by a qualified
architect or civil engineer and a qualified quantity surveyor. This group
would form the core staff of SSD.  The department would not be expected to
undertake detailed project preparation and supervision work itself, but to
employ local private consultants for this purpose SSD would focus instead
on overall project management coordination and monitoring.
20.       BHC would be jointly responsible with TSC for negotiating appro-
priate lease and sublease arrangements with Tema Development Corporation.
They would also be solely responsible for disposal of the serviced lots to
companies, organization and individuals. Annex 14 presents organizations
indicating main institutional relationships.
21.       Status of Project Preparation: TSC has pLepared preliminary plans
and estimates for this component. Detailed project preparation work '
proceeding, and consultants would be employed by November 30, 1987. v.orks
would begin on July 1, 19b8. The Action Plan and Implementation Schedule
for this component is presented in Annex 15.



- 42 -
Annex 5
Page 4 of 5
22.       Relevant Documents on Project Files:  These include (a) ADRP SAR
No. 5327-GH, February 27, 1985; (b) TSC data on project cesign, cost and
land use.



- 43 -
Annex 5
Page 5 of 5
REP£ILIC OF NM
_ ......   .....
PRIORITY WOMS   IECT
etaalad UInit Costs
(Disc Cost as at Sept. M)7
CO INT                              Quantity/Unit          Unit Cost            Total Cost        lInpowv
(Cadi)            (Cadi '000)       ln year)
SITES t SERVICES  PEVELDUT. - TEIA
SITE DEVELOEIT
Onsite Infrastructute
Roadworks
Double-surfaced (10 a wide)                           km        13,610,000                 9,527               33
Single-surfced t a wide)                           Okt           1,243,500                   497                2
Concrete Stor  Water Drains                          I kt         17,402,000                13,052               45
Culverts                                           156 I.             16,200                 2,527                9
Nater Supply Network                                 1 k          5,376,300                 5,914               21
Stret Lighting                                        I km            00,000                   350                1
HrWt  Surfacing                                  6,000 is                915                 4,890               17
Off-Site Infrastructure
Iater Supply Network                                 Ikt           5,376,300                 4,301               15
Electricity Lines                                    I km         11,805,700                 9,445               33
Coumunity Center
Building                                           140 s              20,000                 2,800               IC
Toilet, KvIP                                         2                7 l,300               1,543                5
Sports Field                                      1,200 so                520                   624                2
1
General Itm   (12.5%1                                                                         4,934
Sub-Total                                                                                      62,403
Supervision (5l)                                                                                3,120               26
Sub-Total Works                                                                                 65,523
Tech. Asslst.s Dsign & Supervision                      28 ma/m          525,000                14,700                2
sob total                                                                            90,223             221
Phy$. Cant.                                                                           8,022              22
Price Cont.                                                                           1,779            n.a.
Total                                                                                90,024             243



- 44 -
Annex 6
Page 1 of 4
GHANA
PRIORITY WORIS PROJECT
Detailed Desc:iption
Sites and Services: Site Consolidation Component
Summary
1.        Objective:  (a) To help alleviate urban poverty and cushion the
effects of impending layoffs in the public sector; and (b) to demonstrate
more cost effective approaches to the provision of shelter for the urban
poor.
2.        Description:  Credit to companies, organizations and individuals
to assist in consolidating approximately 400 serviced plots at Tema for low
income workers.
3.        Location:  Tema, South of Community 3.
4.        Estimated Coat:  US$1.0 million equivalent (¢181.8 million)
5.        Financing:  IDA--100Z foreign; SSNIT--100Z local.
6.        Economic Rate of Return:  NA.
7.        Employment Generatirn:  1/ 527 man years; average cost per job,
US$1,971 equivalent.
8.        Implementation Responsibilities:  BHC.
9.        Commencement of Workst January, 1989
Description
10.       This component would include the provision of financing for
consolidation on housing about 400 serviced lots at Tema to be developed by
TSC under tne project. Tema Development Corporation (TDC), the owners of
the land, would grant TSC wright of entry' to the site to permit TSC to
carry out the site development works.  The developed lots would then be
transferred by TDC to BHC for subleasing to companies, organizations and
individuals for the construction of housing for lower income workers.
11.       In order to participate, companies, orgauLizations and individuals
would be required to develop plans and build appropriate and affordable
worker-housing within the two-year project implementation period. These
1/ Includes indirect employment, estimated at 15Z of direct.



- 45 -
Annex 6
Page 2 of 4
development plans would be coordinated with TSC, the Tema Development
Corporation and BHC, and would include building for sale, lease or rent to
workers. Rigid household income threshholds would not be established as
qualifying criteria. However, companies and organizations would be
expected to allocate 702 of the developed units-to workers below the 50th
income percentile in their labor force. About 10? of the developed lots
would be subleased by BHC to qualified individual low-income families for
self-help construction. BHC would utilize a maximum monthly household
income of 06,500 (the 75th percentile in 1984 and about the 50th percentile
in 1987) 2/ as a guide to upper income limits of qualifying applicants,
and would try to ensure that at least 702 of individual allottees fall
within this limit.
12.       Financing.  BHC would provide 60Z mortgage financing for site
consolidation to qualified applicants in the form of a one-year construc-
tion loan which would be rolled into a mortgage at the end of the
construction period. The interest rate on both loan and mortgage would be
calculated at BHC's cost of funds plus a 2Z spread. GOG would make funds
for foreign costs available to BHC, from proceeds of the credit at an
annual interest rate of 13Z 3/ for a period not exceeding 25 years, with
2 years of grace. Funds' for local costs would be provided to BHC by SSNIT
at an annual interest rate of at least 15? for a period not exceeding 25
years, with 2 years of grace. BHC would onlend these funds to qualified
applicants for a period not exceeding 20 years, with 2 years of grace. GOG
would bear the foreign exchange risk.
13.       Cost Recovery:  The recovery of costs would be through TDC land
lease charges (see Annex 5, para 16). Site consolidation and servicing
costs would be recovered through cash or mortgage repayments to BHC as
noted above (para 12).
14.       An outline of the institutional arrangements for this component
is presented below together with an estimate of costs and employment
generation.
Institutional Arrangements
15.       Responsibility for the implementation of this component would
reside with BHC. Responsibilities would include: liaising with TSC and
the Tema Development Corporation on the size, location, timing, cost,
servicing and leasing of the developed lots; nogotiating appropriate
sub-lease arrangements with TSC and the Corporation; negotiating with SSNIT
for the funds for the local costs of site consolidation and with MWH/TSC
for funds for the foreign c-sts; marketing the project to factories in Tema
to elicit participation in the project on appropriate terms; making all
arrangements connected with subleases between qualified applicants and Tema
2/ See ADRP SAR, Report No. 5327-GH, dated February 27, 1985 pp 76 and
77.
3/ The Bank's current standard variable rate of 8Z plus a 5Z foreign
exchange risk premium.



- 46 -
Annex 6
Page 3 of 4
agreements with qualified applicants; opening and establishing project
accounts and undertaking audits on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank; servicing loans and mortgages; providing TSC with quarterly physical
and financial progress reports; and making quarterly repayments to GOG and
SSNIT out of loan repayments by qualified borrowers. Annex 14 presents
organigrams outling the main institutional relationships.
16.       In order to effectively undertake its tasks, BHC's housing
division would be strengthened under the project through the employment of
an internationally recruited consultant who would be responsible for
liaising wit'A TSC and for monitoring the technical and financial aspects of
the housing c.nsolidation program on BHC's behalf. (BHC was appraised in
detail in 1985 and is being strengthened under the Republic of Ghana, Road
Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project, Credit 1601-GH, and further
appraisal and strengthening is planned under the proposed Financial Sector
Adjustment Credit (FY88). Annex 14 presents organigrams outlining the main
institutional relationships.
Status of Project Preparation:
17.       BHC was actively involved in the development of PWP including
assisting during project appraisal. However, none of the activities for
which BHC would be responsible have yet been started. The Action Plan and
implementation schedule for this component is presented in Annex 15.
Relevant Documents on Proiect File:
18.       Documents include: (a) surveys of Tema factories undertaken by
TSC during appraisal indicating company and worker interest in the project;
(b) data from Tema Devielopment Corporation on housing unit types and prices
at Tema; and (c) appraisal data on BHC from SAR, Ghana from SAR, Ghana Road
Rehabilitation Project, No. 5479-GH, dated May 14, 1985.



- 47 -
Annex 6
Page 4 of 4
REPUILIC OF 6HA
PRIORITY WORKS PROJECT
Detailed Unit Costs
(Bass Cost ds at Sept. 1997)
Avernqg
COMPONENT                            Quantity/Unit          Unit Cost            Total Cost         IQnpop r
---   -                             -  -  -- - -- -        -- - - -             -- - - - --- - - -
(Cedi)            (Cedi '000)        (man 10Ur)
SITES & SERvICES DEvELOPMNT.- TEMA
SITE CONSOLIDATION
House Const. on Sit#s & sOfv. Plot;                   400 unit          300,000 A/             120,000              417
Tech, Ascist.-Inst. Support to 8HC                     24 W/mo        1,750,000                 42,000                0
Sub total                                                                            162,000              417
Phys. Cont.                                                                           16,200               42
Price Cont.                                                                            3,626             n.a.
Total                                                                                181,826              458
/ Represents approxioately 602 of the estieuted
average unit cosplotion cost.



- 48 -
Annex 7
Page 1 of 3
GHANA
PRIORITY WORKS PROJECT
Detailed Description
TSC and GHA Support Component
Sumxary                               I
1.        Obiective:  To help to strengthen the capacity of TSC and GHA to
prepare, manage and monitor the project; and (b) to assist TSC and GHA to
undertake studies to identify the housing and infrastructure problems of
Accra and the secondary cities and to prepare future housing and infra-
structure rehabilitation projects.
2.        Description:  Funding to TSC and GHA to assist in preparing,
managing and monitoring the project, and undertake studies for future
project preparation.
3.        Location:  Accra, Tema, Kumasi, and S6kondi-Takoradi
4.        Estimated Cost:  US$1.2 million equivalent (¢215.8 million).
5.        Financing:  IDA--100% foreign, 90Z local (except for future
project preparation); GOG--10Z local; cofinancing--100Z foreign and 90Z
local (for future project preparation only).
6.        Economic Rate of Return:  NA.
7.        Employment Generation& 18 man years
8.        Implementation Responsibility:  MWHITSC, MRH/GHA.
9.        Commencement of Work:  Project preparation in progress.
Description:
10.       Support to TSC and GHA focuses on: providing six personal
computers and peripheral equipment for project accounting. programming and
data management (TSC (2), GHA (1) and each of the DRUs (4)); providing
seven four-wheel drive vehicles (missan Patrols or equivalent) to assist
with project supervision by TSC (2),       (1) and each of the DRUs (4);
essential office equipment for TSC; refurbishing of TSC's premises;
supervision incentives for TSC staff; short-term consulting assistance to
TSC to improve project management systems; staff training for TSC and GHA;
the employment of a qualified financial controller, accounting assistants
for TSC; short-term technical assistance to TSC and GHA to prepare annual
financial data for auditing and to employ independent auditors to undertake



- 49 -
Annex 7
Page 2 of 3
project audits; and technical assistance to TSC and GHA to undertake
studies (i) of the labor,content of the works to be financed under the
project; (ii) methods of improving the labor intensity of urban works
projects; (iii) the housing and infrastructure needs of Accra and the
secondary cities; and (iv) to prepare future projects.
11.       Proiect Implementation Studies.  As noted above (para 11), in
order to maximize the employment supported by the project, both TSC and GHA
would undertake studies of the manpower requirements of the works to be
executed and take steps to ensure that works are designed in the most
labor-intensive manner possible within the constraints of technical and
economic feasibility. These studies would involve a careful analysis of
the techpiiques to be employed in executing the works, substituting
labor-intensive for other technologies where feasible, and a careful
accounting of employment generation during project implementation. TSC and
GHA would also establish quarterly employment budgets and report on
employment generated as part of their normal quarterly project reporting
responsibilities to the Bank.
12.       Financing and Cost Recovery.  This component would be financed
partly from the proceeds of the IDA credit and partly through cofinancing.
IDf. pro:..qeds would help finance all items except studies, and future
pxoject prep-ration would be financed from the proceeds of cofinancing.
These costs would not be recovered within the project, but would be a
charge aga!n-st general revenues.
Institutional Arrangements
13.       The roles and respon3ibilities of TSC and GHA have been outlined
in para 3.01-3.13 and in Annexes 2 to 6, and summarized in the Action Plan
(Annex 15). TSC and GHA would be responsible for implementing their
respective support activities in consultation with the Bank.



- 50 -
Annex 7
Page 3 of 3
RIMUIIIC OF OMf
PRIORITY M S POECT
Detailed Unit Costs
(hsi Cost as at Sept. IYPI
CO hNNT                              Quantity/Unit           Unit Cost           Total Cost         nllu,or
.  _  ..........         ~... .  . . ..           -- - - -            -- - -  - -        --  --   -
(Cedi I(Cadi '000)                   ("u  Yere
TSC & 6HA SUPRT & PIOJ.PIAMTI.
tSC
Personal Coveuter                                      2 at          3,500,000                  7,000
Electric Typwriters                                    2 ea            262,500                    525
Office Furniture                                itm                   various                     525
Stationary                                      items                 various                     350
Office equipment and spares                     itu                   various                   1,750
Air conditioners                                       3 *a             140,000                   420
Refrilerator                                           I la            175,000                    175
Supervision allowance                           iteus                 various                     675
Short term assistante                                  2    o/mo     2,100,000                  4,200
Building renovation                             ites                  various                     875                2
4ND Vehicles                                           2 a           3,500,000                  7,000
Prep. of Future Sec. Citien Proj                      70 ma/so         875,000                 61,250                4
Staff training                                  total                                           4,375
Finan.anget.,kccting & Auditng.                       44 ma/mo          75,000                 38,500                4
SPA
Personal Computer                                      5 ma          3,500,000                 17,500
4W0 Vehicln                                            5 la          3,500,000                 17,500
Prep. of Future Sec. Cities Proj                      20 ua/mo         875,000                 17,500                2
Staff training                                  total                                           4,375
Finan.engst.,kcting & Auditng.                        10  a/so         975,000                  8,750                1
Sub total                                                                            193,445                14
Phys. Cant.                                                                           19,345                 1
Price Cant.                                                                            2,9ff             na.
Total                                                                                215,799                15



- 51 -
Annex 8
Page 1 of 1
GHANA
PRIORITY WORKS PROJECT
Contractual Services and Technical Assistance and Training Summary
Agency                    Man
De_scriPtiOn                       Responsible                Months
Final design and super-
vision of infrastruc-
ture rehabilitation
and maintenance works
in:
Accra                              GHA/ADRU                  61
Tema                               GHA/TDRU (ADRU)           12
Kumasi                             GHA/KDRU                  26
Sekondi-Takoradi                   GHA/STDRU                 17
Final design and super-
vision:
Urban upgrading                    TSC                       31
Housing consolidation              TSC                      210
Sites and services                 TSC                       28
Site consolidation                 TSC                       24
Support to GHA and TSC
Short-term assistance              TSC                        2
Staff training                     TSC/GHA                    5
Financial management               TSC/GHA                   54
accounting and auditing
Studies and preparation            TSC/GHA                   90
of future projects.
Total                                                     560



- 52 -
Annex 9
Page 1 of I
WLIC P gm
PRIUITY UI"PIECT
Eaployet haw y
Labor kwated                          Avbo
Cost Wr
Conwet                       Total Cout                 Direct    ldirKet uI Total                   on  yw
IUS  '000)                         (so  yw)                              (USM)
Infrastructure Rehabilitation            6,123.3                  4,33          729     5,593                     1,220
Urban Upgrading                          4,916.2                  2,997         450      3,446                    1,426
NoIsing Cenolidation                     2,234.8                    821         123        944                    2,368
sites and Sarvicc  - Tega                                                                                         1,841
- site Devlopwt                           514.4                    243          34        279
- Site Consolidation                    1,039.0                    458          49        527                    1,971
TSC & SNA Support                        1,233.1                      -                     -                      N.A.
Total                              16,760.9                  9,382       1,407    10,789                     1,439 bi
nI Estinated at 151 of Direct Labor.
b/ Dots not Include TSC t SNA Support Component



53 -                                   Annex 10
Page 1 of 12
Pi liTy  Om   P3ECT
btailed Cost Estites a1
(Ih    Cost is at Spt. 17)
COIPST                        LOCAL      FOuIN        TOTAL                LOCAL       FOuEISE       TOTAL
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                   -       ------                                        .... ............... ..._. .._...... _.
(US' I000)                                   (Cedi '000)
IWUTIIUCTUE AIMS. & MINIT.
ACC
Civil Marks llnt. rehal. si nt.)
Brainae
desiltin/scavatioa                 4U5.1         0.0       443.1                77,39"             0      77,399
clearing(recurrmp. n      2yrs)      19.3        0.0        19.3                 3,35              0       3,335
constructiow                        293.3      293.6       537.6                51,414        51,414    102,827
Roadwks
clearing(recurr.nrp. x 2yrs)          5.1         0.0        5.1                   6               0          98
krhbing                             192.5       192.5      385.0                33,687        33,487      67,375
road ni  signs                        4.9        3.3         8.2                   861           574       1,435
patching - asphalt                  102.8       69.5       171.3                17,990        11,993      29,983
patching - preix                    177;9      118.6       2%.5                 31,136        20,7538     51,894
bus bays                             14.9        9.9        24.8                 2,600         1,734       4,334
Traffic Nanagnent
lane urkings                         24.5       16.3        40.8                 4,285         2,857       7,142
interuction earkings
- sajar                             17.1       11.4        28.6                 2,f9l         1,999       4,999
- dnor                              22.9       15.2        33.0                 3,987         2,658       6,646
Pedestrian facilities
ebfra  crossings                     7.9        5.3        13.2                 1,389           926       2,316
sidewalk construct. (2a wide)       187.1      197.1       374.3                32,751        32,751      65,502
Stretl ighting
rehabilitation
- poles                              7.4       11.0        18.4                 1,283         1,931       3,219
- brackets/fittings                 16.1       24.2        40.4                 2,826         4,239       7,064
- Isps                               9.2       13.8        23.0                 1,603         2,412       4,020
sub-total                           1;5U.6       971.0    2,519.6                271,003       169,933    440,936
Supervision (21)                       50.4        0.0        50.4                 9,819             0       8,819
tub-total Civil lorks                1,5"9  0      971.0    2,570.0               279,822       169,933    449,755
Tech. Assist.s Deign & Suprvisn.    145.3           36.3      131.6                25,428         6,357      31,795
Equipnt and Tools                       27.1        40.7       67.3                 4,747         7,121      11,668
_ -  -                      .. -..                -- --- - - - --                    .    .     . . .  .  .  ..   .   .   .  .    
TOTAL  /SE COST ACCRA IFRAST.           1,771.4    1,048.1    2,819J5               309,9"3       183,411    493,408
hysical Contingencie                     177.1       104.3      2el.9                31,000        18,341      49,341
Prico Contingucle                         32.2        19.0       51.2                  5,642        3,319       8,960
TOTAL COST ACChl INFRAST.               1,930.8    1,171.8    3,152.6                346,639       205,071    551,710
a/Totals sy not add up due to rounding.
Include  TaUs estleatid at US  0.9 sillion equivalent.
hae costs  ere converted to US9 at in exchange rate of USt I a Cedi 175.
Price contingencis" were estlated on tho basis of foreign inflation rates
of 31 for 1917  nd It per annu  fJ  193  -90.
Local curreecy eqivyalet sy     unde restiated. The actual asmat of Cdis which
will be reqird for the proecKt during ieple.ntation will ned to be retiested
Wrodically based on provailing "change rate.



- 54 -
Annex I 0
Page 2 of 12
RfPUULIC OF 6H
PRIORITY MOIKS PROJECT
Detailed Cost Estiutes a/
(ahe Cost as at Sept. 19017
COMPONENT                      LOCAL      FOREION      TOTAL                 LOCAL       FOREIGN        TOTAL
(US$ '000)                                    (Cedi '000?
INFRASTRUCTURE REHAB. & MIANT
TENA
Civil Works (Inc. rehab,& Laint.)
Drainage
dnilting/excavation                   82t4         0.0 Q      2.4                 14,415             0      14,415
clearing(returr.exp. x 2yrs)           7.2        0.0         7.2                  1,262             0       1,262
construction                          76.9       76.9       153.9                 13,454        13,454      26,908
Roadvorks
clearing(recurr.exp. x 2yrs)           1.9         0.0         1.9                   317             0         317
silt removal                         32.9         0.0        32.9                  5,766             0       5,766
kerbing                               24.1       24.1        48.1                  4,209         4,209       8,419
road name signs                        0.4         0.2        0.6                     65            44         109
patching - isphalt                    99.1       66.1       165.2                 17,349        11,566      28,915
bus bays                               6.2         4,1       10.3                  1,078           719       1,797
Traffic Management
lane markings                          6.2        4.1        10.3                  1,092           721       1,803
intersection markings
- major                               4.7        3.2         7.9                    829           553       1,382
- sindr                              3.6         2.4         6.1                    639           425       1,063
Pedestrian facilities
'zebra' crossings                      1.2        0.8         2.1                    217           145         362
Sewerage
Rehabilitation                        52.4       52,4       104.8                  9,169         9,1t8      18,336
Sub-total                              399.1      234.3       633.4                 69,850        41,004    110,854
Supervision (2.)                         9.0         4.7        12.7                 1,397           820       2,217
Sub-total Civil Works                   407.1       239.0      646.1                 71,247        41,924    113,071
Tech. Assist.  Design & Suprvisn.        27.7         6,9        34.6                 4,843         1,211       6,054
Sub-total Equipsent and Tools             4.7         7.0        11.6                   815          1,222      2,037
TOTAL BASE COST TEMA INFRAST.              439.5       252.9       692.4                76,905        44,257    121,162
Physical Contingencies                     43.9        25.3        69.2                 7,691         4,426       12,116
Price Contingencies                         9,0         4.6        12.6                  1,401           803      2,204
TOTAL COST TEMA INFRAST.                   491.4       282.8       774.2                95,997        49,486    135,493
a/ Totals may not add up due to rounding.
Includes Taxes estimated at US$ 0.8 million equivalent.
Dase costs wer  converted to lSA at  n enxchange rate of USf I * Ceodi 175.
Price contingenties were estimated on the basis of foreign inflation rates
of 3J for 1917 and 1% per annum for 1988 - 90.
Local currency equivalont may be underestimated. The actual amount of Codis which
will be required for the project during implementation sill need to be roostimated
periodically based on preVaLling exchange rates.



- 55 -                                                         Annex 10
Page 3 of 12
REPUBLIC Of  6MA
PRIORITY UTrS PROJECT
Detailed Cost Estimates a/
(lIass Cost as at Sept. 1997)
COROWDNET                      LOCAL       9RE19N      TOTAL                 LOCAL        FDREI9s       TOTAL
(1S1 '000)                                    (Cedi '000)
INFRASTRUCTURE REHAB. & MAINT.
Civil Works (Inc. rehab.& Laint.)
Drainage
desilt:ng/encavation                  26.9         0.0       26.9                  4,709             0       4,709
clearing(recurr.exp.    2yrs)          1.9         0.0         1.9                   330              0        330
construction                          44.5       44.5        8.0                   7,784         7,784      15,568
pipe culvert (.9m dias)               13.0        13.0        26.1                 2,291         2,281       4,561
Roadworks
clfaring(recurr.uxp.  2yrsi            2.9         0.0        2.9                    510             0         510
gravelling                           111.3        74.2       185.5                19,479        12,986      32,465
road nam  signs                        3.3        2.2         5.5                    577           384         961
patching - premix                     89.0       59.3       148,3                 15,568        10,379      25,947
Central market
filling                               14.2         3.5       17.7                  2,479           620       3,098
pavement                             148.3      148.3       296.5                 25,947        25,947      51,894
pipe drain (.9n dias)                136.1      136.1       272.2                 23,819        23,919      47,639
pipe drain (1.8.  dig)                74.6       74.6        149.1                13,050        13,050      26,101
U-driin construction                  48.5       48.5        97.0                  8,483         9,483      16,966
Ahennun market
gravelling                             7.4         5,0        12.4                 1,304           869       2,173
Sub-total                              721.8       609.2    1,331.0                126,320       106,603    232,922
Supervision (2%)                        14.4        12.2        26.6                 2,526         2,132       4,659
Sub-total Civil Works                   736.3      621,3    1,357.6                 !28,846       108,735    237,591
Tech. Assist.i Design & Supryisn.        62.3        15.6       77.8                 10,898         2,724      13,622
Equipmeunt and Tools                     11.6        17.5        29.1                 2,037         3,056       5,093
TOTAL BASE COST KUJASl INFRAST.            910.2       654.4    1,464.5                 141,781       114,515    256,296
Physical Contingencies                     81.0        65.4       146.5                14,178        11,452      25,630
Price Contingencies                        14.7        11.9        26.6                  2,561         2,079      4,659
TOTAL COST KUNASI INFRAST.                 905.9       731.7    1,637.6                158,540       128,045    286,585
at Totals may not add up due to rounding.
Includes Taxes estimated at US$ 0.9 million equivalent.
BaSe costs were converted to USs at in exchange rate of US I a Cedi 175.
Price contingencies were estimated on the basis of foreign inflation rates
of 31 for 1997 and IX pef Innfu for 1999 - 90.
Local currency equivalent may be underestitated. The actual aouant of Codis which
will be required for the project during implementation will need to be rentimated
poriodically baud on prevailing exchange rates.



- 56 -
Annex 10
Page 4 of 12
DLIC OF mWm
PRISIY  W1K  PROJECT
_ . .. __.... -
Detailed Cost Estieatas A/
iae Cost as t Set. 1117)
COIWOIIT                      LOCAL     FOHEIN       TOTAL                LOCAL       FWIElS        TOTAL
(Ill 'DOOl                                  ICedi '000)
I  A1TRIICT'UAE KwMM. I MINT.
SEto(D11T4AllKo
civil works (Inc. rehabi saint.)
Drainage
deuiltingl/escavation               S6.9         0.0       36.9                 6,449            0       4,449
clearing(recurr.eip. 1 2yrs)         4.3         0.0        4.3                   750             0        750
constructim                        107.1       107.1      214.2                18,740       18,740      37,479
Hoaduoks
clearing(recurr mp. a 2yrcl        141.7         0.0      141.?                24,794            0      24,794
road nan signs                       0.3         0.2        0.S                   4U             32         t0
intersection iip?ovittnts           10.9        10.9       21.9                 1,916        1,914       3,331
but bays                             3.4         2.4        6.0                   04            423      1,07
patching of failed pavset           16.         10.9       27.2                 2,OS4         1,903      4,757
rnurfacing                         129.71      129.7      259.5                22,704       22,704      45,07
revaling                            03.5 5        .5      167.0                14,413        14,413     29,227
Traffic lInagest
lane sarkings                       12.0        6.0        20.0                 2,096         1,3"       3,494
road signing                         1.2         0.a        2.0                   214           143        357
Pedntrian facilitin
;ebra' croeslngs                     2.7         1.6        4.4                   447          311         771
sidatlk construct. (2  side)        18.5        1.5        36.9                 3,229        3,229       4,459
Streutlighting
rehab. of colunsi'lant.rns          31.0        46.5       77.4                 5,420        S,130      13,550
Sub-total                            599 6       420.2    1,019.8               104,928        73,50     171,48
Supervision (2V1                      12.0         8.4       20.4                 2,099         1,471      3,541
Sub-total Civil works                 611.6       428.4    1,040.2               107,026        75,01l    182,037
tech. Assist.i Design I Suprvisn.      41.5        10.4       51.9                 7,263         1,816      9,011
Equipsnt and Tools                     13.5        20.3       33.8                 2,344         3,547      5,911
~~. . . . .. . .. . . . .. .. .. .. .. .. . .. . .....................
TOTAL UK  CO8T SEKONII/TfKOCDI Ilf    66 .,          4i9.3    1,125.9               116,656        60,374    19?,030
Physical Contingencie                    64.7        45.9      HU2.                 11.646        8,037      19,703
Price Contingncies                       12.1         9.3       20.4                 2,120         1,452      3,573
TOTAL COST SEXiOI/TKDRADI IIFST.    745.4           513.5    1,258.9               130,442       99,34      220,304
-                            ---------------                                                          .  . .  .  . .
a/Totals say not add up du* to rounding.
Incldu Tate# estisate4 at USS 0.8 sillion equivalent.
las  costs we conerte  to US9 at an exchange -at  of i6 I a Ctdi 175.
Price contingencin wer ntiated on the basis of foreign inflatitn rate
of 31 for  197 and ter anwas for 1f J 90.
Local crrncry eqivalent sy be wairestiated. The actual uat of Ceis wich
will be reqired for tho project turing ispleatatios will ned to bW retisated
periodically based on provailin, echiele rate.



-   57   -                                   Annex  10
Page 5 of 12
UI IC OF WIM
..............
PRIOIT? VMS PROJECT
etailed Cost Estiimtes u/
ilass Cost as at S"t. 197)
COIUSINT                      LOCAL      FOREIllI    TOTAL                LOCAL        FOE1I61      TOTAL
(USS '000)                                   (Codi '000)
1141 1VWMIN
----l----D11i6
Vast Ui"
load  afkiS                             174.2      261.3       435.4                30,481        45,721     76,202
Foot paths                               12.9       19.4        32.3                 2,260         3,30       5,649
Priwry drains                           541.4      232.0       773.4                94,741        40,603    135,344
SKeondary draiin                        120.4      546.9    1,367.3                143,567        95,711    239,278
Tertiary drains                          32.1       13.0        45.9                 5,616        2,407       6,023
Toilots KVIP (5  copartets)              92.6       61.7       154.3                16,197        10,79G     26,996
ater Supply ltwork                       86.0      256.0       344.0                15,051        45,153     60,204
aists Colletion Stations                  5.4       49.8        54.2                   949         0,544      9,493
Electricity lines                        94.4      293.3       377.7                16,525       49,575      66,100
Dkolition and Site clearance             47.8        0.0        47.8                 9,360             0      6,360
Sub-total lst Visa                     1,907.1    1,725.2    3,632.3                333,747      301,902    635,649
East Nuieni
Priwy drains                            338.4      145.0       493.4                59,213       25,377      94,590
Tertiary drains                          44.0       19.9        62.9                 7,700        3,300      11,000
Sub-4otal East Naseobi                   392.4      163.9       546.2                66,913       29,677      95,590
S'upervision (3)                         68.7       56.7       125.4                12,020        9,917      21,937
Tech. Ahsist.: Design I Suprvisn.         73.9       16.5        92.4                12,936        3,234      16,170
TOTAL UAKE COST  IUAAINS               2,432.1    1,964.2    4,396.3                 425,616      343,731    769,346
Physical Contingenice                    243.2      196.4       439.6                42,562        34,373     76,935
Price Coating"cies                        44.4       35.9        80.3                 7,775        6,279      14,054
TOTAL COST UPIAINO                     2,719.7    2,196.5    4,916.2                 475,953      364,363    860,335
.___ .... . ... ... ............... . ....... __
a/ Totals say not add up due to roding.
Include  Taxes etited at UM  0.9 *illion equivalent.
has  costs wer  converted to M  at a  exchange rate of USS I * Cedi 175.
Price contingencin wre  stiumted on tho basis of foreign inflation rates
of 31 for MI9  and I per annum for 1908 - 90.
Locl currency equivalnt say be underestiuted. The actual amount of Cedis which
will be reqired for th  projKet during ieplentation will need to be remtiated
periodically baos  on provailing nxchange rat".



- 58 -                                      Annex 10
Page 6 zf 12
REPUDLIC D  6HAIA
....._.........
PRIO&TY NORtS PROJECT
Detalled Cost Estimtos a/
Dais Cost as at Spt. 1997)
CONPOlENT                     LOCAL     FOREIGN      TOTAL                LOCAL        FOREIGN       18TAi
---- -                       ....      ..   . .     ---                  -- -         ....  .
(USS '000)                                  (Cedi '000)
HOUSING CONSOLIDATION
---------------------  Average
2Coop
veurnfent WMits                   )
-Flats 6 Hous           752
State Housing Corp.Units
-Type SHI               302      )
-Typo SH3               69       ?    521.3       782.0    1,303.3                 91,232      136,948    228,080
-Type SH5               602      1
-Type SH6               60Z
-Type SH64              552      )
-Type SH7               702
Sub-Total Coepl. Cost - 200 units       521.3       782.0    1,303.3                 91,232       136,898    228,080
Supervision (5X)                          26.1       39.1        65.2                 4,562        6,842      11,404
Total Coupletion Cost - 200 uwits       547.4       821,1    1,368.5                 95,794       143,690    239,494
Tech. Assist.: Design & Suprvin.        504.0       126.0       630.0                98,200       22,050    110,250
TOTAL BASE COST HOUSING CONSOLIDATION  1,051.4        947.1    1,999.5                193,99        165,740    349,734
PHYSICAL CONTINNENCIES                    105.1       94.7       199.9                18,399        16,574     34,973
PRICE CONTINGENCIES                        19.2       17.3        36.5                 3,361         3,029      6,389
TOTAL COST HOUSING CONSOLIDATION         1,175.7    1,059.1    2,234.9                205,754       185,342    391,096
a/Totals my not add up due to rounding.
Includes Taxes estimated at US 0.8 sillion equivalent.
last costs oere converted to US  at an exchange rate of US  1 a Codi 175.
Price contingncies wro estiimted on the basis of foreign inflation rates
of 32 for 1987 and 1t per annue for 1988 - i0.
Local currency equivalent uy be undorestimated. The actual aoeunt of Cedis which
will be required for the project during ispleentation will need to be reestisated
periodically baud on provailing exchange ratn.



- 59 -
Annex 10
Page 7 of 12
RIEPUOLIC Of 
PIOAITV MOS N  IWECT
ktailed Cost Estijmte a/
(lasa Cost is at Sat. 19i7)
C1ONPEINT                     LOCAL      FOREIIN    TOTAL                  LCAL         FORuIIM       TOTAL
..----                        ........-------................. ..... .    .......      .... ....  . .. .....
(MS '000)                                    (Cadi  C000)
SITES L SEPOICES KYELOPMT.- TEt
..... .......... ............. ................   
SITE KVELOPH4MT
. ....... .........._
onsite Infrastructure
Radorks
Doutbl-iurfaced (10 o wide)           21.9        32.7       54.4                  3,911         5,716      q,527
Single-surfaced (6 a wide)             1.1         1.7         2.9                  19            29          497
Concrets Storo later Drains             44.7        29.8        74.6                 7,631         5,221      13,052
Culvert.                                 7.9         6.5        14.4                 1,390         1,137      2,527
Mater Supply ebtwork                     9.4        25.3        33.9                 1,478         4,435      5,914
Street Liqhtinn                          0.5         1.5         2.0                    B8           263         350
Rarket  Surfacing                       16.8        11.2        27.9                 2,934         1,956       4,990
Off-Site Intrastructure
Water Supply Network                     6.1        18.4        24.6                 1,075         3,226       4,301
Electricity Lines                       13.5        40.5        54.0                 2,361         7,093       9,445
Coaunity Cente'
Building                                 9.6         6.4        16.0                 1,680         1,120       2,800
Toilet, KVIP                             5.3         3.5         9.9                   926           617       1,543
Sports Field                              2.1         1.4         3.6                   374           250         624
bneral Ite,s (12.51)                     17.2        22.4        39.6                 3,019         3,915       6,934
Sub-Total                                 155.2       201.4       356.6                27,165        35,239     62,403
Supervision (5?)                            7.8        10.1        17.8                 1,356         1,762       3,120
Sub-Total Morks                            163.0       211.4       374.4                29.524        36,999     65,523
Teth. Asirt.t D"ign & Supervision           67.2        16.8        84.0                11,7b0         2,940      14,700
TOTAL UKE COST SITE OKYLPNIT, - TERA    230.2          228.2       458.4                40,284        39,939      90,223
PYSICAL CONTINIENCIES                      23.0        22.9        45.8                 4,028         3,994       8,022
PICE CONTIECIES                             5.1         5.1        10.2                   693           8U6       1,779
TOTAL COST SITE DEVELOPfIENT - TENA        258.3       256.1       514.4                45,205        44,819      90,024
a/Totals scy not add up due to rounding.
Includes Taes estimated at US9 0.9 uillion equivalent.
ha  costs wre converted to US  at son  xchange rate of USt I 8 Cedi 175.
Price contiWecies we estiimted on the basis of foreign inflation rate
of 31 for 1"7 and It per annuo fof 1998 - 90.
Local currency equivalent cay be underestimated. The actual mont of Cedis which
will be required for the project during iaploeettitn will ned to be reestisated
periodically based on provailing exchange rate.



- 60 -
ANNEX  0
Page 8 of 12
IEPULIC    OF SN
...._ _.......
PRIORITY MItS PIIO3ECT
etailed Cost Estimate  a/
tu Cost as at Sept. 1,17
CONPONENT                     LOCAL     FOIIEN      TOTAL               LOCAL        FOREISN      TOTAL
-------. ..               .     .. . .                                        ------
(US1' 000)                                   Cedi '000)
SITES L SERVICES DEVELOT. - TEIA
SITE CONSOLIDATION
House Const,-Sitns & Srv. Plots bl    411.4         274.3      6"5.7                72,000        48,000    120,000
Tech. Assist.-lnst. Support to IC       192.0        48.0      240.0                33,600        9,400      42,000
TOTAL BASE COST SITE CONSOLID, - TEMA    603.4        322.3      925.7               103,600        56,400    162,000
PHYSICAL COMTINSENCIES                    60.3        32.2       92.6                10,560         5,640     16,200
PRICE CONTIN6ENCIES                       13.3         7.4       20.7                 2,335         1,291      3,626
TOTAL COST SITE CONSIUDATION - TEll       677.1       361.9    1,039.0               118,495       63,331    191,926
a/ Totals may not add up due to rounding.
Includns Taxes nstimated at US$ 0.0 sillion equivalent.
Base costs wars converted to USt at an exchange rate of USS I a Cedi 175.
Prics contingencies wre  stimated an the basis of foreign inflation rates
of 3Z for 1987 and 1 per annu for 10  - 90.
Local currency equivalent may be undrestimated. The actual mount of Cedis which
will be required for the project during impmentation vill ned to be reestiumted
periodically based on prevailing-exchanug rat".
b/ The cost of construction represents approximately 602 of the estimated total
compeItion cost.



- 61 -                                                    Annex 10
Page 9 of 12
LaIC O WANA
PROIITY IS POJECT
Detailed Cost EstiatH a,
lham Coat as at hopt. 1M7)
CwPrT                           LOCI.      FOElN        TOTAL                 LOCAL         FOAEIM        TOTAL
(1  'O000'                                     liCedi '000
TSC &  iWA SPT  A     MO.PIP TN.
TV
Prwinal Co"utar                             Q,o        40,e         4P.0                      0         7,000       7,000
Electric T p.uriters                        0.C         S.i        S,                        0           525         525
Office Furnittqrp                           12         1.9         i 0                     210           315         525
Scir". cait                                 0 D.$       i2          2.0                     140           210         350
Q'fi        p qvi fPt e4 rey               20           M.        10.0                     350         1,400       1,750
idi iMl.nrr                                 0,0         2.4          2.4                      0           420         420
0.0a qlsr   1.0         i.0                       0           175         175
Sul     wsit  elmme                         5.0         0.0 v                               97!             0         875
F'hvt tW#    )IstCe                         0.0        24.0        24.0                       0         4,200       4,200
3;.dstjo raw.lvatiwn                        2.0         3.0         5.0                     350           525         875
:3  hiiW;19 00                                         to. t       40.0                       0         7,000       7,000
P4, of ett-o !vr, C0twa   eiiA            i4s         210.0        M.0                  2*,500         36,750      61,250
StOf traiIpin53                             C.         4 .40       IM                         0         4,375       4,375
F',.mqat.l,kttiioj   A-M kfig             13210        0l.0o      2,I'                  2S,100         Y.,400      39,500
r
SUD-fatal                                  210.0      4U7.4        730.4                  V..            &,2"5    127,920
P macl >Qvutor                              0.0          :         it.44 5                              7.7 o00    17,500
4V0 V.ftie4                                 0,90      10.00        0 't0                               ly.500      17,500
FreK.  of Future h. CitlE  FRO             40.0        wo.0        W.0                   qt^A          1.),500     17,500
Staff trarnnh                               0.0        2.0          .;                                   A 3T5      4,375
FInqmn. $4raat, ctr  I tSle) 3A                                       ¢,                 >t2>,           ,400       9,750
sub-Tota!                                   70.0      0r.-         5'l o                 :2,110         53 S)5      65,625
rt*1. PA  OIT TCi4  sw.E  ?QI                351.0       752.4    I, K4.t                  &             ir' o,70    193,445
Ml IGTCAI  WI      TFS                       35.3        75.2' '                                         f s.i67     19,345
pF:C  c3     r .TjN c:                        s.9        11.2         '..i                    t961                    2,9"9
Tofk or  %t Y      W  850,4 PtJ. P-,  394.2              BS3.e       i.0.4i eqS4 1,790    215,799
.1 >a*.t;  y nut 44 to ht . t.: r?arvj'teg.
13<t§6Wv"- g1Sei, st 'V ds illion aqivjilent
t4a   costs war  c Yted tb Ia  U     t an  achang  rate o4 11sI 1 *   di 17S,
PRiK I. ,+c-, - .;; '       .4 W.iW9i4 im  tke basis of foEuigA  inflatsim  raiN.
7 fer t7 Md 3 v crm. fv  M- "
0L'.c L,!1 7                f i4ty ke '0,0W tiaat#d. The actual annt of hIt  *..
0$1 br           -T '  ti-t f ond  0'..wing iplemntatizon will need to be reastmate,
,¢          e d ; t  i hage rates.



Annex 10
Page 10 of 12
REPUILIC OF  MNAM
PRIORITY WORk PWROJECT
Suur&y Project Coste and Finsncing a/
..........   ........ . . . .. _............ .
(Due Cost at of Septembr, 1917)
Percentage
Locnl        Foreign        Total               Local          Foreign           Total              of  as. Cost
----        -- --          ---                  ... ..    .    ... ... .        ----                ------------
Project Costs                                                 (USA  0001                                          (CEDI '000)
Infrast. Rehabilitation   M intieince
- kcra                                           1,771           1,04U         2,619              309,996         183,411         493,400                  192
- Tm                                               439             253          692                76,905          44,257          121,162                  52
- Xumasi                                            51o            654         1,465              141,761         114,515         254,294                  102
- Sokondi / Ta, oradi                              667             459         1,126              116,656          80,374          197,030                  82
...             ---          ---                 ---            ..... .....
Sub-Total                                          3,693          2,415         6,102              645,340         422,557        1,067,897                  41t
Urban Upgrading                                    2,432          1,964         4,396              425,616         343,731          769,346                  292
Housing Consolidation                              1,051            947         1,998              183,994          165,740         349,734                  13l
Sites and Seryics - Tema
- Sit# CDvelopeent                                 230             22E           458               40,294          39,939          80,223                   31
- Site Consolidtion (Line of Credit to SHC)    603                 322           926              105,600          56,400         162,000                    4l
TSC Support & Future Proj. Properdt,                353             752         1,105               61,775         131,670          193,445                  72
Total  ase Cost                                   8,350          6,S29         14,967            1,462,608       1,160,037       2,622,645                 100l
Physical Contingencies                            836            66O          1,499              146,261         116,004         262,265                  102
Price Contingencies                                155            121           276               ".147           21,097          48,244                   22
Total Project Cost                                9,349          7,412         16,761            1,636,016       1,297,138       2,933,1:4
332.3          *2323        312323            333I2W223       832333333       323,33233
Pere ntage
Project FinanCing                                                                                                                                       of Total Co,
6overnunt of Ghana                                   800              0           800              139,961                0         139,961                   52
Governrent of 6hana/5SNIT                            462              0           462               80,898                0          80,68S                   32
IDA                                               5,574          4,9"9         10,573              975,461         874,756       1,850,217                  631
Cofinanciers                                      2,513           2,414         4,926              439,696         422,382          862,078                 292
Total Project Financing                           9,349           7,4l2        16,761            1,636,016       1,297,138       2,933,154                 1002
32**l2         33323        332333n           333383333       13332,11811      333X2m332
a Totals &ay not add up due to rounding.
Includes taxes ntimted at US9 0.d sillion equivalent.
Base costs converted to US Dollars at an nechangt rate of I USS M    Cedi 175.
Price contingentin  wr   estisated on the basis of foreign inflation rates
of 3Z for 197, and 1 per annum for 1988 - 90.
Local currency equivalent say be underestisated. The actual amount of Codii which
will be r,..irad for the project during impleentation will n"ed to be retstiattd
periodically based on prevailing exchange rates.
I



REPULlIC OF OHM
PRIORITY IWKS PROJECT
Project Financing
fUSs '0001
Total Costs with Contingoncies      Governunt of Ghna           Government of BhanalSSUIT               1ID                       Cofinanciag
ProjKt Cateory/Elent                    LOCAL   FOREIGN      TOTAL      LOCAL    FOREIGN    TOTAL    LOCAL   FOREIGN    TOTAL        LOCAL   FOEIV     TOTAL      LOCAL   FIIKII      TITAL
Civil Merls
Infratructure Rehabilitation
Labor                             1,,.9        794.8    1,956.7      104.6               104.6                           0.0  1,057.3    794.8   1,f52.2                            0.0
abterials                         2,4%.1    1,707.5   4,203.7        224.7               224.7                           0.0  2,271.5   1,707.5   3,97.0                            0.0             a
Tools and Equipmnt                   63.4       95.1      158.5        5.7               - 5.7                           0.0      57.7      5.1      152.3                          0.0
Urban Upgrading                     2,560.3   2,112.4   4,672.7        230.4               230.4                           0.0                           0.0  2,329.9   2,112.4  4,442.3
Hosing Consolidation                  583.0      874.5   1,457.5        52.5                52.5                           0.0    530.5    874.5   1,405.0                            0.0
Sit"  and Srvices - Tea
Site Devilopent                     174.2      226.0      400.2       15.7                15.7                           0.0    158.5    226.0    384.5                             0.0
Sits Consolidation                  462.3      308.2      770.5                            0.0    462.3                462.3              309.2    306.2                            0.0
Vehicln, Oifice Equipunt,                 4.5      331.1      335.6        0.4                 0.4                           0.0       4.1    331.1    335.2                            0.0
and spares
Tech. Assist., Cons. services,        1,843.1      962.6   2,805.6       165.9               165.9                           0.0   1,494.5    61.4   2,155.9    1t2.7    301.2    483.9
Supervision, Training, Studies,
and TSC supervision allowance
Brand Total                     9,346.7    7,412.2   16,760.9      799.8       0.0    799.8    46U.3         0.0    462.3  5,574.1   4,999.6  10,572.7  2,512.5  2,413.4  4,926.2             t  :J
nl:e:S:    ==:::=fl.    t:pal    ::22:3:      C::=    B=:wX C::.:    22=t2  St.t    err:. S£ rum,.   *.o.s.  .mn.   c          n   y     .   a     .         0Q  0
t- 
0



- 64 -
Annex 10
Page 12 of 12
MMKLIC aF Om
pulamlTy  Msl PMJCT
.,. .........._. . . 
Swoure  atd Applicatiuun  at Fundbc
to1   ill.iusl
Qtr.i I      tt.2      Otr.3       Utr.4      Otr.5       Itr.6       Qtr,7      Otr.s       Qtr.9
CY N       CY          C1 t3       C C        tY 0        CY 0        CY 09      CY It       CY 3
Sources                                     Total      JaI-v r    Apr-Jim    Jui-ep    kt-Dc    ,i-Nc            Apr-Jun    Jul-Sep    Oct-Dec    Jan-Pat
-              -          --_.-._-..._-...._ ..... .                 ------    .......    .......    ....
Oovrnmt of shana                            0.300       0.046       0.079      0.105       0.145       0.159      0.112       0.081       0.057      0.017
Baveftrnet of S6hana/SSIT                   0.462       0.000       0.000      0.00o       0.000       0.000      0.06        0.115       0.15       0.093
1ID  Crdit bi                               9.573       0.000       1.200      1. *0       1.700       2.200      1.500       0.900       0.600      0.173
IDA -F hi                                   1.000       1000       0.000       0.000       0.000      0.000       0.000       0.000      0.000       0.000
Cofiuwacicrs c/                             4,926       0.000       0,616      0.37        0.973       0.967      0.624       0.446      0313       0.099
... ..            .. .. .                                                                .  __.. .  . . . . _.
Total Sorceo                               16.161       1.046       Ili5       2.501       2.610       3.326      2.305       1.543       1.155      0.371
eisa..
Appi icatons
Civil olrks
Infrastructure Rehab.
Labor                                   1.957       0.116      OMs         0.254       0.352      0.392       0.275       0.196       0.139      0.03S
Nattrials                               4.204       0.250      0.419       0,545       0.7O i     0.841       0.590       0.422      0.296       0.085
Tools nd Equipsnnt                      0.159      0.047       0.032       0.024       0.016      0.024       0.016       0,000      0.000       0.000
Urban Upgrading                           4.673       0.270      0.464       0.605       0.840       0.936      0.656       0.469       0.329      0.094
Houaing Consolidation                     1.457       0.07      0.145       0.109       0,262      0.292       0.205       0.146       0.103      0.02-
Sites ind Services - Tea
Site Development                        0.400       0.000      0.000       0.012       0.044      0.072       0,092       0.098      0.069       0.02
Site Consolidation                      0.770      0Q000       0.000       0.000       0.000      0.115       0.192       0.193      0.193       0.07
Vehicles, Offiu Equiphent,                  0.336       0.001       0.145      0.147       0.036       0.003      0.002       0.001       0,001       0.01
and states
Tech. Assist., Cans. services,              2.806       O,l'9      0.330       0.452       0.572       0,52S      0.334       0.245       0.170      0.0
Supervision, Training, Studis,
and TSC Supervision allowance
......      .....                              .....       .....       -----
Total Applications                         16.761       0.899       1,729      2.229       210013      3.203      2.362       1.761       1.297      0.
Surplus (Deficitl                                       0,147       0.167      0,073      -0.065       0.123     -0.057      -0,219      -0.142     -0
Cu ulative Surplus (Deficitl                            0.147       0.314      0.397       0.322       0.445      0.398       1.170       0.029      0
,.. ... ^_.......I-------------
&  It is generally asswcd that disbursement in each quarter lags  ospentitur. by 402,
uiOh outstanding balance being settleI  in the sdueq t quarter.
tJ Total IDA finncing US$ 10.6 aillion equivalent.
Project preparation and urks u5nertaken pn&r to effectimenos (4/1/NI  ill be finutnc
through US I million PPF. Special atcount deosit of US  1.2 cilllin in seond qurter.
ci It is assusd that cofirusciers Iwld uttle 602 of first ad  eonJ quarter
enpenditures durino the second quarter.



-65 -
Annex 1_
Page 1 of 1
PlOl1TY VIWI MOICT
PFKgf     t ArfMr t§
PrKcrm tt r tthott
PriKipal      Total
NIer of           eme4mibl                                          Loc&l                    Value of
PreJoct C.tqory/Elnwt                       Packajes          Ancy/N*t.                   WI           LCI      Shipping    other        Procurent
..  .  .        .   .                         --- - _                                   ...          ---       -.----_     -----       -----------
Civil Wrke
Infrastructure Rehiablitation
Labor                                    3,402                                                                           1,96.7        1,56.7
(  am, AM,                                                     (1,852.21      (1,852.2)
Materials                                   20          {  TN)U, KIl)U,                         3,362.9       840.7                    4,203.7
( STt)                                 (3,183.2)    (795.8)                   (3, 979 0)
Tools and Equipment                          3          (                                          126.8       31.7                      158.5
(122.3)     130.69                    (152.8)
t"rh   Upgrading                               5                TSC                               4,672.7                                4,672.7
(0.0)                                 (0.0)
Housin  Ccnsolidation                         20                T9t                                1,451.5                               1,457.5
11,405.0)                             (1,405.0)
Sites and Servicn - Te
Site  evelopmnt                              3                TSC                                 400.2                                  400.2
(384.5)                               (384.5)
Site Conslidation                        Sundry               INC                                                          770.5         770.5
(308.2)       (3098.2
V a9cln, Office Equipment,                   Sundry            TSC, 6NA                                           335.6                      335.6
and sparus                                                                                                      (335.2)                     (335.21
Toth. Iuist., Cons.  ervices,                Sundry            TSC, BHA                                                      2,805.6       2,805.6
Suprvision, Training, Studies,                                                                                             (2,155.9)     (2,155.9)
and TSC supervision allomNnce
Total Procurnwt Values                                                                    0.0   10,020.1    1,208.0      5,532.8       16,760.9
0.0   (,094.9)  4(1161.5)    (136.2)    (10,572.7)
&/ IDA share in parenthese



- 66 -
Annex 12
Page 1 of 2
GHANA PRIORITY WORKS PROJECT
Disbursement
Disbursement Categories and Percentages
Category    Item                          Amount                Disbursement Z
(US$ million)
1.   Civil Works:
(a) Infrastructure Rehab-        4.9      )
ilitation and Main-                   )
tenance including                     )
labor, materials, and                 )      10O% of foreign and
tools for works.                      )       95Z of local expend-
)       itures.
)
(b) Housing Consolidation        1.2      )
)
(c) Sites and Services, Tema    0.3       )
(d) Site Consolidation, Tema    0.3              100Z of foreign
expenditures.
2.   Vehicles, Office Equipment                )
Supplies, Spares and Office               )
Refurbishing.                     0.3     )
)      100% of foreign and
3.   Technical Assistance, con-                )       95Z of local ex-
sultant services, supervision,            )           penditures.
training, studies and TSC food            )
allowances.                       1.0     )
4.   PPF Refund                        1.0
5.   Unallocated                       1.6
Total                           10.6



- 67 -
Annex 12
Page 2 of 2
REPU8LIC OF GHANA
PRIORITY WORKS PROJECT
Disbursumt SchWule a/
Cuaulative Disburunts
(US$ million)
Appr.                                 Prof.
Quarter                  Appraiual                   Cum.               Disburseumnt       Cum.
Ending                   Estimate                     2                   Profile b/        2
FY99
March                      1.0                       92                    0.0            02
June                      2.2                       21Z                    0.0           0O
FY99
September                 3.5                       332                    0.4           4I
DSCNbIr                   5.2                       492                    0.9           89
March                     7.4                       702                     1.5          142
June                      8.9                       842                    2.1           20%
FY90
September                 9.9                       932                    2.7           262
Deceiber                 10.4                       992                    3.4           322
March                    10.6                      1002                    3.9           37%
a/ Loan effectiveness is assumed in April 1989.
b/ Ghana, Sector Investment & Maintenance Credits - General.



- 68 -
Annex 13
Page 1 of 8
GHANA
PRIORITY WORKS PROJECT
Summary of Economic Analysis
1.        In assessing the economic rate of return for the four main
project components: infrastructure rehabilitation and maintenance, urban
upgrading, housing consolidation, and sites and services (site
development), heavy reliance was placed on updating the analysis undertaken
for the Accra District Rehabilitation Project (ADRP) 1/ with appropriate
modifications, bearing in mind the nature of the works and changed economic
conditions. Even in the best of circumstances, the economic rates of
return (ERRs) on urban upgrading works are difficult to quantify. The
rates of return estimated here must therefore be considered to be
indicative only, which are based on partial benefits and some simplifying
assumptions. They would however adequately represent the lower end of
potential benefits and project returns.
2.        The economic costs and benefits of the project are expressed in
constant 1987 prices, excluding estimated tax elements and price
contingencies, but including physical contingencies. The basis for
estimating ERR for individual project components is discussed below:
Infrastructure Rehabilitation and Maintenance
3.        This work amounting to about 41Z of total project costs is spread
over four cities (Accra, Kumasi, Tema, Sekondi/Takoradi), about half of it
being in Accra. The work consists of patching pot-holes, drainage clearing
and improvements, pavement repairs, and other minor works to improve the
badly deteriorated urban roads on a selective basis. The benefits consist
mainly of reduced vehicle operating costs, reduced travel time, and reduced
traffic congestion and accidents. Rate of return for similar works under
the ongoing ADRP was estimated as 40X 1/, and is considered valid for the
proposed works which are essentially similar.
Accra Urban Upgrading program
4.        This component is about 29Z of total project costs.  It consists
of providing basic amenities for water supply, drainage, sanitation, street
lighting and accessibility in one of Accra's poorest areas (West Nima),
which is presently a slum area. West Nima has an area of 46.8 ha, with a
population of 28,100 and a density of 850 persons per ha, one of the
1/ See ADRP SAR, Report No. 5327-GH para 6.01-03 pp 42 and 43 and
Annex 6, pp 69-79.



- 69 -
Annex 13
Page 2 of 8
highest in Accra. The project area houses 7,820 households, living in 920
compounds with an average of 9.2 households per compound and with an
average of 10 rooms per compound. The area is partially accessible by car,
with few latrines, no water supply and a drainage system hardly working.
The investment will supply better accessibility, better health and
sanitation conditions (latrines, water, garbage and refuse collection,
drainage and electricity). The improvements can be expected to have a
large impact on property resale values and on health and sanitation.
5.        The main benefit quantified is the estimated increase in property
values, based on the same methodology used in ADRP. Updating figures used
in ADRP for the comparable Mamobi area, the market price for room in 1987
would be about 0 275,000. The price excluding taxes would be about 90Z,
i.e., 0 247,000. It is estimated that these property values would increase
by 50Z (a one-time increase) on completion of the project works, the total
benefits being realized duriag the year following completion of works.
Total estimated benefit amounts to 0 1,136 million. The resulting analysis
is presented in Table 13.1.   The estimated ERR amounts to about 252.
HousinR Consolidation/Completion Component
6.        This component (132 of total project costs) aims to complete a
number of unfinished housing units and to put them to use. This will
provide relief to the acute housing shortage in Accra. About 200 housing
units, in varying levels of completion, would be covered under this
project. Without the proposed investments, these incomplete
cement/concrete structures have practically no market value at present,
since not much of its materials can be salvaged for other uses. The main
project benefit would be in making these units fully marketable through
relatively, modest investments, Total project benefits are estimated in
terms of the expected increase in selling price (excluding taxes and
land value) for these units. For this purpose, data based on market
inquiries for the selling price of similar new housing units have been used
(Table 13.2); in order to allow for taxes, land value, and the partial
obsolescence of the existing structures, only 70Z of the selling price has
been assumed for the estimate of project benefits. These project benefits
are assumed to be realized over a period of two years after completion of
the first year of works. The resulting estimates are presented in Tables
13.2 and 13.3. The estimated ERR is about 31Z.
Sites and Services (Site Development) Component
7.        This component (92 of total project costs) is for developing
presently undeveloped land in Tema for hou. ing purposes. It will cover
about 5.7 ha of land. The project will develop this area into a total of
400 lots serviced by water, roads, electricity and open common space. Two
different types of lots are assumed:



- 70 -
Annex 13
Page 3 of 8
60 sqm lot that represent 70Z of total; and
100 sqm lot that represent 30Z of total.
A major goal of this project component is to stimulate private investments
in the huilding sector by developing completely serviced building plots
arees. The main benefit from this component is therefore the likely
increase in land value due to the proposed site development.  An estimation
by the Tema Development Corporation places the land acquisition cost at the
price of ¢ 500 per sqm (1987 prices). At the same time the open market
acquisition cost for fully developed sites is estimated as:
-    60 sqm lot a   2,700/sqm (1987 prices)
-    100 sqm lot m   2,400/sqm (1987 prices)
8.        The main project benefit will therefore be the expected increase
in land value by about 0 1,900 to ¢ 2.2001sqm depending on the lot size.
This amounts to a total benefit of about ¢ 120 million, which is expected
to be realized during the year following completion of the project
component. The estimated ERR for this component is about 262, Details of
ERR calculations are given in Table 13.4.
ERR for Total Project
9.        Table 13.5 presents total project costs (excluding taxes and
price contingencies), along with the cost and ERR for each main component.
It also presents the overall ERR for the total project. Ignoring returns
for about 82 of project costs, for which ERR could not be estimated, the
overall economic return for the total project amounts to about 30Z. Due to
the very conservative assumptions used, particularly in not counting many
project benefits, the estimated ERR should be treated as indicative of the
minimal range of project returns.



- 71 -
ANNEX 13
Page 4 of 8
REtPU.IC OF 6HANA
PRIORITY WORKS PROJECT
Table 13.1
Cost Doenuit Afnalysis
Urban Upgrading
(Cdi sllliocs  t   nonctnt price 1907)
(Saptusbor, l937)
1        2         3         4         5         6         7         B         9        10..,,.. 25
Investeent Costs                       403.0    403.0
Total Casts                            403.0    403.0
Increaso  in Property value                               1136.0
Total bnefits                                             1136,0
Total Net Econooic Cash Flow          -403,0   -403.0   1136.0         0.0       0.0       0,0       0.0       0.0       0,0       0.0       0,0
Internal Econasic Rate of Return        25.2   ;
...........-                                                                                 -       --            -       -     --



- 72 -
ANNEX 13
Page 5 of 8
RPJUKIC OF WHAM
PRIORITY  MlRlt PROJECT
Table 13.2
Wuibu    Co oslidatlo
Estlation of the beefits
ICedi uilliost at current I97 prices)
Type of houses                Flats      $HI       8)43     m         Sli6    gm         Stl7   Total
Investomt Cost                125.7     ".7       17.6     38.2      67.6     10.7      6.9    366.4
"uaorof housen                   05        66       19         3       IS        6         4    200.0
Level of coepletion              752       30Z      68!      60Z       602      352       701
Selling price per unit         3.12     3.00      3.12     6.00      5.40     5.40      5.64
Assumod Economic knefit
fro  PFrojct (per unitl        2.18      2.10     2.18     4.20      3.78     3.78      3.95
Total ProJict Benefits        195.6    130.6      41.5     21.0      56.7     22.7      15.9    491.9



- 73 -
ANNEX 13
Page 6 of 8
REPUKIC OF S4MM
... .. _.......
PIORITY OtKS PROJECT
Table 13.3
Cost enM9it Anelyuis
Ibueing Coosolidation
ICdi sillions at consteat prico 1907)
ISepteeer, 1W91)
1        2         3        4         a         t        7         8        9        10...... 2S
Investwt Costs                       183.20   193.20
Total Costs                          183.20   193.20
Project  enefits                               240, 9    240.9S
Toa'l Not Economic Cash Flo*        -183.20    57.7S   240.95       0.00      0.00     0,00      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00
Intenal Econosic Rate of Return    31.52
---  - -   --  - - -- -- --.  -  --. - -- -- -- -- --  --  -. -.  -.   --..- -- -- -- .. -- -- --. - -- -- -- --      -- -- -- --  -- -- --



- 74 -
ANNEX 13
Page 7 of 8
REPUIlC OF 6ANA
....... ............. ..
t71ORITY   KS PROJECT
.... ............
Table 13.4
Cost knefit Anlysis
ite   and Service
lCedi eilions at constant price 19971
(S*pteeber, 19971
1         2         3          4         5          6         7          8         9         10., ...2S
Znvustent Costs                          42.02    42.02
Total Costs                               42,02    42.02
* ._ .... ...._,  ....................................... ................ ........ .................................
Increas  in Capital Value of                                120.00
Developed Land
Total Benefits                                                120.00
Total let Econosic Cash Flow            -42.02   -42.02   120.00          0,00       0.00      0.00       0100      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00
Internal Econonic Rats of Return         26.23



ANNE" 13
Page 8 of 8
KPUPLIC OF ZJ.ANA
rFPJORlTY iWCRf. PO'JECT
7&DIE :3.5
Economic £,.urn 'wlculations - Total Prvect
.- - - - -   ---------------------------- - ........  _ 
o nf To. ,
Project
Component                                 Costs              ERR
1. Infrastructure Rehab  and Maintenance                41               40.0
2, Urban Upgrading                                      29               25.2
3. Housing Consolidation                                13               31.5
4, Sites and Services                                    9               26.2
5. TSC ind 6HA Support                                                    N.A.
Cooposite ERR on Total Project /                       100               30.2
a/ Ignoring benefits from item 5



REPUBLIC OF GHANA
PRIORITY PUBLIC WORKS PROJECT
Flow of Funds
OC repyent                 OGO   repay leot     .     n
IDA                                   ,        erdi          COFINJUIC-
ID     rei                         credi       .   IN
------------------------~~~~'-                      GO               O RC loan r*pasyent       _I
(MFEP)            site consolidation loan                 tSNI?
Ii*   L  . --n [ t  SSMIT
KWH     ~sit~e developumnt
I a~~~~~~~(A 
infrastructure      rehab.   m maintenance                                  o                          ,  __  _
I                                                                                            El                          -     -t,Cmv           
e | al |  l  l     l             I                b                   J:    3 g~~~~~~~~.  r--- -- 314
t~~~AR                             KDR           STR .  GEEA   PULCWtt                                   |I             _____4r1
C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
1 a.                                                                                    _____.  0               ..__|____t    
w _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
GENERAL   PUBLIC           INCOME                                 INCOME                                           m PUBLI
WORKERS                     W~~~4~ ORKES 



REPUBLIC OF GHANA
PRIORITY PUBLIC WORKS PROJECT
Institutioral Arrangements
Infrastructure Rehabilitation
INTER-MINISTERIAL COMKITTEE
r---+--.----------t                     1----4
I                                     Ifin nc  on torlng
.AP,MC            AD<RU  'tht R  
. .        I(~~PAC           TDRU   *chi;.  NU
KPAC        X~~~DRU asit
monitoring 
CONTRACTStlL 5SINGLE-MAN CONTRLACTS                                         #.'j >
O m
-4                    OQ~~~~~~~
r13



REPUBLIC OF GHANA
PRIORITY PUBLIC WORKS PROJECT
Institutional Arrangements
Urban Upgrading, Housing Consolidation,
Sites & Services, Site Consolidation
INTER4INISMRIAL COMKITr
HFEP
.   liaison                       BHC
Ti C    r m    r +   | ~~~~~~ ~~~FINACE                                     L
ACC~~~~~~~~~~S                                CT
PRVT.   ~DEVEL.6
CONSULT.  FINANCE
UNIT
PRVT.    tec  'UPGRADIN         PRVT.              D
CONSULT assist   DEPT.           CONSULT.                                        SERN CES
sonitoring
I                                  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~._ntrn 
ID. NINA  MAAMOB    ODAW           SRC            GOVT.
CONTRACT        T     STREAM         UNITS           UNITS                                                         >
&        DRAIN    CONTRACTr/|   I CONTRACQ      I CONTRAC-                                                       j
(TERTIAL    (COMI.)    COMM.       MTORS             TORS  |                   I
x
1h



- 79 -
Annex 15
Page 1 of 16
GHANA
PRIORITY WORKS PROJECT
Action Plan
Infrastructure Rehabilitation Component
Accra
Target
Action                       Responsibility    Completion Date
1.  Finalize TOR for consultants,         GHA/ADRU          October 15, 1987
in conjunction with ACC
prepare letter of,invitation,
and issue Request.for Proposal
(RFP).
2.  Evaluate consultant proposals,        GHA/ADRU          November 15, 1987
negotiate contract and submit
proposals and draft contract
to Bank for review.
3. Formally establish Accra Project    ACC/GHA              November 15, 1987
Advisory Committee (APAC) with
a mandate to meet monthly (every
two weeks initially) to ensure
progress on engagement of
consultants detailed preparation
of project details etc.
4.  Sign consultant contract and          GHA/ADRU          November 30, 1.987
issue work order following
Bank response.
5.  Clarify bid evaluation and            MWH/GHA           November 30, 1987
contract approval procedures
and inform Bank of proposals
to expedite contract evalua-
tion and approval.
6.  Negotiations                          MRH/GHA/          December 4, 1987
GHA/Bank
7.  Identify works (Phase I) such         MRH/GHA/ADRU      December 4, 1987
as drain desilting and road
clearning which can be started
prior to project effectiveness
and financed from PPF.



- 80 -
Annex 15
Page 2 of 16
8.  Prepare implementation plan            GHA/ADRU          January 4, 1988
for Phase I works and submit
to the Bank for approval.
9.  Purchase tools and equipment          GHA/ADRU           January 20, 1988
for Phase I works.
10. Board                                 Bank               January 26, 1988
11. Consultant's Phase I detailed         ADRU/Consultant  January 30, 1988
Design and Cost Report completed
and sent to Bank for review.
12. Order tools and equipment             GHA/ADRU           January 30, 1988
for Phase II works.
13. Phase I works commence                GHA/ADRU/          February 1, 1988
Contractors
14. Review of Phase II.Report             GHA/ADRU/APAC/   February 15, 1988
Bank
15. Tender Documents for Phase II         GHA/ADRb/          March 15, 1988
works completed & sent to             Consultant
Bank for review.
16. Project effectiveness                 Bank               April 1, 1988
17. rhase II bids received,               GHA/ADRU/APAC/   April 30, 1988
evaluated and sent to                 Consultants
Bank for review.
18. Phase II contracts awarded.           GHAIADRU/          May 15, 1988
Consultants
19. Phase II works commence.              GHA/ADRU/          June 1, 1988
Contractors



- 81 -
Annex 15
Page 3 of 16
GHANA
PRIORITY WORKS PROJECT
Action Plan
Infrastructure Rehabilitation Component
Tema
Target
Action                      Responsibility        Completion Date
1.  Finalize TOR for consultants,    GHA/TDRU (ADRU)        October 15, 1987
in conjunction with existing
Tema Advisory Committee,
prepare letter of invitation,
and issue Request for Proposal
(RFP).
2.  Evaluate consultants proposal,   GHA/TDRU (ADRU)        November 15, 1987
negotiate contract and submit
proposal and draft contract to
Bank for review.
3.  Formally establish the Tema        TDCIGHA              November 15, 1987
Project Advisory Committee
(TPAC) with all interested
public and private sectoral
parties represented and a
mandate to meet monthly
(every two weeks initially)
to er.ure progress on engage-
ment of consultants, detailed
preparation of project and the
role of ADRU and TDRU.
4.  Sign consultant contract and       GHA/TDRU (ADRU)      November 30, 1987
issue work order following
Bank response.
5.  Clarify bid evaluation and         MWH/GHA              November 30, 1987
contract approval procedures
and inform Bank of proposals
to expedite contract evalua-
tion and approval.
6.  Negotiations                       MRH/GHA/Bank         December 4, 1987



- 82 -
Annex 15
Page 4 of 16
7.  Identify works (Phase I) such    MRH/GHA/TDRU           December 4, 1987
as drain desilting and road
clearing which can be started
prior to project effectiveness
and financed from PPF.
8.  Prepare implementation plan        GHA/TDRU             January 4, 1988
for Phase I works and submit
to the Bank for approval.
9.  Purchase tools and equipment       GHA/TDRU             January 20, 1988
for Phase I works.
10. Board                              Bank                 January 26, 1988
11. Consultants Phase II detailed    TDRU (ADRU)/           January 30, 1988
Design and Cost Report             Consultant
completed and sent to Bank
for review.             i
12. Order tools and equipment          GHA/TDRU             January 30, 1988
for Phase II works.
13. Phase I works commence             GHA/TDRU/             February 1, 1988
Contractors
14. Review of Phase II Report.         GHA/TDRU (ADRU)/    February 15, 1988
TPAC/Bank
15. Tender Documents for Phase II    GHA/TDRU (ADRU)/    March 15, 1988
of works completed and sent        Consultant
to Bank for review.
16. Project Effectiveness              Bank                 April 30, 1988
17. Phase II bids received             GHA/TDRU (ADRU)/    April 30, 1988
evaluated, and sent to
Bank for rev4ew.
18. Phase II contracts                 GHA/TDRU/            May 15, 1988
awarded.
19, Phase II works commence.           GHA/TDRU/            June 1, 1988
Contractors



- 83 -
Annex 15
Page 5 of 16
GHANA
PRIORITY WORXS PROJECT
Action Plan
Infrastructure Rehabilitation Component
Sekondi-Takoradi
Target
Action                       Responsibility       Completion Date
1.  Finalize TOR for consultants,      GHA/STDRU           October 15, 1987
in conjunction with existing
Sekondi-TakoradiAdvisory
Committee, prepare letter of
invitation, and issue Request
for Proposal (RFP).
2. Evaluate consultants proposal,    GHA/STDRU             October 30, 1987
negotiate contract and submit
proposal and draft contract to
Bank for review.
3.  Formally establish the Sekondi-   STCC/GHA             November 15, 1987
Takoradi Advisory Committee
(STPAC) with all interested
public and private sectoral
parties represented with a
mandate to meet monthl,
(every two weeks initially)
to ensure progress on
engagement of consultants,
detailed preparation of project
details etc.
4.  Sign consultant contract and       GHA/STDRU           November 30, 1987
issue work order following
Bank response.
5.  Clarify bid evaluation and         MWH,'GHA            November 30, 1987
contract approval procedures
and inform Bank of proposals
to expedite contract evalua-
tion and approval.
6.  Negotiations                      HWHIMRHIGRAITSCI    December 4, 1987
Bank



- 84 -
Annex 15
Page 6 of 16
7.  Identify works (Phase I) such    * /GHAISTDRU          December 4, 1987
as drain desilting and road
clearing which can be started
prior to project effectiveness
and financed from PPF.
8.  Prepare implementation plan,       GHAISTDRU           January 4, 1988
for Phase I works and submit
to the Bank for approval.
9.  Purchase tools and equipment.      GHA/ADRU            January 20, 1988
for Phase I works.
10. Board                              Bank                January 26, 1988
11. Consultants Phase II detailed      STDRU/Consultant   January 30, 1988
Design and Cost Report
completed and sent to
Bank for review.
12. Order tools and equipment          GHA/STDRU           January 30, 1988
for Phase II works.
13. Phase I works comence              GHAISTDRU/          February 1, 1988
14. Review of Phase II Repor           GRA/STDRU/STPAC/   February 15. 1988
GHA (ADRU) and Bank.               Bank
15. Tender Documents for Phase II      GHA/STDRU/          March 15, 1988
works completed and sent to        Consultants
Bank for review.
16. Project Effectiveness              Bank                April 1, 1988
17. Phase II received, evaluated       GHA/STDRU/STPAC/   April 30, 1988
and sent to Bank                   Consultants
for review.
18. Phase II contracts awarded.        GHA/STDRU/          May 15, 1988
Consultants
19. Phase II works comence.            GRAISTDRPI          June 1, 1988
Contractors



- 85 -
Annex 15
Page 7 of 16
GHANA
PRIORITY WORKS PROJECT
Action Plan
Infrastructure Rehabilitation Component
Kumasi
Target
Action                     Responsibility        Completion Date
1.  Finalize TOR for consultants,    GHA/KDRU             October 15, 1987
in conjunction with Kumasi
Technical Advisory Committee,
prepare letter of invitation,
and issue Request for Proposal
(RFP).
2.  Evaluate proposal, negotiate     GHA/KDRU             October 30, 1987
contract and submit proposal
and draft contract to Bank
for review.
3.  Formally establish the Kumasi   K_CC/GHA              November 15, 1987
Project Advisory Committee
(IPAC) with all interested
public and private sectoral
parties represented and a mapdate
to meet monthly (every two weeks
initially) to ensure progress on
engagement of consultants,
detailed preparation
of project details etc.
4.  Sign consultant contract and     GHA/KDRU             November 30, 1987
issue work order following
Bank response
5. Clarify bid evaluation and        NWH/GHA              November 30, 1987
contract approval procedures
and inform Bank of proposals
to expedite contract evalua-
tion and approval.
6. Negotiations                      NPRIGHA/Bank         December 4, 1987



- 86 -
Annex 15
Page 8 of 16
7.  Identify works (Phase I)           MRGHIGA/KDRU         Decembet 4, 1987
such as drain desilting and
read clearing which can be
started prior to project
effectiveness and financed
from PPF.
8.  Prepare implementation plan        GHA/KDRU             January 4, 1988
for Phase I works and submit
to the Bank for approval.
9.  Purchase tools and equipment       GHA/KDRU             January 20, 1988
for Phase I works.
10. Board                              Bank                 January 26, 1988
11. Consultants Phase I detailed       KDRU/Consultant      January 30, 1988
Design and Cost Report
completed and sent to Bank
for review.
12. Order tools and equipment          GHA/KDRU             January 30, 1988
for Phase II works.
13. Phase I works commence             GHA/KDRU/            February 1, 1988
Contractors
14. Review of Phase II Report.         GRA/KDRUIAPAC/Bank  February 15, 1988
15. Tender Documents for Phase II    GHA/KDRU/              March 15, 1988
works completed and sent to        Consultant
Bank for review.
16. Project Effectiveness              Bank                 April 1, 1988
17. Phase II bids received,            GHA/KDRUIAPAC/       April 1, 1988
evaluated and sent to              Consultants
Bank for review.
18. Phase II contracts awarded.        GHA/KDRU/            May 15. 1988
Consultants
19. Phase II Works commence.           GHA/KDRU/            June 1, 1988
Contractors



- 87 -
Annex 15
Page 9 of 16
GHANA
PRIORITY WORKS PROJECT
Ac-ion Plan
Urban Upgrading Componlent
West Nima and East Haamob
Target
Action                      Respons4bility      Completion Date
1.  Formal Steering Committee (SC)    MWH/TSC             October 15, 1987
established with key agencies
(MWH,TSC, ACC and community
representatives) regular
monthly meetings scheduled.
2.  TORs prepared for consultants      TSC/Bank             October 15, 1987
and sent to Bank for approval.
3.  Evaluate Consultants proposals,   TSC/Bank             November 15, 1987
negotiate contract and submit
proposal and draft contract
to Bank for review.
4.  Sign consultants contract          TSC                 November 30, 1987
and issue work order following
Bank response.
5.  Clarify bid evaluation and         HWH/TSC             November 30, 1987
contract approval procedures
and inform Bank of proposals
to expedite contract evalua-
tion and approval.
6.  Negoti_tions                       MRH/GHA/Bank        December 4, 1987
7.  Consultants inception report       TSC/Consultants    December 30, 1987
submitted.
8. Board                               Bank                January 26, 1988
9.  Consultants Phase I Design         TSC/Consultants    January 30, 1988
Report submitted.
10. Prequalify contractors.            TSC/Consultants    February 15, 1988



- 88 -
Annex 15
Page 10 of 16
11. Review of Phase I Design            MWHITSC/SC/Bank      February 15, 1988
Report by Steering Ccomittee
and Bank.
12. Prepare Phase I Tender              TSC/Consultants      February 15, 1988
documents for reviev by MWH,
TSC and Bank.
13. Request Phase I Bids from           TSC/Consultants      February 29, 1988
Contractors.
14. Phase I Bids received,              MWHITSC/Bank         May 15, 1988
evaluated and sent to Bank
for review.
15. Award Phase I Contract              HWH/TSC             June 15, 1988
for works.
16. Phase I works comuende.             Contractors         July 1, 1988
l



*9 -
Annex 15
Page 11 of 16
GHANA
PRIORITY WORKS PROJECT
1 Action Plan
HousinQ Consolidation Component
Target
Action                      Responsibility       Com letion Date
1. Forml Steering Comittee (SC}    NWHITSC                 October 15, 1987
established with key agencies
(HITSC/SHCIBHC) regular
bi-veekly meetings scheduled
2. Agreement reached with SHC         MWHITSC/BHC/SHC      October 30, 1987
on transfer of units to TSC/BHC
3. TORs prepared for Consultants      TSC                  November 15, 1987
and sent to Bank for approval.
4.  Evaluate Consultants propohals    TSC/Bank             November 15, 1987
(including AESC), negotiate
contract and submit proposal
and Draft Contract to Bank for
review.
5. Clarify bid evaluation and         MWH/GHA              November 30, 1987
contract approval procedures
and inform Bank of proposals to
expedite contract evaluation and
approval.
6.  Sign Consultants Contract and     TSC/Consultant      November 30, 1987
issu6 work order following
Bank response.
7. Negotiations                       MRH/GHAjBank        December 4, 1987
8. Consultants Inception Report.      TSC/Consultant       December 30, 1987
9.  Board                             Bank                 January 26, 1988
10. Consultants Phase I               TSC/Consultant       January 30, 1988
Design Report.
11. Prequalify Contractors            TSC/Consultant       February 15, 1988
12. Review of Phase I Design Report   WAI/TSCISCI          February 15, 1988
by Steering Comittee and Bank    Bank



- 90 -
Annex 15
Page 12 of i6
13. Prepare Phase I Tender Document   TSC                     February 15, 1988
for review by HWH, TSC & Bank.
14. Request Phase I Bids from           TSC                   February 29, 1988
Contractors.
15. Phase I Bids received,              MHW/TSC/Bank          Hay 15, 1988
evaluated & sent to Bank
for review.
16. Award Contracts for                 HWH/TSC               June 15, 1988
Phase I works.
17. Phase I work commence.              Contractors           July  1, 1988



- 91 -
Annex 15
Page 13 of 16
GHANA
PRIORITY WORKS PROJECT
Action Plan
Site and Services: Site Development
Target
Action                      Responsibility      Completion Date
1.  Formal Steering Committee          MWH/TSC           October 15, 1987
established of key agencies
(MWH, TSC, BHC, TDC, SSNIT).
Regular biweekly meetings
scheduled.
2.  TOR prepared for consultants       TSC               October 15, 1987
and sent to Bank for approval.
Scope includes detailed design,
working drawings, design details,
bill of quantities, and general
support to team; soil tests, site
survey, identification of network
connection, prequalification of
contractors and preparation of
tender documents.
3.  Planning approvals securred.       TSC               November 15, 1987
4.  Preliminary list of interested    TSC                November 15, 1987
companies and private
organizations for Phase I
prepared.
5.  Evaluate consultant's proposal,   TSC/Consultant   November 15, 1987
negotiate contract and submit
proposal and draft contract to
Bank for review.
6.  Clarify bid evaluation and         HWH/GHA           November 30, 1987
contract approval procedures
and inform Bank of proposals
to expedite contract evalua-
tion and approval.
7.  Sign consultant contract and       TSC/Consultant   November 30, 1987
issue work order following Bank
response.



Annex 15
Page 14 of 16
8.  Negotiations                        MRH/GHA/Bank       December 4, 1987
9.  Guidelines prepared for             TSC/BHC           December 15, 1987
interested companies and
private organizations.
10. Consultant Inception Report         TSC/Consultant   December 30, 3987
submitted.
11. Board                               Bank              January 26, 1988
12. Consultant Preliminary Design       TSC/Consultant   January 30, 1988
Report submitted and forwarded
to Bank for review.
13. Prequalification of contractors   TSC/Consultant   February 15, 1988
concurrently with Report
preparation.
14. Consultant Phase I Design Report  TSC/Consultant   February 29, 1988
submitted.
15. Review of Phase I Design Report   TSC/MWH/BHCISC/  March 15, 1988
Bank
16. Prepare Phase I Tender Documents  TSC/Consultant   March 15, 1988
for review by MWH, TSC, and
Bank.
17. Request Phase I bids from           TSC/Consultant   March 30, 1988
contractors.
18. First bids received and             TSC/Consultant   May 15, 1988
evaluated and sent to Bank
for approval.
19. Contract awarded for                MWH/TSC           June 15, 1988
construction Phase I.
20. Phase I construction commences    Contractor          July 1, 1988



- 93 -
Annex 15
Page 15 of 16
GHANA
PRIORITY WORKS PROJECT
Action Plan
Sites and Services: Site Consolidation Component
Target
Action                    Responsibility          Completion Date
1.  Informal Steering Committee    BHC/MWH/TSCISSNIT        November 30, 1987
established of key agencies
(BHC, MWH, SSNIT, TSC), regular
monthly meetings scheduled.
2.  Negotiations                     MRH/GHA/MFEP/Bank      December 4, 1987
3.  Finalize survey of Tema          BHC/TS                 December 30. 1987
companies to determine
the level of interest
in participating in the
project.
4.  Negotiate terms of with          BHC/TSC/TDC            December 30, 1987
TDC, MWH/TSC on sale/lease
of serviced sites in Tema
to companies and organization.
5.  Negotiate Agreement witsh        BHC/SSNIT              December 30, 1987
SSNIT on local counterpart
funding for site consolidation
in Tema.
6.  Prepare TOR's for housing        BHC                    December 30, 1987
supervisory engineer for
Bank approval.
7.  Prepare proposal on financing  BHCI ISSNIT              December 30, 1987
and management of site
consolidation at Tema for
KWH and Bank review.
8.  Board                            Bank                   January 26, 1988
9.  Open negotiations with           BHC                    January 30, 1988
companies and organizations
for financing site
consolidation at Tema.



- 94 -
Annex i5
Page 16 of 16
10. Employ Housing Supervisor        BHC                    January 30, 1988
Engineer.
11. Begin monitoring process of    BHC                      January 30, 1988
sites and services Project
Preparation.



IBRD 2.016
2'                                       O'~~~~~~~~~~~                                            2
BURKINA FASO
- "'   \  -  -o   7   9,GHANA
gl)-- _Zn                                               A                      PRIORITY WORKS PROJECT
UPPER              I~sGIo~  IO~GTAN~
UPPER WEST  N                               \
REGION    (Wj
WA                                     ~~~~~~~- W
K r  >    NORTHERN                                                             (X 5
gtster_>~~~~~~ ~~~o       4                 \<;~~~Chon.bagh          Zbug 
p                 ) Pusugo>   J      I Lo-ation of Project Cities
0B pe                                      8n,bIo                          -    Pormary Roads
Major Secondlary Roads
COTE               \                  \                 \                /                i              . \ X            Otha. Secondary Roads
\   \    \                 )                                                                   Sologo  !I    Nusi e_.ads
D IVOIRE  \   K                    9    )             t    <.ind                                          > motr  N 4k2  *   National Capital
tS fombol    /..                              ,.                                 ...      Region Boundaries
-8 | -1 1 ) ' ~Sy                                                  -\                                       International Boundaries
7                  gBRGAkAFo                                             N. ^WION    _  uKrDrzchl  W  /         Ports
Sok..   -       Nko,w.                    )-
t <t \ I~~~~~~~~~Ejurot 
7'                                                                                          K t-CS    gASiNTi  7  K"" lGott  T O G O
ibisni'                                                  AbosR E 10  0s
'EAcSrE'R   ~CJ~N ~osoo'DooAo
WESTERN,'        tree                        ~~~~~~~~~~K0TORIDUA~              Mepe              ev6
4 N: ,i~jK ,c' N . 5. Wul
-°   WESTERN  ,}r                                                                        sdoX  k                                              6-
)~~~~~~* /                            TEft
$t,~~~~~~~R   ONiNtQ|ho 1    T6p
k.   R+                     'I\    
M~_ _ _bo                   {CAPE COAST
-51 ~  ~     ~     _t g                   t0  1,0 20 30 4J0 50MIE                                                                             5-
Ax,fi Agonol    ao¢                                    t   ~~~~~~ ~~~~~~I   I   i   MILE
0   20  40   60   80 KlLOMETERS
TheW mW hes b1en preped by The tlbM 9erka ste del   v*y lre thcWsWe of
the rdrs d 05 ecCk.,* th ew1ee usw of The VtAM B&ak Vdt Pi hNO rt
F"ueoc Cuqommeho the d-wo-b.lon used wd the booeieesMei St nV AN, Pie Me ost
M* oo t prt s,  e or/  d _WA _W d theW thlt,,l Fioce Corprt, nt diWi
cn th IV*/ stJ of i twtyrM ora wUWit sloDrPWlus of neOch borl.ee
NOVEMBER 1987



oRi rANlA;                                                                          / ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~To
$MAURdTANIA                                                                                                     I
M AI I       N
i         s~.  ,-~ a,       .                                                                  '-
-- 4'
0
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
A,,jNlEM ,,,. 
/1Lt (A '"''  R"                                     '' CIRCLE
I~~~~~~~~~~~HL
/''~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KLMTR ________________
%   t  v      C1BClE j t -wx ^  ORL *D .~E' fCRCE 
CIRCLE                     ER_I  S
0



To Kumasi                                                                                                                          IBRD 21017
orAws  tstU h (& Pno V&4 to' lb
FW~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h ncrwWWW. w_i
.   trhtrsstr Fne.,
.& '. . 5' 't   \                                                                                                    uStK ao., 7r,,  eo rrov s  .3,0 r tsrhe
N                                                                                               h:'rtn.3t Fi helen, Corprol on
\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CS PA"SO o' t....!c he iceral ole!.,
Mrl ,w'4Oy 0, Coy
0e flO,OO 0? OCcpt&l,* at 
. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~     ~    ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ - .----  
""S j,I0 hS f j _ 'W"
W  H   QUMSM~~IE W-IRCLE-                                                                                                       ,,
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IN
N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N
N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N
. .n f a,<~~~~~~~9                                                         G   H        A    N    A
~~~~~~~~~PRIORITY WORKS PROJECT
AND MAINTENTANCTEARRERAEHBtTT
.;                                                              m    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROJECT UDGRADING AREA
-                                                                 --   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ODAW   STREAMV
>                                   ~~~~~~~                                      ~~~~~~ROADS--  EXISTING UPGPADING AREA (ADRP)
F.                             -- -  ~~~~~~~~~Arterirlis                             MAINTENANCE YARDS AND DEPOTS
6: -                         __       ~~~~~~~~~~Major Collectors                     pOPULATION DENSITf
'-'  -                        (}      ~~~~~~         ~~                    ~~Circles  L | Low (50 Persons/ha)
New Construction (ADRP)                         Mediunn /50 -350j
L. ' ~~~~~~~~~~~~Rehobilitoted Under (ADRP)                                           E High (350 and Up)
F  f        ~~~KILOMEFTERS                   PAVEMENT DISTRESS:                                Industriol ond CommercioJ
f  ,  ,~~~~~~~~~~=                       Throughout                               -     CITY BOUNDARY
8:S 3;# C2 M^ILES                        E:    XtenSiVe                              --       INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
5-   *                     F-9 53   ~~~~~MOderCIte
NO5VEMRER 1 987



