Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 1874 GH
                     (Priority Works Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                                and
                      GHANA HIGHWAY AUTHORITY
                      Dated February 18, 1988
                         PROJECT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated  February  18,  1988,  between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT  ASSOCIATION  (the   Association)  and  GHANA  HIGHWAY
AUTHORITY (GHA).
     WHEREAS (A) by the Development  Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the  Republic  of  Ghana  (the  Borrower) and the
Association, the  Association  has  agreed  to  make  available to
the  Borrower  an  amount  in  various  currencies  equivalent  to
seven  million  eight  hundred  thousand  Special  Drawing  Rights
(SDR 7,800,000), on  the  terms  and  conditions  set forth in the
Development Credit  Agreement,  but  only  on  condition  that GHA
agrees to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are
set forth in this Agreement;
     (B)  the proceeds of the credit allocated to Category (1) (a)
in Schedule 1 to  the  Development  Credit  Agreement will be made
available to GHA as a  grant  on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Association; and
     WHEREAS GHA, in  consideration  of the Association's entering
Page  2
into the  Development  Credit  Agreement  with  the  Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
     Section 1.01.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms defined  in  the  Development  Credit Agreement, the
Preamble to this Agreement  and  in  the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective  meanings  therein  set forth and the
term "DRUs" means the  District  Roads  Units mentioned in Section
2.01 (b) of, and Schedule 2 to, this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 2.01. (a) GHA  declares  its commitment to the objec-
tives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development
Credit Agreement and, to  this  end,  shall  carry out Parts A and
E (1) of the  Project  with  due  diligence  and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering
and public works and  employment  practices, and shall provide, or
cause to be provided,  promptly  as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the Project.
     (b)  GHA shall  in  consultation  with  the  respective local
councils of the DRUs: (i)  establish  and thereafter maintain in a
form and with functions satisfactory to the Association a District
Roads Unit for Tema  (TDRU);  and  (ii)  continue to maintain in a
form  and  with  functions  satisfactory  to  the  Association the
District Roads  Units  established  for  Accra,  Tema,  Kumasi and
Sekondi/Takoradi.  Further  provisions  relating  to  the District
Roads Units (DRUs) and GHA  are  set  out  in the Schedule to this
Agreement, said Schedule being  subject  to modification by agree-
ment between GHA and the Association.
     (c)  Deposits into, and payments  out of, the Special Account
to be maintained  for  GHA  pursuant  to  Section  2.02 (b) of the
Development Credit Agreement shall be  made in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement.
     Section  2.02.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the  goods,  works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed  by  the  provisions of Schedule 5 to
the Development Credit Agreement.
     Section 2.03. GHA shall  carry  out the obligations set forth
in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05,  9.06,  9.07 and 9.08 of the General
Conditions (relating  to  insurance,  use  of  goods and services,
plans and schedules,  records  and  reports,  maintenance and land
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the GHA Project Agreement
and Parts A and E (1) of the Project.
     Section 2.04. (a) GHA shall,  at  the request of the Associa-
tion, exchange views with the  Association with regard to the pro-
gress of Parts A and E (1)  of the Project, the performance of its
obligations under this Agreement and other matters relating to the
purposes of the Credit.
     (b)  GHA shall promptly inform  the Association of any condi-
tion which interferes or threatens  to interfere with the progress
of Parts A and E  (1)  of  the  Project, the accomplishment of the
purposes  of  the  Credit,  or  the  performance  by  GHA  of  its
obligations under this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
Page  3
                 Management and Operations of GHA
     Section 3.01. GHA shall  carry  on its operations and conduct
its affairs in  accordance  with  sound administrative, financial,
engineering and transportation practices  under the supervision of
qualified and experienced  management  assisted by competent staff
in adequate numbers.
     Section 3.02. GHA shall at all times operate and maintain its
plant, machinery, equipment and  other  property, and from time to
time, promptly as needed, make  all necessary repairs and renewals
thereof, all in  accordance  with  sound engineering and financial
practices.
     Section 3.03. GHA shall  take  out  and maintain with respon-
sible insurers, or make other  provision satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation for, insurance against such  risks  and in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a)  GHA,  with  respect  to the Project, shall
maintain records and  accounts  adequate  to reflect in accordance
with  sound  accounting  practices  its  operations  and financial
condition.
     (b)  GHA shall:
          (i)  have its records, accounts and financial statements
               (balance sheets, statements  of income and expenses
               and  related  statements)   for  each  fiscal  year
               audited, in  accordance  with  appropriate auditing
               principles  consistently  applied,  by  independent
               auditors acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association  as  soon as available,
               but in any case not later than six months after the
               end of each such year:  (A) certified copies of its
               financial statements for  such  year as so audited;
               and (B) the report of  such audit by said auditors,
               of such scope and in such detail as the Association
               shall have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning  said  records,  accounts  and financial
               statements as well  as  the  audit  thereof, as the
               Association  shall  from  time  to  time reasonably
               request.
     Section 4.02. (a) For all  expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the  Credit  Account  were  made  on the basis of
statements of expenditures, GHA shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be  maintained in accordance
               with  sound   accounting   practices,  records  and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  ensure  that   all   records   (contracts,  orders,
               invoices,  bills,  receipts  and  other  documents)
               evidencing such expenditures  are retained until at
               least one year  after  the Association has received
               the audit report for  the  fiscal year in which the
               last withdrawal from  the  Credit Account was made;
               and
        (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine
               such records.
     (b)  GHA shall:
Page  4
          (i)  have the records and  accounts referred to in para-
               graph (a) (i)  of  this  Section  and those for the
               Special Account  for  Parts  A  and  E  (1)  of the
               Project for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
               with appropriate  auditing  principles consistently
               applied, by independent  auditors acceptable to the
               Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association  as  soon as available,
               but in any case not later than six months after the
               end of each such year  the  report of such audit by
               said auditors, of such scope  and in such detail as
               the Association  shall  have  reasonably requested,
               including a separate opinion by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal  year,  together with the proce-
               dures and internal controls  involved in their pre-
               paration, can be relied upon to support the related
               withdrawals; and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning said records and  accounts and the audit
               thereof as the Association  shall from time to time
               reasonably request.
     Section 4.03. GHA  shall:  (i)  prepare  annual and quarterly
budgets for each component  of  the  Project  to be carried out by
GHA; (ii) update the said  budgets quarterly; and (iii) furnish to
the Association no later than  one  month  after the close of each
quarter of the  year,  quarterly  reports  on actual and projected
expenditure for each such  component  and  the related Category of
disbursement in Schedule 1 hereto.
                             ARTICLE V
                   Effective Date; Termination;
                    Cancellation and Suspension
     Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon  which  the  Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
     Section 5.02. (a) This  Agreement  and all obligations of the
Association and of GHA  thereunder  shall terminate on the earlier
of the following two dates:
          (i)  the date on which  the Development Credit Agreement
               shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
         (ii)  the date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
     (b)  If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accor-
dance with  its  terms  before  the  date  specified  in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this  Section,  the  Association shall promptly notify
GHA of this event.
     Section 5.03.  All  the  provisions  of  this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
     Section 6.01. Any notice or  request required or permitted to
be given or made  under  this  Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by  this  Agreement  shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be  deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall  be  delivered  by  hand  or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the  party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or  made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have desig-
Page  5
nated by notice to  the  party  giving  such notice or making such
request. The addresses so specified are:
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                    Telex:
                INDEVAS                       440098 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
                                               64145 (WUI)
     For GHA:
          The Chief Executive
          Ghana Highway Authority
          P.O. Box 1641
          Accra, Ghana
          Cable address:
                HIGHWAYS
                Accra, Ghana
     Section 6.02. Any action  required  or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or  permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of GHA,  or  by  GHA on behalf of the Borrower
under the Development Credit  Agreement,  may be taken or executed
by GHA's Chief Executive or  such  other  person or persons as GHA
shall designate in writing, and  GHA shall furnish to the Associa-
tion sufficient evidence  of  the  authority and the authenticated
specimen signature of each such person.
     Section 6.03.  This  Agreement  may  be  executed  in several
counterparts, each of which shall  be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                    By /s/ Edward V. K. Jaycox
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                    GHANA HIGHWAY AUTHORITY
                    By /s/ Eric Otoo
                                        Authorized Representative
                             SCHEDULE
            Provisions referred to in Section 2.01 (b)
Page  6
A.   District Roads Units (DRUs)
1.   Each DRU shall report  to  the  regional supervisor of GHA in
the town or city  in  which  the  DRU  operates  and shall also be
responsible for: (i) detailed identification of the infrastructure
rehabilitation  works  to  be  executed  in  the  project  city or
district; (ii)  preparation  of  detailed  designs,  estimates and
contract  documentation;  (iii)  award  of  contracts  for  works;
(iv) timely procurement  of  tools  and  equipment for works, with
GHA's assistance; (v) supervision of works contracts; (vi) settle-
ment of claims for work done; (vii) preparation and maintenance of
project accounts; (viii) monitoring  of the physical and financial
progress under Part A  of  the  Project; (ix) monthly reporting of
project performance to  GHA  and  the  respective city or district
council; and (x) liaising  with  agencies  of the city or district
council in the execution of project works.
2.   A DRU shall be headed  by  a qualified engineer with at least
five years  of  experience  in  infrastructure  rehabilitation and
maintenance  works,  assisted  by  at  least  two  other  graduate
engineers, a  qualified  accountant,  an  assistant  accountant, a
computer programmer and at least four assistant engineers or works
overseers.
B.   Ghana Highway Authority (GHA)
1.   GHA's responsibilities with respect to  Parts  A and E (1) of
the Project shall, without limitation  or restriction on its other
obligations  under  this  Agreement,   include:  (i)  finance  and
accounting;  (ii)  employment  of  consultants;  (iii)  budget and
staffing of  DRUs;  (iv)  technical  and  financial supervision of
DRUs; (v) procurement of  tools  and  equipment for project works;
(vi) liaising with City  and District Councils; (vii) preparation,
and submission to TSC, of  quarterly  reports one month after each
quarter on the financial status of  Parts  A and E (1) of the Pro-
ject; and (viii) preparation,  and  submission to the Association,
of quarterly reports on the physical and financial status of Parts
A and E (1) of the Project.
2.   GHA shall establish quarterly  employment budgets and include
in its quarterly reports to  the Association details of employment
generated under Parts A and E (1) of the Project.
