Page  1
                                                     CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 1874 GH
                     (Priority Works Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                                and
                 BANK FOR HOUSING AND CONSTRUCTION
                      Dated February 18, 1988
                         PROJECT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated  February  18,  1988,  between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and BANK FOR HOUSING AND
CONSTRUCTION (BHC).
     WHEREAS (A) by the Development  Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the  Republic  of  Ghana  (the  Borrower) and the
Association, the Association has  agreed  to make available to the
Borrower an  amount  in  various  currencies  equivalent  to seven
million   eight   hundred    thousand   Special   Drawing   Rights
(SDR 7,800,000), on  the  terms  and  conditions  set forth in the
Development Credit  Agreement,  but  only  on  condition  that BHC
agrees to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are
set forth in this Agreement;
     (B)  by  a  subsidiary  loan  agreement  to  be  entered into
between the Borrower and BHC,  part  of the proceeds of the credit
provided for under the  Development  Credit Agreement will be made
available to BHC on  the  terms  and  conditions  set forth in the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
Page  2
     WHEREAS BHC, in  consideration  of the Association's entering
into the  Development  Credit  Agreement  with  the  Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
     Section 1.01.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms defined  in  the  Development  Credit Agreement, the
Preamble to this Agreement  and  in  the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 2.01. (a) BHC  declares  its commitment to the objec-
tives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development
Credit Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out Parts C (2) and
D (2) of the  Project  with  due  diligence  and efficiency and in
conformity with  appropriate  economic, administrative, financial,
banking and credit practices, and  shall  provide, or cause to be
provided, promptly as needed,  the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the said Parts of the Project.
     (b)  BHC shall carry out the actions, and observe the lending
terms and conditions, set out in the Schedule to this Agreement to
the satisfaction of the  Association,  said Schedule being subject
to modification by agreement between BHC and the Association.
     Section  2.02.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the  goods,  works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed  by  the  provisions of Schedule 1 to
the Ghana Highway Authority (GHA) Project Agreement.
     Section 2.03. BHC shall  carry  out the obligations set forth
in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05,  9.06,  9.07 and 9.08 of the General
Conditions (relating  to  insurance,  use  of  goods and services,
plans and schedules,  records  and  reports,  maintenance and land
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the BHC Project Agreement
and Parts C (2) and D (2) of the Project.
     Section 2.04.  BHC  shall  duly  perform  all its obligations
under the Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement.  Except  as the Association
shall otherwise agree, BHC shall not  take or concur in any action
which would have the effect  of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
     Section 2.05. (a) BHC shall,  at  the request of the Associa-
tion, exchange views with the  Association with regard to the pro-
gress of the  Project,  the  performance  of its obligations under
this Agreement and under  the  Subsidiary Loan Agreement and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
     (b)  BHC shall promptly inform  the Association of any condi-
tion which interferes or threatens  to interfere with the progress
of Parts C (2) and  D  (2)  of  the Project, the accomplishment of
the purposes of  the  Credit,  or  the  performance  by BHC of its
obligations under this  Agreement  and  under  the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                 Management and Operations of BHC
     Section 3.01. BHC shall  carry  on its operations and conduct
its affairs in  accordance  with  sound administrative, financial,
banking and credit  practices  under  the supervision of qualified
Page  3
and experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate
numbers.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a)  BHC  shall,  with  respect to the Project,
maintain records and  accounts  adequate  to reflect in accordance
with  sound  accounting  practices  its  operations  and financial
condition.
     (b)  BHC shall:
          (i)  have its records, accounts and financial statements
               (balance sheets, statements  of income and expenses
               and  related  statements)   for  each  fiscal  year
               audited, in  accordance  with  appropriate auditing
               principles  consistently  applied,  by  independent
               auditors acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association  as  soon as available,
               but in any case not later than six months after the
               end of each such year:  (A) certified copies of its
               financial statements for  such  year as so audited;
               and (B) the report of  such audit by said auditors,
               of such scope and in such detail as the Association
               shall have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning  said  records,  accounts  and financial
               statements as well  as  the  audit  thereof, as the
               Association  shall  from  time  to  time reasonably
               request.
                             ARTICLE V
                   Effective Date; Termination;
                    Cancellation and Suspension
     Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon  which  the  Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
     Section 5.02. (a) This  Agreement  and all obligations of the
Association and of BHC  thereunder  shall terminate on the earlier
of the following two dates:
          (i)  the date on which  the Development Credit Agreement
               shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
         (ii)  the date 25 years after the date of this Agreement.
     (b)  If  the  Development   Credit  Agreement  terminates  in
accordance with its terms  before  the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this  Section,  the  Association shall promptly notify
BHC of this event.
     Section 5.03.  All  the  provisions  of  this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
     Section 6.01. Any notice or  request required or permitted to
be given or made  under  this  Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by  this  Agreement  shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be  deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall  be  delivered  by  hand  or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the  party to which it is required or
Page  4
permitted to be given or  made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have desig-
nated by notice to  the  party  giving  such notice or making such
request. The addresses so specified are:
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                    Telex:
                INDEVAS                       440098 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
                                               64145 (WUI)
     For BHC:
          Bank for Housing and Construction
          P.O. Box M 1
          Accra, Ghana
          Cable address:                    Telex:
                BANKHOUSE                      2096
                Accra, Ghana
     Section 6.02. Any action  required  or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or  permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of BHC,  or  by  BHC on behalf of the Borrower
under the Development Credit  Agreement,  may be taken or executed
by BHC's Managing Director or such  other person or persons as BHC
shall designate in writing, and  BHC shall furnish to the Associa-
tion sufficient evidence  of  the  authority and the authenticated
specimen signature of each such person.
     Section 6.03.  This  Agreement  may  be  executed  in several
counterparts, each of which shall  be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                    By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                    BANK FOR HOUSING AND CONSTRUCTION
                    By /s/ Eric Otoo
                                        Authorized Representative
                             SCHEDULE
Page  5
             Actions and lending terms and conditions
                  Referred to in Section 2.01 (b)
A.   (1)  BHC shall sell the  housing  units  transferred to it by
Technical Services Center (TSC) under Part C (1) of the Project on
the open  market  at  market  value  and  on  terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association.
(2)  BHC's responsibilities under Part C  (2) of the Project shall
include: (i) negotiating with  TSC  on  the  location and types of
units to be sold; (ii) evaluating  cost of sales and agreeing on a
transfer price with TSC; (iii)  liaising with TSC on completion of
housing units;  (iv)  determining  the  fair  market  value of the
housing units using qualified  independent valuers; (v) establish-
ing mortgage arrangements including deposit and payment schedules;
(vi) taking deposits; (vii) granting and servicing mortgage loans;
(viii) arranging for title  transfers, (ix) opening and establish-
ing project accounts;  (x)  undertaking  project audits (including
audits of mortgage  accounts);  (xi)  preparing  and submitting to
TSC, quarterly, physical and  financial  reports  on Part C of the
Project; and (xii) making  repayments  to  the Borrower out of the
proceeds of mortgage loan repayments.
B.   (1)  To qualify  for  developed  plots  under  Part  D of the
Project, a developer must demonstrate  a capacity to develop plans
and build appropriate and affordable  housing units for low income
workers within two years of the project implementation period. The
development plans shall be  coordinated with TSC, Tema Development
Corporation (TDC) and BHC  and  shall  include buildings for sale,
lease or rental to the workers.
(2)  Developers shall be required to allocate 70% of the developed
housing units to workers below the 50th income percentile in their
labor force. About 10% of the  developed  lots shall be let by BHC
to qualified low-income families for self-help construction.
(3)  BHC shall provide mortgage  loans  to qualified developers to
cover 60% of the cost  of  constructing  units under Part D of the
Project. The loans shall be  in  the form of one-year construction
loans which at the end of the project construction period shall be
rolled into a 20-year  mortgage  loan  including 2 years of grace.
The annual interest shall be  at least two percentage points above
the variable rate payable  on  loans  made by the Bank. Developers
shall bear any foreign exchange risks.
(4)  BHC's responsibilities under Part D  (2) of the Project shall
include: (i) liaising  with  TSC  and  TDC  on the size, location,
timing,  cost,  servicing  and  leasing  of  the  developed  lots;
(ii) negotiating appropriate lease  or sub-lease arrangements with
TSC and TDC; (iii)  negotiating  (A)  with  SSNIT the provision by
SSNIT of local  costs  financing  for  site consolidation, and (B)
with TSC, the provision by TSC of foreign costs financing for site
consolidation; (iv) soliciting  the  participation of Tema factory
owners in Part D (2)  of  the Project; (v) making all arrangements
relating to the grant  leases  or  sub-leases  by TDC to qualified
applicants;  (vi)  negotiating  and  executing  loan  and mortgage
agreements with qualified applicants; (vii) opening and establish-
ing project accounts and  undertaking  project audits on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association; (viii) servicing loans
and mortgages; and (ix) providing  TSC with quarterly physical and
financial progress reports.
