RESTRICTED
FILE       coPY                       Report No.  P-91
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF CHAD
FOR AN
EDUCATION PROJECT
April 6, 1971



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF TIE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
DEVEIOPMENT CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF CHAD
FOR AN EDUCATION PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit in an amount in various currencies equivalent to US$2.2 million to
the Republic of Chad to assist in financing an education project.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.       In April 1967, the Government of Chad requested financial assistance
for a primary teacher training college at Moundou, an agricultural technician
training center at Fort lamy, and an extension to the existing technical
secondary school at Fort Archambault.  Appraisal took place in May 1968, with
the result that the schools at Moundou and Fort Lamy were included in the
first education project (Credit 126-CD of FY 1969).
3.       The request for extending the technical secondary school at Fort
Archambault was submitted again in Mtay 1969, following the visit of a UNESCO
technical education mission.  The Bank appraisal mission in September 1969
found that most of the existing buildings were either unsuited to their
purpose or needed major repair, and that the objectives of the school could
be better met at Fort Lamy, the center of Chad's industrial activity. The
cost of new construction at Fort Lany would be of the same order as that of
renovation and extension at Fort Archambault. The Government accepted the
recommendation of the appraisal mission as to the re-location of the tech-
nical secondary school, but expressed concern with regard to the concentration
of education at Fort Lamy.  The Government accordingly requested that the si+E
of the proposed agricultural technician training center, designed for Fort
Lamy but not yet constructed, be transferred to Fort Archambault which is
the principal town serving the agricultural area. The Government made a
further request for assistance in converting the existing technical school
at Fort Archambault into a vocational training center at Fort Archambault
to provide skilled workers for the new industries planned in that area.
A Bank/UNESCO mission appraised this revised project in September/October 1070.
4.       Negotiations were conducted with a delegation led by Mr. Georges
Diguimbaye, Minister of Planning and Cooperation, and were completed on
March 19, 1971.



- 2   -
5.       There have been no Bank loans to the Republic of Chad.   The follow-
ing is a summary of IDA credits extended to Chad as of February 28, 1971:
Amount (US$ million)
Credit No.     Year      Borrower     Purpose        IDA     Undisbursed
125-CD       1969        Chad       Highway        4.1        3.86
maintenance
126-CD       1969        Chad       Education       1.8       1.68
Total now outstanding     5.9
Total undisbursed                   5.55
6.       On both projects (125-CD and 126-CD) execution has been lagging.
The security situation in the country has jeopardized road maintcnance work,
and orders for new equipment have had to be delayed. However, the closing
date of this credit, December 31, 1973, can still be met. Implementation
of the education project has suffered from administrative deficiencies and
the lengthy discussions between the Government and the Association on school
design and the need for economy in construction.   The closing date for the
education project will, however, have to be postponed from March 1972 by abo-:;
18 months.
7.       Further progress with a livestock project negotiated in July 1969
has been delayed because of the security situation. However, this project
could be presented to the Executive Directors early in FY 1972 if the Govern-
ment receives satisfactory responses to the bidding invitations issued in
January 1971.
8.       Feasibility studies financed by the United Nations Development
Programme (UNDP) and the French Fonds d'Aide et de Coop6ration (FAC) are
underwray on irrigation projects in the Sategui-Deressia and Lake Chad Polders
regions. These studies will be available late in 1971, and may lead to
requests to the Bank Group and other agencies, such as the African Develop-
ment Bank, for assistance in financing an irrigation project. The Governmert
has already requested Bank Group financing for a cotton development program
which would be carried out with the assistance of the European Development
Fund (FED). This proposed program is under study, and may result in a pro-
ject during FY 1973. In transportation, the Bank is currently considering
the possibility of financing a feasibility study for a bridge across the
Chari River at Fort Lamy.



- 3 -
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED CREDIT
9.       Borrower:        Republic of Chad
Amount:          US$2.2 million equivalent in various currencies
Purpose:         Training of middle-level technicians and semi-
skilled workers for industry and comerece, and
of extension agents for agriculture.
Amortization:    In 50 years including a 10-year period of grace,
through semi-annual installments of one-half of
one percent from June 1, 1981 through December 1,
1990, and of one and one-half percent from June 1,
1991 through December 1, 2020.
Service Charge: 3/4 of one percent per annum0
PART III - THE PROJECT
10.      An appraisal report entitled "Appraisal of Second Education Project
in Chad" (PE-27a dated April 5, 1971) is attached. The project consists of:
(a) construction of and equipment for a technical secondary
school at Fort Lamy;
(b) construction and additional equipment for the conversion
of an existing technical secondary school at Fort Archam-
bault into a vocational training center;
(c) transfer of the proposed agricultural technician training
center (Credit 126-CD) from Fort Lamy to Fort Archambault;
and
(d) a study of training schemes for young farmers.
11.      The project unit established within the Ministry of Education for
the first project (Credit 126-CD) would also be responsible for the imple-
mentation and overall supervision of the proposed project, and for liaison
with the Association. Replacement of the Project Director or the Eduication
Adviser would continue to be subject to agreement by the Association. The
project unit would be provided with adequate supporting staff, including a
full-time accountant, and necessary facilities.
12.      The education system in Chad begins with six years of primrary
school, and is followed by post-primary alternatives of varying lengths
and purposes. Besides the usual secondary school program leading to higher
education, the post-primary school alternatives include the training of
industrial technicians and skilled workers, agricultural technicians, and
primary school teachers.



-4s-
13.      Education in Chad Laces the difficulties exnected in a country
with a populaton lacking homogeneity and partly nomadic, a vast, thinly
populated area, and a school administration inexperienced and subject to
severe financial constraints. With foreign assistance, mainly by French
experts, the education system is being built up gradually, and some expan-
sion is taking place. However, the literacy rate is still low - about 7 per-
cent - and enrollments in primary and secondary education showrn as proportionL:
of the relevant age groups are only 33 percent and 2 percent respectively.
In primary schools the proportion of repeaters is 30 percent, and only 10 per-
cent of the primary school entrants complete the full six-year course. At
the secondary level, less than 11 percent of som.e 10,000 pupils are attending
technical and commercial courses. The result is a noticeable shortage of
skilled manpower which is a severe hindrance to economic development. The
proposed project focuses on key aspects of technical and vocational training
14.      For budgetary reasons, Chad looks mainly to foreign assistance to
finance capital investment in education.  Many sources of assistance are
being tapped. The ILO is providing assistance for the training of semi-
skilled workers. FED is helping to train technicians for agricultural ser-
vices such as veterinary care and animal husbandry.   Besides its usual pro-
gram, FAC is providing technical assistance to help carry out the Associatif,%Oi
first education project.  Recently, Chad, Gabon, the Central African Republic
and the Peoplets Republic of the Congo make a joint request to UNDP to finar.ci
a regional Technical Teacher Training College in Libreville (Gabon); this
request is presently under consideration.
15.      About 15 percent of the Government s budget is allocated to running
the education system. Public funds covered only 57 percent of education
expenditures for the years 1963 to 1968, and the remaining 43 percent was
provided by foreign assistance which came almost exclusively from France.
Nearly three-fourths of this foreign aid was spent on recurrent expenditinuj,
while the remainder made up 93 percent of capital expenditure on education
over the same period.  For recurrent expenditures, the Governrerit intends tf
increase its outlays by 7 - 8 percent in the 1970's. This modest rate of
increase is due to the limited growth prospects of the economy and continuc!3w
deficits in the Government's budget.
16,      The total cost of the project is $3.1 million, of which-$2.1 millinn
(68 percent) represents the foreign exchange component, $0.6 million import
duties, and $0.4 million other local expenditure. The Associationts credit
of $2.2 million (88 percent of the project cost, net of import duties) wou'ld
cover $2n1 million of foreign exchange costs and $0.1 million of local expen-
diture.
17.      Procurement and contracts for civil works would conform to Bank
Group guidelines on international competitive bidding. The credit would be
disbursed over four years.



PART IV - LErGAL INSTRUMENTS AMD AUTHORITY
18.      The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of Chad
and the Association, the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in
Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association, and
the text of a Resolution approving the proposed credit, are being distributed
to the Executive Directors separately. The draft Development Credit Agreement
follows the normal pattern of agreements for projects of tAis kind.  In the
Development Credit Agreement, the Government has agreed to take necessary
steps to secure adequate technical assistance for the project before Septem-
ber 30, 1972, and to provide adequate training for staff for the schools prior
to September 30, 1974.
PART V - THE ECONOM1Y
19.      An economic report entitled "The Current Economic Situation and Pros-
pects of Chad" (AW-24a dated April 9., 1971) is being distributed to the
Executive Directors shortly. A basic data sheet is annexed.
20.      Chad is the largest land-locked country of Africa.  Its natural
resources are very scarce. Only in the southern one-tenth of the country,
south of the Chari River, are soils really suitable and rainfall sufficient
for settled agriculture. It is there that all the cotton, Chadts most imper-
tant cash crop, is grown. In the rest of the country where livestock-raising
is the main activity, subsistence absorbs practicall'y all resources. Extree&!y
high transportation costs are particularly burdensome for foreign trade.
21.      In addition to these natural handicaps, Chad has been beset by seri.--
ous political strife between populations north and south of the Chari River,
which are approximately equal in numbers. Tension between the two groups
erupted in open rebellion in 1969. Since July 1970, the situation has been
improving;  negotiations between the Government and the leaders of the rebel-
lion are underway.
22.      Because of Chadts geographical position and difficult political
situation, the economgy has expanded slowly. The balance of payments has
suffered from a serious deterioration of the terms of trade, and from sharply
increasing imports, partially due to the political situation. As a result,
the Government has had to draw US$3.8 million from the International MvIonetary
Fund. The fiscal position is also weak and is unlikely to improve rapidly,
given the meager resources and the political problems of Chad. The decision
to withdraw from the Central African Customs and Economic Union (UDEAC) has
further reduced public revenues, and has had little positive results except
to promote closer relations between Chad and the Democratic Republic of Congo.
23.      To curtail the growing budget deficit, the Government has negotiated
the deferment beyond 1971 of debt service on suppliers' credits of almost
CFAF 1 billion. The budget for 1970 still foresees an overall deficit of
CFAF 1.64 billion. The authorities expect to receive budget support from
France amounting to CFAF 1.7 billion. If it is received, it might be possible
to liquidate some of the CFAF 2 billion in conmmercial arrears.



- 6 -
24.       To furtner reduce the deficit in the 1971 budget, the Government
has increased import duties and consumption taxes, and intends to keep expen-
ditures at the same level as in 1970.  In addition, it has decided to reduice
the wages and the salaries of the members of the Cabinet, to eliminate trans-
port allowances for civil servants, and to release more than 800 civil servants.
Desoite these measures, the 1971 budget is expected to show a deficit of abo'ut
CFAF 800 million, which presumably will be covered in part from the Banque
Centrale des Etats dtAfrique Equatoriale et du Cameroun (BCEAEC) and possibly
from the French Treasury.
25.       The Goveriment is proparing a Development Plan for 1971-1975.   Early
drafts envisage investments of CFAF 10 billion ($36 million) per year, sub-
stantially higher than actual investments under the 1966-1970 Plan (CFAF 4
billion or $14 million). Most projects are at an early stage of preparation,
and it is therefore unlikely that the planned investment level could be
attained, even if resources were available.   If the security situa+ion develcps
favorably, and if the fiscal reform envisioned gives momentum to the Govern-
ment's current efforts to reduce the budgetary deficit, the absorpGive capacity
of the country might gradually increase to the target level of the Plan by
1975, especially because investment possibilities for livestock are good.
26.       The Government's capacity to carry out these development projects
and to provide the related current expenditures is indeed limited. The pre-
sent budgetary situation is not the result of bad economic management. Rather,
it is the countryts poor resource base with few development opportunities,
combined with other factors which are beyond the Government's control, such
as the loss of livestocl: tax revenues due to the rebellion, worsening of the
terms of trade in the wake of the French and CFA franc devaluation, and sub-
average results of the 1969/70 cotton crop that explain the Governmentts
fiscal position. The countrv will therefore continue to depend almost entirely
on external aid to meet development costs.  Moreover, the capacity to contract
and service external debt is almost non-existent. In these circumstances,
Chad should be regarded as eligible for financing on concessionary terms,
including the provision of IDA funds for the proposed project.
27.       In addition, since the Government will be able to finance only a
very small part of investment, external lenders have to be prepared to finarno^
a high proportion of project costs, including local expenditures. In view of
Chad's basic poverty, the high priority of this project, and the Governmentts
budgetary difficulties, the financing by IDA of some local expenditure is
justified.
PART VI - OCIPILA1ANCE WITH ARTICLES OF AGREEMWNT
28.       I am satisfied that the proposed development credit would comply with
the Articles of Agreement of the Association.



- 7 -
PART VII - RECOTMffATION
29.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
development credit.
Robert S. Ycl_Namara
Preside-lnt
Attachments.
Washington, D.C.
April 6, 1971.



BASIC DATA
Area                          1,28h,000 sq. km.
Political Status             Independent Republic since August 11, 1960
Population (estimate 1970)    3.6 million
Rate of growth          Around 2.0 percent per year
Gross Domestic Product (1967)t           CFAF  59,600 million
Per capita                          CFAF  17,250  ($70)
Growth rate, real terms (1960-69)   About 2-3 percent per year
Budget
Government Finance:(CFAF billion)    1967    1968    1969    1970
Domestic revenue                     10.2     9.5    11.2    11.8
Current expenditure                  10.2    10.8    12.8    12.9
Savings                               0.0    -1.3    -1.6    -1.1
Investment expenditure                0.7     1.2     1.1     0.5
Overall deficit                      -0.7    -2.5    -2.7     -1.6
Financed by:
French subsidies                 0.,     0.5     0.3
Drawings on liquidities and
accumulation of arrears          0.3     2.0     2.4
Money and Credit:   Chad is a member of the Banque Centrale des Etats de
l'Afrique Equatoriale et du Caneroun (BCEAEC).
(CFAF billion)               Dec. 1966        Feb. 1970
Money supply                     6.57            9.02
Domestic Credit                  6.84           12.56
Foreign assets (net)            -2.88           -1.39
Balance of Payments:
(CFAF billion)                                   1969
Exports                                           9.1
Imports                                          11.0
Trade deficit                                    -1.9
Services (net)                                   -6.1
Current account deficit                          -8.0
Transfers                                         5.7
Capital                                           1.2
Monetary movements and errors                     1.1



Commodity Concentration of Exports
Average
1967-1969
Cotton                                         64% of exports
Livestock and meat                             28%n
External Public Debt:
(in millions of dollars)                            Including
Disbursed    Undisbursed
Total outstanding as of Dec.31,1969      33.4         50.00
Total debt service (1969)                 3.0
Debt service ratio (goods and
services)                               4.5 percent
Bank Group Operations
IDA Credit (1968):    U8$ 4.1 million for highway maintenance
IDA Credit (1968):    U3$ 1.8 million for education
IMF Position (July 1970):
Quota:             $   10.0 million
Drawings:               3.8    '
April 6, 1971.



