CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 251 CD
Development Credit
Agreement
(Second Education Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 16, 1971


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 251 CD
Development Credit
Agreement
(Second Education Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 16, 1971


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 16, 1971, between the REPUBLIC OF CHAD
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Development Credit
Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
WHEREAS (B) By a development credit agreement, dated August 29, 1968,
between the Borrower and the Association (which agreement, as amended in this
Development Credit Agreement, is hereinafter called the 1968 Development Credit
Agreement), the Association agreed to assist in financ ... the costs, inter alia, of
the agricultural training center at Fort Lamy therein reiwrred to, construction of
which has not commenced at the date hereof;
WHEREAS (C) The Borrower and the Association have now agreed to revise
the specifications for such agricultural training center and to provide for its
relocation at Fort Archambault, and the Association has accordingly agreed to
include in the Credit provision for the financing of additional costs of such
relocation;
WHEREAS (D) The Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the
foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions
hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Development Credit Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and
effect as if they were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the deletion of
Section 5.01 and of paragraph (h) of Section 6.02 thereof and to the renumbering
of paragraph (i) of Section 6.02 into paragraph (h) thereof (said General Conditions


﻿4
Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the Association, as so modified,
being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Development Credit Agreement, unless
the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions
have the respective meanings thereii. set forth.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in this Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to,
an amount in various currencies equivalent to two million two hundred thousand
dollars ($2,200,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Development
Credit Agreement, as such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be
financed under this Development Credit Agreement; provided, however, that, except
as the Association shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall be made on account
of expenditures in the territories of any country which is not a member of the
Bank (other than Switzerland) or for goods produced in, or services supplied from,
such territories.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services (other than services of consultants) required for Parts A and B of the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be procured
on the basis of international competition under procedures consistent with the
Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, published
by the Bank in August 1969, (hereinafter called "the Guidelines") and in
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions set forth in Schedule 3 to this
Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1976, or such other date
as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.


﻿5
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on June I and
December I in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each June I and December 1 commencing
June 1, 1981 and ending December 1, 2020, each installment to and including
the installment payable on December 1, 1990, to be one-half of one per cent
(1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with sound technical, administrative and financial
practices, and shall provide, promptly as neec,d, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in the preparation of plans
and specifications for the Project and in the design and supervision of construction
of buildings included in the Project, the Borrower shall employ architectural
consultants acceptable to the Association upon terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Association.
Section 3.03. In carrying out Parts A and B of the Project, the Borrower
shall employ contractors acceptable to the Association upon terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.04. The Project Director, together with the two Assistants (who
shall comprise a full-time education advisor and a full-time accountant), appointed
in accordance with the 1968 Development Credit Agreement, shall be given
responsibility for the proper execution and supervision of Parts A and B of the
Project in addition to their responsibilities under the 1968 Development Credit
Agreement. The Borrower shall ensure that at all times the offices of the Project
Director and the Assistant appointed as education advisor as aforesaid shall be
held by persons acceptable to the Association. For the purpose of enabling the
Project Director to carry out his said responsibilities the Borrower shall provide
the Project Director with supporting staff, together with all facilities necessary for
such purpose.


﻿6
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and
work and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material modifications
thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b)   The Borrower shall: (i) maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof
in the Project; (ii) enable the Association's representatives to inspect the Project,
the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant records
and documents; and (iii) furnish to the Association all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure of the
proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall take all such action as shall be necessary
to: (i) obtain the approval of the Association concerning the sites proposed by
the Borrower for the construction of the educational institutions included in Parts
A (i) and A (iii) of the Project, prior to the completion of designs therefor; (ii)
acquire, before the award of any construction contract, all such land and rights
in respect of land as shall be required for the construction of the educational
institutions included in Part A of the Project; and (iii) furnish to the Association,
promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Association that such
land and rights in respect of land are available for purposes related to the Project.
Section 3.08. (a) The Borrower shall cause the educational institutions
included in the Project to be operated so as to promote the educational objectives
of the Borrower and to be provided with qualified teachers and administrators
in adequate numbers.
(b)   In particular, the Borrower shall:


﻿7
(i)   at least twelve months prior to the respective completion dates
for Parts A (i) and A (ii) of the Project, establish two advisory
councils, on terms acceptable to the Association, respectively
for the technical secondary school at Fort Lamy and for the
vocational training center at Fort Archambault, which shall in
each  case include representatives of local employ-rs and
communities, for the purpose of advising on the formulation
and implementation of the teaching programs of the said school
and center and the acquisition of educational equipment
therefor, in the light of local and national employment and other
economic requirements, and of providing liaison between the said
school and center and local industry and communities;
(ii)  the Borrower shall, prior to September 30, 1972, have taken
all necessary action to obtain adequate technical assistance to
recruit and complete the adequate training of, prior to
September 30, 1974, such teaching staff as shall be required
for the efficient operation of the educational institutions
included in Part A of the Project, through the training of local
staff abroad or through other means as may be agreed from
time to time between the Borrower and the Association.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting
practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of
the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall take out and maintain with responsible
insurers, or shall make other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance
against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with sound practice.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall: (i) cause the buildings and equipment of
the educational institutions included in the Project to be adequately maintained;
(ii) cause all necessary renewals and repairs to be made thereto; and (iii) provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
the purpose.


﻿8
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under this Development Credit
Agreement, the administration, operations, resources and expenditures, in respect
of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof, and other matters relating to the
purposes of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the administration, operations, resources and expenditures, in respect
of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof or concerning the educational system
of the Borrower and programs for educational development in its territories.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof, or the performance by either of them of its obligations under this
Development Credit Agreement.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.


﻿9
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.02. This Development Credit Agreement shall be free from any
taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery or registration thereof,
imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its teiritories.
Section 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
Section 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
or in Section 7.02 of this Development Credit Agreement shall occur and shall
O        continue for the period, if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent time
during the continuance thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice to
the Borrower declare the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and
payable immediately together with the service charges thereon and upon any such
declaration such principal and service charges shall become due and payable
irn iediately, anything to the contrary in this Development Credit Agreemnt
n,    .hstanding.
Section 7.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
the following additional event is specified:
If in accordance with Section 5.01 of the 1968 Development Credit
Agreement the Association shall have declared the principal of the credit
extended thereunder then outstanding to be due and payable immediately.
ARTICLE VIII
Termination
Section 8.01. The date of September 14, 1971 is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿10
Section 8.02. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections 3.08, 4.01,
4.02 and 4.03 of this Development Credit Agreement shall cease and determine
on the date on which this Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on
a date twenty years after the date of this Development Credit Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE IX
Amendments to the 1968 Development Credit Agreement
Section 9.01. The 1968 Development Credit Agreement is hereby amended
as follows:
(a)   Section 3.02 is deleted and the following is substituted therefor:
"Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be procured
on the basis of international competitive bidding:
(i)        as regards the construction, equipping and furnishing of
the teacher training center at Moundou, in accordance
with the 'Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank
Loans and IDA Credits' published by the Bank in
February 1968, and in accordance with such other
procedures supplementary thereto as are set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Development Credit Agreement, or as
shall be further agreed betwee-i the Borrower and the
Association; and
(ii)       as regards the construction, equipping and furnishing of
the Agricultural Technician Training Center at Fort
Archambault, in accordance with the 'Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits'
published by the Bank in August 1969, and in accordance
with, and subject to, the provisions set forth in Schedule
3 to the Development Credit Agreement between the
Borrower and the Association dated June 16, 1971."
(b)  The words "or (iii) if the Association, in accordance with Section 7.01
of the Development Credit Agreement between the Borrower and the Association
dated  June 16, 1971, shall have declared the principal of the credit extended


﻿11
thereunder then outstanding to be due and payable immediately," are inserted
between the words "Borrower" and "then" in Section 5.01.
(c)   A new Section 6.03 is inserted reading as follows:
"The obligations of the Borrower under Sections 4.01 (b), 4.01 (c),
and 4.05 (a) of this Development Credit Agreement shall cease and determine
on the date on which this Development Credit Agreement shall terminate
or on a date twenty-three years after the date of this Development Credit
Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier."
(d)   Part I (ii) of Schedule 1 is deleted and the following words are
substituted therefor:
"(ii)      an Agricultural Technician Training Center for the training
of agricultural technicians at Fort Archambault, with
academic and general facilities for 120 students, boarding
accommodation for 100 students and housing for 7 staff
members."
ARTICLE X
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 10.01. The Ministre du Plan et de la Cooperation of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03
the General Conditions.
Section 10.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minist6re du Plan et de la Coop6ration
Fort Lamy
Republic of Chad
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿12
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Development Credit
Agreement to be signed in their respective names and to be delivered in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
By /s/ Lazare Massibe
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Simon Aldewereld
Vice President


﻿13
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each category
and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated               % of
(Expressed in             Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)        to be Financed
I.    Civil works relating          1,047,000          67% of total ex-
to the Technical                                  penditures
Secondary School and
Vocational Training
Center
II.   Civil works relating           101,000           84% of total ex-
to the Agricultural                               penditures
Technician Training
Center
III.  Furniture and equip-           325,000           74% of total ex-
ment                                              penditures
IV.   Professional fees              138,000           100% of total ex-
penditures
V.   Project administra-             150,000           100% of total ex-
tion                                              penditures
VI.   Study of young farmer           15,000           100% of total ex-
training schemes                                  penditures
VII. Unallocated                     424,000
TOTAL        2,200,000


﻿14
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the  term  "foreign  expenditures" means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency, of
any country other than the Borrower; provided, however, that if the currency of
the Borrower is also that of another country in the territories of which goods
are produced or from the territories of which services are supplied, expenditures
in such currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be "foreign
expenditures";
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
the Borrower, or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, the territories
of the Borrower; and
(c)   the term "total expenditures" means the aggregate of foreign and local
expenditures.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Development Credit Agreement;
(b)   payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount represented by
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of any Category would exceed the amount payable net of all such taxes,
such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the Credit will
be withdrawn on account of payments for such taxes; and
(c)   expenditures incurred in connection with the construction, furnishing
and equipping of the Agricultural Technician Training Center under Categories II,
III, IV and V of paragraph I above, until the proceeds of the credit allocated
under the 1968 Development Credit Agreement to such Agricultural Technician
Training Center shall have been fully disbursed.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph I above:
(a)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amount of the Credit then allocated to such Category and no longer required


﻿15
therefor will be reallocated by the Association by increasing correspondingly the
unallocated amount of the Credit;
(b)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall increase,
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such increase,
and a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Association, at the request
of the Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the Credit,
subject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the
Association, in respect of any other expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the third column of the table
in paragraph I above, if the estimate of total expenditures under any Category
shall increase and no proceeds of the Credit are available for reallocation to such
Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, adjust the percentage
then applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such
Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.


﻿16
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following Parts:
A.    (i)         The construction of a technical secondary school at Fort Lamy
for the training of technicians and skilled craftsmen, with academic and general
facilities for 360 students, boarding accommodation for 200 students and housing
for 10 staff members.
(ii)        The conversion and expansion of the existing technical school
at Fort Archambault into a vocational training center for the training of semi-skilled
office and industrial workers, with academic and general facilities for 120 students,
boarding accommodation for 60 students and housing for 3 staff members.
(iii)       The construction of an Agricultural Technician Training Center
for the training of agricultural technicians at Fort Archambault, with academic
and general facilities for 120 students, boarding accommodation for 100 students
and housing for 7 staff members.
B.    The equipping and furnishing of the school and training centers referred to
in Part A.
C.    The carrying out of a study to evaluate young farmer training schemes.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1975.


﻿17
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.    Contracts for Civil Works
With respect to all contracts for civil works:
1.    Contractors shall be prequalified in accordance with paragraph 1.3 of the
Guidelines.
2.    (a)   Before inviting bids, the Borrower shall send to the Association for
its comments:
(i)         a description of the proposed international advertising coverage
to ensure international competitive bidding, draft bid notices,
prequalification    questionnaires    and     description   of
prequalification procedures;
(ii)        the proposed selected list of prequalified contractors which the
Borrower intends to invite to bid, together with a statement
of their qualifications and of the reasons for the exclusion of
any applicant for prequalification;
(iii)       the report and recommendations of the consultants referred to
in Section 3.02 of this Development Credit Agreement on the
prequalification data submitted and the proposed selected list
of prequalified contractors;
(iv)        the draft bidding documents and draft contracts; and
(v)         a list of all contracts for civil works required for carrying out
the Project, indicating the estimated value of each contract and
the forecast timetable for bids and awards of such contract. The
contracts will be grouped in such a way as to encourage
international competitive bidding. The invitations to bid for the
educational institutions included in the Project will, inter alia,
specify that the bidder may submit offers in respect of any
institution or of all of them, together with related facilities, or
any combination thereof, the bids therefor to be opened
simultaneously and the Borrower to have the option of awarding


﻿18
to one contractor one contract in respect of all the institutions
and facilities, or separate contracts in respect of the various
institutions and facilities to different contractors.
(b)   The Borrower shall make such additions or deletions in such proposed
selected list of prequalified contractors and such modifications in such draft bidding
documents and draft contracts as the Association shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding do,uments shall require the Association's
concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
3.    After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before a
final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of the
bidder to whom it intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the
Association, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report by the said
consultants on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together with
the recommendations for award of the said consultants, and the reasons for the
intended award. The Association shall promptly inform the Borrower whether it
has any objection to the intended award on the ground that it would be inconsistent
with the provisions of the Guidelines or with this Development Credit Agreement
or, in respect of the Agricultural Training Center, with the 1968 Development
Credit Agreement and shall state the reasons for any objections it may have.
4.    If the contract shall be awarded over the Association's reasonable objection
or if its terms and conditions shall, without the Association's concurrence,
materially differ from those on which bids were asked, no expenditure thereunder
shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
5.    Promptly after a contract has been awarded, and before submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of such contract, a conformed copy of the contract shall be sent to
the Association.
6.    The Borrower shall not agree to any proposed change in a contract for civil
works involving a price increase of more than 10% of the original contract price
or $25,000 equivalent, whichever is less, without the prior written approval of
the Association.
B.    Contracts for Furniture and Equipment
1.    With respect to all contracts for furniture and equipment:
(a)   The Borrower shall, before inviting bids, send to the Association for
its comments the following:


﻿19
(i)         lists of all items of furniture and equipment required for the
Project showing the specifications and the estimated unit and
total price of each item. Items will be indexed, coded and
numbered for identification with the educational institution in
question and the spaces for which they are required. The items
to be purchased will be grouped so as to permit bulk
procurement as shall be consistent with sound technical and
procurement practices. Insofar as practicable, contracts for such
items will be for not less than $10,000 equivalent; and
(ii)        draft standard documents for inviting tenders, forms of contracts
and description of the method to be used for obtaining bids
on an international basis.
(b)   Amendments of such lists or documents which may be made from
time to time shall also be submitted to the Association for comments.
2.    Procurement will be limited to those items of furniture and equipment
specified in the approved lists mentioned in subparagraph B. 1. (a) (i) above and
identified in contract documents by the same indices, codes and numbers as in
the lists referred to in such subparagraph.
3.    For the purpose of evaluating goods and associated services included in
Category III of the table set out in paragraph I of Schedule 1 to this Development
Credit Agreement, bid prices shall be determined and compared in accordance with
the following rules:
(a)   The term   "Local Bid" means a bid submitted by a manufacturer
established in the territories of the Borrower for goods manufactured or processed
to a substantial extent (as reasonably determined by the Association) in such
territories; any other bid shall be deemed to be a "Foreign Bid".
(b)   The bid price under a Local Bid shall be the sum of the following
amounts:
(i)         the ex-factory price of such goods; and
(ii)       inland freight, insurance and other costs of delivery of such
goods to the place of their use or installation.
(c)   For the purpose of comparing any Foreign Bid with any Local Bid,
the bid price under a Foreign Bid shall be the sum of the following amounts:


﻿20
(i)         the c.i.f. port of entry in Chad price of such goods;
(ii)        the amount of any taxes on the importation of such goods into
the territories of the Borrower which generally apply to
non-exempt importers, or 15% of the amount specified in (i)
above, whichever shall be the lower; and
(iii)       inland freight, insurance and other costs of delivery of such
goods to the place of their use or installation.
(d)   If the price of the goods offered under the lowest evaluated Local
Bid is equal to or lower than the price of the lowest evaluated Foreign Bid, then
the lowest evaluated Local Bid may be considered the lowest evaluated bid for
the purposes of paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines.
4.    If a contract is intended to be awarded to a bidder other than the bidder
whose bid is the lowest evaluated bid within the meaning of the foregoing paragraph,
or if the contract involves a price difference of 10% or more from the original
estimate as shown pursuant to subparagraph B. 1. (a) (i) above, the Borrower shall,
after the bids have been evaluated and before making the awards, send to the
Association in sufficient time for its review, a summary and analysis thereof and
a brief justification of the Borrower's decision on the award. The Association shall
promptly inform the Borrower whether it has any objection to the intended award
on the ground that it would be inconsistent with the provisions of the Guidelines
or with this Development Credit Agreement or, in respect of the Agricultural
Training Center, with the 1968 Development Credit Agreement and shall state the
reasons for any objections it may have.
5.    If the contract shall be awarded over the Association's reasonable objection
or if its terms and conditions shall, without the Association's concurrence,
materially differ from those on which bids were asked, no expenditure thereunder
shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
6.    Promptly after a contract has been awarded and before submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of such contract, the Borrower shall send to the Association:
(a)   a certificate signed by the Project Director that the goods tendered
for are in accordance with the quantities and specifications in the lists approved
by the Association; and
(b)   a conformed copy of the contract.


