                ICBSP – Land Acquisition and Resettlement Framework
                 Abbreviated Land Acquisition and Resettlement Plan

                                ARP Knollis – Road (IIP)


Project Information

The community of Knollis located in Bog Walk, St. Catherine has been appraised for
Intergrated Infrastructure works under the ICBSP project. As part of these works the
Knollis road leading from the main road to the Football field and multipurpose centre will
be resurfaced. At present it is an unpaved road utilized by persons to get from one side of
the community to the next. See below

The development of the road will see the removal of a board structure that is used as a
shop. The location of the shop will be in the line of the road when upgrading and correct
alignment is carried out.

Alternatives:
                                                                          RP395 v3
With the exception of not going forward with this aspect of the IIP (Integrated
Infrastructure Projects), the only other alternative is to maintain the curve of the road and
allow the structure to remain.

This is not a feasible option as proper upgrading works inclusive of drain alignment
requires that the road be properly aligned.

Land Information:

The land area in question is on a GoJ owned parcel (xxxx) with land valuation number
XXXXXXX. The road has been informally cut, however the drawings and upgrading
works have been approved by the Clarendon Parish Council.

Socio-economic Data

The Road component of the Knollis IIP will affect a wooden structure utilized as a shop.
The owner is approximately XXyrs old and has been in business for xx yrs. He supports
his xx yr old daughter who is a student and his xx yr old, common law wife, who is self-
employed.

The shop’s earnings as stated by the shop owner is $10,000 weekly; with stock ranging
from snack items, cigarettes, and fish to liquor, which makes up the greatest proportion of
the total stock.




/lm 10.04.08
The removal of the shop from the location should not result in loss of stock; however the
time for relocation may impact earnings slightly depending on the time it takes to
complete the relocation, and whether commerce stops during this time.


Compensation and Resettlement

About the Structure:




Side View of shop structure with some view of the curvy road alignment




Side View of shop structure with some view of curvy road alignment, proper road
alignment would require that the upgraded road be in line with the green fence to the
top right of picture.


/lm 10.04.08
Two compartment structure showing a “porch area to the left of picture and the shop
to the right.


Compensation

JSIF proposes to provide appropriate compensation for the relocation process including
the re-construction cost and labour associated with shifting the footprint of the building.
Given the estimated weekly earnings from the shop JSIF will also provide an income
subvention for 2 months earnings. There are a number of elements that will attract a cost:

   -   Labour to remove structure 1 day @ $1500 / dy for 2 labourers        = $3,000
   -   Dumping of old materials (if required)                               = $5,000
   -   Cost of materials to rebuild structure                               = $80,000
   -   Transportation of materials                                          = $5,000
   -   Labour to reconstruct = 4 days @ $5,000 / dy for 3 workers
       (carpenter & 2 labourers)                                            = $60,000
   -   Income compensation = 1 week @ $10,000 / wk                          = $10,000

TOTAL                                                                       = $163,000


Consultations with Displaced Person

JSIF Social Officers (SOs) as well as the Community Liaison Officers (CLOs) have had a
number of discussions with the community as it relates to the nature of the JSIF
interventions. These were as part of the regular JSIF consultations. In addition the CLOs
are in constant dialogue with the community, and in addition to these consultations,
continue to attend the community meetings.



/lm 10.04.08
The decision to relocate was made no more than three (3) weeks prior to the date of this
ARP, when the designs were finalized. The CLO has had discussions with the community
and has spoken with the person who will be affected. The person has expressed a
willingness to relocate in order to facilitate the well needed development in the
community. He has been advised that he will be kept informed of all activities that will
be affecting himself and his property.


Implementation and Grievances Resolution

JSIF’s assigned Social and Community Liaison Officers will play a critical role in this
aspect of the project to ensure that application of the framework is a smooth one. The
sharing of information in a timely manner and the quick attention to issues that arise are
seen as keys to good social management, JSIF mode of operation ensures that an officer
(CLO) is always on the ground and as such issues arising will be heard as some as they
arise. The CLO is trained to manage certain issues, and where issues are outside of the
officer’s scope, it must be reported to the relevant persons within JSIF. JSIF has a policy
that speaks to arbitration for the settling of grievances. The implementation plan will be
followed so that activities are carried out in timely manner with due notice to the affected
persons.



ARP Implementation and Monitoring

The EO with responsibility for resettlement will ensure that the relocation process i.e.
from removal of property from the structure to the demolition is a smooth one and occurs
in accordance with the ARP as developed. The Social Officer along with the CLO will
ensure that any issues that arise or are presented to them by the owner of the property is
recorded and settled in accordance with JSIF’s grievance guidelines and the LARPF.
They must also ensure that the EO is kept informed and written reports sent for
placement on the LARPF files (Fund Manager).

Removal and subsequent compensation will be made in a timely manner to facilitate the
physical start time of the infrastructure works, as well as minimizing the level of
discomfort that the affected person will encounter.

The following information will be noted and recorded on Fund Manager:

- Census Data
- Dates of all stages of ARP approval i.e. JSIF and Bank
- Date of disclosure of ARP
- Grievances, issues, resolution etc.
- Compensation paid




/lm 10.04.08
ARP Implementation Schedule and Budget

Activity               Responsible       Timeline         Cost
Finalise Designs       PE                March 2008       N/A
Social Sensitization   SO                April 2008       N/A
and Survey
Develop ARP            EO                April 2008       N/A
Review ARP             PM                April 2008       N/A
Submit to WB for       PM                April 2008       N/A
approval
Meet with              SO & CLO          April 2008       N/A
Relocated Person
(RP) and present
plan
IIP Approval           PM                May 2008         N/A
process
Gain buy-in            SO & CLO          May 2008         N/A
Procurement &          CO                May – Oct 2008   N/A
Contracting of IIP
Compensation           SO                ----
presented
Demolition             Contractor        Nov 2008         N/A
Start IIP              Contractor        Nov 2008         N/A

PE – Project Engineer
PM – Project Manager
EO – Environmental Officer
SO – Social Officer
CLO – Community Liaison Officer




/lm 10.04.08
