 IEG
                                                                                                Report Number: ICRR14672

                    ICR Review
                    Independent Evaluation Group




        1. Project Data:                                       Date Posted: 03/31/2015

               Country: Jamaica
             Project ID: P091299                                                    Appraisal               Actual
         Project Name: Jm Inner City Basic           Project Costs (US$M):                      32.8                 34.8
                         Services For The
                         Poor Project
  L/C Number:            L4819                         Loan/Credit (US$M):                      29.3                 31.8
      Sector Board:      Urban Development             Cofinancing (US$M):

           Cofinanciers:                               Board Approval Date :                                 03/29/2006
                                                               Closing Date:            12/31/2011           12/31/2013
          Sector(s):       General water sanitation and flood protection sector (38%); Other social services (35%);
                           Roads and highways (17%); Micro- and SME finance (5%); Power (5%)
          Theme(s):        Other urban development (25% - P); Urban services and housing for the poor (25% - P);
                           Participation and civic engagement (24% - P); Other social development (13% - S); Conflict
                           prevention and post-conflict reconstruction (13% - S)

Prepared by:               Reviewed by:            ICR Review                  Group:
                                                   Coordinator:
Victoria Alexeeva          J. W. Van Holst         Christopher David          IEGPS1
                           Pellekaan               Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

 a. Objectives:
 The project's development objective, as stated in the Loan Agreement (Schedule 1, page 6), was "to improve the
quality of life in twelve of the Borrower’s inner city areas and poor urban informal settlements by improving access to
basic urban infrastructure, financial services, land tenure regularization, and enhanced public safety and community
capacity".

The statement of objective in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD, page 5) is essentially the same. PAD further
specifies that the project would: (a) increase access and improve the quality of water, sanitation, solid waste collection
systems, electricity, roads, drainage and related community infrastructure for over 60,000 residents of poor urban
informal settlements through capital investments and innovative arrangements for operations and maintenance; (b)
facilitate access to micro-finance for enterprise development and incremental home improvement for entrepreneurs
and residents in project areas; (c) increase security of tenure for eligible households in project areas; and (d) enhance
public safety through mediation services, community capacity building, skills training and related social services (PAD,
main data sheet).

For the purpose of assessing the extent to which this project met its objective, this Review will use the objective as
stated in the Loan Agreement.

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
No

c. Components:
Component 1: Access to Services (appraisal US$21.85 million; actual US$21.36 million) had three sub-components:
(1) Community Basic Infrastructure was designed to finance: (i) integrated network infrastructure in 12 selected inner
city areas and poor urban informal settlements (the project areas) for water, sanitation, drainage, and secondary and
tertiary roads; (ii) community centers; (iii) community- based infrastructure including the construction and rehabilitation
of recreational facilities, installation of community garbage receptacles, replacement of zinc fencing with alternative
perimeter fencing, and the installation of in-house water and sanitation connections; (iv) street lighting and the
regularization of illegal electricity connections; (v) the rehabilitation and construction of complimentary off-site network
infrastructure; (vi) strengthening solid waste collection systems through the procurement of compactor trucks to be
operated by the National Solid Waste Management Authority (NSWMA) and the analysis of waste collection systems;
and (vii) technical assistance to parish councils to strengthen operations and maintenance capacity.

(2) Access to Financial Services was designed to facilitate access to micro-finance services in project areas, through
financing of: (i) a performance- based mechanism for the extension of micro-finance loans and technical assistance in
project areas; (ii) consultant services for the orientation of potential bidders and the technical evaluation of bids; and
(iii) an independent technical audit of the Financial Institutions (FIs) portfolios.

(3) Land Tenure Regularization was to finance the implementation of a pilot land titling initiative and technical
assistance to the Government of Jamaica for the preparation of a national policy on squatter management and
informal urban settlements.

Component 2: Public Safety Enhancement and Capacity Building (appraisal US$3.9 million; actual US$5.65 million)
was designed to finance the delivery of violence prevention services in five core social prevention areas including: (i)
mediation and conflict resolution; (ii) alternative livelihoods and skills development; (iii) family support programs; (iv)
youth education and recreation; and (v) community- based organization capacity building, including the assignment of
community liaison officers to serve as full-time community facilitators in each project community.

Component 3: Project Management (appraisal US$6.33 million; actual US$5.65 million) was to finance consultant
services, training, goods and operating costs for project management and administration.

d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:
 Project cost: Total actual project cost of US$34.8 million was 6% higher than the estimate at appraisal of US$32.8
million.

Financing: The IBRD loan of US$31.8 million was disbursed, as compared to the appraised estimate of US$29.3
million.

Borrower contribution : The Borrower contributed US$3.1 million to the project that was close to the agreed
commitment of US$ 3.5 million.

Dates: In October 2009, the project intermediate indicators were revised, as described by the ICR, to simplify them
and make it easier to measure the implementation progress (ICR, footnote 4). In July 2011, the project closing date
was extended by two years from December 31, 2011 to December 31, 2013 due to delays in procurement of the
infrastructure works contracts. This partially resulted from defective designs produced by the UK- based consultancy
firm that had to be re-done, and the 'limited project disbursements' as a result of tightening government's policies due
to the country's economic slowdown in 2009-2010 (ICR, paras 25, 27). The project was restructured in November
2013 to formalize re-allocation of loan proceeds from the micro-finance and land tenure sub-components, which were
discontinued during project implementation, to the public safety enhancement and capacity building component,
including construction of community centers (see section 4 below).


3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

 a. Relevance of Objectives:
High.
The project’s development objective of improving the quality of life in Jamaica's inner city areas and poor urban
informal settlements remains highly relevant. It is consistent with the focus on sustainable urban development,
security and safety in the GoJ's National Development Plan- Vision 2030 Jamaica and the Medium Term
Socio-Economic Policy Framework 2012-2015. The GoJ's National Crime Prevention and Community Safety Strategy
particularly targets crime prevention through community development. In addition, the Community Renewal Program
launched by the GoJ focuses on enhancing delivery of government services to 100 vulnerable communities in the
most violent parishes. The objective is also relevant to the World Bank Group's FY2014-2017 Country Partnership
Strategy that aims at enhancing resilience and reducing socio-economic vulnerabilities. The objectives are also in line
with the main priorities of the Country Strategies at appraisal and during implementation, the key goals of which
included sustained and inclusive growth as well as crime prevention and reduction.

 b. Relevance of Design:
Modest.
The results matrix (PAD, Annex 3) did not provide information on the results chain from project inputs to intermediate
outcomes to final outcomes for the project. Rather, the matrix was focused on a detailed list of the monitoring
indicators with which to measure the achievement of the project activities (components). On the other hand the
project's activities addressed the project's objective of improving the quality of life in the twelve selected project areas.


However, the project design was complex. It was a multi-sector operation that included over 30 activities in
infrastructure (covering water and sanitation, roads, electricity, and solid waste improvements), financial
management, land tenure regularization, youth education, and crime prevention (involving five government agencies,
parish councils, community committees, and numerous civic organizations). The complexity of design affected the
pace of project implementation, and as described by the ICR para 17, stretched the project's financial and human
resources. Also, as pointed out in the same paragraph in the ICR, another limitation not fully explored in the design
was the inability and unwillingness of the service providers to fully engage in the project’s implementation and assume
responsibility for the works financed through the project. While these service providers were obligated under
memoranda of understanding with the project's implementing agency to provide services, they claimed limited
incentives to do so because of the low capacity to pay by those who received the services (ICR, para 28).


 4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):
   The project's objective was: "To improve the quality of life in twelve of the Borrower’s inner city areas and poor
urban informal settlements by improving access to basic urban infrastructure, financial services, land tenure
regularization, and enhanced public safety and community capacity."

a) Improving access to basic urban infrastructure . Substantial.

Outputs

     Roads: 22.3 km of roads were rehabilitated, which constituted about 80% of the road network in need of
     rehabilitation in the selected communities and exceeded the target (10.36 km).

     Water: 8 water mains were installed. The water mains were handed over to the National Water Commission
     (NWC) responsible for household connections to the system. The project team subsequently confirmed that NWC
     was implementing a debt forgiveness program to finalize water connections in the project areas. By March 2015,
     about 200 households had been connected to the water system.

     Sewerage: 5 main sewage pipes were rehabilitated. Of these five pipes, one was in use at project closure
     benefitting 95 households . The remaining four improved sewage pipelines were handed over to the NWC
     responsible for their activation. The ICR reports that rehabilitation of the waste water treatment plant for Tawes
     Meadows was not implemented as planned (page 54).

     Solid waste : A solid waste collection truck and 51 skips (waste containers) were purchased. 30 skips were
     placed where the communities and the National Solid Waste Management Authority (NSWMA) could agree on.
     According to the information subsequently obtained from the project team, the rest of the skips were re-deployed
     to similar un-deserved communities. One waste collection truck was purchased for NSWMA for exclusive use in
     the selected communities. The ICR (para 46) reports that a truck enabled regular solid waste pick-up (the target
     was at least once per week, according to PAD's Annex 3, page 41).

     Electricity: The project was to finance the extension of the electricity network and regularization of illegal
     connections (PAD, page 9). The ICR did not report on these activities planned at appraisal; according to the
     project team, electricity regularization activities were carried out in three communities under the project, in
     particular Central Village, Bucknor, and Lauriston, and 130 electricity household connections were regularized.

Outcome

    The number of beneficiaries from the intervention with the furthest reach in each community (i.e., roads and
     waste skips) were 61,953 (the target was 60,000). 3, 576 households benefitted from new or improved access to
     water, exceeding the target of 2,490 (improved access is defined as the source within one km), and 478
     households benefitted from new or improved access to sewer networks, exceeding the target of 364 (ICR's
     Results Framework)
    According to the Citizen Report Card survey conducted in December 2013 (with a random sample of 1,439
     beneficiaries), 85% of community residents surveyed felt that the quality of road network service was fair or
     better. This represents a substantial increase in satisfaction with roads compared to the data for 2005 provided
     by the ICR when 75% of community residents described their roads as poor or problematic (ICR's Results
     framework).
    With regard to solid waste collection, 67% of respondents in the Citizen Report Card survey noted an
     improvement in trash collection.


b) Improving access to financial services . Substantial.

Outputs

    The project supported output-based aid as an incentive for micro-finance institutions to increase provision of
     loans in the target communities. The second phase of micro-finance sub-component was canceled given, among
     other reasons, that the micro-finance institutions were already working in the communities in a limited manner,
     and thus did not need added financial incentive to enter (ICR, Data Sheet, Results framework).

Outcome

    402 formal micro-finance loans were disbursed in project communities, against the target of 171 (ICR, Data
     Sheet, Section F, IO Indicator 4)

c) Land tenure regularization . Modest.

Outputs

    A land survey service and sub-division work was financed under the project to facilitate the residents' application
     for splinter (sub-division) titles. 753 applications for land registration were made to the National Land Agency (the
     target was 200). The scope of activity was reduced to one community (Flankers) and the pilot in the second
     community was not carried out.

Outcome

    At project closure, the titles were yet to be awarded to the Flankers community residents upon payment (ICR,
     Annex 2, page 33). The project team advised IEG that the Ministry of Housing continued the implementation
     process, and 42 titles were awarded to beneficiaries by March 2015.

e) Enhanced public safety and community capacity . Substantial.

    55 infrastructure sub-projects were completed against the target of 15, which applied the principles of 'crime
     prevention through environmental design'. These sub-projects were lighting for community centers; construction
     of football fields, multipurpose courts and other recreational spaces; fencing of both residential (zinc-fence
     substitution for block walls of lower height) and community recreational facilities; and road rehabilitation, including
     the repair of manhole covers located in the roadways (ICR, Annex 2).
    9 community centers were financed; four of these were mobile. The target for community centers was three. The
     ICR states that the centers would help promote community wide activities (Annex 2, page 33).
    37,140 persons participated in the programs and activities for community based crime and violence prevention
     and reduction (the target was 3,270 people). The ICR specifies that this indicator reflects the number of people
     who attended each program and activity, i.e., community members who attended several events were counted
     multiple times (ICR's Results framework). Other various on-the-ground organizations also committed resources
     towards these activities, carried out in partnership with JSIF. The activities included a series of mediation and
     conflict resolution programs, education and employment programs (GSAT classes, recreational activities,
     homework classes, remedial education, youth engagement, computer training, apprenticeship training, summer
     camps, among others) (ICR, para 52 and Annex 2). The ICR does not, however, mention any evaluation of the
     quality of training programs financed by this project.
    815 persons obtained certificates as a result of the training courses; the target was 220. These included
     construction certification programs and remedial literacy/numeracy classes (ICR, Annex 2). The ICR reports that
     91 residents received full-time employment offers; no further details are provided in this regard (para 52).

Outcome
    The percentage of beneficiaries who feel safe was 91% at project closure, surpassing the target of 75%. This was
     based on a baseline of 60.4% and an increase by 30.6% points based on the impact evaluation conducted by an
     external consultant firm which surveyed 700 residents.
    The impact evaluation survey also found that the percentage of households that would like to stay in the
     community increased by 18% over the baseline, and those who would like to start a business increased by 19%
     (ICR, para 44).

5. Efficiency:

At appraisal, two approaches were used to evaluate the investment: (a) a cost benefit analysis for water and
sewerage services that used willingness to pay to estimate the benefits; and (b) a cost effectiveness analysis for other
interventions, i.e., solid waste, community centers, street lighting, drainage, and roads. The cost effectiveness
analysis performed found that beneficiaries were willing to pay for water and sewerage services that were priced in
order to earn a 12 percent rate of return on the additional investment.

JSIF hired an external consultant firm which prepared a cost benefit analysis for interventions on road, education, and
training at project closure. The ICR pages 38-39 reports that due to the limited information, the consultancy firm made
assumptions based on their knowledge and experience. The ex-post economic rate of return (ERR) for roads was
estimated at 12%; the estimated benefits included reduced vehicle operating costs and time savings (ICR, Annex 3).
The ex-post ERR was estimated at 16% for education with estimated benefits based on incremental earnings for
students. The methodology was based on matching pre-tests and GSAT scores (baseline scores) for the same cohort
of students; out of 210 students , 24 would have entered a traditional high school compared to 8 before the project
(ICR, Annex 3). The ex-post ERR for skilled training was estimated at 39%. The return on training was calculated by
projecting the earnings (over ten years) of the community members who obtained jobs after participating in the
certificate programs. The analysis assumed that 77% of the salaries for the project beneficiaries consisted of external
leakages and transfer payments. The ICR adds that the project can not take full credit for the attainment of these jobs
given that variables outside the scope of the project assisted or limited the job attainment rate. It also states that
employed community members may also not retain the jobs for the projected ten- year period (ICR, page 25, footnote
40).

The cost benefit analysis for water and sewerage analysis was not used as the households had not been connected to
the system by project closure. No benefits were accrued from the water and sewerage household connections as
originally anticipated in the cost benefit analysis (ICR, page 25).

There was a two- year delay in implementation, and the project's efficiency was affected by procurement issues and
faulty designs for infrastructure works, half of which had to be re-done (ICR, paras 20,25, 26).

Efficiency is rated modest.

 a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
    re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                 Rate Available?                          Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

     Appraisal                       No
     ICR estimate                    No
                                        * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



 6. Outcome:
   Relevance of objectives is high, and that of design modest. The project substantially helped improve access to
basic urban infrastructure, financial services, and in particular, enhanced public safety in the targeted areas. Its
contribution to land tenure regularization was modest. Efficiency is rated modest.
  a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


 7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:
   Financial. The project supported training for community maintenance committees as well as the development of a
maintenance plan for the infrastructure works. The committees have the capacity to do minor repairs themselves and
engage the relevant authorities should major repairs be necessary. The community centers are also projected to
contribute to the development of social capital in the community and it is expected that the facilities will be maintained
using rental income. However, according to the ICR, the sustainability of road and, subsequently, water and
sewerage services is undermined by the ability of poor and vulnerable community members to pay for these services.
In addition, as also noted in the ICR, "it is unknown whether financing to continue many of the violence prevention,
youth education and recreation and alternative livelihood programs will be secured. One of the takeaways from the
project’s impact evaluation was the need for project design to plan for post-project sustainability – perhaps through
developing public-private relationships or through helping communities establish funds for ongoing maintenance of the
infrastructure improvements" (para 66).

   a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Significant

8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

 a. Quality at entry:
    The Bank design team performed a comprehensive background analysis that included incorporating lessons
learned from previous Bank's National Community Development Project (P076837) in Jamaica, as well as other
projects (e.g., how zinc fence removal contributed to increased citizen security in South Africa, and the inclusion of
an impact evaluation in project’s design). Prior to the project start, the project implementing agency (Jamaica
Social Investment Fund - JSIF), along with other public entities, conducted a thorough community selection
process. The 12 communities were selected based on the percent of households in the lowest poverty quintile and
households without access to piped water, as well as the following criteria: one community from each of the five
parishes with big city, balanced political party allegiance, and high priority based on the MNS’ public safety
criteria. During preparation, JSIF engaged in an extensive process of consultation (120 formal meetings and focus
groups) with over 1,000 community members in the twelve targeted areas.

In order to ensure an efficient start to project implementation, the project team leveraged a Japan Policy and
Human Resources Development trust fund grant to hire an international consulting firm to prepare the designs for
all infrastructure works. The designs, however, turned out to be flawed, and over 50% of civil works had to be
re-designed. This caused delays in implementation and disbursements, and a subsequent increase in costs (ICR,
para 25). According to the ICR, the consultancy firm did not conduct a thorough, on-the-ground assessment of
each community and, as such, developed designs that did not appropriately reflect the needs of the communities
(para 76). The ICR (para 76) also found that the procurement plan could have been more thoroughly assessed
how to effectively engage local and international firms.

Overall, as the ICR (para 67) concluded, the project could have been better designed and less complex in terms of
the scope of activities relative to the loan size, implementation period, and risks associated with the number of
organizations involved and their capacity. With regard to the risk that public service provider agencies would not
have the capacity or commitment to extend service to the project areas, the mitigation measure of signing
memoranda of understanding, as described by the ICR para 22, did not build vested interest from the service
providers to ensure their commitment, and was clearly not effective.


   Quality-at-Entry Rating:                       Moderately Satisfactory

 b. Quality of supervision:
    There were typically two supervision missions per year during the project lifetime. The ICR (para 68) reports
that the project team closely monitored project progress. For example, small-scale works were prioritized when
the national economic crisis prompted a tightened fiscal framework. Given the National Solid Waste Management
Authority's capacity limitations, the project incorporated new approaches to solid waste management that focused
on reinforcing community efforts in collection, cleanup, awareness and neighborhood beautification. During the
mid-term review, the project team recognized the need to reduce the scope of the micro-finance sub-component
for lack of interest by micro-finance providers (ICR, para 29), and limit the land tenure activities to one community
because of the complicated and time-consuming process with the Ministry of Housing.

As described by the ICR (para 68), JSIF commented that financial management support from the Bank could have
been strengthened through more consistent feedback from the financial management specialist participating as an
integrated member in the supervision missions, as well as more hands-on technical support on the micro-finance
and land titling activities could have been provided during their initial phases given JSIF’s limited experience in
these areas.


   Quality of Supervision Rating :                Moderately Satisfactory
   Overall Bank Performance Rating :             Moderately Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

  a. Government Performance:
      The project benefited from a high level of commitment from the Government of Jamaica (GoJ) during
preparation and implementation. The Ministry of Finance requested the Bank’s support to prepare a project that
integrated infrastructure with crime and violence prevention. The GoJ complied with all covenants and
agreements, and the project became a pillar of the GoJ’s Community Renewal Program. While mentioning the
'limited project disbursements' caused by tightening government's policies due to the country's economic
slowdown in 2009-2010, the ICR commends the government for ensuring that the project received enough funds
to move forward (paras 27,70). The GoJ also supported the project through providing additional funds for
personnel, electricity and other expenses incurred by JSIF. As the ICR para 70 notes, the GoJ’s commitment to
the goals of the project is highlighted by its solicitation of Bank support for the new integrated community
development project.

   Government Performance Rating                              Satisfactory

 b. Implementing Agency Performance:
    The Jamaica Social Investment Fund (JSIF) was the implementing agency for the project. By project approval,
JSIF had 18 months of bidding documents prepared. Project implementation benefited from JSIF’s extensive
experience implementing Bank projects and its expertise in community interventions. JSIF’s model of conducting
extensive pre-project consultations, introducing contractors to the community prior to the start of works, utilizing
Community Based Contracting (CBC) throughout the life of the project (a unique arrangement has been
developed to ensure that employment benefits from construction works are maximized and equally shared within
the community) , giving community committees the responsibility to monitor and coordinate project progress as
well as providing consistent hands-on assistance through assigning JSIF Community Liaison Officers to each
community were key to successful implementation. The ICR (para 71) noted that JSIF went above and beyond
project expectation in the quantity and range of capacity building exercises. It also adds that JSIF received the
International Organization of Standards (ISO) 14001 certification for environmental management, and in 2013,
JSIF was named winner of the 2013 Jamaica Environmental Action Award in the waste management category
(para 36).

The ICR (para 37) indicates that there were undocumented expenditures from 2007 to 2009. JSIF carried out a
reconciliation exercise to clarify these expenditures and identified an overdraft in several infrastructure
sub-categories. The project team subsequently clarified that these expenditures had been incorrectly assigned to
cost categories, and the reconciliation exercise accounted for all the expenditures. JSIF also experienced high
levels of financial management staff turnover during implementation, which disrupted financial management
continuity (ICR, para 37).

   Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                   Satisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                      Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

 a. M&E Design:
   The M&E design included various data collection tools, such as focus group discussions, citizen report cards, and a
pre and post-project household baseline survey and an impact evaluation study. The ICR noted that the project
development objective could have been strengthened "through maintaining focus on the core objectives - improving
the sense of public safety, building community capacity to participate in the formal economy and improving access to
basic services" (para 16).

Two main outcome indicators were: (i) provide access to improved basic infrastructure and financial services and
security of tenure for 60,000 inner city residents; and (ii) percent of beneficiaries that feel safe or very safe
(differentiated between inside and outside the home) (PAD, Annex 3). The original intermediate outcome indicators
were appropriately linked with the project development objective. They included such indicators, as percent of
beneficiaries satisfied with the quality and pressure of water service; % of households satisfied with quality of
sanitation facility; number of beneficiaries having opened bank accounts; and number of titles provided to project
beneficiaries (PAD, Annex 3). The ICR reports that "the original 16 intermediate indicators relied on periodic surveys
of the households and "proved difficult to implement on a yearly basis given personnel requirements and respondent
fatigue" (para 32). In addition, the design of initial baseline survey was found faulty (ICR, para 10). The project team
and JSIF revised the indicators in 2009. The new indicators included the number of households with new or improved
access to water, and number of households with new or improved access to sewer networks (ICR's Result
Framework).

 b. M&E Implementation:
   The community committees collected data, and JSIF’s community liaison officers verified the data through regular
on-the-ground checks, during sub-project implementation and at the end of every month. In addition, regular focus
groups were conducted and a citizen report card was used in the final year to assess residents’ satisfaction with the
project. JSIF also prepared semi-annual progress reports to monitor and evaluate activities. An impact evaluation
study was carried out after the project’s completion.

 c. M&E Utilization:
   The data generated from the M&E process was used to adapt project activities to each community’s needs on an
annual basis. For instance, communities’ high demand for assistance in obtaining birth certificates resulted in a
second phase of “Operation Certification.” JSIF had an established channel through which indicator information and
progress reports were discussed at various levels of the organization and sent to the Managing Director.

M&E Quality Rating: Modest




11. Other Issues

 a. Safeguards:
The Project utilized the Borrower’s systems for safeguard implementation (O.P. 4.00 Piloting the Use of Borrower
Systems to Address Environmental and Social Safeguard Issues in Bank- Supported Projects). An Equivalence and
Acceptability Assessment was carried out by the Bank team. To fill identified gaps, JSIF developed an Environmental
Management Framework and a Land Acquisition and Resettlement Policy Framework that were integrated into the
operational manual and became standard policy for all JSIF-funded projects.

The ICR reports that JSIF fully complied with the provisions of the Land Acquisition and Resettlement Policy
Framework, successfully screening for cases of land acquisition and preparing abbreviated resettlement action plans
acceptable to the Bank (para 36). JSIF also conducted the necessary due diligence regarding land, ensuring that all
land transfers were properly documented and witnessed and had unencumbered titles. Beyond issues of land
acquisition and resettlement, the project successfully implemented a grievance redress system, a system for
maximizing employment on works contracts within the local community, as well as a process to screen projects for a
range of other social impacts, including gender relations.

b. Fiduciary Compliance:
Procurement: There were delays in the procurement process resulting from the initial decision to tender large
contracts of over US$1.5 million that excluded many local firms from bidding process (the threshold was lowered
subsequently), reluctance of contractors to work in the project's crime- ridden communities and consequent no-bids
and high risk premiums charged, and extended time associated with the cabinet approval required for all bids of over
US$400, 000. The ICR reports that procurement activities were carried out in compliance with arrangements agreed in
the project financing agreement and the Operations Manual, and no major procurement compliance issues arose
during implementation (para 37).

Financial management. The ICR (para 37) reports that there were undocumented expenditures from 2007 to 2009.
JSIF carried out a reconciliation exercise to clarify these expenditures and identified an overdraft in several
infrastructure sub-categories. During restructuring in November 2013, the funds were re-allocated between project
categories to compensate for the overdraft. According to the project team, all the expenditures were accounted for.


c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):
 d. Other:
Through a grant from the Japan Social Development Fund (JSDF), the project supported the Ministry of National
Security in building a crime observatory to monitor crime levels throughout Kingston. At project completion the
observatory was tracking crime and violence data for four key incidence types in five parishes and was beginning to
cross validate the data. Prior to the development of the observatory, the government was unable to quantify crime
details at the community level and therefore unable to factor that data into crafting a more effective prevention
strategy.



12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review               Reason for
                                                                                   Disagreement/Comments
                      Outcome: Satisfactory                 Moderately        Relevance of design and the project's
                                                            Satisfactory      efficiency are assessed as modest.
          Risk to Development Moderate                      Significant        Due to low capacity of the poor and
                     Outcome:                                                 vulnerable communities to pay for
                                                                              public services supported under the
                                                                              project there are serious doubts about
                                                                              the sustainability of the improved
                                                                              services financed by the project.
            Bank Performance: Satisfactory                  Moderately        Project design had weaknesses at the
                                                            Satisfactory      outset. Bank supervision had moderate
                                                                              shortcomings.
       Borrower Performance : Satisfactory                  Satisfactory

                Quality of ICR:                             Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

 13. Lessons:
  The ICR proposed eight lessons from the project. However, many of them were findings rather than lessons. The
two most important lessons selected from the ICR are:

    Community engagement in project design during preparation and implementation helps ensure relevance and
     builds community capacity . In this project, the implementing agency JSIF conducted a comprehensive,
     hands-on community consultation process that included focus groups and rapid needs assessments to
     determine the project activities. The community committees monitored the activities and based on resident and
     committee feedback, JSIF adapted the activities each year to meet each community’s needs.

     Ensure service provider commitment at the outset for long -term sustainability . One of the main
     implementation and sustainability challenges the project faced was obtaining the service providers’
     commitment to assume responsibility for the works and to provide service to the areas. The service providers
     were reluctant to enter the communities based on internal financial and technical constraints as well as the
     communities’ low capacity to pay for services. The service providers had signed MoUs, affirming their
     commitment to the project, but this proved too weak as a measure to guarantee their active involvement and
     commitment to the project.




14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes      No
15. Comments on Quality of ICR:

This is a concise and results- based ICR. It candidly reports the project’s achievements and shortcomings during
implementation, and provides insightful explanations for important elements of the implementation experience. Two
important lessons are evidence- based. The ICR, however, does not provide sufficient detail with regard to the
project's activities in micro-finance and project's financial management (i.e., the amount of undocumented
expenditures). There were some inconsistencies in the ICR, for example the number of applications for titles
supported under the project differs in the Results Framework (753) and Annex 2 (710).
 a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
