CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 570 JO
Project Agreement
(Second Hussein Thermal Power Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
JORDAN ELECTRICITY AUTHORITY
DATED JULY 7, 1975


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT,      dated   July   7,  1975, between    INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and JORDAN
ELECTRICITY AUTHORITY (hereinafter called JEA).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith
between the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
the Association, the Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an
amount in various currencies equivalent to five million dollars ($5,000,000), on
the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only
on condition that JEA agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association
as hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by a subsidiary loan agreement of even date herewith between
the Borrower and JEA, the proceeds of the credit provided for under the
Development Credit Agreement will be made available to JEA on the terms and
conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS JEA, in consideration of the Association's entering into the
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement
and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. JEA shall carry out the Project described in Schedule 2 to
the Development Credit Agreement with due diligence and efficiency and in


﻿4
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and engineering practices, and
shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 2.02. (a) In order to assist JEA in carrying out the Project, JEA
shall appoint on or before July 31, 1975, consultants acceptable to the Association,
upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association which shall include the
requirement that the study described in Part B of the Project shall be completed
within 12 months of the appointment of the aforesaid consultants; and
(b)   JEA   shall discuss with   the  Borrower and    the Association, the
recommendations of the study described in Part B of the Project and the actions
to be taken to implement the results of such discussions.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods,
works and services (other than consultants' services) for the Project shall be
procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) JEA undertakes to insure, or make adequate provision for
the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit relent to it by the Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for
such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by JEA
to replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association may otherwise agree, all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to JEA by the Borrower shall
be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.05. (a) JEA shall furnish to the Association promptly upon their
preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and construction
and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b)   JEA: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the progress of the
Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and services financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the Borrower, and to disclose
the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall, without limitation upon the provisions
of paragraph (c) of this Section, enable the Association's representatives to visit
the facilities and construction sites included in the Project, and to examine the


﻿5
goods financed out of such proceeds and any relevant records and documents;
and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all such information as the Association
shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds
of the Credit so relent to it and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
(c)   JEA shall enable the Association's representatives to examine all plants,
installations, sites, works, buildings, property and equipment of JEA and any
rlevant records and documents.
Section 2.06. JEA shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, JEA shall not
take or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating,
assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.07. (a) JEA shall submit periodic reports to the Association with
regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under
this Agreement and tinder the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other matters
relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)   JEA shall promptly inform     the Association of any condition which
interferes or threatens to interfere with, the progress of the Project, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by JEA of
its obligations under this Agreement and inder the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of JEA
Section 3.01. JEA shall at all times manage its affairs, maintain its financial
position, plan its future expansion and carry on its operations, all in accordance
with sound engineering, administrative, financial and public utility practices and
tinder the supervision of experienced and competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. (a) JEA shall maintain its existence and right to carry on
operations, and shall take all steps necessary to acquire, maintain and renew all
interests in land and other properties and all rights, powers, privileges and franchises
which are necessary in the carrying out of the Project or in the conduct of its
business.
(b)   JEA   shall at all times operate and maintain its plants, facilities,
equipment and other property, and promptly as required make all necessary repairs


﻿6
and renewals thereof, in accordance with sound engineering and public utility
practices.
(c)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, JEA shall not sell,
lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of any of its property or assets, which shall
be required for the efficient operation of its business and undertaking.
Section 3.03. JEA shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or
make other provisions satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such
risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. JEA shall maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices its operations and
financial condition.
Section 4.02. JEA shall: (i) have its accounts and financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to the
Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than four months after
the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements for such
year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information concerning the accounts
and financial statements of JEA and the audit thereof as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, JEA shall
take all necessary steps to establish and maintain tariffs at a level sufficient to
yield an annual rate of return of not less than 9% on the value of net fixed assets.
(b)   For the purposes of this Section:
(i)         The required annual rate of return shall be calculated by using
as the denominator in respect of each fiscal year the average
of net fixed assets in operation for power at the beginning and
at the end of each such year and as the numerator JEA's
operating income for that same year.


﻿7
(ii)        The term   "net fixed assets" shall mean the gross value of such
assets in operation less accumulated depreciation; these assets
shall be valued and revalued from time to time in accordance
with sound and consistently maintained methods acceptable to
the Association.
(iii)       The term "operating income " shall mean the difference between:
(A)   gross revenues from   electric power, plus other recurring
fees and charges associated with electric power; and
(B)   the  operating   and  administrative expenses, including
overhead and adequate provision for maintenance and
repairs, provision for straight-line depreciation based on
the useful life of major categories of assets, and for taxes,
but before provision for interest and other charges on
debt.
Section 4.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, JEA shall not
incur any debt without prior approval of the Association, unless its net revenues
for the fiscal year next preceding the date of such incurrence or for any later
twelve-month period ended prior to the date of such incurrence, shall be not less
than 1.5 times the maximum debt service requirement in any succeeding fiscal
year (including the fiscal year in which such debt is to be incurred) on all debt
including the debt to be incurred. For the purposes of this Section:
(i)         The term   "debt" shall mean all indebtedness of JEA, including
debt incurred by others on behalf of JEA but for the service
of which JEA is responsible, maturing by its terms more than
one year after the date on which it is originally incurred.
(ii)        Debt shall be deemed to be incurred on the date of execution
and delivery of a contract, loan agreement or other instrument
providing for such debt.
(iii)       The term   "net revenues" shall mean gross revenues from power
operations, adjusted to take account of JEA's rates in effect
at the time of the incurrence of debt even though they were
not in effect during all or a part of the fiscal year or
twelve-month period to which such revenues relate, less all
operating and administrative expenses and provisions for taxes,
if any, but before provision covering depreciation, interest and
other charges on debt.


﻿8
(iv)        The term "debt service requirement" shall mean the aggregate
amount of amortization (including sinking fund payments, if
any), interest and other charges on debt.
(v)         Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary
to value, in terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable
in another currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis
of the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such other
currency is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for the
purposes of servicing such debt or, if such other currency is
not so obtainable, at the rate of exchange that will be reasonably
determined by the Association.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. The Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date
upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and
of JEA thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)         the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)        a date twenty years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with
its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)(ii) of this Section, the
Association shall promptly notify JEA of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the Development
Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated


﻿9
by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
For JEA:
Jordan Electricity Authority
P.O. Box 2310
Amman
Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan
Cable address:
SAKA
Amman, Jordan
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf
of JEA may be taken or executed by its Chairman of the Board of Directors
or such other person or persons as he shall designate in writing.
Section 6.03. JEA shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the
authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the person or persons who
will, on behalf of JEA, take any action or execute any documents required or
permitted to be taken or executed by JEA pursuant to any of the provisions of
this Agreement.
Section 6.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.


﻿10
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ M. P. Benjenk
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
JORDAN ELECTRICITY AUTHORITY
By /s/ Abdullah Salah
Authorized Representative


﻿11
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement
A.    General Procedures
Contracts shall be let under procedures consistent with those set forth in
the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in April 1972, as revised in October 1972 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bidding.
B.    Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for Domestic
Manufacturers
1.    For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the supply of
goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry)
price for imported goods, or the ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured
goods; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales
and similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded; and (iii) the
cost to JEA of inland freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery
of goods to the place of their use or installation shall be included.
2.    Goods manufactured in Jordan may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
(a)   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall clearly
indicate any preference which will be granted, the information required to establish
the eligibility of a bid for such preference and the following methods and stages
that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b)   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the
following three groups:
(1)   Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Jordan if the
bidder shall have established to the satisfaction of JEA and the
Association that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes
a value added in Jordan equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory
bid price of such goods.
(2)   Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured in Jordan.
(3)   Group C: bids offering any other goods.


﻿12
(c)   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared among
themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import taxes on goods to be
imported and any sales or similar taxes on goods to be supplied domestically, to
determine the lowest evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison, a bid
from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
(d)   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) above, the lowest
bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall be further compared with the
lowest evaluated bid from group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the
imported goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs duties and other
import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the importation
of the goods offered in such group C bid, or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of
such goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group
A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award;
if not, the bid from group C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph
(c) is the lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.    Review of Procurement Decisions by Association
1.    Review of prequalification.
If prequalification is required, JEA shall, before qualification is invited,
inform the Association in detail of the procedure to be followed and shall introduce
such modifications in said procedure as the Association shall reasonably request.
The list of prequalified bidders, together with a statement of their qualifications
and of the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for prequalification shall
be furnished by JEA to the Association for its comments before the applicants
are notified, and JEA shall make such additions to, deletions from, or modifications
in, the said list as the Association shall reasonably request.
2.    Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts.
With respect to all contracts for equipment estimated to cost the equivalent
of $50,000 or more:
(a)   Before bids are invited, JEA shall furnish to the Association, for its
comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and other bidding
documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said documents or


﻿13
procedures as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further modification
to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence before it is
issued to the prospective bidders.
(b)   After bids have been received and evaluated, JEA shall, before a final
decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of the bidder
to which it intends to award the contract and the reasons for the intended award
and shall furnish to the Association, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed
report on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together with the
recommendation for award and such other information as the Association shall
reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines that the intended award
would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform JEA
and state the reasons for such determination.
(c)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked
or prequalification invited.
(d)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of such contract.
3.    With respect to each contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and not governed by the preceding paragraph, JEA shall furnish to the
Association, promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with
the analysis of bids, recommendations for award and such other information as
the Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines
that the award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this
Schedule, promptly inform JEA and state the reasons for such determination.


