CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 570 JO
Development Credit
Agreement
(Second Hussein Thermal Power Project)
BETWEEN
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JULY 7, 1975


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 570 JO
Development Credit
Agreement
(Second Hussein Thermal Power Project)
BETWEEN
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JULY 7, 1975


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 7, 1975, between THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM
OF JORDAN (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the foreign exchange cost of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement;
(B)   The Project will be carried out by Jordan Electricity Authority
(hereinafter called JEA), a corporate body established by the Jordan Electricity
Law No. 21 of 1967, with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance,
the Borrower will make available to JEA. the proceeds of the Credit as hereinafter
provided; and
(C)   The Association is willing to make the Credit available upon the terms
and conditions set forth hereinafter and in a project agreement of even date
herewith between the Association and JEA:
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definkions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were
fully set forth herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association
and JEA of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time,
and such term includes all schedules to the Project Agreement;


﻿4
(b)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and JEA pursuant to Section 3.01(b) of this Agreement,
as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(c)   "JEA Law" means the Jordan Electricity Authority Law No. 21 of
1967 establishing JEA, as amended by Law No. 46 of 1973 and as the same may
be amended again from time to time;
(d)   "First Power Development Credit Agreement" means the Development
Credit Agreement (Hussein Thermal Power Project) No. 386 JO between the
Borrower and the Association dated May 24, 1973;
(e)   "First Power Project Agreement" means the Project Agreement
(Hussein Thermal Power Project) No. 386 JO between JEA and the Association
dated May 24, 1973; and
(f)   "JD" means dinars in the currency of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to five million dollars ($5,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule may be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods,
works and services (other than consultants' services) for the Project shall be
procured in accordance with the provisions set forth or referred to in Section 2.03
of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1979 or such later
date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the
Borrower of such later date.


﻿5
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on May 1 and
November 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each May 1 and November 1 commencing
November 1, 1985 and ending May 1, 2025, each installment to and including
the installment payable on May 1, 1995 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of
1%) of such principal anount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09. The Chairman of the Board of Directors of JEA or such other
person as he may appoint in writing is designated as representative of the Borrower
for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under
the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other
obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, the Borrower shall cause
JEA to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement and
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement all the obligations therein set forth, shall take and
cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services
and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable JEA to perform such
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would
prevent or interfere with such performance. To that end, the Borrower shall make
arrangements satisfactory to the Association for the provision of funds required
to complete the Project and JEA's associated expansion program related to
transmission and other facilities.
(b)   The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit under a subsidiary
loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and JEA under terms
and conditions which shall have been approved by the Association and which shall,


﻿6
unless the Association shall otherwise agree, provide for JEA (i) to pay to the
Borrower a commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount so relent and not withdrawn by JEA
from time to time, (ii) to pay to the Borrower interest at a rate of eight and
one-half per cent (8-1/2%) per annum   on the principal amount so relent and
withdrawn by JEA and outstanding from time to time, and (iii) to repay to the
Borrower the principal amount so relent over a period of 25 years from the date
of this Agreement, including therein a period of grace of three and one-half years.
(c)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, nor amend, abrogate
or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. (a) Parties to this Agreement have agreed in Section 2.03 of
the First Power Project Agreement that JEA shall employ tariff specialists
acceptable to the Association under terms of reference and on conditions
satisfactory to the Association to study and make recommendations to JEA not
later than December 31, 1974 for its wholesale tariff structure, and to the
Government for a retail tariff structure to be implemented throughout Jordan.
The Borrower shall promptly discuss and cause JEA to discuss with the Association,
the final recommendations of the tariff studies referred to in Section 2.03 of the
First Power Project Agreement.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause all necessary actions to be taken to implement
the new tariff structure agreed to between the Borrower and the Association
following the discussions referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section not later than
March 31, 1976. The tariffs shall be further reviewed and discussed with the
Association not later than June 30, 1977, for implementation of the necessary
changes, if any, by September 30, 1977.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall promptly take and cause JEA to take
a final decision not later than March 31, 1976, whether the power station at Marqa
shall be operated as a "selected station" in accordance with the JEA Law, or
whether said power station shall be acquired by JEA.
(b)   If it is decided that the power station at Marqa shall be operated as
a "selected station" in accordance with the JEA Law, a contract acceptable to
the Association shall be executed between JEA and the Jordanian Electricity Power
Company (hereinafter referred to as JEPCO) before June 30, 1976.


﻿7
(c)   If it is decided that the power station at Marqa is to be acquired
by JEA, all necessary legal action shall be completed by June 30, 1976 or such
other date as the Borrower and the Association shall agree, and the actual transfer
of all assets to JEA shall be accomplished by December 31, 1976 or such other
date as the Borrower and the Association shall agree.
(d)   Section 3.08 of the First Power Development Credit Agreement shall
be amended to read as provided in paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of this Section.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall ensure that reconditioning of the diesel
generating units installed on or before 1970 at the power station at Marqa, shall
be accomplished by, or under guidance and supervision of, JEA.
Section 3.05. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
prohibit the declaration or payment of dividends by JEA prior to January 1, 1979,
unless in the opinion of the Association such a distribution would not be prejudicial
to JEA's requirements for financing its expansion program.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall:
(a)   Present its proposals to the Legislature for enactment of a General
Electricity Law to regulate the power sector on or before December 31, 1975;
such law to set out the principles and basic requirements for inter alia generation,
transmission and distribution of power (including concessions and licenses), tariffs,
easements, inspection and testing, a unified accounting system, the collection of
statistics and the preparation of technical information.
(b)   Make available to the Association its proposals for the said Law
sufficiently in advance for the Association's comments.
(c)   Formulate such regulations or bylaws as may be necessary to achieve
the objectives of said Law including the delegation to JEA of regulatory functions
of a technical nature.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall consult the Association before presenting
its proposals to amend the JEA Law to the Legislature.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions
the following additional events are specified pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:


﻿8
(a)   JEA shall have failed to carry out any of its obligations under the
Project Agreement or the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(b)   JEA shall have become unable to pay its debts as they mature or
any action or proceedings shall have been taken by JEA or by others whereby
any of the property of JEA shall or may be distributed among its creditors;
(c)   The JEA Law shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed
or waived in such a way as to materially and adversely affect the ability of JEA
to fulfill its functions; and
(d)(i)            Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A)   The right of the Borrower or JEA      to withdraw the
proceeds of any grant or loan made to the Borrower or
JEA for the financing of the Project shall have been
suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or in part,
pursuant to the terms of the agreement providing therefor,
or
(B)   any such loan shall have become due and payable prior
to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii)        Subparagraph   (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the
Borrower or JEA establishes to the satisfaction of the
Association thaL; (A) such suspension, cancellation, termination
or prematuring is not caused by the failure of the Borrower
or JEA to perform any of its obligations under such agreement,
and (B) adequate funds for the Project are available to the
Borrower or JEA from other sources on terms and conditions
consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under this
Agreement and of JEA under the Project Agreement.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a)   the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement
shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall
have been given by the Association to the Borrower; and
(b)   the events specified in paragraphs (b) and (d) of Section 4.01 of this
Agreement shall occur.


﻿9
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 12.01(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   the execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on behalf of JEA
have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental
action;
(b)   the execution and delivery of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement on behalf
of the Borrower and JEA, respectively, have been duly authorized or ratified by
all necessary corporate and governmental action;
(c)   the introduction of adequate provisions, satisfactory to the Association,
as agreed by parties to this Agreement in Section 3.04 of the First Power
Development Credit Agreement, empowering JEA to adjust its charges for the sale
of electricity to cover additional operating expenses resulting from variations in
the price paid by JEA for residual fuel oil above an average price of JD7.5 per
ton; and, if considered appropriate, will allow the retail charges for the sale of
electricity to be adjusted accordingly; and
(d)   the Borrower's assurance satisfactory to the Association that funds have
been allocated for the financing of engineering and consultants' services for the
Project.
Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional matters within the
meaning of Section 12.02(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)   That the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of, JEA, and is legally binding upon JEA
in accordance with its terms; and
(b)   That the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and JEA, is
legally binding upon the Borrower and JEA in accordance with its terms.
Section 5.03. The date October 15, 1975 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿10
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The President of the National Planning Council of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03
of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
National Planning Council
P.O. Box 555
Amman
Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan
Cable address:
NPC
Amman
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed


﻿11
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
By /s/ Abdullah Salah
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ M. P. Benjenk
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Afica


﻿12
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of imported items to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit
to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed
in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)   Civil Works                    300,000            10%
(2)   Electrical- and              4,20000             30% of foreign
Mechanical-Works,                                 expenditures
and Associated Ser-
vices for Part A. 1
of the Project
(Zarqa construction)
(3)   Study described in              50,000           25% of foreign
Part B of the Pro-                                expenditures
ject
(4)   Consultants' Ser-              150,000           15% of foreign
vices                                             expenditures
(5)   Unallocated                    300,000
TOTAL        5,000,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule the term "foreign expenditures" means
expenditures in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other than the
Borrower.


﻿13
3.    The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compliance with the
policy of the Association that no proceeds of the Credit shall be disbursed on
account of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on
goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof; to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit decreases or increases,
the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or decrease the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such item as required to be consistent
with the aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except
that withdrawals may be made in respect of Categories (3) and (4) on account
of expenditures incurred after March 1, 1975 in an aggregate amount not exceeding
the equivalent of $100,000.
5.    Notwithstanding the allocation   of an amount of the Credit or the
disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph I above, if the
Association has reasonably estimated that the amount of the Credit then allocated
to any Category will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then allocated to another Category and
which in the opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expenditures,
and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that further
withdrawals under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
6.    If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the procurement
of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association under the
Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Credit as, in the Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿14
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following:
A.    Generation
1.    Construction of a steam-electric generating unit at Zarqa with
an aggregate generating capacity of about 33 MW; associated
facilities including those for fuel transfer from the adjacent
refinery and storage facilities, a substation and personnel
housing.
2.    Reconditioning the diesel-electric power station at Marqa.
B.    Studies
The South Jordan Power Development Study.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1978.


