Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 13410-ALB
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ALBANIA
URBAN WORKS AND MICROENTERPRISE PILOT PROJECT
JUNE 30, 1995
Agriculture and Urban Development Operations
Central Europe Department
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit = Lek
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATES
1987-90   1991    1992    1993    1994   1995 (March)
US$1.00= Leks    8       15      70     102      95        93
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ALBANIA: FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
ADF      Albanian Development Fund
ASAC      Agriculture Sector Adjustment Credit
EU      European Union
GDP      Gross Domestic Product
IDA     International Development Association
IFAD      International Fund for Agricultural Development
IMF      International Monetary Fund
MOF      Ministry of Finance
MOLSP       Ministry of Labor and Social Protection
NGO      Non-Governmental Organization
OED      Operations Evaluation Department
PHRD      Policy and Human Resources Development Fund
(formerly, Japanese Grant Facility)
PY     Project Year
RCB      Rural Commercial Bank
RDF      Rural Development Fund
RPAPP      Rural Poverty Alleviation Pilot Project
SME      Small and Medium Enterprise Program (EU-PHARE)
TEEF      Training, Enterprise, and Employment Fund
UNDP       United Nations Development Program
USAID      United States Agency for International Development
VCF      Village Credit Fund



ALBANIA
URBAN WORKS AND MICROENTERPRISE PILOT PROJECT
CONTENTS
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY  ....................................   i
CHAPTER I. ALBANIA'S CHALLENGE:
DEVELOPING EMPLOYMENT IN A MARKET ECONOMY  ... ..... 1
A. Background .             ............................................... I
B. An Emerging Private Sector .....................................   2
C. Government's Interim  Strategy  ...................................  5
D. Using the Experience of the Rural Poverty Alleviation Pilot Project ....                   ........  6
E. The Urban Works and Microenterprise Program   ........................   7
F. The Pre-Pilot Phase  ..........................................   8
G. Rationale for IDA Involvement ..................................    10
CHAPTER  II.   THE PROJECT   ....... ...........1....................   11
A. Objectives .           ...............................................  11
B. Pilot Project Description  ......................................   11
C. Detailed Features  ..........................................   12
D. Pilot Project Cost and Financing  .................................   14
E. Environmental Impact ........................................   16
CHAPTER  HI.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION    ..........                              ..        ..............    17
A. Project Management .........................................   17
B.   Procurement  ..............................................                                        18
C. Disbursements  ............................................   21
D. Supervision, Monitoring, and Reporting  ............................   22
CHAPTER  IV.   BENEFITS AND RISKS   ................................   25
A. Benefits .            ................................................ 25
B. Risks .          .................................................. 25
CHAPTER V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  ... ....... 27
This report is based on findings of an appraisal mission that visited Albania in April/May 1994. The mission
comprised Maria Nowak (Iask Manager, EC2AW); Kathryn Funk (Operations Officer, EC2AW); and Consultants
Luc Lefevre (Credit); Pierre Marie Berard (Infrastructure); and Jean-Marie Collombon (Microenterprises). The
mission was assisted by the staff of the Rural Development Fund, especially by the Executive Director, Genc Juka,
and the Deputy Directors. Johanna Eigen (Intern, EC2AU) contributed to this report. Richard Huber and
Aleathea Thomas (EC2AU) was responsible for document processing. The Peer Reviewers are Alexandre Marc
(EC4HR), Leila Webster (PSD), and Jacob Yaron (AGRAP). Rory O'Sullivan is the Division Chief and Kemal
Dervis is the Department Director.
Ihbis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.                   l



TABLES
Table 1.1: Municipalities with Largest Percentage of Economic Assistance Recipients ...   .....  3
Table 1.2: Estimated Costs of Four-Year Urban Works and Microenterprise Program  ...      .....  8
Table 2.1: Summary of Project Costs by Component ...........................   14
Table 2.2: Summary of Project Costs by Category of Expenditure ...................  15
Table 2.3: Sources of Project Financing  ...................................   15
Table 3.1: Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements ......................  20
Table 3.2: Expected IDA Disbursements ...................................   21
Table 3.3: Disbursement Categories ......................................  22
Table 4.1: Project Immediate and Long-Term Benefits ...........................  25
ANNEXES
Annex A   Data on Unemployment Benefits and Economic Assistance
Annex B   Project Cost Tables
Annex C   Government Decision to Establish Albanian Development Fund
(Decision 427, September 8, 1994)
Annex D   Urban Works Component
Annex E   Small-Scale Credit and Microenterprise Support Component
Annex F   Implementation Plan: Key Dates



ALBANIA
URBAN WORKS AND MICROENTERPRISE PILOT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Government of Albania
Executing Agency:   Albanian Development Fund'
Benericiaries:       Urban inhabitants of eight pilot municipalities
Credit Amount:       SDR 2.6 million (US$4.0 million equivalent)
Terms:               Forty years maturity with a ten year grace period. Credit proceeds will be lent
to the Government at the standard IDA charge.
Onlending Rate:      The proceeds of the credit would be made available to the Albanian Development
Fund on a grant basis. Subloans to microentrepreneurs would be provided at
commercial interest rates.
Project Objectives:   The pilot project would help the Government to develop a five-year program to
boost employment and small-scale economic activity in urban areas, based on the
successful approach of the Rural Poverty Alleviation Pilot Project (Cr. 2461-
ALB). Objectives of the proposed five-year Urban Works and Microenterprise
Pilot Program would be (a) to create employment and stimulate private-sector
activity in urban areas; (b) to repair basic urban infrastructure; (c) to promote
microenterprises; and (d) to assist local governments obtain the skills they need
for promoting economic development in the long term.
Project Description:  The pilot project would test approaches to the program's implementation during
its first two years. Pilot project components are:
(a) Establish the necessary implementation framework for the proposed
program by expanding the existing Rural Development Fund into an
Albanian Development Fund.
(b) Urban works. Organize approximately 30 public works, which would
rehabilitate small infrastructure, create needed market facilities, or address
environmental problems.
(c) Small-scale credit and microenterprise support. Disburse approximately
2,000 small loans (US$300-5,000) to potential microentrepreneurs and test
credit delivery methods. In addition, provide technical and business advice
to potential microentrepreneurs and test about five microenterprise
demonstration projects in key subsectors.
I/    The Albanian Development fund was established by the Council of Ministers as the successor to the Rural
Development Fund (Government decision 427, September 8, 1994).



- 11 -
(d) Studies and training. Studies would be undertaken to evaluate project
impact. Training and study tours would be used to help local governments
to acquire the skills needed for promoting long-term local development.
Environmental
Aspects:            The project has been placed in environmental screening category "B," consistent
with provisions of Operational Directive 4.01. The extremely small scale of
project activities makes any significant negative environmental impact unlikely.
Some public works could have an environmental focus.  Environmental
guidelines and checklists for rural works developed under the Rural Poverty
Alleviation Pilot Project (RPAPP) would be adapted for urban infrastructure
subprojects.
Benefits:           Direct and immediate benefits would flow from the labor-intensive public works,
which would inject cash resources into the urban economy and create over 5,000
months of employment, and the small loans, which would allow potential
microentrepreneurs to undertake income-generating activities. Improved urban
infrastructure would help provide an environment conducive to increased trade
and market activity. By focusing on microenterprise development, the project
would boost market activities in urban areas, while benefiting the most needy.
The demonstration projects to be initiated by private entrepreneurs would
introduce practical, sustainable models of microenterprises that are widely
replicable and would promote new forms of production and marketing. By
training municipal officials, the project would also provide the framework for
improved long-term local development and planning by municipalities.
Risks:              Potential risks include deterioration in the macroeconomic environment and
political interference. Political risks would be minimized by paying special
attention to the establishment and use of written operational guidelines. The
development of an appropriate mechanism for credit delivery would be critical
to the component's success; careful follow-up and monitoring of the credit
program would be undertaken to mitigate design and repayment risks. Project
implementation capacity is considered adequate given the experience under the
RPAPP. Project-specific risk should be minimized because the project would be
built with the full participation of local authorities and stakeholders. Moreover,
the process approach provides for continuous adjustment of the program in
accordance with local needs and constraints, as long as project feedback is
effectively incorporated.



- iii -
Estimated Project Cost:
USS '000 cauivalent I
Project Component                     Local      Poreign      Total      Percent
Urban Works                          1,422        314        1,736         41
Small Credit & Microenterprise Support  1,546  _  247        1,794         43
Studies / Local Govt. Training         22          86         108           3
Implementation Support                 303        260         563          13
Total Base Costs                  3,293        907       4,200         100
Physical Contingencies                  86         44         132           3
Price Contingencies                     55          13         68           2
Total Project Costs               3,437        963       4,400         105
I - Figures may not total exactly due to rounding.
Financing Plan:
US$ millon equivalent
Local    Foreign    Total    Percent
Govemment                 0.4       0.0        0.4      10
IDA                       2.8        1.2       4.0      90
ToW Financing          3.2       1.2       4.4      100
Estimated IDA Disbursements:
USS million equivalent
FY96       FY97        PY98        PY99
Annual              0.8         I.5         1.5         0.2
Cumulative          0.8         2.3         3.8         4.0
Poverty Category:    Program of Targeted Interventions. The project would address poverty reduction
by targeting urban residents who are unemployed or receiving economic
assistance.
Map:                     IBRD No. 26122, Country map of Albania showing pilot municipalities
Project ID:              AL-PA-3418



I



ALBANIA
URBAN WORKS AND MICROENTERPRISE PILOT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CHAPTER I. ALBANIA'S CHALLENGE:
DEVELOPING EMPLOYMENT IN A MARKET ECONOMY
A. Background
1.1   Economic Collapse. Albania's recent emergence from forty-five years of strict central planning
and self-imposed isolation was accompanied by a severe economic crisis. With no alternative economic
institutions in place, the abolishment of central planning resulted in a collapse of production
unprecedented even for Eastern Europe: GDP fell by 40 percent from 1990 to mid-1992, the
Government's budget deficit ballooned to 44 percent of GDP in the first half of 1992, and inflation
spiraled to 10-15 percent a month. Once an agricultural exporter, Albania became heavily dependent on
food aid. Perhaps hardest hit was Albania's industrial sector; budget restrictions and lack of financial
discipline, failure to adapt to the market economy, and, in many cases, obsolete equipment led to a 20
percent real industrial output decline in 1990, followed by a 37 percent decline in 1991, and a 60 percent
decline in 1992.
1.2   Stabilization of the Macroeconomic Environment. Shortly after the first fully democratic
elections in Albania in March 1992, the Government embarked on a comprehensive program of reforms.
In accordance with a twelve-month IMF stand-by arrangement, the Government's program included
stabilization measures and structural reforms to initiate the move toward a market economy. The budget
deficit was cut in half, strict monetary targets were enforced, interest rates were increased, and the
automatic extension of bank credit to state enterprises was stopped. All food and agriculture prices were
freed, save for four basic items, whose prices were increased 200-500 percent. The currency was floated,
private exchange transactions legalized, and all current account transactions liberalized.  Quick
mobilization of international aid supported the program.
1.3    After Government's adoption of this comprehensive program of reforms in mid-1992, the
macroeconomic environment stabilized: inflation fell dramatically, agricultural production increased, and
the Lek remained fairly stable. In June 1993, the Government adopted a medium-term economic program
in consultation with the IMF and World Bank that established an ambitious program of reforms for 1993-
1996 to further reduce financial imbalances and bring about a structural transformation of the economy.
In mid-1994, the Government assessed the initial implementation of its program and, in light of the
positive results, adopted more ambitious macroeconomic objectives for 1994-1997.
1.4    While further progress on a number of key structural reforms is still necessary, the
macroeconomic stabilization program has reached-even surpassed-its principle objectives. Spiraling
inflation has been reversed (1994 inflation was about 15 percent, 1995 inflation is projected at 10
percent), the Government's budget deficit has been slashed (13 percent of GDP in 1994, 14 percent of
GDP projected for 1995), and the severe fall in production has been halted-1993 real GDP growth was
11 percent, 1994 growth was 7 percent, and 1995 growth is projected at 6 percent. The challenge now
is to turn the early success of the stabilization program into the development of a strong market economy.



B. An Emerging Private Sector
1.5    The private sector, nonexistent prior to 1991, is now estimated to constitute more than 60 percent
of GDP, an impressive increase largely attributable to the rapid privatization of agriculture (agriculture
accounts for 50 percent of value added). Until privatization began in 1991, agricultural production was
dominated by the cooperatives-which held 76 percent of arable land-and the state farms, with 24
percent. Excluding land that is unsuitable for arable farming and will be reclassified as pasture land, 98
percent of agricultural land has now been privatized, creating over 400,000 private farm families. As
a result of this rapid privatization and of price liberalization, the agricultural sector achieved growth of
18 percent in 1992, 14 percent in 1993, and nearly 7 percent in 1994.
1.6   In contrast to the recovery of agriculture, the industrial sector-which once accounted for 45
percent of gross income and 24 percent of the labor force-remains in an almost total state of collapse,
and registered yet another output decline in 1993 (10 percent) and in 1994 (2 percent).2 There are about
300 large state-owned enterprises, most of which are operating at a fraction of their capacity. The
Government has created an Enterprise Restructuring Agency to restructure-and eventually privatize (or
liquidate)-thirty of the most serious cases. The Government is also engaged in a mass privatization
program that intends to accelerate the privatization of ownership, particularly of medium and large
enterprises, during 1995-96.
1.7    Small and medium enterprises have been the most dynamic sector in Albania. There are about
46,000 registered private enterprises employing 117,000 persons (78 percent have only one employee).3
Of these 46,000 enterprises, 20 percent are located in Tirana, and 54 percent are involved with trade.
In March 1995, the private sector accounted for 96 percent of total imports and 56 percent of total
exports.
1.8    Urban Unemployment.  It will take considerable time before industry is privatized and
modernized and able to again absorb a large part of the urban labor force. Meanwhile, urban
unemployment is a critical-and growing-problem. In March 1995, about 16 percent of Albania's
estimated labor force was registered as unemployed; 4 percent was registered as unemployed in rural
areas, and 34 percent in urban areas, where 40 percent of Albania's population lives. Registration is not
obligatory and could underestimate true unemployment.4 On average, 6 percent of the urban labor force
receives unemployment benefits; benefits are paid for a maximum of twelve months, and most benefits
expired in 1993 and early 1994. There was a 38 percent drop in the number of recipients of
unemployment benefits from  December 1993 to April 1994 (see Annex A.1).  Nevertheless,
unemployment is a persistent problem as state-owned enterprises continue to downsize or liquidate.
1.9    Economic Assistance. A comprehensive economic assistance program (ndihmn ekonomike) went
into effect on July 1, 1993. Administered by municipalities and communes, it provides support toward
a minimum family income. In 19 of Albania's forty-four municipalities, over 20 percent of families
receive economic assistance, as shown in Table 1.1 and Annex A.2. However, since ndihme ekonomike
is funded by a block-grant from the central government (it is not an open-ended needs-based program),
_/    In all, industrial production has fallen by 82 percent since 1989.
3/    Institute of Statistics, March 1995.
41    It particularly underestimates rural unemployment (and undertmploymont)--i-cooperaeivo workers are not eligible
for unemployment benefits and therefore are not motivated to register with the Ministry of Labor.



- 3 -
it could underrepresent poverty-not all eligible families receive the arnount to which are theoretically
entitled. Monthly fluctuations in the number of families reflect changes in budget allocations and
implementation capacity rather than changes in family income. Faced with limited resources for the
program, local governments may choose to give a greater number of families partial benefits, or a fewer
number full benefits.
1.10   About 25 percent of the urban labor force depends on unemployment benefits or ndihml
ekonomike, burdening Albania's meager budget resources. In 1994, about US$71 million-16 percent
of Albania's total budget expenditures-were spent on unemployment compensation and ndihm.9
ekonomike. Flexible programs need to be introduced that combine poverty alleviation with private-sector
development.
TABLE 1.1: MUNICIPALITIES WITH LARGEST PERCENTAGE OF ECONOMIC ASSISTANCE RECIPIENTS
Municipality (and District)  Population   Families Receiving    % of Population Supported by
Economic Assistance a/    Econonic Assistance b/
Koplik (Malesia e Madhe)       3,400              693                   82%
Rrogozhine (Kavaje)            3,500              471                   54%
Kukes (Kukes)                 18,500            2,170                   47%
Shkoder (Shkoder)             87,100            6,467                   30%
Lac (Lac)                     22,600            1,307                   23%
Kavaje (Kavaje)               26,300            1,531                   23%
Corovode (Skrapar)             8,500              596                   28%
Bajran Curri (Tropoje)         9,500              643                   27%
Lushnje (Lushnje)            40,300             2,485                   25%
Cerrik (Elbasan)              12,400              744                   24%
Pogradec (Pogradec)          23,700             1,407                   24%
Lezha (Lezha)                 13,900              822                   24%
Rreshen (Mirdite)             13,400              790                   24%
Peshkopi (Diber)              15,200              896                   24%
Puke (Puke)                    5,700              333                   23%
Elbasan (Elbasan)             94,200            5,361                   23%
Berat (Berat)                 48,400            2,674                   22%
Polican (Skraper)             10,300              558                   22%
Gmrmsh (Gnunsh)               12,600              664                   21%
Source: MOLSP.
a - Data for October, November, or December 1994, depending on availability for individual
municipalities.
b - Assumes average family size = 4.
1.11    Programs to Support Small and Medium  Enterprises. There are three main programs that
support small and medium enterprises in Albania: I
(a) The ORT Hunan Resource Development Program, financed by USAID, has provided adult
training to about 3,000 Albanians-especially ex-political prisoners-since its inception in
January 1992. The program, which is currently established in the municipalities of Tirana,
Durres, Vlora, and Shkoder, offers six to twelve week courses on topics that include
5/      See also Annex E, pams. 29-38.



- 4 -
cosmetology, English, secretarial skills, tourism, and auto mechanics.  The program is
expected to end in 1996.
(b) The EU-funded SME Development Project provides credit, training, and business advice to
small and medium-scale enterprises. During its first phase, which began in February 1992,
about 155 loans were disbursed averaging US$10,000, but loan recovery was very
unsatisfactory. The project was recently restructured, and is expected to disburse larger loans
(average size US$15,000) during its second phase.
(c) The Training, Enterprise, and Employment Fund (TEEF) was created in May 1993 under the
IDA-financed Labor Market Development Project to finance adult training courses and job-
insertion subprojects and the creation of small business incubators and small business clubs.
Adult training is offered on a demand-driven basis for such activities as computer training,
cooking, and construction. Job-insertion subprojects assist enterprises by financing three
months of training for a minimum of twenty new employees. Participating enterprises, which
may be foreign or local, include shoe and clothing manufacturers, construction companies,
and bakeries.
There remains an important need and opportunity, however, to assist microenterprise development, such
as self employment or economic activities requiring less than US$5,000 in investment.
1.12   The Potential for Microenterprise Development. Many of those currently unemployed could,
if given access to credit and proper technical support, become microentrepreneurs, either starting a small
trade activity or using their professional skills for services or production; a wide range of activities are
still needed to replace activities formerly undertaken by the state. Potential microbusiness activities that
have been identified include: small trade, services (repairing of television sets, bicycles, etc.), artisanal
production of all types (soap, carpets, candles, furniture, sweets, tailoring, shoe making), and basic
construction and rehabilitation. Potential microentrepreneurs are constrained, however, by lack of credit,
business know-how, and appropriate small-scale technology.
1.13   Potential microentrepreneurs do not have access to formal bank credit, and informal credit,
provided at an interest rate of 5-10 percent monthly, is available mainly for large trade activities (greater
than US$10,000).6 Microentrepreneurs currently must rely on remittances from family members abroad
or very small loans from relatives. Many of those currently unemployed or receiving economic
assistance, however, have no access to such sources. Consequently, there is a very large potential
clientele for loans between US$300 and US$5,000 for developing services, trade, and small production
activities, and there is currently no program in Albania for delivering credit to such clients.
1.14   Urban Infrastructure. Meanwhile, urban infrastructure-poor to begin with-is deteriorating,
thereby providing a further obstacle to market development, and it is coming under increasing pressure
from migration. (A part of the rural population in isolated mountain areas with insufficient arable land
will inevitably migrate, and despite government attempts to discourage migration, squatter settlements
have already formed in most urban centers.) Large infrastructure projects, such as water supply and
sanitation, remain largely the concern of the central government and are being addressed by projects such
as the IDA-supported Durres Water Supply Rehabilitation Project. In accordance with the Government's
policy of decentralization and deconcentration of central government operations, however, significant
economic and administrative authority is being transferred and delegated to local government, including
infrastructure investment and maintenance.
6/     For an overview of formal and informal credit in Albania, see Annex E, pamas. 6-28.



- 5 -
1.15   Local Government in Transition. The June 1992 Law on the Functioning and Administration
of Local Goverrunent (No. 7572) reorganized and gave greater powers to local governments, especially
to the 44 newly-created municipalities and 312 communes. There are still many issues of local
government and decentralization to be resolved, including, importantly, local budget and finance.' While
the final outcome of decentralization is yet to be determined, it is already clear that local government,
having no previous experience in market-economy administration and few resources, is ill-equipped to
handle the responsibilities being transferred and delegated. Most roads and other urban infrastructure are
now the responsibility of districts and newly-created municipalities. Municipalities are not only
unprepared to undertake proper maintenance, but probably unable to address the many new infrastructural
needs associated with privatization and a market economy. Nor can local government be expected to
develop the very innovative local development programs desperately needed to initiate and nurture a
private sector.
C. Government's Interim Strategy
1.16   To complement its policy of economic stabilization at the macro level, the Government has
endorsed a strategy of restarting urban economic activity and boosting employment-on a free-market
basis-from the bottom up. This approach, which seeks to fill in the gaps of existing programs, focuses
on:
Actively alleviating unemployment: The high unemployment rate now existing in urban areas
is likely to increase as more state-owned enterprises shut down or restructure and as families
living in isolated rural areas migrate to urban centers. The first challenge for the Government
is to develop employment and prevent the creation of severe urban poverty and large income
inequalities. A second opportunity is to restore the value of work and entrepreneurship while
gradually cutting dependency on the state maintained by ndihme ekonomike (economic assistance).
Promoting the small private sector: Privatizing and restructuring state enterprises will require
time, capital, and management capabilities. Privatization should be complemented by a small
business development policy, which requires introducing new models of production, opening
access to credit, and organizing marketing networks. While informal sector activities are a first
positive sign of economic initiative, such activities should gradually move to the formal sector
and contribute to the tax base.
Repairing basic urban infrastructure: Adequate infrastructure is a prerequisite for economic
and social development; yet, practically all municipalities lack basic market facilities, and existing
infrastructure is severely dilapidated. Some of the rehabilitation and construction work required
in urban areas can be undertaken in conjunction with public works, employing local labor to
alleviate poverty, or in conjunction with programs to encourage microenterprise development.
Strengthening local governments:  The newly-created municipalities lack both financial
resources and experience in local development practices within a market-driven economy.
Making financial resources available for infrastructure investment responds to their immediate
needs; training, exchanges, and other support will introduce improved methods of local economic
development.
7/    See Fucal Decentrazation ad Intergovemmenal Finances in the Republc of Albania, David Sewell and Christine 1.
WaUlich, Policy Rescarch Working Paper 1384, November 1994.



- 6 -
D. Using the Experience of the Rural Poverty Alleviation Pilot Project
1.17   Help for the poor in rural areas, which is being addressed by the IDA-supported Rural Poverty
Alleviation Pilot Project (RPAPP)l provides some guidance on how to deal with the problem in urban
areas. The RPAPP became effective in April 1993, following six months of pre-pilot actions funded by
the UNDP and a French NGO. An autonomous agency, the Rural Development Fund, was established
by Government to implement the RPAPP's three components-(a) rural works; (b) small-scale credit; and
(c) studies, training, and transfer of technology. The Rural Development Fund has subsequently been
transformed by Government into the Albanian Development Fund (ADF). Under the pilot project
operational procedures and mechanisms of technical and financial control were developed. Bank
experience to date has been extremely good, and the findings of an OED performance audit were highly
positive.9 Overall, the participatory, process approach has proven an effective method by which to
develop a grassroots, demand-driven project in Albania's transition environment, while providing for
rapid and visible results. The project has demonstrated that local government-communes and
villages-are reliable partners, and that basic project methodology for rural works and small-scale credit
appears effective.
1.18   Rural Works. As of June 1, 1995, 188 labor-intensive works in 135 communes and 24 districts
have been financed (91 of which are completed) at an average cost of US$16,000 per subproject. The
rehabilitated infrastructure is directly benefitting a population of 300,000, and corresponds to over
600,000 days of employment (wages have averaged 30 percent of subproject cost). Subprojects are
demand driven according to the needs of villages, and the works are carried out by communes, which
sign contracts with the ADF and hire unemployed village workers for unskilled labor. Subprojects are
closely supervised by ADF engineers, and commune technical staff receive appropriate training in
planning, costing, and implementing infrastructure rehabilitation projects in a market-economy
environment. To assure adequate maintenance of the rehabilitated infrastructure, user associations and
maintenance funds are being created when appropriate.
1.19   Village Credit Funds. Under the RPAPP, village credit funds (VCF) are established to provide
small loans (average size US$350) for income-generating activity. As of May 1, 1995, 63 VCFs have
disbursed 3,121 subloans. The ADF establishes the VCF in the RCB. A village credit committee,
comprised of at least three elected village officials and a representative of the ADF, makes loan decisions,
determines collateral, and supervises loan repayment. Village solidarity is an important loan repayment
incentive: loan default may result in loss of the credit line for the village. Loan repayment, which started
in November 1993, has been nearly 100 percent (it has been 100 percent in all but one village). Savings
mobilization is now being tested under the component.
1.20   Transfer of Technology. Experimental actions to transfer small-scale technology were started
in late 1993. Three potential agroprocessing demonstration projects were identified, one of which-a goat
cheese production/demonstration unit-is expected to be fully operational in 1995.
8/     The foUow -up Rural Development Project (Cr. 2680-ALB), which would fuiance a core program to continue and
expand RPAPP components for thuee years, was approved by the Bank's Board of Directors on Februazy 14, 1995
and became effective on May 23, 1995. The total project cost im US$12 million, of which US$6.0 million is an IDA
credit.
9/     An OED mnission was undertaken from June 6-10, 1994 to evaluate the pilot project prior to the appraisal of the full-
scale project. The PPAR was presented to the Board of Directors in January 1995.



1.21   Lessons Learned. The overall lessons learned from the RPAPP are: (a) a bottom-up, 'learning-
by-doing" approach is an effective method for developing a flexible, demand-driven project in a transition
economy while providing for immediate and visible results; it provides for built-in adaptability to a
changing environment; and (b) the participation of beneficiaries in the design of programs can lead to
greater ownership and reduced risk, especially regarding credit.
E. The Urban Works and Microenterprise Program
1.22   The government has requested that a program similar to the Rural Poverty Alleviation Program
be developed to respond to the serious problems of unemployment and poverty in urban areas, created
by the difficult transition process. Like the Rural Poverty Alleviation Program, the proposed Urban
Works and Microenterprise Program would be built from the bottom up, first identifying the needs and
constraints of the municipalities and potential microentrepreneurs, then working with them to develop
methods and procedures. Project activities would be adjusted continually according to feedback and
results.
1.23   The proposed program is being implemented in a phased way as follows:
Phase 1
Pre-pilot phase, underway since February 1994, is testing organizational and technical
approaches; financing is being provided by a Japanese PHRD grant (US$400,000); the UNDP
(US$100,000); the Foundation pour le Progres de L'Homme, a Swiss foundation (US$100,000);
and Freres d'Esperance, a French NGO (US$13,000).
Phase 2
Pilot phase, to be supported by IDA and Government (US$4.4 million), would focus on further
testing and designing project components for two years; activities would be focused in selected
municipalities. This is the project described in this Staff Appraisal Report.
Phase 3
Full-scale project, amounting to approximately US$18 million, could be cofinanced by IDA and
other donors if the pilot phase is successful and if the Government decides to continue project
activities. It would extend the project to all remaining urban areas for an additional three years.
1.24   This process approach allows the program to be adjusted to local needs and constraints as the
lessons drawn from each phase are used to prepare the next one. It will also allow for-in fact
encourage-participation by local people and institutions.
1.25   The proposed Urban Works and Microenterprise Program would take about five years and would
cost about US$22 million.  During this period, about 120 urban infrastructure subprojects would be
realized, the average cost of which is estimated at US$48,000 the first year, rising to US$63,000 in the
fourth year. On average, the program would finance three or four subprojects per municipality, enough
to have a significant impact but still far below the real needs. The program would also finance over
8,000 small credits and would provide technical or business advice to over 1,000 microentrepreneurs.
Estimated component costs are shown in Table 1.2.



- 8 -
TABLE 1.2: ESTIMATED COSTS OF FOUR-YEAR URBAN WORKS AND MICROENTERPRISE PROGRAM
(US$ MILLION)
Component                                      US$ million       Percent
Urban Works                                        9.0             41
Small-Scale Credit and Microenterprise Support     9.4             43
Studies and Local Govt Training                    0.7              3
Implementation Support                             2.9             13
(Albanian Development Fund)
TOTAL                           22.0             100
1.26   A Modular Approach. The pilot project and full-scale program lend themselves easily to a
modular approach, whereby project area and component intensity can be scaled in accordance with
financing resources available. For example, the pilot project could be expanded if supplemental
cofinancing is secured, as was the case for the Rural Poverty Alleviation Pilot Project when supplemental
cofinancing from the Italian Government was used to finance additional project districts.10
F. The Pre-Pilot Phase "
1.27   The pre-pilot phase of the Urban Works and Microenterprise Program, which began in February
1994 under the responsibility of the RDF, is contributing valuable experience for the development of
project components.
1.28   Urban works. Two infrastructure subprojects have been carried out during the pre-pilot
phase-the rehabilitation of Shkoder's central market (floor slabs and installation of water and
electricity-US$46,000) and the rehabilitation of a marketplace in Shijak (US$30,000). In Shkoder, the
subproject was undertaken by a private contractor selected by local shopping; in Shijak, a recently-
established private enterprise was selected to encourage private-sector growth. A second phase of the
rehabilitation of the Shkoder market (installation of market stalls and rehabilitation of the meat
market-about US$110,000) is expected to begin in June 1995, partly financed by pre-pilot funds. These
subprojects have contributed to the development of an urban works methodology. The Shijak subproject
was halted due to land re-privatization conflicts, which has led to a redesign of the model contract to be
used between the ADF and municipalities. The main differences between rural and urban works are: (a)
In urban areas, it is difficult to organize the participation of inhabitants in selecting the subprojects, as
practiced in villages. Rather, the subprojects are proposed by the municipal governments. (b) Given the
magnitude of municipal infrastructural needs, subprojects represent a smaller relative impact than in
villages. However, the long-term impact of training local government staff is more important in cities.
(c) In urban areas, there is a rapid growth in private contractors to carry out civil works, which is not
yet the case in isolated rural areas where local shopping procedures are used only for materials. Working
10/    As of May 1995, the EU Phare is considering to finance a U$10 million Local Communities Program, which would
consist of rural and urban works (infrastructure rehabilitation), and which could be implemented by the Albanian
Development Fund.
11/    Experience under the pre-pilot phase is described in more detail in Annexes D and E.



- 9 -
with private construction companies costs about 30 percent more than the methods currently used in rural
areas.
1.29   Small-Scale Credit. Four Albanian staff were recruited and have received preliminary on-the-job
training in credit and small business promotion. Their first tasks have been to: identify the target
population; assess its needs in terms of credit; and carry out preliminary market studies. Contacts have
been made with credit clients by posting announcements and through the assistance of municipality offices
responsible for paying unemployment benefits and economic assistance. Under the pre-pilot phase so far,
62 loans have been approved at an average of US$1,900 per loan, ranging from US$600 to US$3,000.
The activities being financed include a small pharmacy, small-scale production, transport, and ice-cream
and food shops. The rate of interest is 24 percent, in line with commercial interest rates, and loan
duration has averaged ten months. Several types of guarantees are being tested, including a community
guarantee (for the gypsy community), solidarity groups for women, notarized contracts, and character
referrals. Loans are approved by a Credit Committee, which currently comprises the Director of the
Rural Credit Department, the head of the Urban Credit team, and a bank representative.
1.30   Pre-pilot phase experience confirms that there is a high demand for small-scale credit in urban
areas. It has also allowed training of credit staff and experimentation with credit delivery mechanisms.
The first results of repayment are encouraging, although intense follow-up of borrowers has been
necessary. Except for the gypsy community, the solidarity group approach is not easy to implement
because of the weakness of social cohesion in urban areas.
1.31   Microenterprise Support. A knitting demonstration subproject, which was initiated in Shkoder
in cooperation with the municipality and a private Italian enterprise, has proved more difficult to
implement than originally expected and has provided an important experience for the development of this
kind of component. The subproject intended to train about twenty women on small knitting machines,
after which the machines would be sold to them on credit to establish a cottage industry. There was
initially considerable interest in the subproject and demand for the training slots was high; once trained,
however, the women showed extremely risk-averse behavior and reluctancy to work independently at
home. This experience highlighted the difficulties of changing previous state-sector workers, accustomed
to low-productivity and lack of initiative, into private entrepreneurs. The training, which focused only
on technical skills, did not take into account the difficult psychological transition from a low-productivity
laborer to a productivity-oriented entrepreneur. The subproject showed that a top-down approach is not
appropriate, and helped to redefine microenterprise support activities toward support for private bottom-
up initiatives.
1.32  In addition, a first identification of subsectors for microenterprise promotion was carried out,
focusing on wood processing in Tirana, kilim production in Kavaje, apparel in Berat, and handicrafts in
Shkoder. Production of bricks and tiles initiated by a small group of landless farmers near Shkoder has
received some credit and technical support.
1.33   Linking Rural and Urban Programs. One of most important features of the transition period
is that the state-organized marketing network has broken down and a new marketing network has not yet
emerged. A sectoral approach is not sufficient to recreate the imbricated linkages that make an economy
work. Linking rural and urban programs may help in organizing private sector supply and marketing in
both rural and urban areas.
1.34   A Common Institution: the Albanian Development Fund. The pre-pilot phase of the Urban
Works and Microenterprise Pilot Program is being carried out by the Albanian Development Fund, an



- 10-
autonomous agency created by Government decree to execute the RPAPP. Using the same agency for
the Urban Works and Microenterprise Program will: (a) allow for better communication of experience
and better coordination between the two programs; and (b) reduce  overhead costs as regards
administration, financial management, monitoring, studies, and microenterprise support (para. 3.1).
G. Rationale for IDA Involvement
1.35   The project is consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy for Albania discussed by the Board
in August 1993, which called for "a flexible strategy that responds quickly to new information while
maintaining an overall framework that promotes (i) stability; and (ii) new entrepreneurship and private
initiative." The project's small-scale credit and microenterprise support components would assist in
developing new entrepreneurship and private initiative, while the urban works component would enhance
stability by providing immediate and visible results. The project's approach is flexible, allowing
components to be adapted to Albania's changing environment during the transition period.
1.36   The project would complement on-going IDA-financed projects in Albania. It would provide an
urban counterpart to the Rural Development Project, which became effective on May 23, 1995, and
linkages could be established between the two projects. The project addresses the need for rapid
intervention during Albania's transition to a market-based economy, compatible with short-term macro
stabilization. Main IDA-supported projects address structural change at the national level (such as ASAC,
the Social Safety Net Development Project, and the Labor Market Development Project) or major
infrastructure needs (such as the Housing Project and the Irrigation Rehabilitation Project). The proposed
Urban Works and Microenterprise Program would provide an interim approach for dealing with a serious
employment and poverty problem in the urban areas by providing immediate and visible results, while
providing time for longer-term, sustainable measures to take root.



- 11 -
CHAPTER II. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives
2.1    The proposed five-year Urban Works and Microenterprise Program would have the following
main objectives:
*  to create both immediate and long-term employment in urban areas through public works
and by assisting private-sector development;
*  to repair basic urban infrastructure, which would improve the quality of urban life and
help provide the infrastructure necessary for a market economy;
*  to assist in the development of microenterprises by providing small-scale credit and
technical and business advice; and
*  to assist local governments obtain local development skills through training.
2.2    The objectives of the pilot project are to set up an appropriate implementation framework and test
approaches to the implementation of the program during its first two years.
B. Pilot Project Description
2.3   To support the above objectives, the pilot project would finance the following components:
(a) Urban works. Organize approximately 30 public works that would rehabilitate small
infrastructure, create needed market facilities, or address small environmental problems.
(b) Small-scale credit and microenterprise support. Disburse approximately 2,000 small loans
(US$300-5,000), testing sustainable methods of providing small credit to potential
microentrepreneurs. Provide technical and business advice to microentrepreneurs, and test
about five small microenterprise demonstration projects initiated by private entrepreneurs in
key subsectors to transfer know-how, technology, and new methods of supply and marketing;
(d) Studies and training. Studies would be undertaken to evaluate project impact. Training and
study tours would be used to help local governments obtain the skills needed for promoting
long-term local development.
(e) Support the necessary implementation framework for the proposed five-year program by
financing the project-related operating costs of the Albanian Development Fund (ADF), and
strengthening ADF finance and administration.
2.4   Pilot Project Area. Project activities would be focused in eight municipalities: Berat, Elbasan,
Gramsh, Kavaje, Peqin, Shijak (Durres District), Shkoder, and Tirana (see map). Pilot municipalities,
which must be accessible from Tirana to permit efficient use of pilot project resources, have been selected
taking into consideration variety (of size and region), microenterprise development potential, and
unemployment and economic assistance per capita.  Urban works would be focused in six



- 12 -
municipalities-Berat, Elbasan, Gramsh, Kavaje, Peqin, and Shkoder-although works may also be
undertaken in smaller towns located in the same districts. The small-scale credit and microenterprise
support component would focus its activities in Berat, Kavaje, Shijak, Shkoder, and Tirana.
C. Detailed Features
COMPONENT 1: URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE PUBLIC WORKS (BASE CosT US$1.7 MILLION-41 PERCENT)
2.5    The pilot project would finance about 30 public works, to be carried out in six municipalities.
Works would be demand driven, presented for ADF evaluation and approval by municipality authorities
according to the needs of the local population and within a framework of criteria defined by the project
(see Annex D, para. 5-9). Subprojects, which would only involve infrastructure under the responsibility
of the municipality, could include, for example, rehabilitating market facilities, cleaning city waterways,
rehabilitating public buildings (such as schools and hospitals), repairing municipality roads and sidewalks,
preparing sites and services for squatter settlements, planting trees and urban landscaping, and
constructing garbage shelters. Works would be carried out by private contractors selected by
municipalities using national shopping, with the assistance and oversight of the ADF. A few types of
works that require mainly manual labor (such as grading or cleaning riverbanks) could be undertaken by
municipalities, which would directly hire unemployed or disadvantaged workers. Subproject cost would
range from US$10,000 to US$150,000, and is expected to average US$48,000 during PYI and
US$63,000 in PY2. The expected cost breakdown of urban works is shown in Annex D, Table D.4.
2.6    Current central budget transfers to municipalities for investment is minimal, and while
municipalities now have the ability to raise local revenues through certain taxes, these revenues are likely
to remain very small for the next few years. Accordingly, the urban works component would provide
municipalities with urgently needed investment funds for the transition period, allowing time for more
suitable financing systems to be put into place. It would also help prepare municipality governments for
their future responsibility for local development. As soon as municipalities have adequate investment
budgets, they could be asked to contribute a part (5-10 percent) of subproject investment cost.
2.7   Special consideration would be granted to assuring maintenance of rehabilitated infrastructure
When appropriate, user associations would be formed and maintenance funds established prior to the
investment, drawing upon the experience of the Rural Poverty Alleviation Pilot Project. (Maintenance
is further discussed in Annex D, para. 20-22.)
COMPONENT 2: SMALL-SCALE CREDIT AND MICROENTERPRISE SUPPORT (BASE CoSn US$1.8
MILLION-43 PERCENT)
2.8   The pilot project would develop and test urban microenterprise lending, building a credit delivery
system that combines poverty alleviation with economic growth on a progressively sustainable basis.
During the project period, about 2,000 small loans would be granted in five municipalities for income-
generating activity, assisting potential microentrepreneurs who are unemployed or receiving economic
assistance and who have difficulty in accessing banks. Potential microbusiness activities to be financed
include: small trade, small businesses (pharmacies, bakeries), services (repairing of television sets,
bicycles, etc.), artisanal production of all types (soap, candles, furniture, sweets, tailoring, shoe making),
and basic construction and rehabilitation. Special attention would be given to opportunities for women.
Loans, which would be denominated in leks and would normally range from US$300 to US$5,000
equivalent, are expected to average about US$2,000, and interest would be in line with commercial



- 13 -
rates.'2 It was agreed during negotiations that the maximum subloan size for the small credit program
would be US$5,000 in the Operational Guidelines, but that a higher limit of US$10,000 would be
established In the legal agreements in order to allow for flexibility in the future in the event of special
circumstances of changed conditions. Loan duration which would depend on the activity financed, would
be expected to average nine months. (Credit delivery mechanisms are discussed in Annex E, paras. 52-
59, and credit program repayment scenarios are shown in Table E.3.).
2.9    A variety of guarantee mechanisms would be tested, including solidarity groups, notarized
contracts (currently practiced for some types of informal lending), and character referrals. Loans would
be approved by a Credit Committee, comprised of the Director of the ADF Rural Credit Department,
the Director of the ADF Urban Credit Department, and a bank representative, who would meet regularly
to discuss loans for approval or rescheduling and to continuously define and improve methods and
procedures. Individual applications would be presented and defended by the Credit Officer responsible
for loan preparation and follow-up. The composition of the Credit Committee would be dynamic and
subject to change as the component evolves, and could eventually include borrower representatives.
2.10   Business and technical advice would be made available to microentrepreneurs by the credit team,
with the possible support of local consultants remunerated on a per-service basis. In addition, a small
"innovation fund" would be established to help private entrepreneurs create about five model
microenterprises in key subsectors, such as textiles, wood processing, metal processing, and carpet
production. These demonstration projects, which could include loans with grant elements to private
entrepreneurs, would transfer small technology and new forms of supply, production, and marketing.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that each microenterprise subproject to be supported under the
'innovation fund' would be submitted to IDA for prior approval, and that individual loans under the
'innovation fund' would not exceed US$15,000.  Other support actions to be financed under the
component are training, market and technical studies, and a microenterprise data base and information
center.
CoMPoNENT 3: STUDIES AND TRAINING (BASE COST US$0.1 MILLION-3 PERCENT)
2.11   Municipalities are unprepared to address basic urban infrastructure needs, much less to develop
the innovative programs needed for long-run economic development. Assistance and training would be
provided to municipalities to develop skills in local development, and the project would provide seed
money to initiate professional exchanges that would provide rapid exposure to local development practices
that have proven successful elsewhere. Also, beneficiary assessment studies would be funded under this
component to evaluate project impact.
COMPONENT 4: IMPLEMENTATION SUPPORT (BASE COST US$ 0.6 MILLION-13 PERCENT)
2.12   The pilot project would support program implementation by financing the project-related operating
costs of the Albanian Development Fund (ADF). The ADF is also the implementing agency for the
RPAPP and the follow-up Rural Development Project (para. 3.1). Operational procedures and
mechanisms of technical and financial control for the project would be developed during the pilot phase.
12/    Under thc pro-pilot phuse, the interest rste is 24 percent.



- 14 -
Technical Assistance
2.13   Given the project's pilot and experimental nature and the need to test and develop component
methodology and to train staff, significant technical assistance would be required. A large part of the
technical assistance would be shared with the on-going Rural Development Project, thereby reducing
project costs and helping to assure linkages and communication of experience between the two projects.
Pilot project components include 20 months of foreign technical assistance in the areas of urban
works/engineering (3 person months), small credit/microenterprise (8 pm), and management/finance (6
pm). The project would also finance technical and marketing studies for microenterprises (about 3 pm)
and project auditing. In all, foreign technical assistance amounts to US$398,000 (10 percent of base
costs). Consultant trust funds and other grant financing would be sought to finance as much technical
assistance as possible. Local technical assistance consists of 165 months for microenterprise advisory
services and project impact studies.
D. Pilot Project Cost and Financing
2.14   Total Project Cost.  The pilot project would cost a total of US$4.4 million, including
contingencies. The foreign exchange component of the pilot project is estimated at US$1.0 million, or
about 22 percent of total pilot project costs. The estimated pilot project costs are summarized in Tables
2.1 and 2.2 below. Summary and detailed costs are provided in Annex B.
2.15   Cost Estimates. Pilot project local costs are expressed in US dollars at the exchange rate
prevailing in early 1995. No price contingencies have been applied to public works, credit, or the
microenterprise "innovation fund" because they reflect programs without precise, predetermined unit
costs; any increase in costs would result in a reduction in the scope of the program. Physical
contingencies of 5 percent have been applied to all categories except credit. Price contingencies have
been calculated based on 2.2 percent for foreign exchange, and local inflation of 15 percent in PY1 and
PY2 and 10 percent in PY3. Price contingencies for local salaries are based on inflation of 20 percent
in PYI, PY2, and PY3.
TABLE 2.1: SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS BY COMPONENT
USS '000 Equivalent        %        % Total
Project Component                       Local    Foreign     Total    Foreign     Bats
Exchange    Coai
A. Urban Worki                        1,422       314      1,736        18        41
B. Small Credit & Microenterprise Support    1,546  247    1,794        14        43
C. Stdies / Local GovtTrmining          22         86       108        80          3
D. Implementation Support              303        260       563        46         13
Total Base Cost                       3,293       907      4,200       22        100
Physical Cortingencies               89        44        132        33          3
Price Contingencies                  55         13        68         19         2
Total Project Costs                   3,437       963     4,400        22        105
Note: Figures may not total exactly due to rounding.



- 15 -
TABLE 2.2: SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS BY CATEGORY OF EXPENDITURE
USS '000                    %         % Total
Foreign       Base
Local      Foreign      Total      Eochan          C
Exchange      Costs
1. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works                             1,416         250        1,666        15           40
B. Credit                                  1,521            -       1,521         --          36
C. Equipment                                   8          155         163        95            4
D. Training                                   38          104         142        73            3
E. Technical assistance (local/ foreign)      18         398          416        96           10
Total Investment Costs             3,001         907        3,907        23           93
11. Recurrent costs
A. Staff salaries                            168            -         168         --           4
B. Other                                     125            -         125         --           3
Total Recurrent Costs                293            -        293         --           7
Total base costs                              3,293         907       4,200        22          100
Physical contingencies                          89           44         132        33            3
Price contingencies                             55           13          68         18           2
Total Project Costs                          3,437         963        4,400        22         105
Note: Figures may not total exactly due to rounding.
2.16    Project Financing. Of the total project cost of US$4.4 million, the proposed IDA  credit will
finance US$4 million (91 percent of total costs), and the Government would finance US$400,000 (9
percent of total costs), which is sufficient to cover estimated taxes and import duties. The financing plan
is shown in Table 2.3.
TABLE 2.3: SOURCES OF PROJECT FINANCING
USS '000 equivalent
Project Component                  IDA        Government of        Total
Albania
A. Urban Works                                 1,550             323           1,873
B. Small-Scale Credit                          1,427               -           1,427
C. Microenterprise Support                       325               -             325
D. Studies / Local Govt Training                 136               -             136
E. Implementation Support                        563              77             640
Total Project Costs                   4,000             400           4,400
Note: Figures may not total exactly due to rounding.



- 16 -
E. Environmental Impact
2.17  In accordance with Operational Directive 4.01, the project was assigned environmental screening
category "B." The small scale of project activities makes any negative environmental impact unlikely.
Some public works, such as rehabilitating small sanitation networks or cleaning riverbanks and urban
waterways, could have a positive environmental impact.
2.18   During the Rural Poverty Alleviation Pilot Project, environmental guidelines and checklists were
developed for rural works. Although the checklists were for a time not completed, they are now being
used and are helping to increase the environmental awareness of local government officials. These
guidelines and checklists would be adapted and expanded for urban infrastructure subprojects.



- 17 -
CHAPTER III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
3.1    Elements of the Project Implementation Plan are covered in Chapters II and Im of this SAR and
in Annexes D and E. Key actions and dates for start-up and implementation are provided in Annex F.
A. Project Management
3.2   Implementing Agency. The on-going Rural Poverty Alleviation Pilot Project is implemented by
the Albanian Development Fund (ADF), which was established by Government as the successor to the
Rural Development Fund. The text of the decree establishing ADF is shown in Annex C (Government
Decision 427, September 8, 1994). The ADF is a juridical person with the authority to enter into
contracts, and with administrative, technical and financial autonomy. Defining and overseeing ADF main
policy and objectives is a Board of Trustees chaired by the Deputy Prime Minister and comprised of the
Minister of Agriculture and Food, Minister of Labor, Minister of Construction, Local Government
Secretary, and Director of the Department of Economic Development and Foreign Aid Coordination.
An Executive Committee, formed by the ADF Executive Director (named by the Board Chairman), the
Operational Department Directors, and the Finance Director, is responsible for ADF's day-to-day
management.
3.3   In order assure that clear arrangements are in place for the transfer of IDA funds from the credit
account to the ADF, assurances were obtained at negotiations that the Government would conclude, prior
to effectiveness, a subsidiary agreement acceptable to IDA under which it would pass the proceeds of the
Credit to the project implementing agency, the ADF, as a grant.
3.4   Internal ADF Organization. ADF implementation of the rural and urban projects would lead
to efficiency and economy. A reorganization of the ADF-which takes into consideration experience
under the urban pre-pilot phase-is currently underway to accommodate the increase and diversification
of ADF activity. The ADF will comprise three departments, each headed by a Deputy Director:
(a) Administration and Monitoring Department, with three divisions: Financial Division; Human
Resources Division; and Monitoring and Studies Division.
(b) Infrastructure Department, with two divisions: Rural works; and Urban works.
(c) Credit Department, with three divisions: Rural Credit; Promotion of Rural Activities
(veterinary support); and Urban Credit and Microenterprise Support.
Within the ADF, the rural and urban projects would share the financial and administrative management
(which would be strengthened by technical assistance and training) and monitoring and evaluation (the
same methods would be used for both the rural and urban projects). The rural and urban credit division
and the rural and urban infrastructure division would share the same leadership, but would operate
separately, because the projects are at different stages of development, the approaches for rural and urban
works are different, and the future institutional setting for the rural and urban credit programs may be
different.
3.5   Staff. Most high-level staff positions are already filled; new high-level positions would be mainly
filled by way of internal promotion, using professionals who have demonstrated their capabilities. In
order to assure strong and competent project management, assurances were obtained at negotiations that



- 18 -
ADF would employ, until project completion, an executive director whose experience and qualifications
would be at all times acceptable to IDA; and ADF would consult with IDA with respect to the replacement
of the executive director prior to any such replacement. A consultant would assist the Executive Director
in the transformation and organization of the new institutional structure. Also, a position of Assistant
to the Executive Director would be established to help with internal communication and coordination.
3.6    Operational Guidelines. The ADF's operations are governed by its Internal Regulations and
Manual of Procedures, both of which are updated periodically and approved by the Board of Trustees.
Similar regulations and operational guidelines would be developed to guide activities under the proposed
project. In order to ensure consistent and optimal use of project resources in line with project objectives,
assurances were obtained at negotiations that the ADF would undertake project activities in accordance
with Operational Guidelines acceptable to IDA, and any subsequent changes to these guidelines would
only be made in consultation with, and with the approval of, IDA. ADF approval of the Operational
Guidelines in form and substance satisfactory to IDA would be a condition of project effectiveness.
3.7    Annual Works Plans and Budgets.  Annual works plans and budgets for each project
component, which would include specific proposals for the use of Government's contribution, would be
prepared by the ADF, and assurances were obtained at negotiations that such work plans and budgets
would be submitted to IDA for review no later than November 30 of each year. In accordance with the
process approach adopted by the project, work plans would reflect project experience in the proceeding
period. Budgets, which would be based on appraisal estimates, would be amended where necessary to
reflect changes in costs and development policies. Annual budgets would include specific proposals for
the use of the Government's financial contribution.
B. Procurement
3.8   The project elements, estimated costs, and procurement arrangements are summarized in
Table 3. 1.
3.9   The Albanian Development Fund, the successor to the Rural Development Fund, would be
responsible for overall procurement activities. ADF staff implemented the Rural Poverty Alleviation Pilot
Project and have experience in procurement; to strengthen their procurement knowledge, key staff dealing
with procurement would attend a World Bank procurement seminar scheduled to be held in Tirana in the
second half of 1995. Given the small value and dispersed location of contracts to be financed,
international competitive bidding is not considered suitable. Procurement for items financed by the IDA
credit would be carried out as follows:
3.10   Civil Works. Works contracts under the project consist of demand-driven public works (costing
from US$10,000-US$150,000) in about six municipalities. Most works would be carried out by private
contractors, selected by municipalities using national shopping (NS) and with the assistance of the ADF,
for an estimated aggregate amount of US$1,141,000. In a few cases, when the works involve mainly
labor, the works would be carried out directly by the municipalities, which would hire local workers
using community participation procedures, which are presently used under the RPAPP and are acceptable
to IDA, for an estimated aggregate amount of US$285,000. During project negotiations, it was agreed
that all urban works, other than community participation works, would be procured through NS using
the Bank's simplified national competitive (NCB) bidding documents for small works below US$250,000
prepared for Albania for this purpose and recommended to the Bank borrowers (available on diskette in
Albanian and English). It was further agreed that the ADF may review and revise the simplified NCB



- 19 -
documents, but the ADF must prepare a draft for the Bank's review and approval prior to its use.
Individual subprojects expected to average US$48,000 in project year I and US$63,000 in project year
2 and are not expected to exceed US$150,000.
3.11   Credit. Procurement under revolving credit funds, which would involve very small ainounts
(US$300-15,000), typically for purchase of minor equipment, tools, or materials, would be organized by
the borrowers in accordance with their traditional purchasing practices, which are based on obtaining
sound price quotations from local suppliers and which are acceptable to IDA, for an aggregate amount
of US$1,521,000.
3.12   Consulting Services, Training, Study Tours. Consultants for technical assistance financed
under the project would be selected in accordance with the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" (August 1981). Technical
assistance (aggregate US$447,000) would consist of specialized urban works/engineering, small
credit/microenterprise, management/finance, and auditing, involving consulting firms and individual
experts. Technical assistance would total about 24 months, consisting of one long-term consultancy (12
months) shared with the Rural Development Project, and four consultancies of 3-8 months each during
the two-year implementation period. Because the services are in unrelated fields of expertise, it is not
foreseen that contracts would be grouped into packages. In addition, about US$156,000 aggregate for
training and study tours may be procured from consulting firms or specialized institutions.
3.13   Equipment and Materials. Contracts for equipment and materials (e.g. office and computer
equipment, vehicles, and small microenterprise equipment), for an aggregate amount estimated at
US$104,000, would be awarded through international shopping procedures based on comparing quotes
from at least three suppliers from three eligible countries. It is expected that individual contracts for the
purchase of equipment would not exceed US$60,000. National shopping procedures would be used for
minor equipment and supplies to be procured locally for an aggregate amount estimated at US$28,000.
Individual contracts for national shopping are not expected to exceed US$20,000. Copyrighted materials
or specialized microenterprise equipment, for an aggregate amount of US$19,000) would be procured
through direct purchase from suppliers.
3.14  Incremental Operating Costs.  The credit would finance incremental operating costs of
US$300,000 consisting of the salaries and operating costs of ADF incurred to implement the project (see
para. 3.19).



- 20 -
TABLE 3.1: SUMMARY OF PROPOSED PROCUREMEm ARRANGEMENTS
(US$ '00 equivalent)L'
ICB          NCB           Other         Total
Category of Expenditure         - - - - - - Prcurtmert Method - - - - - - -
1. Civil works                             --            --           1,749         1,749
(1,426)W     (1,426)
2. Credit                                  --            --            1,521         1,521
(1,521)V      (1,521)
3. TA, training, study tours                --           -              604           604
(604)y        (604)
4. Equipment and materials                 --            --             171           171
(151)#       (151)
5. Incremental operating costa              -            --             355           355
(300)W       (300)
Total                                                            4,400         4,400
(4,000)       (4,000)
_/  Figures may not total exactly due to rounding.
b/  Civil works (aggregate amount US$1,141,000) to be carried out using national shopping; civil works (aggregate amount
US$285,000) to be carried out using community assistance procedures acceptable to IDA.
c/  Minor equipment, tools, and materials (USS300-S15,000 each) to be procured by eredit fund or innovation fund borrowers
in accordance with traditional purchasing practices (aggregate amount US$1,521,000).
d/ Services of consultants/institutions to be engaged in accordance with IDA guidelines for the Use of Consultants.
e/ International shopping (aggregate US$104,000) packages estimated at between US$20,000 and US$60,000 per contract;
national shopping (aggregate USS28,000) packages estimated at less than US$20,000 per contrct, and direct contracting
(aggregate US$19,000) for copyrighted materials or specialized microenterprise equipment.
f/  Salaries and other ADF operating costs.
3.15    Contract Review. The procurement documentation to be submitted for prior review by IDA
would include:
(a) Civil Works:
- first three contracts procured through national shopping, all documentation.
(b) Equipment and Materials:
-  specialized  equipment to  be procured  through  direct contracting, all procurement
documentation (selection criteria, draft contract);
-  contracts over US$50,000 procured through international shopping, all procurement
documentation (technical specifications, letter of invitation, evaluation report, draft
contract).
(c) Consulting Services:
- contracts above US$50,000, all documentation (terms of reference, letters of invitation,
selection criteria, evaluation reports, draft contracts);
- contracts below US$50,000, terms of reference;
- amendments to consultant contracts raising the contract amount above US$50,000.



- 21 -
(d) Training and Study Tours:
- all documentation (plans, selection criteria, selection of institutions to provide training,
cost estimates).
The remaining contracts would be subject to selective post-award reviews by IDA.
3.16 Procurement Information to be Provided by the Borrower. The ADF would promptly inform
IDA of contract awards and procurement issues and would include the-following procurement information
in its quarterly progress reports:
(a) for equipment/materials, technical assistance, and training, and study tours: status and timing
of all pending actions; and
(b) status of aggregate limits on specified methods of procurement.
C. Disbursements
3.17   The proposed IDA credit of US$4 million would be disbursed over four fiscal years (36 months).
The proposed closing date for the credit would be June 30, 1999. Estimated IDA disbursements are
shown in Table 3.2.
TABLE 3.2: ExPEcTED IDA DISBURSEMENTS
USS million equivalaet
FY96     PY97      FY98      FY99
Annual           0.8      1.5       1.5       0.2
Cumulative       0.8      2.3       3.8       4.0
3.18   IDA disbursement categories are shown in Table 3.3. IDA disbursements would be based on full
documentation of expenditures for individual contracts for equipment, technical assistance, and training
above US$50,000 equivalent, and for civil works above US$150,000. Disbursements for credit and
recurrent costs, for individual contracts below US$50,000 (equipment, technical assistance, training), and
for individual contracts below US$150,000 (civil works) would be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure certified by the ADF Executive Director. The required supporting documents would be
retained by the ADF for at least one year after receipt by the Bank of the audit report for the year in
which the last disbursement was made. This documentation would be made available for review by the
auditors and by visiting IDA staff upon request.



- 22 -
TABLE 3.3: DISBURSEMENT CATEGORIES
Amount US$'000
Items                                      equivalent                   % Financing
(SDR '000)"
1. Civil works                              1,280                         100%
(830)
2. Credit (small credit program)             1,330                     100% of credits
(850)
3. Credits/grants (innovation fund)            35                   100% of credits/grants
(30)
4. Consulting services, training, study tours  540                         100%
(350)
5. Equipment and materials                    145                100% of foreign expenditures
(100)        100% of local expenditures (ex-factory cost)
85% of local expenditures for other items
procured locally
6. Incremental operating costs                270                          100%
(180)
6. Unallocated                                400
(260)
Total                      4,000
(2,600)
i/ SDR amounts have been rounded and do not correspond exactly to the US$ equivalent.
3.19   Incremental operating costs, which would consist of operation and maintenance costs that would
not be incurred without the project, would include: (a) maintenance and operation or rental of equipment
procured or used under the project; (b) salaries and per diems paid to ADF staff hired under the project;
(c) consumable office supplies; and (d) office rent and maintenance, utilities, and telecommunications
pertaining to the project.
3.20   Special Account.  To facilitate timely project implementation, the ADF would establish,
maintain, and operate, under conditions acceptable to IDA, a Special Account denominated in US dollars
in the Bank of Albania. During the early stage of the project, the initial allocation of the Special Account
would be limited to US$250,000. However, when the aggregate disbursements under the credit have
reached the level of SDR 500,000 (about US$790,000), the initial allocation may be increased up to the
authorized allocation of US$500,000 be submitting the relevant application for withdrawal.
Replenishment must include reconciled bank statements as well as other appropriate supporting
documents.
D. Supervision, Monitoring, and Reporting
3.21    Supervision. Given its pilot and experimental nature, the project would require intense follow
up and IDA supervision. IDA would undertake regular supervision missions, including field visits and
spot checks of a sample of subprojects. The supervision plan in Annex F (Table F.2) provides details
on the planned supervision inputs for the project. A project launch mission in late September 1995 would
carefully review the status of the Operational Guidelines, the approval of which is a condition of
effectiveness (para. 3.6). Also, the project launch mission would conduct with ADF a workshop in order
to strengthen and review the procedures for procurement, monitoring, reporting, and work plans and



- 23 -
budgets. Subsequently, four IDA missions per calendar year, in coordination with missions for the Rural
Development Project and the IFAD-financed Northeastern Districts Rural Development Project, which
are also implemented by the ADF, would be conducted in 1996 (including a mid-term review in
September 1996) and 1997. Missions undertaken during the fall would discuss and evaluate with ADF
the annual work plans and budgets for the following fiscal year.
3.22   Monitoring. Project monitoring, which would gauge progress during implementation as well as
assess the results of the pilot phase, would be coordinated by -he ADF Studies Department. A
management information system would be implemented during the project for this purpose. The Studies
Department would also undertake a project impact (beneficiary assessment) study. The Studies
Department has gained considerable experience that would assist in project monitoring and evaluation-it
coordinated a project impact study of the Rural Poverty Alleviation Pilot Project in April and May 1994
and the Department Chief has received training in project evaluation techniques.
3.23   Quarterly Reports/Performance Indicators. In order to assure timely reporting to IDA as well
as to ADF management and Board of Trustees, assurances were obtained at negotiations that ADF would
submit to IDA for review quarterly reports on the progress and execution of the project in a format
acceptable to IDA. Quarterly reports would include the following performance indicators by district and
sector:
(a) Public Works:
Number of subprojects under consideration, underway, and completed
List of subprojects by location (municipality)
List of subprojects by type, including average cost by type
List of type of maintenance arrangement established for each subproject
Number of workdays created, total and by municipality
Number of beneficiaries, total and by municipality
Percentage of labor in the subproject investment cost, total and by type of subproject
Amount aek and US$) disbursed and committed, total and by municipality
(b) Credit and Microenterprise Support:
Number of subloans distributed, total and by municipality
Total number of applications; percent of applications approved for each municipality
Type of activities financed (percentage breakdown)
Number and type of jobs created, transaction costs per job creation
Repayment rate; number of subloans entirely repaid, number of subloans in the process of
repayment, number of subloans in default (less that 3 months); number of subloans in default
(more than 3 months)
Type of borrowers (gender, average income levels)
Financial rate of return for various types of activities
Survival rate of microenterprises created
Average time spent giving business advice to each borrower
Number, type, and location of microenterprises supported with technical advice
Income level and gender of microentrepreneurs receiving technical advice
Total spent on provision of technical advice, and average cost of technical advice per
microentrepreneur



- 24 -
Comparison of repayment rates of borrowers receiving technical advice and borrowers
receiving no advice
(d) Studies and Training: Number and types of study tours planned and organized, types of
training courses planned and organized, status of project-impact studies;
(e) Procurement: For equipment/materials, technical assistance, and training, status and timing
of all pending procurement actions; status of aggregate limits on specified methods of
procurement; and
(f) ADF:
Names and titles of key personnel, indicating any changes that have taken place during the
reporting period
Quarterly and cumulative operating costs by department and category.
3.24   Accounts and Audits. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the ADF would maintain
accounting procedures acceptable to IDA, and that independent auditors, acceptable to IDA, would
undertake annual audits of the ADF. Not later than six months after the end of the financial year, ADF
would submit to IDA certified copies of the audit reports containing balance sheets, income statements,
and the auditor's opinion on whether the ADF is achieving its objectives in a cost-effective way and
whether internal controls are adequate to minimize the possibility of misuse of funds.
3.25   A separate cost-accounting system would be developed under the project for the credit program
in order to produce separate balance sheets and income statements, which would also be presented in
accordance with OD 8.30. Once such a system is in place, ADF would calculate the Subsidy Dependency
Index for the credit program.'3
3.26   Mid-Term Review. For the purpose of adjusting pilot project activities and for designing the
full-scale project, assurances were obtained at negotiations that ADF would undertake a mid-term
evaluation of the pilot project no later than September 30, 1996. IDA would participate in this mid-term
review.
13/    As described in World Bank Discussion Paper No. 174, "Assessing Development Finance Institution," by Jacob
Yaron.



- 25 -
CHAPTER IV. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
4.1     Given the pilot nature of this project, the type of the investments proposed and the project design,
a conventional economic analysis is not meaningful. However, a methodology to confirm efficient use
of funds would be tested during the pilot project. In the meantime, urban works will be selected on basis
of criteria designed to meet priority needs of communities. Subloans for microentrepreneurs will be
required to have viable financial cashtlows with market interest rates (currently 20%). The project's
impact-both direct benefits and long-term benefits-can be estimated for each component as shown in
Table 4.1.
4.2     Overall, the pilot project would provide immediate and visible results in the project area. It
would assist unemployed urban inhabitants to become economically active and to cut their dependency
on economic assistance programs. It would provide municipalities with hands-on training in local
development, helping them to assume their current responsibilities as well as preparing them for the
future. And it would assist the Government in testing pro-active employment generation and poverty
alleviation programs that could be replicable throughout cities in Albania.
TABLE 4.1: PROJECT IMMEDIATE AND LONG-TERM BENEFITS
Direct and Immediate Benefits                      Long-Term  Benefits
Urban Works     *  5,450 person-months of employment          *  Training local governments in project appraisal,
coinpetitive bidding procedures, management,
*  30 subprojects (about five per municipality),  and maintenance, and preparing them for their
possibly consisting of markets, school and    future role in local development
hospital rehabilitation, smnall sanitation network
repairs, improved landscaping, etc.       *  Improving conditions for trade and economic
activity
o  Working out methods for the full-scale program   0  Improving social infrastructure
0  assisting the emerging private sector
Small Credit and  0  2,000 loans for microenterprise creation  0  Changing mentality and developing self-
Microenterprise                                                  initiative; lowering dependency on economic
Support         *  Assistance to about 150 urban microenterprises  assistance programs
*  Promotion of about 7 demonstration subprojects, *  Promoting the private sector from the bottom
creating replicable models                   up
*  Working out a credit delivery system and   0  Transfer of business know-how, small
microenterprise support methods and procedures    technologies, new mnodels of supply and
for the full-scale program                   marketing organization
B. Risks
4.3     The risk that urban works would be ill chosen or that local implementation capacity is weak is
not believed to be significant given the highly positive rural works experience under the RPAPP and
experience under the pre-pilot phase of the urban program. There is a risk of non-repayment of loans
and/or high transaction costs under the small-scale credit component; the development of an appropriate
mechanism for credit delivery would be critical to the component's success, and transaction costs should
be compared to the social and financial costs of unemployment. Careful follow-up monitoring of the



- 26 -
credit program would be undertaken to mitigate design and repayment risks. While it is considered that
a basic legal framework exists for small-scale enterprise development, it should be ensured that the legal
framework remains conducive for small private sector development. Project-specific risk should be
minimized because the project would be built with the full participation of local authorities and the
beneficiaries themselves. Moreover, the process approach provides for continuous adjustment of the
program in accordance with local needs and constraints, as long as project feedback is effectively
incorporated. Management and political risk would be minimized by giving special attention to project
management and organization as well as to written operational guidelines.



- 27 -
CHAPTIER V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
5.1    During negotiations, the following assurances were obtained from Government and ADF:
(a)    ADF would employ, until project completion, an executive director whose experience and
qualifications would be at all times acceptable to IDA, and would consult with IDA with
respect to the replacement of the executive director prior to any such replacement; (para.
3.4);
(b)    ADF would undertake project activities in accordance with Operational Guidelines
acceptable to IDA, and any changes to the Operational Guidelines would only be made
in consultation with, and with the approval of, IDA (para. 3.6);
(c)    By November 30 of each year, ADF would prepare and submit to IDA for review work
plans and budgets for project activities, which would include specific proposals for the
use of Government's contribution (para 3.7);
(d)    ADF would submit to IDA for prior review each microenterprise subproject to be
supported under the "innovation fund" (para. 2.10);
(e)    ADF would take all measures to ensure that individual subloans under the small credit
program would not exceed US$10,000, and that individual subloans under the
"innovation fund" would not exceed US$15,000 (paras. 2.8 and 2.10);
(f)    ADF would submit to IDA quarterly reports, by April 15, July 15, October 15, and
January 15 of each year, on the progress and execution of the project in a format
acceptable to IDA (para. 3.23);
(g)    ADF would maintain accounting practices acceptable to IDA and independent auditors,
acceptable to IDA, would undertake annual audits of the Albanian Development Fund
(para. 3.24); and
(h)    ADF would undertake a mid-term evaluation of the pilot project no later than September
30, 1996 (para. 3.26).
5.2    Conditions of effectiveness would be:
(a)    Execution of a subsidiary agreement between the Ministry of Finance and ADF under
which the Government would make the Credit proceeds available to ADF on a grant basis
(para. 3.2); and
(b)    Operational Guidelines have been approved by the Board of Trustees of the Albanian
Development Fund in form and substance satisfactory to IDA (para. 3.6).
5.3   Subject to the above agreements and conditions, the proposed project would be suitable for an
IDA credit of SDR 2.6 million (US$4.0 million equivalent) at standard IDA terms with 40 years maturity.






ANNEX A
Page 1 of 3
ALBANIA
URBAN WORKS AND MICROENTERPRISE PILOT PROJECT
ANNEX A
DATA ON UNEMPLOYMENT BENEFITS AND ECONOMIC ASSISTANCE
TABLES
Table A. 1: Urban Recipients of Unemployment Benefits
Table A.2: Urban Recipients of Ndihme Ekonomike (NE)



z
ALBANIA
URBAN WORKS AND NUCROENTERPRISE PILOT PROJECT                                                                                        >
Table A.1: Urban Recipients of Unemployment Benefits
December 1993, April 1994, and February 1995
December 1993                            April 1994                                 February 1995
% of Urban Labor                         % of Urban Labor                          % of Urban Labor
Urban     Urban Recipients of      Force           Urban Recipients of      Force            Urban Recipients of      Force            % Change in the
District      ulan        Unemployment         Receiving           Unemployment         Receiving            Unemployment         Receiving             Number of
Population     Benefits       Unemployment              Benefits        Unemployment              Benefits        Unemployment         1993RFebe 1995(
Benefits*                                Benefits*                                 Benefits*              -e.    )
Berat            48,400            5,898             24%                     4,708             19%                    1,743               7%                   -70%
Bulquize         12,600              379               6%                      437              7%                      798              13%                   111%
Delvina          11,900              641              11%                      414              7%                      226               4%                   -65%
Devoll            6,000              286              10%                      123              4%                      101               3%                    -65%
Diber            15,200             1,020             13%                      793             10%                      590               8%                   -42%
Durres          104,800            5,292              10%                    3,944              8%                    2,251               4%                   -57%
Elbasan         106,600            7,053              13%                    4,234              8%                    2,831               5%                   -60%
Fier             99,600            6,636              13%                    3,394              7%                    2,154               4%                    -68%
Gramsh           12,600              872              14%                      793              13%                     634              10%                    -27%
Gjirokaster      28,500             1,420             10%                      932              7%                      837               6%                    -41%
Has                   0              823               n/a                     389               n/a                    287               a/a                  -65%
Kavaje           29,800            2,104              14%                    1,017              7%                      339               2%                    -84%                     o
Erseke           11,700              400               7%                      265              5%                      167               3%                    -58%
Korce            71,600            4,554              13%                    2,788              8%                    3,034               8%                    -33%
Kruja            13,900            3,023              43%                    1,173              17%                     491               7%                    -84%
Kucova           26,200             1,224              9%                      918              7%c/                    745               6 %                   -39%
Kukesi           18,500            4,644              50%                    3,230             35%                      610               7%                    -87%
Laci             22,600            3,092              27%                    1,820              16%                   1,169              10%                    -62%
Lezha            13,900              730              11%                      472              7%                      289               4%                    -60%
Librazbd          6,700             1,246             37%                      577              17%                     498              15%                    -60%
Lushnje          40,300            2,799              14%                    1,656              8%                    1,238               6%                    -56%
Malesi e Mad      3,400             1,059             62%                      164              10%                      60               4%                    -94%
Mallakaster       8,900              250               6%                      334               8%                     314               7%                    26%
Mat              18,200            2,183              24%                    1,403              15%                     773               8%                    -65%
Mirdite          13,400              535               8%                      445               7%                     299               4%                    -44%
Peqin             8,400              338               8%                      162              4%                      239               6%                    -29%
Pogradec         23,700              978               8%                      937               8%                   1,074               9%                     10%
Permet            9,700             1,035             21%                      739              15%                     384               8 %                   -63%
Puke              5,700              357              13%                      187               7%                     381              13%                     7%
Sarande          25,400             1,460             11%                      860               7%                     380               3%                    -74%
Skrapar          18,900             1,774             19%                      916              10%                     665               7%                    -63%
Shkoder          87,100             5,751             13%                    4,984              11%                   2,476               6%                    -57%
Tepelene         16,300               898             11%                      351               4%                     959              12%                      7%
Tirana          270,000            15,745             12%                    10,063              7%                   9,339               7%                    -41%
Tropoje           9,500               a/a              n/a                     502              11%                     334               7%                      a/a
Vlore            78,000             5,405             14%                    4,471              11%                   3,165               8%                    -41%
1,298,000           91,904             14%                   60,595               9%                  41,874               6%                    -54%
source: Albania MOLSP
* assumes labor force = 50% of population



-31-                                          ANNEX A
Page 3 of 3
ALBANIA
URBAN WORKS AND MICROENTERPRISE PILOT PROJECT
Table A.2: Urban Recipients of Ndihme Ekonomike (NE)
(Decemnber 1994)
Municipality  Population           Families        Percent of Population
Receiving NE        Supported by NE 2
Bajram Curri             9,500                 643                  27%
Ballsh                   8,900                 127                   6%
Berat                   48,400               2,674                  22%
Bilisht                  6,000                 186                  12%
Bulquize                12,600                 495                  16%
Burrel                  18,200                 757                  17%
Cerrik                  12,400                 744                  24%
Corovode                 8,600                 596                  28%
Delvina                 11,900                 535                  18%
Durres                  93,700               2,449                  10%
Elbasan                 94,200               5,361                  23 %
Erseke                   7,700                 272                  14%
Fier                    61,400               1,472                  10%
5jirokaster             25,800                 563                   9%
Gramsh                  12,600                 664                  21%
Kavaje                  26,300               1,881                  29%
Koplik                   3,400                 693                  82%
Korce                   71,600               3,070                  17%
Kruja                   13,900                 518                  15%
Kucova                  26,200               1,008                  15%
Kukes                   18,500               2,170                  47%
Laci                    22,600               1,674                  30%
Leskovik                 4,000                 127                  13%
Lezha                   13,900                 822                  24%
Libehove                 2,700                  28                   n/a
Librazhd                 6,700                 255                  15%
Lushnje                 40,300               2,485                  25%
Memaliaj                 8,000                 186                   9%
Patos                   31,400                 602                   8%
Peqin                    8,400                 264                  13%
Perrnet                  9,700                 217                   9%
Peshkopi                15,200                 896                  24%
Pogradec                23,700               1,407                  24%
Polican                 10,300                 558                  22%
Puke                     5,700                 333                  23%
Rogozhine                3,500                 471                  54%
Roskovec                 6,800                  97                   6%
Rreshen                 13,400                 790                  24%
Sarande                 25,400                 495                   8%
Shijak                  11,100                 512                  18%
Shkoder                 87,100               6,467                  30%
Tepelene                 8,300                 263                  13%
Tirana                 270,000              12,748                  19%
Vlore                   78,000               3,014                  15%
TOTAL            1,298,000             61,589                   19%
Source: MOLSP.
I - In a few cases, December data was not available, and October or November data was used.
2 - Assumes family size of 4.






ANNEX B
Page 1 of 9
ALBANIA
URBAN WORKS AND MICROENTERPRISE PILOT PROJECT
ANNEX B
PROJECT COST TABLES
SUMMARY TABLES
Table B. 1: Project Cost Summary by Components
Table B.2: Project Components by Year
Table B.3: Expenditure Accounts by Year
Table B.4: Expenditure Accounts by Components
DETAILED COST TABLES
Table B.5: Urban Works
Table B1.6: Small Credit Program
Table B.7: Studies/Local Government Training
Table B.8: ADF - Central Administration, Finance, Studies
Table B.9: ADF - Urban Infrastructure Department
Table B.10: ADF - Urban Credit Department



o x
ALBANIA                                                                               tW
URBAN WORKS AND MICROENTERPRISE PILOT PROJECT
Components Project Cost Sunmnary
Table B.1
(Lek '000)                                      /USS')
%     % Total                                  %     % Total
Foreign   Base                                 Foreign   Base
Local      Foreign      Total    Exchange  Costs    Local   Foreign    Total   Exchange  Costs
1. Urban Works                                    142,235.0   31,365.0    173,600.0    18       41      1,422.4   313.7   1,736.0     18        41
2. Small-Scale Credit and Microenterprise Support  154,612.5    24,737.5    179,350.0    14      43     1,546.1   247.4   1,793.5     14        43
3. Studies / Local Govemment Training               2,165.0     8,585.0    10,750.0   80          3       21.7    85.9    107.5       80         3
4. Implementation Support                          30,332.0    25,978.0    56,310.0   46         13      303.3   259.8    563.1       46        13
Total BASELINE COSTS                                 329,344.5    90,665.5   420,010.0   22       100     3,293.4   906.7   4,200.1     22       100
Physical Contingencies                              8,852.9     4,355.2    13,208.0   33          3       88.5    43.6    132.1       33         3
Price Contingencies                                 6,629.3     2,501.0     9,130.4   27          2       55.3    12.5      67.8      18         2
Total PROJECT COSTS                                  344,826.7    97,521.7   442,348.4   22       105    3,437.2   962.7   4,400.0      22       105
Project Components by Year - Totals Including Contingencies
Table B.2
(US$ Thousands)
Totals Including Contingencies
PY1       PY2       Total
1. Urban Works                                          788.1    1,037.1    1,825.2
2. Small-Scale Credit and Microenterprise Support      1,100.0     712.3    1,812.4
3. Studies / Local Govemment Training                     47.4      70.4      117.9
4. Implementation Support                                382.5     262.1      644.6
Total PROJECT COSTS                                       2,318.0    2,081:9    4,400.0



- 35 -                                               ANNEX B
Page 3 of 9
ALBANIA
URBAN WORKS AND MICROENTERPRISE PILOT PROJECT
Expenditure Accounts by Years - Totals Including Contingencies
Table B.3
(US$ Thousands)
Totals Including Contingencies
PYI         PY2        Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works                756.0       993.3     1,749.3
B. Credit                     920.0       601.0     1,521.0
C. Goods                      134.0        37.0       171.0
D. Training                    88.5        67.6       156.1
E. Technical Assistance       252.1       195.1       447.2
Total Investment Costs        2,150.6      1,894.0    4,044.6
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Salaries                    97.0       110.9       207.9
B. Other                       70.4        77.1       147.5
Total Recurrent Costs           167.4       188.0       355.4
Total PROJECT COSTS            2,318.0     2,081.9     4,400.0
Expenditure Accounts by Components - Totals Including Contingencies
Table B.4
(US$ Thousands)
Small-Scale     Studies I
Credit and       Local
Urban     Microenterprise   Government  Implementation
Works        Support        Training       Support        Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works              1,749.3               0.0         0.0             0.0      1,749.3
B. Credit                      0.0            1,521.0         0.0             0.0      1,521.0
C. Goods                       0.0              48.2         14.1           108.7       171.0
D. Training                   27.4              71.7         32.8            24.2       156.1
E. Technical Assistance       48.5              171.5        71.0           156.3       447.2
Total Investment Costs        1,825.2           1,812.4       117.9           289.2      4,044.6
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Salaries                     0.0               0.0         0.0           207.9       207.9
B. Other                       0.0               0.0          0.0           147.5       147.5
Total Recurrent Costs             0.0               0.0         0.0           355.4       355.4
Total PROJECT COSTS            1,825.2           1,812.4       117.9          644.6      4,400.0
Taxes                        262.4                2.4         0.7            78.2       343.7
Foreign Exchange             330.9              262.1        92.4           277.3       962.7



ALBANIA
URBAN WORKS AND MICROENTERPRISE PILOT PROJECT
Urban Works
Detailed Cost
Table B.5
(US$ Thousands)
Quantities            Unit           Base Cost           Totals Including Contingencies
Unit      PYl       PY2      Total    Cost    PYi        PY2      Total      PYI       PY2       Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Infrastructure Rehabilitation Works /a          amount                                           720.0   946.0    1,666.0   756.0        993.3    1,749.3
B. Technical Assistance
Long term /b                                       mo         1        2         3        15       15.0    30.0        45.0    15.9        32.5       48.5
C. Training                                        amount                                            15.0    10.0        25.0    16.2        11.2       27.4
Total                                                                                                  750.0   986.0    1,736.0   788.1    1,037.1    1,825.2
\a PYl: 15 subprojects @ US$48,000 (ave.); PY2: 15 subprojects @ US@ US$63,000 (ave.)                                                                                         ,
\b Long-term consultant, who will be partly paid from bilateral grant funds, will work on both the rural and urban projects.                                                  0"



ALBANIA
URBAN WORKS AND MICROENTERPRISE PILOT PROJECT
Small Credit and Microenterprise Support Program
Detailed Cost
Table B.6
(USS Thousand)
Quantities           Unit            Base Cost           Totals Including Contingencies
Unit     PYI       PY2     Total    Cost      PYI       PY2     Total      PY1       PY2      Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Snall-Scale Credit                           amount                                          900.0   583.5    1,483.5     900.0   583.5    1,483.5
B. Technical Assistance                           pm        6        2         8       15        90.0    30.0      120.0      95.5    32.5      128.1
C. Training                                     amount                                           20.0    15.0       35.0      21.6    16.8       38.4
D. Research/Mlcroenterprise Support
Marketing and Technical Studies               amount                                           20.0    20.0       40.0      21.4    22.0       43.4
Training - Local                              amount                                            5.0      5.0      10.0       5.6      6.2      11.8
Training - Foreign                            amount                                           10.0    10.0       20.0       10.6    10.8      21.5
Documentation Materials /a                    amount                                            5.0      5.0      10.0       5.3      5.4      10.7
Subtotal Research/Microenterprise Support                                                        40.0    40.0       80.0      42.9    44.5       87.4
E. Innovation Fund lb
Equipment                                     amount                                           20.0    17.5       37.5      20.0    17.5       37.5
Credit                                        amount                                           20.0    17.5       37.5       20.0    17.5      37.5
Subtotal Innovation Fund                                                                         40.0    35.0       75.0      40.0    35.0       75.0
Total                                                                                            1,090.0   703.5    1,793.5    1,100.0    712.3  1,812.4
la Books, subscriptions, catelogs, etc.
\b Support for the creation of model microenterprise units.
z
L.A n



(Z
ALBANIA
URBAN WORKS AND MICROENTERPRISE PILOT PROJECT
Studies/Local Government Training
Detailed Cost
Table B.7
Quantities            Unit          Base Cost       Totals Including Contingencies
Unit      PYl       PY2       Total    Cost    PYI    PY2    Total    PY1         PY2      Total
1. Investnent Costs
A. Project knpact Studies
Technical Assistance (foreign)         mo         1         2         3           17   17.0    34.0    51.0    18.0    36.9        54.9
Short Term Local Staff                 mo        20        25         45         0.3   6.0      7.5    13.5      6.8      9.3      16.0
Logistical Costs /a                  amount                                             0.0     8.0      8.0     0.0      8.7       8.7
Materials                            amount                                             1.0     4.0      5.0     1.1      4.3       5.4
Subtotal Project Impact Studies                                                          24.0    53.5    77.5    25.9    59.2        85.1
B. Training and Study Tours            amount                                            20.0    10.0    30.0    21.6    11.2        32.8
Total                                                                                       44.0    63.5   107.5    47.4    70.4       117.9
\a Car rental, etc. 



ALBANIA
URBAN WORKS AND MICROENTERPRISE PILOT PROJECT
ADF - Central Administration, Finance, Studies
Detailed Cost
Table B.8
(US$ Thousand)
Quantities          Unit          Base Cost       Totals Including Contingencies
Unit     PY1      PY2      Total    Cost    PYI    PY2    Total   PYI    PY2          Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Office Equipment
Computers                                      each       2        -        2         2.5   5.0      0.0      5.0     5.3     0.0        5.3
Printers                                       each       1        -        1           2    2.0     0.0      2.0     2.1     0.0        2.1
Copier                                         each       1        -        1           3    3.0     0.0      3.0     3.2     0.0        3.2
Fax                                            each       1        -        1           1    1.0     0.0      1.0     1.1     0.0        1.1
Telephone                                      each       3        -        3          0.2   0.6      0.0     0.6     0.6     0.0        0.6
Fumiture                                       each                                         15.0     0.0    15.0    15.9      0.0       15.9
Subtotal Office Equipment                                                                     26.6     0.0    26.6    28.2      0.0       28.2
B. Management/Finance Technical Assistance        pm        3        3        6          15   45.0    45.0    90.0    47.8    48.8        96.6
C. Training - Management, Finance               amount                                        12.0    10.0    22.0    12.9    11.2        24.2
D. Project Audit/a                              amount                                        20.0      0.0    20.0    21.2     0.0       21.2
Total Investment Costs                                                                         103.6    55.0   158.6   110.2    60.0       170.2
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Personnel
Deputy Director                                each       1        1        2         4.5   4.5       4.5     9.0     5.2     5.9       11.1
Accountant                                     each       1        1        2          3.5   3.5      3.5     7.0     4.0     4.6        8.7
Studies Dept. Staff                            each       1        1        2          3.5   3.5      3.5     7.0     4.0     4.6        8.7
Subtotal Personnel                                                                            11.5    11.5    23.0    13.3    15.2        28.5
B. Per Diem / Hotel                             amount                                         5.0     5.0    10.0      5.6     6.2       11.8
C. Office Supplies/Conmnunications              amount                                         4.0      4.0     8.0     4.5     4.9        9.5
D. Utilities                                    amount                                         5.0      5.0    10.0     5.6     6.2       11.8
Total Recurrent Costs                                                                           25.5    25.5    51.0    29.1    32.5        61.6
Total                                                                                           129.1    80.5   209.6   139.3    92.5      231.8
\a Audit includes the Rural Development Project.
A ;E
CDq z



oz
CD Z
ocx
ALBANIA
URBAN WORKS AND MICROENTERPRISE PLOT PROJECT
ADF - Urban Intrastructure Deparbtent
Table B.9
(USS Thousands)
Quantities           Unit          Base Cost       Totals Including Contingencies
Unit     PY1      PY2      Total    Cost    PYI    PY2    Total    PYI    PY2          Total
1. Investrent Costs
A. Vehicles
Station Wagon                   each       1         -        1          18   18.0     0.0    18.0    19.1       0.0      19.1
B. Office Equiprnent
Computers                       each       2         -        2         2.5   5.0      0.0      5.0     5.3      0.0       5.3
Printer                         each       1         -        1           2    2.0     0.0      2.0     21       0.0       2.1
Copier                          each       1         -        1           2    2.0     0.0      2.0     2.1      0.0       2.1
Misc. Small Equipment          amount                                          1.0      1.0     2.0     1.1      1.1       2.1
Subtotal Office Equiprment                                                      10.0      1.0    11.0    10.6      1.1      11.7
Total Investment Costs                                                            28.0      1.0    29.0    29.7      1.1      30.8
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Personnel
Department Head                 each       1         1        2           4    4.0     4.0      8.0     4.6      5.3       9.9
Engineers                       each       4         4        8         3.5  14.0    14.0    28.0    16.2    18.5         34.7
Secretary                       each       1         1        2           3    3.0      3.0     6.0     3.5      4.0       7.4
Drivers                         each       1         1        2           3    3.0     3.0      6.0     3.5      4.0       7.4
Subtotal Personnel                                                              24.0    24.0    48.0    27.7    31.7        59.4
B. Per Diem / Hotel              amount                                         12.0    12.0    24.0    13.5    14.8        28.4
C. Vehicle Operating Costs        each       1         1        2           8    8.0      8.0    16.0     9.0      9.9      18.9
D. Office Supplies               amount                                          1.0      1.0     2.0     1.1      1.2       2.4
Total Recuffent Costs                                                             45.0    45.0    90.0    51.4    57.5       109.1
Total                                                                              73.0    46.0   119.0    81.1    58.7      139.9



ALBANIA
URBAN WORKS AND MICROENTERPRISE PILOT PROJECT
ADF - Urban Credit Department
Detailed Cost
Table B. I
Quantities              Unit          Base Cost        Totals Including Contingencies
Unit      PY1        PY2       Total      Cost    PY1      PY2    Total    PY1       PY2       Total
I. Invesment Costs
A. Vehicles
Station Wagan                             each            1          -           1      18     18.0        -    18.0    19.1         -       19.1
Motorcycles                               each            3          -           3      3.5     1 0.5      -    10.5    11.1         -        11.1
Bicycles                                  each            4          -           4      0.2      0.8       -      0.8     0.8        -        0.8
Subtotal Vehicles                                                                                 29.3       -    29.3    31.1         -        31.1
B. Office Equipment
Computers                                 each            4          -           4      2.5    10.0        -    10.0    10.6         -        10.6
Printers                                  each            3          -           3       1       3.0       -      3.0      3.2       -        3.2
Copier                                    each            1          -           1       2       2.0       -      2.0      2.1       -        2.1
Misc. Small Equipment                    amount                                                  2.5       -      2.5      2.7       -         2.7
Subtotal Office Equiprnent                                                                        17.5       -    17.5    18.6         -        18.6
C. Microenterprise Advisory Service
LocalConsultants-ShortTerm                 mo            80         40         120      0.3    24.0    12.0    36.0    25.5    13.0           38.5
Total Investment Costs                                                                              70.8    12.0    82.8    75.2    13.0          88.2
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Personnel
Department Head                           each            1          1           2       4       4.0     4.0      8.0      4.6     5.3        9.9
Credit Officers                           each           11         11          22      3.5    38.5    38.5    77.0    44.5    50.8           95.3
Secretary                                 each            1          1           2       3       3.0     3.0      6.0      3.5     4.0         7.4
Driver                                    each            1          1           2       3       3.0     3.0      6.0      3.5     4.0         7.4
Subtotal Personnel                                                                                48.5    48.5    97.0    56.0    64.0         120.0
B. Per Diem / Hotel                         amount                                                10.0    10.0    20.0    11.3    12.4          23.7
C. Vehicle Operating Costs                  amount                                                13.0    13.0    26.0    14.7    16.1          30.7
D. Office Supplies                          amount                                                 4.4      4.4     8.7      4.9     5.4        10.3
Total Recurrent Costs                                                                               75.9    75.9   151.7    86.9    97.8         184.7
Total                                                                                              146.7    87.9   234.5   162.0   110.9         272.9
Q Z






ANNEX C
Page I of 4
ALBANIA
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ANNEX C
GOVERNMENT DECISION ESTABLISHING THE ALBANIAN DEVELOPMENT FUND
(GOVERNMENT DECISION NO. 427, SEPTEMBER 8, 1994)
Government Decision No. 12 (January 9, 1993) established a Rural Developiment Fund to finance
rural works and promote economic activities through credit, studies, technology transfer, and training.
After a pilot phase, the Government decided to extend the activities of the Rural Developiment
Fund to urban areas. Therefore, Government Decision No. 427 (September 8, 1994) established the
Albanian Development Fund as follows:
Statute of the Albanian Development Fund
CIIAIY'ER I - GENERAI.
Article 1. The Albanian Development Fund, hereinafter referred to as "the Fund." is hereby
established as a juridical person with admi-nistrative, technical, anld financial altonomy.
The Fundl will be under the supervision of the Council of Ministers.
The Fund shall perform its activities pursuant to this Statute andl according to its Manual
of Procedures and Internal Regulations.
The headquarters of the Fund will be in the city of Tirana, the Fund may open oftices
in other jurisdictions within Albania.
Article 2. The Fund's objective shall be development of less-developed rural and urban areas
through creation of employment and economic activities, infrastructure rehabilitation, andl
assisting the developiment of the private sector. The target pop ulation of the Fundl will
consist of the poorest part of the rural population an(d of LLnemployedt people in urban
areas, including people receiving social assistance or unemnployment benefits.
CIIAPTER 2 - GUIDING PRINCIPLES OF FUNt) ACrIVITIEIS
Article 3. The Fund's objectives shall be accom plished as follows:
As regards pLublic works:
The Fund will promote andL finance infrastructure construction and rehabilitation projects,
and the construction and rehabilitation of subprojects for microenterprise dlevelopiment.
In rural areas, requests will be initiated hy the villages and presented to the Fund hy the
communes. In urban areas, requests will be presentecd by the municipalities. Projects
will be selected and financed by the Fund according to its Manual of Procedures.



ANNEX C                                               - 44 -
Page 2 of 4
As regards small-scale credit:
The Fund will provide small credits to farmers and microentrepreneurs who have
difficulty in accessing banks. Credit will be used to finance income-generating activities.
As regards microenterprise development:
The Fund  will finance and  providle business and  technical advice to  private
microentrepreneurs and promote demonstration projects that will (i) transfer know-how
and provide on-the-job training; (ii) transfer appropriate small-scale technology; and (iii)
organize new systems of marketing. The Fund may subsidize a part of the initial cost
of their equipment and machinery.
As regards studies, training, and exchanges:
The Fund will finance studies to provide basic information to orient the Fund's activities
and evaluate their impact.
Training will be provided to Fund staff and to professional staff associated with the
Fund's activities.
Other:
The Fund may finance other activities, and may receive funding from other donors and
organizations, for the objective of contributinig directly in the development of the less-
developed areas.
Article 4. The methodology to be used by the Fund will be as follows:
Interventions of the Fund will be largely demand-driven.  The Fund will practice a
participatory approach, identifying the needs and constraints of the target population and
of the local governments.
The Fund will carry oLut its activities by forming contractual partnerships with local
institutions, juridlical or physical private persons, and individual microentrepreneurs and
producers. In the case of public works, the Fund's partners will be elected municipalities
and communes. In the case of credit, they will be village credit funds, associations of
borrowers, or individual private microentrepreneurs. In the case of microenterprise
development, they could be individual private persons or private associations.
CIIAPTER 3 - REVENUES AND RESOURCES ()F TIIE FUND
Article 5. The Fund's revenues comprise:
* resources assigned by multilateral or bilateral aid programs,
* grants provided by the Government of Albania,
* domestic andt foreign donations andl legacies,
* resources derived froim contracted soft loans,
* capital recovery from the loans granted and the interest earned,



- 45 -                                      ANNEX C
Page 3 of 4
* other revenues and income that may arise.
Article 6. The resources of the Fund are deposited in independent bank accounts in Albanian and
foreign currency.
CHAPTER 4 - FUND'S ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE
Article 7. The governing bodies of the Fund are:
* the Board of Trustees,
* the Executive Committee
Article 8. The Board of Trustees, hereinafter referred as "the Board" shall be composed as follows:
* The Deputy Prime Minister;
* The Minister of Agriculture and Food;
* The Minister of Construction;
* The Minister without Portfolio for Local Government;
* The Minister of Labor; and
* The Director of Economic Development and Aid Coordination.
Article 9. The Board shall be chaired by the Deputy Prime Minister and during his absence by
ministers in the order indicated in Article 8 of this Decree.
Article 10. The Board shall have the following duties:
* approve the polices and general guidelines regulating the Fund's activities;
* approve the Fund's annual budget;
* approve the Annual Financial Report;
* authorize negotiations and enter into agreements with the Government of Albania and
international financial institutions necessary to achieve its purposes;
* authorize negotiations to contract the loans required by the Fund for its operations;
* approve the necessary Regulations for the implementation of this Decree;
* hold ordinary meetings every three months and extraordinary meetings as often as
necessary on the initiative of the Chairman;
* all other duties assigned under the corresponding regulations.
Article 11. Meetings will be held with the attendance of at least four (4) board members and the
decisions will be taken by the majority of the votes.  The Board may invite the
representatives of other public and private agencies to its meetings, who should have
voice but no vote.
Article 12. The Executive Committee shall be formed by:
* The Executive Director
* The Deputy Directors and Heads of Departments
Article 13. The Executive Director shall be named and removed by the Deputy Prime Minister and
shall meet the professional requirements related to his function. The other members of
the Executive Committee are appointed by the Executive Director.



ANNEX C                                          -46-
Page 4 of 4
Article 14. The Executive Director shall be the highest executive authority of the Fund and shall
have the following duties:
* hold the Fund's legal representation;
* direct the operations of the Fund and the implementation of Board decisions;
* manage the resources of the Fund;
* sign the agreement with the Government and different donors;
* select and appoint the staff;
* sign the pertinent contracts for professional and technical services;
* prepare and propose to the Board the Regulations governing the Fund's activities;
* sign the contracts with the external auditors;
* all other duties assigned by this Decree, its Regulations and Operational Guidelines.
Article 15. The Executive Committee shall have among its duties the following:
* approve or disapprove all requests for financing submitted to the Fund. For this
purpose only, the decisions of the Executive Committee shall be taken by the majority
of votes. If the votes are equal, the vote of the Executive Director will prevail;
- follow and analyze the implementation of the objective of the Fund.
Article 16. The work relations of the staff shall be regulated by the Internal Regulations of the Fund
and according to Albanian law.
Article 17. Operational costs, including technical assistance, equipment, transport and vehicles, and
other expenditures for rehabilitation, maintenance, and rent of premises, shall be financed
from the resources of the Fund.
CHAPTER 5 - AUDITING
Article 18. The internal auditor is responsible for controlling the implementation of all budget, bank,
financial, and technical operations of the Fund. The internal auditor is appointed by the
Executive Director, to whom he shall directly report according to the operational
regulations of the Fund.
Article 19. The Fund shall be subject to external auditing by independent international auditors
acceptable to the World Bank. Reports from the External Auditors shall be reviewed by
the Board for the corresponding legal actions.
CHAPTER 6 - FINAL AND TEMPORARY PROVISIONS
Article 20. The Fund should be exempt from any taxes, fees and charges, or from any other national
or local revenue contributions, present or to be established in the future.
Article 21. The life span of the Fund is extended until December 31, 2001. It may be shortened or
extended by decree, covering the life spans of the projects.



ANNEX D
Page 1 of 9
ALBANIA
URBAN WORKS AND MICROENTERPRISE PILOT PROJECT
ANNEX D
URBAN WORKS COMPONENT
I. BACKGROUND
Urban Infrastructure
1.    Most of Albania's infrastructure is in extremely poor condition. Under centralized planning,
techniques used were often obsolete, and construction was based almost entirely on technical-rather than
economic-criteria, leading to exorbitant operating and maintenance costs.  Moreover, political
considerations sometimes resulted in an emphasis on quantity at the expense of quality, and lack of
budgetary resources and absence of motivation led to poor quality work.
2.    While urban infrastructure is better than rural infrastructure, its condition is still deplorable. For
example:
(a) water reservoirs are in poor shape and interruptions in the water supply occur frequently;
(b) sewerage reserves are insufficient and often do not include purification facilities;
(c) even though Albania has an excess of electrical capacity, the poor quality distribution
network results in frequent blackouts;
(d) public buildings (offices, schools, clinics, markets) are not maintained and are increasingly
dilapidated.
3.    In addition to this already difficult situation, Albanian towns are now confronted with substantial
rural-to-urban migration which had been tightly controlled by the Government for more than forty years,
leading to an unsustainable rural population. Despite the Government's current efforts to discourage
migration, squatter settlements have formed in almost every large town.
4.    Municipalities have few resources with which to address the problems outlined above. Many
legal issues remain to be resolved regarding urban land ownership in towns and in former state farms.
Furthermore, there is an extreme shortage of funds for both long-term investment and short-term
operations, making it impossible to meet existing needs. No municipal budgets have yet been allocated
for 1994, for example, and only ad hoc monthly injections of short-term funds prevent municipalities
from defaulting on salary payments to their employees.
II. URBAN WORKS PRIORITIES
5.    Municipal Priorities. Informal surveys that were carried out in a number of towns identified
the following requests of the municipalities for urban infrastructure:



ANNEX D                                                     - 48 -
Page 2 of 9
(i)  first priority: supply and distribution of water and power;
(ii) second priority:  repair and maintenance of basic infrastructure such as roads, garbage
storage and sewerage systems, public buildings (such as schools and clinics), markets, and
waterways; and
(iii)  third priority: sanitation systems and bus stations.
6.      Subproject Selection Criteria. Table D. 1 provides an overview of the six main criteria that
were used in determining which types of works should be carried out by the project. Of these criteria,
two are the most important:
(i) the infrastructure to be rehabilitated should fall under the direct responsibility of the
municipality. For example, the improvement of power distribution is not an issue for
which the municipality is directly responsible as it covers a larger area of the district or
country as a whole;
(ii) the average amount budgeted for each subproject will be US$40,000-60,000. Within this
amount, the subproject should be self-contained and make a significant impact. This would
be the case for the rehabilitation of a school, but not for the resurfacing of a few hundred
meters of road.
TABLE D.1: PRIORITY AcTrTEs
,.-,   ,.      '        l' 1    Won*ty     Imp.i-  !                Cotind   _____
*... - ... .                    . .   ..     . ... ......  E-. .........   .   ..   :ii.... .   . .   . ..   .. , . .   ..  ..   .....   . ... ....  . -.  .   .. . .
Market                 +               +             ++            +           ++              +
Public Buildings       +               +                          + +          ++
Sanitation             +               +                          ++            +
Waterways              +              ++                           +           ++             ++
Bus Stations           +              ++             ++           +            ++              +
Workshops              +               +             + +           +           + +
Sites & Services       +              + +                         ++                          + +
Roads                  +              + +             + .9-
Sewemgc                +                                          +                           ++
Drinldng Water                         +              +           + +                         ++
Power                                                + +          + +                          +
I -    Municipality Responsibilit: Infastructure under the direct responsibility and control of the municipality.
2  -    lAbor Intensity: Percentage of labor in total subprojcct cost.
3  -    Economic IM2pl: Impact on local economic activities.
4  -    Socidlmoact: Impact on the quality of life and absorption capacity of the town.
5  -    SclfConteinod: Extcnt to which the subproject is self contained and makes a significant impact.
6  -    Environment Imoact: Impact on the environment of the area/town.
+ + - High level
+ - Medium level



- 49 -                                          ANNEX D
Page 3 of 9
7.     First Priority. According to the preceding table, four types of subprojects emerge as the most
favorable in terms of their convergence with both municipal and project priorities:
(i) Rehabilitation of markets;
(ii) Rehabilitation of public buildings, such as schools and health centers;
(iii) Rehabilitation of sanitation networks' by undertaking small, key repairs that strengthen the
existing network and address immediate problems; and
(iv) Caeaning and improving riverbanks and city waterways?. (In addition to its positive effect
on the environment and the stabilization of the land, this type of activity is very labor
intensive.)
8.     Second Priority.  The following operations fall into the second priority category:
(i) Bus station construction or rehabilitation, including a parking and back-up area and a small
market adjacent to the bus stop.
(ii) Rehabilitation of workshops for small-scale artisans in order to promote the still-young
microenterprise sector. This type of operations would be undertaken in close cooperation
with the project's Microenterprise Support component.
(iii) Preparation of sites and services (rehabilitating plots and hooking them up to sewerage and
water supply) would help municipalities address migration from rural areas. Squatter
settlements, which are forming around urban centers, are in need of basic infrastructure,
yet municipalities cannot provide for these new arrivals until land ownership is clarified.
Some pilot operations in sites and services could be tested where land ownership is clearly
established.
(iv) Rehabilitation of urban roads, although very important for the municipalities, is a
secondary priority for the project; given the foreseen budget range for subprojects and the
high unit costs for road rehabilitation, a road subproject would have only a marginal impact
on a town's infrastructure.
9.     Non-Priority Works.
(i) Treatment of household waste-garbage collection, transport, and storage- is the
responsibility of the municipalities. Given the current state of Albania's waste disposal
system, there is an enormous amount of work to be done in the first stages of the disposal
chain, requiring containers, manual labor, and transport, but not urban works. However,
operations could be envisaged on a case-by-case basis for fencing as well as access to and
preparation of intermediary storage sites.
(ii) Drinking water supply is not a direct responsibility of the municipalities and, as for roads,
the required size and cost of the project are too large for the scope of the component.
Despite these reservations, one could envisage the implementation of small, urgent
I/     Drainage/tewerage systems are often in extremely poor condition, posing both environmental and health hazards.
2J         Municipal canals and waterways are often used for the disposal of waste and sewerage.



ANNEX D                                            - 50 -
Page 4 of 9
measures that would have a direct impact on the community, such as the repair of a
community water reservoir.   In such a case, project staff would cooperate with
district-rather than municipal-authorities.
(iii) Electricity distribution is not a priority for the same reasons as those cited for drinking
water supply.
III. ExPERIENCE UNDER THE PRE-PILOT PHASE
10.   Following the process approach, two subprojects have been financed under the pre-pilot phase
in order to start developing the methodology for the public works component:
(a) Shkoder. As part of the first phase of central market rehabilitation, an open air fenced-in
market (1,500m2) has being built and supplied with a cement slab, sanitation, drainage,
slaughtering areas, and water. The first phase of the subproject was completed in September
1994 for a total cost of US$46,000. The second phase of the market rehabilitation-the
building of market stalls and the rehabilitation of the central market hall-is expected to start
in June 1995, partly financed by the pre-pilot phase. Partial cost recovery of the second
phase investment- using taxes collected from the market-is also being tested.
(b) Shijak (Durres district). The rehabilitation of the central market (550m) was financed for
a total amount of US$29,000. The subproject came to a halt in Fall 1994, because of a
dispute over the land. This experience has led to changes in the standard contract between
the ADF and the municipality, in order to provide additional assurances that the project site
is not eligible for reprivatization.
11.   These operations facilitated the testing of the capacity of the municipalities in selecting and
appraising projects, organizing tenders, participating in the investment (the contribution amounts to 5
percent in Shkoder but is much more difficult to obtain from small cities) and organizing the maintenance
of the project (a contribution of 3 percent per year is a precondition for financing).
12.   The operations also allowed the testing of the performance of private enterprises (that try to do
good quality work in order to be eligible for other contracts), and conditions of contracts which stipulated
that a certain percentage of labor be hired from the ranks of currently unemployed workers.
13.   Conclusion. The three main differences between the urban and rural areas are that (a) The
participation of the inhabitants in the selection of the projects is difficult to organize in urban areas. The
projects are therefore directly selected by the municipalities; (b) The subprojects financed in urban areas
represent a smaller portion of the necessary investment. Their relative direct impact is therefore more
limited than in the villages, but their training effect is quite significant; (c) The private sector is growing
rapidly in the towns and national shopping procedures, based on national competitive bidding documents
developed for small works in Albania, can be used to procure civil works, whereas in remote rural areas,
use of private contractors is just beginning. The cost of working with private construction enterprises
is about 30 percent higher; and (d) Cost recovery mechanisms can be developed for income-generating
subproject in urban areas.



- 51 -                                     ANNEX D
Page 5 of 9
IV. METHOD OF INTERVENTION
14.   Methods proposed for the pilot project are based on the experience gained under the Rural
Poverty Alleviation Pilot Project and the pre-pilot phase of the Urban Works and Microenterprise Pilot
project.
15.   Subproject Selection. Within the criteria described above, subprojects would be selected by the
municipalities, who know best their needs and who will ultimately be responsible for the infrastructure's
maintenance. A balance would be sought between the needs of the municipalities, project priorities, and
available resources. The project's Infrastructure Department staff would be responsible for conveying
the project's approach, priorities, and constraints to municipal officials.
16.   Implementation. Works financed under the Rural Poverty Alleviation Pilot Project in isolated
rural areas mainly implemented via direct contracts with the commune, which uses national shopping for
procurement of transport and materials (typically 70 percent of subproject cost) and hires unskilled labor
from the unemployed pool available in the village. In urban areas, however, works would be undertaken
by private contractors procured via national shopping (see para. 25).
17.   Urban works differ from rural works in two important ways:
(i) Urban works are often more technical and require the involvement of a larger number of
specialists;
(ii) Private contractors are readily available in urban areas; using municipalities to directly
undertake works would compete with and impede the growth of the private sector.
18.   A few types of works that require mainly manual labor (such as grading or cleaning riverbanks)
could be directly undertaken by municipalities. It is expected, however, that 80 percent of the urban
works would be undertaken by private contractors selected through a process of competitive bidding. The
allocation of tasks would therefore be the following:
(i) The Municipality manages the competitive bidding process, signs the contracts, and
supervises-technically and financially-the implementation. In addition to performing
these tasks free of charge, municipalities could be asked to contribute a part (10 percent)
of the investment once municipality investment budgets are adequate.
(ii) The Private Enterprise (construction company) is responsible for the completion of the
actual work (in particular, the hiring and supervision of personnel) and is accountable for
the quality of the final product.
(iii) lhe Project (Albanian Development Fund Infrastructure Department) would provide
financing and would assist municipalities to supervise implementation.
19.   Cost Recovery. Whenever possible, subprojects that generate revenues of the municipalities
(such as market rehabilitation) would include a full or partial cost recovery mechanism.
20.   Maintenance. The management and maintenance of infrastructure is often the missing link in
public works investments. Maintenance of infrastructure is generally lacking in Albania; the division of
responsibilities between central and local government is not always clear, and local governments have



ANNEX D                                           - 52 -
Page 6 of 9
yet to develop the revenue-raising capabilities required to assure adequate resources. For these reasons,
the issue of maintenance is specifically addressed in the component's approach and in the contract with
the municipalities.
21.   Whenever possible, a users association would be formed and the municipality would collect a
user's fee. Part of this user contribution would be collected in advance (prior to financing the subproject)
and deposited into an account for maintenance. To assure transparent administration of this account and
regular maintenance, a joint management committee would be created composed of municipality
representatives and an elected user representative. The committee would be in charge of:
* assuring regular maintenance (cleaning, caretaking) and repair;
* securing coverage of operating costs; and
* administering the maintenance fund.
22.   The user fee would be fixed each year by the joint committee in accordance with foreseen
operating and maintenance costs.
23.   Contracts. Contracts for undertaking urban works will involve the following four parties: (a)
The Albanian Development Fund, which will finance the operation; (b) the municipality, which owns and
administers the infrastructure; (c) the private enterprise, which carries out the work; and eventually, (d)
the users association, which uses and maintains the work. The relations (rights and obligations) between
these parties must be clearly established. Table D.2 shows which contracts pertain to each party.
TABLE D.2: TYPES OF CONTRACTUAL DOCUMENTS INVOLVED
Financing
Bid Documents
Implementation of Works
Maintenance
24.      Three contractual documents were drafted during the pre-pilot phase: (a) contract between the
ADF and the municipality; (b) bidding documents; and (c) the contract between the municipality and the
private enterprise.
25.      Bidding Documents. During project negotiations, it was agreed that all urban works, other
than community participation works, would be procured through National Shopping using the Bank's
simplified national competitive (NCB) bidding documents for small works below US$250,000 prepared
for Albania for this purpose and recommended to the Bank borrowers (available on diskette in Albanian
and English). It was further agreed that the ADF may review and revise the simplified NCB documents,
but the ADF must prepare a draft for the Bank's review and approval prior to its use.
26.      Priority Cities. The selection of priority cities is based on the following criteria:
* high unemployment rate;
* mix of large and small cities;
* accessibility from Tirana for efficient use of limited pilot project resources.



- 53 -                                              ANNEX D
Page 7 of 9
TABLE D-3: PRIORTry CITIES
No. Rceiving       No. of Families          Total        Uncmploymat
Unemployment      Receiving Economic       Tmployed 4    URalcm5
City            Population        Benefits          3Assistane3          Une    yRa5
Kavaje           26,300               339                1,881               4,101             31%
Peqin              8,400              239                 264                  767             18%
Elbasan           94,200            2,831                5,361               13,553            29%
Grmsh             12,600              634                 664                1,962             31%
Bet              48,400            1,743                2,674               7,091             29%
Shkoder           87,100            2,476                6,467              15,410             35%
Total            279,700            8,262               17,311              42,884             31%
1 - These figurea could underestimate urban population considering recent migration from rural areas .
2 - As of February 1995. These figures underestimate employment, because the duration of this assistance is limited to
one year.
3 - As of December 1994. Families benefit from an economic assistance program (Ndihme Ekonomike), which is
based on a minimum family income.
4 - A very conservative estinate, calculated based on number of people receiving unemployment benefits plus two
unemployed people per family receiving economic assistance.
5 - A conservative estimae based on the number of unemployed (4) divided by one half of the total urban population
(1).
27.    In total, six cities have been selected, encompassing approximately 280,000 inhabitants, which
is approximately 21 percent the total urban population and about 8.5 percent of the population of Albania
as a whole.
28.    It is important to note that interventions will not necessarily be limited to these municipalities,
but can be expanded to include smaller towns near these urban centers, provided they are in the same
districts.
V. COMPONENT INVESTMENTS
29.    About thirty subprojects would be undertaken during the pilot, for a total of US$1.7 million. The
urban works would be implemented over two years comprising 15 subprojects in the first year and 15
subprojects in the second year of implementation. Average subproject costs are estimated at US$48,000
during project year 1 and US$63,000 in project year 2.



ANNEX D                                            - 54 -
Page 8 of 9
TABLE D.4: EXPECrED CosT BREAKDOWN OF URBAN WORKS
(IN US$ THOUSANDS)
Total    Other   Salarics   Materials  Transport   Taxce
Year 1 (15 subprojects)  720    120       180      240        75       105
Year 2 (15 subprojects)  946    150       240      316        105     135
Total (30 subprojects)  1,686   270       420      556        180     240
% of all 30 subprojects  100%   16%      25%      33%        11%      14%
30.    As shown in Table D.4 labor costs are expected to represent 25 percent of total subproject costs,
corresponding to over 5,000 person-months of employment. Materials represent about one-third of total
subproject cost, about half of which represents imported items. Taxes amount to 24 million lek (14
percent of subproject cost).
VI. COMPONENT ORGANIZATION
31.    Zones. During the pilot project, all engineers will be based in Tirana.
32.   Staff and Equipment. Seven staff will be required during the pilot project:
* One department head
* Four engineers
* One secretary
* One Driver
33.   The following equipment will be required:
* One vehicle
* One computer and one printer
* One photocopier
* Small equipment and materials (design and measuring materials, etc.) for a total cost of
about US$1,000
34.   Technical Assistance and Training. Technical assistance will comprise one long-term technical
advisor (eighteen months) for both urban and rural works (costs will be shared with the Rural
Development Project).
35.   Training will be organized as follows:
(a) regular training would be organized by the long-term technical assistance.  One-week
seminars would be organized for both rural and urban engineers, as well as for municipal
technicians;
(b) short seminars would be provided to newly-hired engineers on project approach,
organization, and methodology, after which new recruits would be further trained in the
field by experienced project staff; and



- 55 -                                       ANNEX D
Page 9 of 9
(c) foreign training and group study visits would be organized for project engineers, municipal
representatives, and municipal technicians from the project area.
36.   Start-Up Preparation. Preparation for the implementation of the pilot project could begin after
project approval by the IDA Board, using the resources of the Japanese PHRD grant. This preparation
would comprise: (a) recruitment and training of engineers3; (b) identification of subprojects; and (c) study
and analysis of the first subprojects.
VII. COORDINATION WrH OTHR PROJECT COMPONENTS
37.   Rural Infrastructure Component. Potential synergy between urban and rural works should be
developed using the following:
(a) technical coordination between the Rural Infrastructure and the Urban Infrastructure
Departments would be facilitated by the presence of a long-term consultant assisting both
departments;
(b) sharing of information and data bases (model contracts, data base on unit costs, etc.);
(c) common training seminars; and
(d) exchange of engineers, particularly during the creation of the Urban Infrastructure
Department; it has been proposed that two rural engineers be employed by the Urban
Infrastructure Department to share their experiences with the urban team.
38.   Microenterprise Department. Possible collaboration between the Urban Infrastructure and
Microenterprise Departments includes the following:
(a) Rehabilitating workshops or common facility centers. Technical advice and support could
be provided to the Microenterprise Departnent for rehabilitating workshops for
microenterprise or common facility centers. The Microenterprise Department would be
responsible for identifying and preparing these types of subprojects.
(b) Hiring microenterprise contractors for urban works. In some cases, priority for simple
urban works could be given to microenterprise contractors to promote growth of the
contracting sector in certain areas of Albania.
(c) Training   Microentrepreneurs.        Microentrepreneurs  who  specialize  in
construction/rehabilitation could be recruited to participate in urban works in order to
enhance their skills. In such cases, the Microenterprise Department could assist in selecting
candidates.
3/     Recruitmnet procedures rquira a fomal/official vacancy anrouncemenA in the prws, followed by a rbingeat reAion
procedure






ANNEX E
Page I of 15
ALBANIA
URBAN WORKS AND MICROENTERPRISE PILOT PROJECT
ANNEX E
SMALL-SCALE CREDIT AND MICROENTERPRISE SUPPORT COMPONENT
I. POTENTIAL DEVELOPMENT OF THE SMALL PRIVATE SECTOR
1.    As has been the case for other Central European countries, Albania has experienced high
unemployment following the collapse of the state sector. As of March 1995, about 34 percent of the
urban labor force is registered as unemployed, and about 25 percent of the urban labor force is receiving
unemployment benefits or economic assistance (ndihme ekonomike). Unemployment is particularly high
in the previous "kombinat" locations, where very specific skills were developed in either male or female
subgroups of the population. The metallurgic kombinat in Elbasan, for example, employed about 7,000
men, while the textile kombinat in Berat employed about 10,000 women. Urban unemployment is further
exacerbated by on-going migration from rural areas.
2.    In the present transition period, local capital is limited and foreign investors are not yet attracted
to Albania. This provides fertile ground for the creation of microenterprises, which require very low
investment. Self-employment can be created rapidly, and the private sector can be developed from the
bottom up.
3.    As of March 1995, there are about 46,000 registered private enterprises employing 117,000
persons (78 percent have only one employee). A number of these small enterprises were created by
previous state-enterprise workers who initiated their own business activity by acquiring a truck or
machine during the privatization of small activities. Most of the small and medium enterprises are
focused on services or trade-in March 1995, the private sector accounted for 96 percent of total imports
and 56 percent of total exports. 46,000 small and medium enterprises-20 percent of the total-are
located in Tirana.
4.    There  is potential for much  greater microenterprise  and  self-employment growth.
Microenterprises face, however, many difficulties and constraints. Business culture is weak, and there
is a general lack of understanding of market economy mechanisms and business management, as well as
a low willingness and capacity to take risks. Demand is limited and the marketing network is poor, while
raw materials are in short supply and equipment often obsolete. There is not enough working space,
because it is difficult to buy or rent space; in many towns, some shops have been reprivatized and most
idle industrial facilities need rehabilitation. Credit for equipment and working capital is virtually
impossible to find, and there is a general lack of business and technical advice available for emerging
microentrepreneurs.
5.    The main subsectors where microenterprises could be developed are the following:
(a) Urban trade. The collapse of state distribution channels has created many opportunities for
the creation of small trade businesses.
(b) Rehabilitation and Maintenance. Due to the privatization of the housing sector, there is
an  important  market  potential  for  housing  rehabilitation,  maintenance,  and



ANNEX E                                           - 58 -
Page 2 of 15
upgrading-including painting, plumbing, and electrical repair. There is also a steady
demand for the repair of domestic electric appliances, such as radios, televisions, and
refrigerators, and automobile repair and maintenance is in growing demand, because private
automobile ownership has increased rapidly through the import of second-hand cars. So far,
automobile garages are few in number, with the exception of tire repair shops.
(c) Urban transportation. Here, also, there are important opportunities for development of
private taxi and transport activities.
(d) Building sector.  This is one of the few  sectors facing significant local demand.
Microenterprise production of tiles and bricks has already started, because it requires low
levels of  investment.  In addition to the production of building materials, other
microentrepreneurial activities in the building sector include bricklaying, floor making,
plumbing, electricity, and joinery.
(e) Woodwork. With the exception of doors, frames and windows, local demand for high-
quality carpentry, joinery, and cabinet making is low; it will probably grow with increases
in the standard of living.  Some microenterprises already exist, created by previous
kombinat workers who bought some equipment from factories. The equipment, however,
is obsolete and the building facilities are often too small or inappropriate.  These
microenterprises should be modernized and given access to credit. New microenterprises
could be created by young people graduating from technical schools.
(f) Apparel. This sector once employed thousands of workers, especially women. In several
towns that have an old tradition of fabric work, such as Berat and Shkoder, a skilled labor
force is available at a cost many times lower than that found in Western Europe. Albania
has a considerable comparative advantage in this sector and could gain over some segments
of the international market from  Southeast Asia and North Africa.  Thousands of
microenterprises (less than 5 persons employed) could be created in this subsector if private
initiatives were to receive some support in the areas of supply and marketing organization,
access to credit, and business advice.
(g) Kilims, carpets. During the communist period, kilims and carpets were produced for
export in large state enterprises located in a number of municipalities. Although these
enterprises are closed (some have been privatized, but remain closed or are operating
precariously), the tradition of kilim making remains very alive in some rural areas where
young women are traditionally expected to make at least one kilim before getting married.
Development of microenterprises in this subsector requires input in design (a design center
for the whole textile sector was recently created in Tirana), credit for working capital (for
the purchase of wool, dyes etc), and some support for marketing abroad.
(h) Handicraft.  In some cities, such as Shkoder and Kruja, there is an old tradition of
handicraft, including silver jewelry, copper work, wood sculpture, and embroidery. Export
markets disappeared together with the state marketing network. Craftsmen now work as
private entrepreneurs and serve only a very limited local market. The main support needed
in this sector is new design, marketing, and credit for equipment and working capital.



- 59 -                                         ANNEX E
Page 3 of 15
11. CREDIT AND BUSINESS SUPPORT IN ALBANIA
6.     Microenterpreneurs in Albania currently lack access to formal and donor-financed credit.
Albania's state-owned banks are not equipped to make very small loans, and even have difficulty
making-and recovering-larger loans. The new private banks are not providing lek-based loans, and
donor-financed credit programs focus on loans above US$10,000. Even if small credits were available,
most microentrepreneurs are unfamiliar with how to prepare business plans.
Formal Credit Systems
7.     Albania's formal banking sector does not yet have the institutional capability to serve the financial
needs of the private sector. The banking sector is still dominated by state-owned banks, which have had
very limited success in "commercializing" their operations. Procedures for approving loans-and
supervising loan repayment-are largely inadequate, and loan default rates at all state-owned banks are
very high. Consequently, several banks strictly limited credit in 1994-only 54 percent of the credit
ceiling imposed by the central bank was used. With the exception of the National Commercial Bank,
which lends to state-owned enterprises, and the Dardania Bank, which makes short-term foreign exchange
loans, banks are continuing to lend far below their credit limits in early 1995.
8.    Progress has been made in establishing the legal and regulatory environment for a market
economy: Parliament has approved, among others, a tax law, a company law, a labor law, an accounting
law, and a central bank and banking law. The regulatory environment for the financial sector is not yet
complete. Albania still lacks a modern bankruptcy law, and there is no legal provision for enforcing loan
collateral.
9.    Interest Rates. Interest rates in Albania are not set by market forces; minimum interest rates
for deposits in lek and guideline interest rates for lending in lek are given by the central bank. As of
June 1995, the 12 month deposit rate is 14.5 percent, and the 12 month lending rate is 20 percent. The
evolution of interest rates in Albania is shown in Table E. 1. Interest rates on foreign currency deposits
are set in line with European rates.
10.   Banking Institutions. The emergence of commercial banks is a recent phenomenon in Albania.
Until 1991, Albania had three state-owned banking institutions: the State Bank of Albania (SBA), the
Savings Bank, and the State Agriculture Bank. In 1991, the State Agricultural Bank became the Bank
of Agriculture and Development (BAD), and a fourth state-owned bank, the Albanian Commercial Bank
(ACB), was created from the Foreign Relations Department of the SBA.
11.   A two-tier banking system was created in April 1992. The SBA became the Bank of Albania,
retaining only the functions of a central bank. The commercial operations were integrated into the
National Bank of Albania (NBA). On January 1, 1993, the NBA and ACB were merged to form the
National Commercial Bank of Albania. In October 1993, the BAD was restructured and its performing
assets and deposits were transferred to the new Rural Commercial Bank.
12.   In addition, two small joint-venture banks were created in late 1992 and 1993, and one private
bank was created in 1994. These banks focus on dealing with a few selected credit customers and play
no major role yet in mobilizing savings or providing investment finance.



ANNEX E                                                 - 60 -
Page 4 of 15
TABLE E.1: INTEREST RATE STRUCTURE
(Percent per Annum)
1991-      July 1992-    June 1993-    Jan. 1994-    Aug. 1994-    From Sept.
June 1992    May 1993     Dec. 1993     July 1994    Sept. 1994     12, 1994
DEPosiTs
12 month          5-8          32 a/        25 h/         221 /         is b/       16.5 d/
6 month            4-7          25 a/        19 b/        16 b/        14.5 b/       13.5 e/
3 month           3.5-5        18 a/         14 _/        10 b/         9 c/          8 f/
Demand             3            3 a/          3            3.3           2             2
deposits
LENDING
12 month         8-12 fl       39 g/        30 g/         26 g/         22 g/        20 /
6 month          8-12 f/       32 g/         26 g/        22 g/        20 g/         17 g/
3 month          8-12 fl       25g/          20g/         17gl          15g/        14 g/
Source: Bank of Albania
a/  Minimum rates.
b/  Plus or minus 200 basis points; lower end of band enforced minimum.
c!  Plus or minus 150 basis points; lower end of band enforced minimum.
d/ Changed to 14.5 % in January 1995. Plus or minus 150 basis points; lower end of band enforced minimum.
e/  Plus or minus 100 basis points; lower end of band enforced minimum.
f/  Interest rate was 30-35 percent for Albanian Commercial Bank loans to individuals or private enterprises.
g/  Guideline rates.
13.    Bank of Albania. The Bank of Albania (BoA), which is Albania's central bank, has headquarters
in Tirana and five branches in other major cities. The BoA supervises other banks and controls the
money supply through direct control of total credit expansion of the banking system. The BoA has been
pursuing a tight monetary policy, and credit ceilings, in line with targeted inflation and output growth,
are imposed on the banks' total lending to the economy, including government. Once the ceiling for the
central bank's lending to the Government is subtracted from the total ceiling, the remaining amount is
divided among commercial banks by imposing sub-ceilings on a bank-by-bank basis.
14.    National Commercial Bank. The National Commercial Bank (NCB), previously structured to
provide loans only to state enterprises, was "commercialized" and expanded in 1993 to include the private
sector. It is the largest bank in terms of number of transactions, and it is the only bank to have reached
its second quarter 1995 credit ceiling. The bank, which has 30 branches and 1,100 employees, also
serves larger clients than any other bank in the country-about 50 percent of the 1995 loan portfolio
represents 20 big creditors, most of which are state-owned and include the National Housing Agency.
Although some lending has been extended to the private sector, NCB still functions mainly as the
Government's bank. Technical assistance is being provided by the US Treasury and EBRD.
15.    Rural Commercial Bank.  The Rural Commercial Bank (RCB) was created in October 1993,
when BAD's unrecoverable loans to state enterprises were liquidized and the bank was recapitalized. A
comprehensive program of institutional strengthening in key areas was initiated upon creation of the bank.
RCB has 27 branches and about 700 employees.
16.    Savings Bank. The Savings Banks was founded in 1991 as an offspring of the former Savings
and Insurance Institute, which was formed in 1948 to take deposits and collect insurance payments from



- 61 -                                       ANNEX E
Page 5 of 15
individuals. The bank, which has 27 branches and about 900 employees, has a large proportion (about
80 percent) of Albania's household savings. Although it is licensed to make loans, the Savings Bank is
opting for a low risk strategy with a limited loan portfolio. The Savings Bank is receiving technical and
financial assistance from EBRD and EU/PHARE, and it will be the credit window for phase 2 of the EU
Phare SME program.
17.   Smaller Private Banks. The private banking sector is virtually non-existent-three private banks
are currently in operation. Each of these private banks has one office in Tirana.
18.   The Italian-Albanian Bank was founded in late-1992 as a 50/50 joint venture between Banco di
Roma (Italy) and the National Commercial Bank. The EBRD recently acquired a 20 percent share,
reducing the other shares to 40 percent each. The bank accepts foreign exchange and lek deposits, and
lends in foreign exchange mainly to Italian companies and mainly for trade. The bank has made only
a few private investment loans, one of which was the establishment of a Coca-Cola bottling facility
(Italian subsidiary) in Albania.
19.   The Dardania Bank was registered in 1993 by the government-in-exile of Kosovo. It is Albania's
smallest bank and the only one with no Albanian state ownership. The bank accepts foreign exchange
(US dollar) deposits and is making short-term foreign exchange (US dollar) loans. It is not expected to
play a significant role in private enterprise financing
20.   The Arab-Albanian Islamic Bank (AAIB) is a joint venture bank started in 1994-it is 60 percent
foreign (10 percent Bahrain-based Arab Islamic Bank, 15 percent Islamic Development Bank, 10 percent
Dallah-Baraka Group, and 15 percent Saudi Arabia private investors) and 40 percent local (state-owned
capital held by the National Commercial Bank). Arab investments for Albania are flowing through the
AAIB. As of early 1995, the AAIB is accepting foreign exchange deposits and not lending.
Informal Credit Systems
21.   Several informal credit systems have been identified, primarily in the area of trade and retail.
They are not yet very developed in the manufacturing and processing sectors. The following are some
examples of informal credit opportunities which have been observed primarily in Tirana and Shkoder.
22.   Small loans for 3-6 months from friends and family are extended at a monthly interest rate of
about 5 percent. These loans often range from US$500-1,000.
23.    One-day loans in the form of payment deferral: Some traders in the Tirana wholesale market buy
their goods directly from trucks parked at the edge of the market and are not required to pay for these
goods until the end of the day when they pay only for what they actually sold. This system is not only
very flexible and convenient for the market traders, but also provides them with a de facto one-day loan
which they repay in the evening with the proceeds from the day's sales. Prices of goods naturally reflect
this additional credit element and are higher than those for cash customers. The profitability of traders
who sell goods taken on one-day credit is lower than that of traders who pay cash for their goods.
24.    Open-ended loans with no fixed term but with a monthly interest rate of 10 percent are provided
by informal lenders to a limited number of traders who engage in import-export activities. The loans,
whose amounts were impossible to determine, do not have a fixed maturity but the full amount of the loan
is recallable at one month's notice by the lender. Monthly payments comprise only interest, and the
principal is payable only when the loan is recalled.



ANNEX E                                             - 62 -
Page 6 of 15
25.    More traditional informal credit carrying 4-5 percent monthly interest and maturing in a
maximum of six months is also available to the small business community. The source of these loans
is not clear, but there is apparently some excess liquidity in the economy which is pooled and re-directed
by small-scale informal lenders who become known in the community.
26.    'Lottery" savings circles existed during the communist period-women working in the same
factory came together in savings groups to buy household durables. Each woman would contribute a
small amount of savings on a regular basis. In a process similar to a lottery drawing, one group member
after another would "win" the accumulated savings for her own use. Since these funds were not loans,
but rather members' savings, this system should be regarded as a savings mechanism rather than a source
of credit. However, it performed a very useful and important function in making funds available for
household investment.
27.    Remittances from Albanians living abroad are often reinjected in the Albanian economy in the
form of informal credit. Annual remittances from Albanian expatriates abroad are estimated to be about
US$300 million, which far exceeds the total amount of donor funds flowing to Albania from all other
sources combined. The form of these remittances can be consumer durables for family use and/or resale.
Often, however, the remittances come in the form of cash, which can be used for personal consumption
or onlending in the informal market. In some cases, the funds remain in smaller circles of family and
friends and are not lent against interest. In some other instances, funds are lent in foreign currency and
must also be repaid in that foreign currency. In the case of Kosovons, for example, German Marks are
lent for a specific business activity and the borrower must repay his Kosovon friend or family member
in German Marks. Therefore the actual lenders are not in Albania but are based in Germany.
28.   Joint-Venture businesses are established by Albanians and foreigners (often Greek or Italian) who
share unequally in the proceeds of the business in accordance with the initial capital contribution. As a
protective measure, the Albanian will insist on maintaining majority share of the business, but the foreign
party will receive a disproportionately larger share of the profits in exchange for submitting to majority
Albanian ownership. This kind of joint venture investment is considered in many circles as an informal
source of "credit," because important funding was made available for the establishment of a local
business.
Other Institutions and Organizations
29.    The Chamber of Commerce was originally a branch of the Ministry of Trade and only established
itself as an independent, self-financing institution in August 1992. The Tirana Chamber, which
established branches in other parts of the country, views itself as the National Chamber representing the
private business sector. As with most other institutions in the country, the Chamber has no real
experience in supporting private enterprise or small businesses and is in the process of defining its own
role in the newly democratized Albania.
30.    The primary role of the Association of Private Entrepreneurs, formed in 1991, is to provide
members with information about the legal environment pertaining to business, import-export trade, and
investment, and to serve as a voice for the business community. The Association is a member of the
Chamber of Commerce and currently has two separate factions: the Vlore-based association which covers
the South and Southwest, and the Tirana-based association which covers the rest of Albania.
31.    7he EU PHARE Small and Medium Enterprise (SME) Project is the only existing donor-financed
project channeling credit to small businesses. The EU initially tried to identify viable indigenous



- 63 -                                          ANNEX E
Page 7 of 15
organizations or associations through which the EU could work. Because of the uncertain status of the
Chamber of Commerce and the Associations of Private Entrepreneurs, it became apparent that a new type
of SME support organization was necessary. Therefore, the EU established seven Regional Business
Agencies (RBA), modeled after Western European development agencies.
32.    The RBAs operate as independent private companies, each directed by a board of representatives
from the Ministry of Economy and Finance; Districts, Municipalities, and Communes; the Chamber of
Commerce; the Association of Private Entrepreneurs; the banks; the Faculty of Economics at the
University of Tirana; and the Albanian SME Support Unit (EU). RBAs have been assisted by Peace
Corps volunteers who are stationed in RBAs around the county.
33.    The Activities of the RBAs include:
(a) handling inquiries and serving as a liaison between the entrepreneurs, the Chamber of
Commerce, Ministries, Districts, Municipalities and Communes, aid agencies, and private
associations;
(b) assistance in the preparation of business plans for individual entrepreneurs and for
documentation supporting credit applications;
(c) seminars and training in small business-related topics; and
(d) collection of information for SME needs in the region, including a database of businesses,
library books, technical literature, information on taxation, and legal and regulatory
information.
34.    During the first phase of the EU project, for which a credit line of ECU 1.1 million (US$1.3
million) was established, about 152 loans were provided to small and medium-scale entrepreneurs, with
an average loan size of about US$10,000. The loan period was for a maximum of three years (including
a 3-month grace period) and the annual interest rate was 17 percent. Loan payments were made through
the National Commercial Bank. Repayment was much worse than anticipated and is estimated at only
50 percent in early-1995 (about 50 percent of the loans are either in several months arrears or in complete
default with the borrower disappearing). The situation has improved some from last year, when an
estimated 75 percent of the loans were in arrears or default.
35.    The second phase of the EU project, which was supposed to begin in June 1993, would replenish
the credit line by ECU 3 million and increase the average loan size to an estimated US$15,000'. The
second phase is expected to focus on manufacturing. Interest rates would increase slightly as a 5 percent
transaction fee has been added to the existing 17 percent annual interest rate. The EU is helping to set
up a Small and Medium Enterprise Department in the Savings Bank, which will handle the account and
take over the task of screening loan applications. The RBAs will continue to provide technical assistance
in the form of business planning and marketing advice for entrepreneurs interested in expanding their
businesses and applying for credit.
36.    Since the loan size under the second phase of the EU program is expected to increase, any risk
of overlap between the EU project and small credit component of the Urban Works and Microenterprise
Pilot Project has been completely eliminated. The enterprises benefitting from the SME project are larger
The second phase of the SME program has experienced a number of start-up delays; it is not yet operational as of May
1995.



ANNEX E                                            - 64 -
Page 8 of 15
and more sophisticated than the target group for the small credit component. There will be important
linkages between the two groups (subcontracting arrangements, learning and exposure, and apprenticeship
opportunities), but the credit mechanisms serving the two groups will necessarily be different.
37.    The ORT Human Resource Development Program, financed by USAID, has provided adult
training to about 3,000 Albanians, especially ex-political prisoners, since its inception in January 1992.
Originally, training programs sponsored by ORT (Organization for Educational Resources and
Technological Training) were limited to ex-politically persecuted people. Currently, programs are
available to unemployed people whose unemployment benefits have expired. The program, which is
established in the municipalities of Tirana, Durres, Vlora, and Shkoder, offers six- and twelve-week
courses on topics that include cosmetology, English, secretarial skills, tourism and auto mechanics.
ORT's involvement is expected to extend to early 1997, at which point the program will be sustained by
the Ministry of Labor.
38.    7he Training, Enterprise, and Employment Fund (TEEF), was created in May 1993 under the
IDA-financed Labor Market Development Project and supports four types of adult training.
(a) Job Insertion. TEEF will finance training courses within an enterprise for a minimum of
20 people. TEEF will cover the costs of the local trainer and most surrounding logistics
for courses that can last up to three months. TEEF has financed courses for both local
and foreign enterprises, including footwear, apparel, carpets, bakeries, and construction
firms.
(b) Institutional Training. TEEF will organize training in any given subject if there is
adequate demand. Typically, courses last from one to nine months and rent the services
of a private enterprise for support. For example, an Italian cooking course was organized
in the kitchen of a local hotel. Training needs are identified by twelve TEEF agents who
work out of the twelve regional labor offices.
(c) Business Clubs. TEEF will pay business clubs to help organize training and internships
with successful enterprises. After such training, the individual might be ready to apply
for a loan and be referred to a credit program for assistance.
(d) Incubators. In the longer term, two business incubators (in Tirana and Shkoder) will be
established and financed by TEEF. They will each total about 3,000 sq. meters and will
provide various services to about thirty businesses.
III. COMPONENT OBJECTIVES
39.   The two main objectives of the component are:
(a) The rapid creation of employment, thereby cutting dependency on economic assistance
programs; and
(b) The development of the private sector from the bottom up.
40.   The project will be demand driven and will focus on provision of small-scale credit and, at the
same time, business and technical advice to microentrepreneurs. The project will also address the high
concentration of skilled labor in some urban centers (for example, textile workers in Berat) by using a



- 65 -                                     ANNEX E
Page 9 of 15
sector-orientated approach to encourage and support private initiatives. This sector approach will be
based on (a) marketing and technical studies of key subsectors; (b) creation of a few model demonstration
units and/or common facility centers, if requested by private microentrepreneurs; and (c) establishment
of a data base and information center on small technologies.
41.    The medium and long-term objectives of the component are to work out the methods and
procedures for the implementation of the full-scale project, particularly:
(a) Test urban microenterprise lending that combines poverty alleviation with economic
growth on a progressively sustainable basis;
(b) Build a financial and social intermediation system that combines small-scale credit and
technical and business advice to microentrepreneurs; and
(c) Identify obstacles to development of the small private sector.
IV. EXPERIENCE UNDER THE PRE-PILOT PHASE
42.    Following the process approach that was successfully applied under the Rural Poverty Alleviation
Pilot Project (RPAPP), a pre-pilot phase was initiated in February 1994 in order to identify the main
obstacles to the development of microenterprises in urban areas and to define the approach of the pilot
phase. Three types of action have been undertaken: (a) an experimental subproject to create knitting
microenterprises in Shkoder; (b) a first identification of the main subsectors to be targeted later; and (c)
provision of demand-driven credit to unemployed persons.
Knitting Microenterprise Project
43.    The knitting microenterprise project in Shkoder was initially going to promote approximately 20
knitting microenterprises in partnership with a private Italian firm.  The microenterprises were to be
created by women who have already worked in this field, who would receive complimentary on-the-job
training from the Italian enterprise and, at the end of the 6-week training period, would be granted a loan
from the project for the purchase of a knitting machine. The Italian company would supply the raw
materials and would buy the final products. A service unit would provide common services such as
mechanical and electrical maintenance as well as some management advice.
44.   The pilot project proved more difficult to implement than was originally expected. Initially, the
women were extremely interested and the program was oversubscribed (300 candidates for only 20 spots).
This response may be partially explained by the fact that the women were to be paid during the training
period.  Once trained, however, the women showed extremely risk-averse behavior, which is
incompatible with the creation of a private business, and they refused the idea of installing the knitting
equipment at home, possibly owing to difficult housing conditions.
45.    Meanwhile, the Italian firm was mainly interested in finding cheap labor resources. The training
provided was limited to technical skills without taking into account the difficult psychological transition
from working as a low-productivity laborer to an independent and productivity-oriented entrepreneur.
No business advice or training was provided. Furthermore, in terms of machinery and equipment, good
quality second-hand machines proved more difficult to find than expected.



ANNEX E                                             -66 -
Page 10 of 15
46.    The ADF staff in charge of the project were themselves not very familiar with private business
practices. Constraints and behaviors created by 40 years of central management further hindered the
development of the subproject.
47.    After several months, it was decided that the initiative should be left to the women themselves.
The ADF staff will follow-up will provide technical or financial support if requested to do so.
Regardless of what the final result will be in terms of microenterprise promotion, this first subproject has
provided a very important experience for the further development of the project. It assisted in the design
of the microenterprise support activities as a support to individual or group initiatives, rather than a top-
down approach.
Identification of Subsectors
48.    A   first  identification  of  subsectors  for
microenterprise promotion was carried out on the wood     TABLE E.2: TYPES OF SUBLOANS
processing subsector in Tirana, kilim  production in                  APPROVED
Kavaja, apparel in Berat, and handicraft in Shkoder. A              (June l, 1995)
bricks and tiles production started by a small group of
landless farmers near Shkoder has received credit and
technical support under the pre-pilot credit component.     Type of Activity      Number of
While no specific action could be undertaken in most                               Subloans
cases for lack of financial resources, the handicraft    Small trade                   14
subsector approach in Shkoder helped to develop first    Cafe-bar                      13
loans in this subsector.
Food shop                    11 
Demand-Driven Small-Scale Credit                         Handicraft                     3
Car repair                    3
49.    Pre-pilot actions in small-scale credit have been  Joinery                       3
initiated by four Albanian staff, who were recruited and
received  preliminary  on-the-job  training  in  credit  Restaurant                     3
delivery and small business promotion. Their first tasks  Transport                     3
were:  identify  the  target population,  assess  its     Pool hall                     2
constraints and credit needs, provide training and       Pharmac                        1
business advice, explore the scope and conditions of             y
informal and formal credit to microentrepreneurs, and    Car wash                       l
carry out preliminary market studies.                    Ambulance                      I
Customs service               I
50.    The first months have been used to develop        Ha    I                        1
systems and procedures, equip the office with essential
items, and begin to promote the credit activities on a   Information agency             1
limited scale. The strategy has been to seek a balance   Butcber shop                   1
between caution and rapid experimentation in order to    TotwI                         62
use the limited resources (US$50,000 loan fund made
available on grant), to test a wide range of lending
methodologies.
51.    As of June 1, 1995, 62 loan applications have been approved-53 in Tirana, 7 in Shijak, and 2
in Shkoder. Subloans range from US$600 to US$3,000 and average US$1,900; and loan duration ranges
from 5 to 12 months and averages 10 months. The loans are being used to finance a variety of business
activities in trade and small manufacturing, including a small pharmacy, small shops, restaurants, joinery,



- 67 -                                       ANNEX E
Page 11 of 15
handicrafts, car repair, and car washes. Thirty-seven of the borrowers had no formal or informal
economic activity at the time of the loan-8 of them were receiving social assistance (such as pensions)
and 4 were receiving economic assistance (ndhime ekonomike). The remaining 25 borrowers had some
informal economic activity at the time of the loan. A summary of the types of subloans is shown in
Table E.2. These early credit experiences have helped to construct a first outline of the small credit
component under the pilot project.
V. Component Investments and Methods of Intervention
52.    Number of Subloans. The Small-Scale Credit and Microenterprise Support Component amounts
to approximately US$1.8 million (base costs), of which about US$1.5 million is available for small credit.
It is estimated that approximately 1,960 subloans will be given during the two-year project period, based
on revolving account with a subloan average of US$2,000 each, an average loan duration of 9 months,
an interest rate of 2 percent monthly, and a repayment rate of 90 percent. A repayment rate of 95
percent would permit about 2,125 subloans under the same conditions, a repayment rate of 85 percent
would permit about 1,800 subloans, and a repayment rate of 80 percent would permit about 1,600
subloans. Projections of outstanding principal and interest earned on 1,960 subloans at the end of one and
two years for three possible repayment scenarios-80, 95 and 100 percent repayment-are shown in
Table E.3.
53.    Conditions of eligibility. The purpose of the small credit program is not to compete with the
formal banking sector, but to provide financial and social intermediation for people who do not have
access to banks. The conditions of eligibility will therefore be the following:
(a) the loan applicant must be unemployed or receiving state economic assistance;
(b) the objective of the project should be the establishment of any income-generating activity
(the pilot project may also experiment with home- and building-improvement loans to
members of condominium associations);
(c) the borrower should have the basic know-how and experience required for the success of
the activity;
(d) the borrower must be highly motivated; and
(e) subloans should normally be granted for the promotion of new microenterprises (in some
cases, they may also be granted to existing microenterprises to ensure their further
development and create additional jobs).



ANNEX E                                                     - 68 -
Page 12 of 15
TABLE E.3: CREDIT PROGRAM SCENARIOS
End of Year I       End of Year 2
Total number of subloans                  760                1,960
Active subloans                           600                1,500
100 PECRENT REPAYMENT
Outstanding principal             $776,667           Sl,235,556
Total interest payments            $96,044            $346,111
95 PERcENr REPAYmENT
Outstanding principal             $813,833           $1,369,778
Total interest payments            $91,242            $328,806
90 PERCENT REPAYmENT
Outstanding principal             $851,000           $1,504,000
Total interest payments            $86,440            $311,500
85 PERceNr REPAYmENT
Outstanding principal             $888,167           $1,638,222
Total interest payments            $81,638            $294,194
80 PERCENT REPAYmET
Outstanding principal             $925,333           $1,772,444
Total interest payments            $76,836            $276,889
54.     Loan Conditions. The provisional loan terms include:
(a)  a maximum  loan ceiling of US$3000; in exceptional cases, the loan ceiling may be
US$5,000;2
(b)  a maturity of less than 12 months;
(c)  interest rate no less than commercial interest rates (the interest rate has been 2 percent
monthly during the pre-pilot phase);
(d)  repayments are on a one-monthly or half-monthly basis; and
(e)  loan guarantees, based on the capacity of the borrower, may take different forms discussed
below. During the pilot phase, loans will require close supervision by the credit officers.
2    It was agreed during negotiations that the maximum subloan size for the small credit program would be US$5,000 in the
Operational Guidelines, but that a higher limit of US$10,000 would be established in the legal agreenents in order to
allow for flexibility in the future in the event of special circumstances of chainged conditions.



- 69 -                                       ANNEX E
Page 13 of 15
55.    Guarantee Systems. As in other microenterprise lending projects, the most difficult problem
is security and collateral. The target group members do not have real collateral; and legal procedures
for contract enforcement are arduous even in the presence of collateral. In most cases, a social guarantee
system is preferable. It reduces the lender's transaction costs, because the solidarity group assumes the
roles of appraisal, guarantee, and repayment.
56.    Based on the experience of the pre-pilot phase, three types of collateral seem to be possible:
(i) Community guarantee. Under the pre-pilot phase, a Romany (gypsy) association has
been created and registered with the municipal court of Tirana. The statutes include a
community guarantee of loan repayment in the event of default. Non-compliance would
result in suspension of all future loans to members of the association. This solidarity
group-oriented guarantee could be used also for other types of groups, such as former
prisoners, neighbors in smaller towns, or women entrepreneurs. Some women in poor
neighborhoods of Tirana have been receptive to solidarity groups for credit, because it is
similar to the lottery system they participated in when employed by the state enterprises.
Establishment of a women's solidarity group has been difficult to organize so far, due
mainly to weak social cohesion in urban areas. Women's dairy support groups
established in Shkoder district under the Land O'Lakes project, could be candidates for
small credit to expand their dairy activity and market their products in nearby towns.
(ii) Notarized contract. An alternative guarantee system would be to mimic existing social
mechanisms in which the borrower and lender prepare a written contract which is signed
by both parties in front of a notary in the presence of other witnesses known to both
parties. Collateral typically consists of household effects. This system is very difficult
to enforce in the absence of a genuine desire to uphold the contract, as the legal
framework is not strong enough yet to provide the necessary punitive support in case of
default, and as punitive action is not really applicable to poor people.
(iii) Character referrals. Another system being tested under the pre-pilot phase consists in
finding a guarantee based on a personal character reference, preferably from an elected
public official. Such a system of character vouching relies on the fact that contract
abidance is important for an elected official to "save face" and preserve honor, a very
important concept in Albanian society. This method has been tested-with good results
so far-in the municipality of Shijak.
57.    Creation of guarantee fund. In addition to these three types of collateral, a guarantee fund
could be established, limited in the first stage to cases where loans cannot be repaid due to an emergency,
death, or accident. This fund would be financed as follows:
(a) the initial capital would consist of the pre-pilot phase credit fund financed by grant money,
once the loans distributed from this fund are repaid;
(b) a gradual deduction of 10 percent of the interest rate would be paid on the loan;
(c) a contribution of I percent of the total loan amount would be received at the beginning of
the loan and reimbursed when the loan has been repaid in full. The emergency fund would
be progressively implemented on a local basis and its management would be ensured with
the participation of the borrowers.



ANNEX E                                            -70 -
Page 14 of 15
58.    Credit Committee. All loans would be approved by a Credit Committee that is currently
composed of the Director of the Rural Credit Department of RDF, a representative of the banks, and the
head of the Urban Credit pre-pilot project team. This committee meets on a regular basis in order to
discuss loans for approval or rescheduling, as well as to progressively establish urban credit procedures.
Individual applications are presented and defended by the credit officer responsible for loan preparation
and follow-up. The composition of the committee will be dynamic and subject to change as the project
evolves. It will be as decentralized as possible, and will progressively involve not only representatives
of the Project and of the banking sector, but also representatives of the borrowers.
59.    Financial Sustainability. One of the objectives of the component is to develop a credit delivery
system for microentrepreneurs that would be financially sustainable in the long run. During the pilot
phase, sustainability will be carefully monitored, and efforts will be taken to identify financial
intermediation costs (which must be covered by interest) and social intermediation costs (which will not
be covered by interest during the pilot project.) Calculation of a Subsidy Dependency Index at the end
of 1996 and 1997 will also assist in monitoring the level of subsidy arising from the subsidized capital
(IDA credit given to the ADF as a grant from the Government).3   About US$300,000 equivalent of
interest is expected to be earned at the end of two years (see Table E.2.). The expected interest is about
equivalent to the anticipated investment and operational costs of the Urban Credit Division for two years,
including social intermediation costs, but not including technical assistance or ADF overhead costs
(Annex B, Table B.10).
60.    Innovation Fund. The component will also finance an innovation fund (US$75,000 base costs),
which will support about five model subprojects and/or common facility centers in key subsectors in order
to demonstrate new technologies and new forms of production and marketing. These individual- or
group-owned projects would not be created a priori, but only if established by a private entrepreneur or
by a producers' association. They would operate as demonstration projects for the microentrepreneurs
of the same subsector. They would therefore be financed by credit and possible start-up grants
representing up to 30 percent of the total investment. The grant would not only compensate for the risk
associated with experimental activities, but would also allow ADF to use the model microenterprises for
demonstration and training.
VI. Component Organization
61.    The urban credit and microenterprise support component would be implemented under the
guidance of Rural Credit Department of the Albanian Development Fund, in order to take advantage of
the small credit experience in rural areas and the skills of the Rural Credit Department staff.
62.    Under the pre-pilot phase, small-scale credit tests have been focused in Tirana, where a team of
four credit officers has been recruited, and in near-by Shijak. Recently, a credit officer was recruited
in Shkoder, where two loans have been approved so far. Under the pilot phase the project could expand
to two additional locations-Berat and Kavaja. These five locations have been selected because of (a)
high rate of unemployment; (b) existence of local skills especially in the textile sector for Shkoder and
Berat and carpet industry for Kavaja; (c) existing contacts with artisans; and (d) easy access from Tirana.
In each location, the credit team would consist of two to four trained staff.
3   As described in World Bank Discussion Paper No. 174, "Assessing Development Finance Institutions," by Jacob Yaron.



- 71 -                                         ANNEX E
Page 15 of 15
63.    The pilot small credit program would be based on:
(a) a survey of local skills, markets, alternative credit sources, working space, and other
constraints to the development of microenterprises;
(b) identification of the target population and information/action organized through the local
labor offices, municipality offices providing ndihma ekonomike, local announcements, and
individual contacts;
(c) selection of the potential borrowers;
(d) economic and financial analysis of the proposed projects;
(e) loan management and accounting;
(f) close follow-up of the project; and
(g) experience and capacity building.
64.    Following subloan approval by the Credit Committee, subloans would be disbursed by a bank,
and loan repayments would be made into that bank's account. Each credit team will be provided with
a small office, a computer, a motorcycle, and a bicycles for each credit officers. Given the innovative
character of the project in Albania, frequent missions by a consultant will be required during the pilot
project in order to train the Albanian staff in economic and financial analysis and specific methods of
lending for microenterprise creation. At the same time, the consultant will provide support for the
development of component methods and procedures, which would be adapted to local conditions.
65.    The credit officers will be in charge of business and technical advice to their clients, relying on
specialized local consultants if necessary. These consultants could be recruited among previous state-
enterprise specialists or within specialized institutes and remunerated on a per-service basis. Subsector
studies and the establishment of a data base and information center on small technologies will assist in
providing advice.
66.    Credit officers would keep weekly time sheets, recording the time spent on various tasks. These
time sheets would be an important mechanism to monitor the time spent-and expenditure-on financial
intermediation versus social intermediation.
67.    Cooperation would be sought with the SME Foundation and other projects, especially in the field
of technical information and basic business training for ADF staff and local consultants. This cooperation
cannot be extended to all fields of intervention, since the microentrepreneurs and the subprojects are far
below the level targeted by these other institutions, and the methods applied will be quite different from
those used for SME promotion.



I



ANNEX F
Page 1 of 3
ALBANIA
URBAN WORKS AND MICROENTERPRISE PILOT PROJECT
ANNEX F
IMPLEMENTATION AND SUPERVISION PLANS: KEY DATES
1.    The implementation framework for the Urban Works and Microenterprise Pilot Project is largely
in place, because of the similarity of the project to the Rural Poverty Alleviation Pilot Project (RPAPP),
and the implementation experience of the Albanian Development Fund (ADF). In addition, the pre-pilot
phase allowed for testing methods and procedures of the urban components and for recruiting and training
the small-scale credit team. The engineer in charge of the urban works component is an experienced staff
who previously worked on the rural works component of the RPAPP. The project will use existing ADF
structures for financing and monitoring.
2.    The main organizational issues to be addressed for both the urban and the rural projects are: (a)
strengthening financial and administrative management; and (b) finalizing implementation of the
monitoring and evaluation system. Implementation of the overall project is covered in Chapter III of the
SAR, implementation of the urban works component is described in Annex D, and implementation of the
small credit and microenterprise support component is described in Annex E. Some implementation
details are expected to be worked out during the pilot project, using a participatory and process approach.
3.    Key actions and dates for project start up and implementation are shown in Table F. 1. The
estimated Supervision Plan for the project is shown in Table F.2.



ANNEX F                                                 - 74 -
Page 2 of 3
TABLE F.1: IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
TARGET DATES                                 ACTION                                    BY
Start-up Activities
June-August 95         Internal restructuring of ADF to accommodate urban    ADF Executive Director,
(ongoing)              project activities. Identification of new staff needs, if any    with Deputy Directors
June-August 95         Preparation of the Manual of Procedures, submitted to  ADF Urban Infrastructure
IDA for prior review (condition of effectiveness)   and Urban Credit Divisions
July                   Meet with IDA procurement adviser to discuss revised  ADF Urban Infrastructure
bidding documents for civil works; send revised version      Division
to IDA for approval
July-September 95      Identification of procurement needs. Preparation of   ADF Urban Infrastructure
technical specifications and letter of invitation for  and Urban Credit Divisions
vehicles and transport, computers, furniture, and office
equipment
July-September 95      Finalization of 1995 and preliminary 1996 work plan and   ADF Urban Infrastructure
budget, submitted to IDA for prior review           and Urban Credit Division,
with the assistance of the
M&E Department
August-September 95    Council of Minister meeting to approve project.      Government, with assistance
Parliament approval of project                         of DEDAC and ADF
early-September 95     Signing of Subsidiary Agreement between MoF and ADF    ADF Executive Director
(condition of effectiveness)
mid-September 95       Legal opinion from the Minister of Justice on the     Ministry of Justice, with
approval of the Credit and Project Agreement and the  assistance of DEDAC and
validity of the Subsidiary Agreement                          ADF
mid-September 95       Opening of Special Account in Bank of Albania and
secondary account in NCB; send initial request for   ADF Finance Department
withdrawal to IDA
late-September 95      ADF Board meeting: approval of Manual of Procedures   ADF Board of Trustees and
and 1995 / 1996 work plan and budget                 ADF Executive Committee
Implementation
late-September 95      Declare project effectiveness                                  IDA
October 95             Procurement of computers, office equipment, vehicles           ADF
and transport
Fall 1995              Participation in World Bank procurement workshop in   ADF Urban Infrastructure
Tirana                                                       Division
Quarterly, beginning   Submit to IDA work plan and budget for the following  ADF Urban Divisions, with
November 1995          fiscal year                                             assistance of Studies
Division
Quarterly, beginning   Submit Quarterly Progress Report to IDA and Board of   ADF Urban Divisions, with
January 15, 1996       Trustees                                                assistance of Studies
Division
September 1996         Mid-term review.                                             ADF/IDA



-75 -                                             ANNEX F
Page 3 of 3
TABLE F.2: SUPERVISION PLAN
APPROXIMATE                         ACTrVITY                        EXPECTED SKELL    ESTUIATED
DATES                                                               REQUIREMENTS    STAFF WEEKS
FY 96          Project Launch Mission (9-10/95)                     Operations
- Review finalization of Operational Guidelines     Engineering             5.0
- Review first work plan and budget                 Credit
- Project effectiveness
- Review results of pre-pilot phase (credit program and
Shkoder market rehabilitation) and closing of Japanese
PHRD grant
- Review initial equipment procurement packages
- Workshop on procurement, monitoring, reporting, and
work plans and budgets
FY 96          Two Supervision Missions (2/96, 5/96)                Operations
- Review results of project activities (credit and urban  Procurement       6.0
works)                                            Finance
- Review monitoring system
- Review status of procurement of equipment
- Review use of civil works bidding documents
- Confirm availability of Government's 1996 contribution
(2/96)
- Review 1995 financial accounts (2/96)
- Disbursements
FY 97          Mid-Term Review (8-9/96)                             Operations
- Progress of work program                          Engineering             5.0
- Impact assessment                                 Credit
Economics
FY 97          One Supervision mission (11/96)                      Operations
- Review work program and budget                                            4.0
- Progress of work program
- Disbursements
FY 97          Two Supervision missions (2/97, 5/97)                Operations
- Confirm availability of Government's 1997 contribution  Engineering       8.0
(2/97)                                            Credit
- Review 1996 financial accounts (2/97)             Finance
- Review project implementation progress            Economics
- Review civil works procurement
- Disbursements
FY 98          Two Supervision missions (9/97, 11/97)               Operations
- Review project implementation progress            Credit                  8.0
- Review wrap-up work plan and budget               Finance
- Disbursements                                     Economics
FY 98          One Supervision Mission (2/98)                       Operations
- Accounting, disbursements                         Economics,              5.0
- Impact assessment                                 Finance
- Preparation of ICR






IBRD 26122
\  1R'35    *             1900                     19'305'                   20'00                     20'30                     21'00'
/ >,t                                          FED. ,   ,REP.                    OF           YUGOSLAVIA
CROATIA I                                                           -         '            r \
4230                                                                        /                                                                              42 30-
/MAL ,,         , *   TROPOJE
MA ONE.        ~~Boiram
E MADHE\          >      Curornw
K/ Kopliki     j            j        -..       /   HAS\
(   *           :                :     ~~~~~~            ~         ~        ~~~Krurbe     
., _ JSHKODER  /                           Kruj\
PIUKE 
Shk!d6r,~          . j Pukei sKukisk
- 42'00'                                                                      '        '%~   / '         K       2  K V K E  r                             42,00-
ALBANIA                                           /             .                              r
URBAN WORKS AND MICROENTERPRISE                                                   EZ    MIRDITEK    '.   A  *-'
PILOT PROJECT                                          Leziew    .       Rrishen   . o        DIBER      !
P.qi      PILOT MUNICIPALITIES                                                . "                        Peshkopi\
LacJ 
o     SELECTED CITIES                                           LAg 7urreI  \                      |
w     DISTRICT CENTERS                                          7KUjE               MAT
6     NATIONAL CAPITAL                                         *t .       Krujil                Bulqize                     F
41a30'                POPULATION SIZE:                                DJRRES--N.            '                                 *          aCEDONIA
(-NJTIRANA                     BULQIZE    MACE DONIA
TIRANE (OVER 200,000 INHABITANTS)                       *'1N                              .
Dur8S~hilak>                                    / 
30,000 - 80,000 INHABITANTS                                                     .-,L.. N
Q        10,000 - 30,000 INHABITANTS                                                             LI/RAZHD
 O     LESS THAN 10,000 INHABITANTS                                                                           ibrozhd
KavajMi .j&
RIVERS                                            KAVAJE              ' EQIN       lbasq_
DISTRICT BOUNDARIES                              'r,           j- . -                  a
41'00'               INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                       " .t'*.          ELBASA
LUSHNJE  t                .ADEC'
ELEVATIONS IN METERS:                                 L,                                                     Pogradeusne  .
R,200                                             ' w'< w                E -t,   Cos       
200                                                                       KuoveFIER   I  -
                                                  tF                    BRAT')    \  
rh.;,wd=rl ..                                          cObed.,.o=dnr~O^^F                         p ombw B.......... . ...............         j gerat  --KORCE  DEVOLL
_ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _                                                                       *      1      5 0i410   t0y0oe B a*   S  .
SW=cxfschowdoEDEN  ,A1'JsA _ED.               v        )            I,            * RUSSIAMALLAKASTER  SKRAPAR  Ko) Bir;hb
>        ,>      _  _    ,,.        l          Vlor)LAT&  FED.                             SCorovode                          f 
DENMARK                         _,A_                    VorK*                  \TPLEE               \      ,-          .  
LITHL,41 IAELN
-    ~~~  j  \-                                 C                         PERMET (~~~~~~~KOLONJt/
NET/H           ?                /        3BELARUS\                    VLORE              T                    PERMET         Ersek  r
GERMANY                                                                                                    Pirmet  '  
,1          /, CZE_r.gOS;l RUKRAINE                                                                 GJIROKASTER
):rS W   ' REP-                     MO                                      /    *C      )Gjirokostir  f                                      400
/   sw~~~~Y$   P ~~HUNOA(Y              ,00 
SLrY                    ROMANIA'-                                                   -DELVINEt
IrAEY    \   (, <           EULGARIA                                         SarOnd e      .                          GREECE
E ^'-'(                                                  SARANDE    10   20   30   AO   50
ALEU.D;  SARANDE                                                                                          KILOMETERS
GREECE          TURK                                               '          /
10'30'                   20'00'                     20'30'                    21'00
JUNE 1995









IMAGING
TReport No:       10341fl ALB
Type: SAR



