Report No: 19979
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(Core ICR)
ON A
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 2.6 MILLION (US$ 4.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO
ALBANIA
FOR AN URBAN WORKS AND MICROENTERPRISE PILOT PROJECT
PROJECT ID: P034181
L/C NUMBER: 27700; 22683
December 29, 1999
Albania, Croatia Country Unit
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipient only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



C'URRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective 11/99)
Currency Unit = Lek
Lek 100= US$ 0.75
US$ 1.00 = Lek 134
FISCAL YEAR
January 1  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADF                      Albanian Development Fund
CAS                      Countiy Assistance Strategy
ECU                      European Currency Unit
EU                       European Union
ICR                      Implemientation Completion Report
IDA                      International Development Association
IFAD                     Lnternational Fund for Agricultural Development
JPY                      Japan Yen
LCDP                     Local Communities Development Programme (EU-Phare)
MIS                      Management Information System
NGO                      Non-Governmental Organization
PHRD                     Policy & Human Resources Development Fund (Japan)
RFF                      Rural Finance Fund
RPAPP                    Rural Poverty Alleviation Pilot Project
SAR                      Staff Appraisal Report
SDR                      Special Drawing Rights
VAT                      Value Added Tax
Vice President:   Johannes Linn
Country Director:   Arntraud Hartmann
Sector Director:    Kevin Cleaver
Task Team Leader:   Kathryn Funk



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Albania
Urban Works and Microenterprsie Pilot Project
CONTENTS
Page No
1. Project Data                                                                       1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                      1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry            2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                               4
S. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                10
6. Sustainability                                                                    12
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                     14
8. Lessons Learned                                                                   15
9. Partner Comments                                                                  17
10. Additional Information                                                           18
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                 23
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                 24
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                 26
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                 27
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                 29
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                    30
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                31
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P034181                                       Pro ect Name: URBAN WORKS & MICRO
Team Leader: Kathryn Ann Funk                             TL Unit. ECSSD
ICR 7Type: Core ICR                                       Report Date: December 28, 1999
1. Project Data
Name: URBAN WORKS & MICRO                               L/CNumber: 27700; 22683
Country/Department: ALBANIA                                             Region: Europe and Central
Asia Region
Sector/sutbsector: BP - Privatization; SA - Social Funds & Social
Assistance; WU - Urban Development Adjustment
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:  11/29/93                                Effective:                    12/08/95
Appraisal:  04/21/94                                  MTR: 11/30/96             02/16/97
Approval:  08/01/95                                Closing: 06/30/99            06/30/99
Borrower/lmplementing Agency: Albania/Albanian Development Fund
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      Johannes Linn                             Wilfried Thalwitz
Country Manager:     Arntraud Hartmann
Sector Manager:      Joseph Goldberg                           Kemal Dervis, Department Director
Team Leader at ICR:   Kathryn Funk                             Maria Nowak, Task Manager
ICR Primary Author.   Kathryn Funk; Andrea Ryan;
Achimn Fock
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: HL
Institutional Development SU
Impact:
Bank Performance: HS
Borrower Perfbrmance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                        S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
According to the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) dated June 30, 1995, the pilot project aims to help the
Government develop a five-year program to boost employment and small-scale economic activity in urban
areas, based on the successful approach of the Rural Poverty Alleviation Pilot Project (Cr. 2461-ALB).
The objectives of the five-year program are:
(a) to create both immediate and long-term employment in urban areas through public works and by
assisting private-sector development;
(b) to repair basic urban infrastructure, wvhich would improve the quality of urban life and help provide the
infrastructure necessary for a market economy,
( c) to assist in the development of inicroenterprises by providing small-scale credit and technical and
business advice; and
(d) to assist local governments to obtain development skills through training.
The specific objectives of the pilot project are to set up an appropriate implementation framework and test
approaches to the implementation of the program during its first two years.
The project's objectives were highly responsive to borrower circumstances and development priorities. The
project addressed Albania's need for an active policy to promote employment and the private sector in
urban areas. (In March 1995, 34 percent of Albania's urban population was registered as unemployed, and
state-owned enterprises were continuing to downsize or liquidate, while state unemployment benefits and
economic assistance were burdening Albania's meager budget resources). Moreover, the project used a
"bottom-up," community-based approach that proved to be highly effective in the Albanian context (see
Albania Country Assistance Review bythe Operations Evaluation Department, June 18, 1998).
Nevertheless, the level and breadth of stakeholder participation in infrastructure works could be improved
(see para. 8.5), and increased stakeholder participation will be required in the follow-up Community Works
Project.
The project was simple, flexible, modest in scale, and used an implementing agency with a proven track
record in carrying out similar activities. The project's "learning-by-doing" approach mitigated risk by
allowing components to be adapted to local needs and constraints.
3.2 Revised Objective:
Although there was some modification of project components during implementation (see 3.4, below), the
development objective in the Development Credit Agreement was stated broadly and did not require
revision.
3.3 Original Components:
To support the above objectives, the pilot project financed the following components:
A. Urban Works (base costs US$1.7 million -- 41 percent). Organize approximately 30 public works that
would rehabilitate small infrastructure, create needed market facilities, or address small environmental
problems. (The appraisal document estimated 30 public works averaging US$56,000 each, although the
actual number and size of subprojects would be determined by local community needs. In actuality, a
smaller number of subprojects was financed at a higher average subproject cost.)
- 2 -



B. Small-Scale Credit and Microenterprise Support (base costs US$1.8 million -- 43 percent). Disburse
approximately 2,000 small loans (US$300-$5,000), testing sustainable methods of providing small credit to
potential microentrepreneurs. Provide technical and business advice to microentrepreneurs, and test about
five small microenterprise demonstration projects initiated by private entrepreneurs in five key subsectors
to transfer know-how, technology, and new methods of supply and marketing.
C. Studies and Training (base costs US$0.1 million -- 3 percent). Studies would be undertaken to evaluate
project impact. Training and study tours would be used to help local governments to obtain the skills
needed for promoting long-term local development.
D. Implementation Framework (base costs US$0.6 million -- 13 percent). Support the necessary
implementation framework for the proposed five-year program by financing the project-related operating
costs of the Albanian Development Fund (ADF), and strengthening ADF finance and administration.
Eight pilot municipalities--Berat, Elbasan, Gramsh, Kavaje, Peqin, Shijak, Shkoder, and Tirana--were
selected taking into consideration variety (of size and region), microenterprise development potential, and
unemployment and economic assistance per capita. According to the SAR, urban works would be focused
in six municipalities, while small-scale credit would be focused in five municipalities.
Project components were reasonably related to achieving the project's objective and were consistent with
the capacity of the implementing agency.
3.3 Revised Components:
No formal restructuring of the project took place. However, based on lessons leamed during
implementation, the following adjustments were made to project components:
A. Expansion of the urban works project area. The project initially limited urban works investments to six
municipalities (subsequent cofinancing from Switzerland for Puka District brought the number of
municipalities to seven). During the rnid-term review of the urban works component (in November 1997,
see para. 5.1. B), it was determined that the limited project area (seven municipalities for US$1.7 million in
investment) was severely slowing implementation and jeopardizing subproject quality--municipalities may
feel "entitled" to investments, and may not be responsive to the ADF's demands for quality, cofinancing,
and subproject maintenance. Consequently, eight additional municipalities were added to the urban works
project area.
B. No implementation of technical and business advice for entrepreneurs and elimination of "innovation
fund. " The project included modest funding for non-lending microenterprise support (US$87,000) and an
"innovation fund" for five pilot microenterprises (US$75,000). These activities were not implemented,
because the ADF's urban credit department was focused on its main activity of microlending, and did not
have the capacity to branch out into parallel--albeit complementary--activities, especially given the
distraction and extra work caused by the civil crisis of 1997.
C. No implementation of '"study tours "for municipal staff. Under the project's studies and training
component, very modest funding (US$33,000) was included for training and study tours for local
government staff. Although the ADFs urban works department did organize one procurement seminar for
municipal staff and provided ample hands-on training during subproject implementation, systematic
training and study tours were not realized, mainly because of high local government staff turnover after the
1996 local government elections and the growing instability that culminated in the 1997 civil crisis.
-3-



i.4 Quality at Entry:
The project was a follow-up to the innovative and highly rated Rural Poverty Alleviation Pilot Project
(RPAPP), which established the Rural Development Fund, an autonomous government foundation, and
tested infrastructure works and small-scale credit in rural areas from 1993 to 1995. Based on the success of
the RPAPP, the Government decided to iransform the Rural Development Fund into the ADF and to test
infrastructure works and small-scale credit in urban areas under the Urban Works and Microenterprise
E'ilot Project. (In addition, an IDA-financed Rural Development Project, which expanded ADF's rural
wvorks and rural small-scale credit, became effective in May 1995.)
T he project's quality at entry was satisfactory. It incorporated the lessons of the RPAPP, as well as the
valuable experience of a "pre-pilot phase.," which tested organizational and technical approaches to project
components from February 1994 to December 1995. The pre-pilot phase was financed by a Japan PHRD
CGrant (JPY 42.9 million or about US$442,000); the UNDP (US$100,000); the Fondation pour le Progres
de L'Homnme, a Swiss Foundation (US$100,000); and Freres d'Esperance, a French NGO (US$13,000).
During the pre-pilot phase, urban infrastructure works procedures were tested through implementing two
infrastructure subprojects, and the ADF's urban credit department was organized, initial staff hired, and
about 84 microloans were tested.
The project was consistent with Albania's Country Assistance Strategy, discussed by the Board in August
1993, which called fbr "a flexible strategy that responds quickly to new information while maintaining an
overall framework that promotes (i) stability; and (ii) new entrepreneurship and private initiative." The
projecfts urban works component aimed to assist private enterprise development and to enhance stability by
providing immediate and visible results. The small-scale credit and microenterprise support component
intended to assist in developing new entrepreneurship and private initiative. The project's flexible design
would allow components to be adapted to Albania's changing environment during the transition period. The
project's bottom-up methodology complemlented other IDA-financed projects in Albania that supported
structural change at the national level or major infrastructural needs.
However, there were significant delays in project processing-- 12 months lapsed between project appraisal
arLd negotiations and it took another 6 months for project effectiveness. Negotiations were delayed due to
insufficient support by Government, particularly a key minister who was not convinced that urban
microcredit was relevant for Albania. This delay eroded project quality at entry and created a loss of
momentum, because ADF staff working on the pre-pilot stage became increasingly demoralized as pre-pilot
funding was depleted and the pilot project did not start (the pre-pilot phase lasted 24 months instead of the
intended 8 months). The project was probably appraised too early, in light of the ambivalent Government
support. Eventually, the positive experiences of the pre-pilot phase demonstrated the project's relevance and
negotiations proceeded.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Overall, the project's objectives were substantially achieved: the project successfully tested and developed
urban works and urban mnicrocredit programs that will now be expanded countrywide. This ICR assesses
project outcome as satisfactory: i.e., the project achieved most of its major relevant objectives and has
achieved satisfactory development results with only a few shortcomings.
- 4 -



4.2 Outputs by comnponents:
A. Urban Works.
The project successfully piloted infrastructure works in urban areas, improving essential infrastructure in
15 municipalities, transferring local development skills to municipal governments, and promoting private
sector development through the involvement of private engineers and contractors. ADF-financed
subprojects were protected by local communities (which in some cases hired armed guards) during the 1997
civil crisis, evidence of significant local "ownership." The project also helped build the ADF to an effective
organization with capacity to promote local infrastructure development throughout Albania.
Program Methodology. The urban infrastructure works component employed a "demand driven"
methodology, adapting experience gained from implementing rural infrastructure works. Subprojects were
selected by municipalities, which know best their needs and which are ultimately responsible for the
infrastructure's maintenance. Municipalities were responsible for contributing to the investment cost and
procuring construction contractors--under ADF's guidance--using simplified National Competitive Bidding
procedures. Six pilot municipalities were originally selected, based on unemployment data and accessibility
from Tirana; however, the project area was substantially expanded after the cornponent's mid-term review.
Output. Under the project and the pre-pilot phase, the ADF financed a total of 22 urban infrastructure
works, including two subprojects implemented during the pre-pilot phase, and five subprojects in Puka
financed by the Swiss Government. The infrastructure works--which included markets, roads,
kindergartens, sewerage, telephone lines, water supplies, and water ways--amounted to Lek 271 million
(about US$2.0 million), including design and supervision, which averaged less than two percent of costs of
works. Subproject costs averaged Lek 12.3 million (about US$90,000) each. Four subprojects were not
completed or are not operational due to various reasons, which could likely have been avoided with greater
participation of stakeholders and partners (see para. 8.5). In value, the ADF invested predominately in
markets (33 percent), roads (16 percent), and water supplies (15 percent). Individual subproject size
increased consistently during the project, due to increases in costs and subproject scope. Unit costs were
reasonable and final contract costs averaged 12 percent higher than the initial contract amount (including
contracts adjusted for high inflation in 1997). Two experiments to enforce partial cost recovery were not
fully successful, but municipality cofinancing was progressively increased to 10 percent by the end of the
project. In total, municipality cofinancing amounted to 6 percent of subproject costs.
.5-



Table 4.2 (A)
Urban Works Subprojects Financed, 19941999
Type of Subproject    Number   Physical Quantitya      Subproject Costs    Average Subproject
(US$ '000)          Cost (US$)
Markets                       7           11,634 m               647                 92,000
Roads                         3            2.3 km                311                 104,000
Water supplies                3           10,1 14 m              300                 100,000
Telecommunications            2        2,000 households          206                 103,000
Kindergartens                 3           1,758 m                 191                64,000
Sewerage                      2            1,535 m                172                86,000
Water ways                    2            1,642 m                148                74,000
Total                        22 _                                1,975               90,000
Subprojects often include additional works not measured by a single physical quantity indicator; e.g.
some roads subprojects include sidewalks and street lighting.
Includes design and supervision costs. US$ equivalent calculated using exchange rate of US$1.00 = Lek
137.
Impact. Overall, subproject design, qualiLty, and cost control were satisfactory, and the works corresponded
to important local community needs. The subprojects stimulated employment and private sector activity in
urban areas both directly (through the implementation of subprojects) and indirectly (through the economic
development impact of the improved infi-astructure). The number of direct jobs created by the works was
not monitored, because works were undertaken by private contractors. The subprojects stimulated activity
in the construction industry by contracting at least 17 different design engineers and 18 different
cDnstruction contractors. Site visits suggest that communities place the greatest value on the impact of the
improved infrastructure itself The works are benefiting about 260,000 inhabitants (representing about 15
percent of Albania's urban population) in 15 municipalities. Finally, the works provided local governments
w ith valuable skills for promoting long-term development--the ADF closely collaborated with and trained
lcal government staff through subproject implementation. exposing local government officials and
enigineers to competitive procurement procedures, project management, and contract administration.
Subproject Sustainability. In general, infrastructure in Albania is poorly maintained; ensuring appropriate
m,aintenance of ADF-financed subprojects has been one of the project's main challenges. Under the project,
87 percent of subprojects had maintenance arrangements in place, yet maintenance responsibilities were not
always honored. Although ADF-financed subprojects are arguably better maintained than typical
government investments (and were largely unharmed during the 1997 unrest), ADF's procedures are still
evolving in an effort to improve maintenance. Under the follow-up Community Works Project, communities
and local governments will be required to prepare detailed maintenance plans, and subproject maintenance
will be monitored by ADF and used as an indicator of the project's success.
B. Small-Scale Credit and Microenterprise Support.
The project succeeded in creating and developing an effective and unique urban microcredit program that
exceeded loan disbursement targets and rmaintained satisfactory loan portfolio quality. Urban microcredit
branches were established in seven municipalities. The component's achievements are particularly
noteworthy given the difficult enviromnent in Albania during the project period, especially the 1997
pyramid scheme crisis and subsequent collapse of the Government. A September 1998 client survey
- 6 -



confirmed high borrower satisfaction with the urban microcredit program. The urban microcredit program
has been transferred to a private microcredit foundation (Besa Foundation), making future sustainability
probable.
Program Methodology. The ADF's urban credit department experimented with various types of lending
(individual and group), as well as types of loan guarantees (collateral, pledge, and notary). Based on this
experience, the urban credit department developed a lending methodology that focused on individual
lending, secured by character assessment, evaluation of the client's business, and close loan
officer-borrower follow up. Formal guaranties are recorded (about 82 percent of loans are secured by
mortgages), but serve mainly as a psychological deterrent, given the difficulty to collect collateral in
Albania. Loan decisions were initially made by a central credit committee in Tirana comprising the
Department Director, Chief Loan Officer, a banker, and a microentrepreneur. Since 1998, credit
committees--with the continued participation of the Director and Chief Loan Officer--have been established
for each of the program's branches.
Loan Conditions. Except for a period of high inflation during 1997, the urban credit program charged
market-based interest rates, starting with a nominal effective rate of 24 percent in 1994 and 1995, and
increasing to 32 percent in 1996 (2.5 percent per month plus a 1 percent non-refundable upfront fee, which
provides insurance in the event of a client's death). The interest rate was charged on a declining balance,
and repayments were made on a monthly basis, with a possible grace period of up to 2 months (for
investment loans). The maximum loan size and duration was Lek 300,000 (about US$2,200) and 12
months for first-time clients, and Lek 500,000 (about US$3,700) and 24 months for repeat clients.
Output. The project intended to finance about 2,000 small loans (ranging from US$300-US$5,000) in five
cities. The program exceeded its original objectives: by June 30, 1999, about 3,000 microloans amounting
to about Lek 823 million (about US$6.2 million, including about US$4.4 million in credit reflows) were
cumulatively disbursed to micro and small entrepreneurs in seven municipalities. Program outreach
expanded steadily, with initial branches established during the pre-pilot phase in Tirana (April 1994) and
Shijak (May 1994), and branches established during the project in Shkoder (February 1996), Puka
(December 1995), Berat (June 1996), Elbasan (July 1996), and Kavaje (September 1996). (Swiss grant
financing, which became available in mid-1995, enabled the extension of the urban microcredit program to
Puka District.) Average loan size during the project period was Lek 280,000 (about US$2,100).
Cumulatively, urban credit clientele consisted of entrepreneurs (63 percent), followed by unemployed (30
percent), employed (salaried) individuals (5 percent), and pensioners (2 percent). About 22 percent of
borrowers were women, slightly higher than the number of women in the business community (17 percent).
Loans were used for small trade (59 percent), services (30 percent), and production (7 percent). The list of
activities financed is extremnely diverse, ranging from kiosk and street venders to beauty shops, car washes,
and furniture makers. About 44 percent of borrowers were repeat clients.
Loan portfolio quality was satisfactory, especially taking into consideration the instability and civil crisis of
1997. At the height of the crisis, about 5 percent of the loan portfolio was rescheduled, and portfolio at risk
rose to about 10 percent. Overall loan loss during the project is estimated at less than 5 percent, including
the project's early experimental lending and losses incurred in 1997. As of June 30, 1999, the active loan
portfolio comprised 1,254 loans amounting to Lek 276 milhon (about US$2 million), with an average
outstanding loan size of Lek 220,000 (about US$1,600). The delinquency rate was 0.7 percent, and the
portfolio at risk was 4 percent.
-7-



ahe project revealed a high demand for urban microcredit. During the first year of the project, the
rnicrocredit program was advertised in the Ministry of Labor offices for collection of unemployment
benefits. Subsequently, only word-of-mouth advertising was used, yet demand for loans consistently
exceeded availability of finds. The Gennan-finded Foundation for Enterprise Financing and Development
(FEFAD) provides loans to micro, small, and medium enterprises, overlapping with the urban microcredit
program at the smallest end. However, the urban nicrocredit program is the only such program exclusively
serving Albania's urban microentrepreneurs.
- 8-



Table 4.2 (B)
Performance of Urban Microcredit Program, 1996-1999
Indicator               End 1996         End 1997         End 1998       June 30, 1999
Cumulative Number of      606              1,203            2,364            2,959
Loans
Cumulative Amount of  Lek 148 mnillion    Lek 283 million    Lek 635 million    Lek 823 million
Loan Disbursements
No. of Active Loans       494              726              1,175            1,254
Amount of Loans          Lek 97         Lek 117 mil.     Lek 256 mil      Lek 276 mil
Outstanding         mil.(US$965,000)   (US$809,000)   (US$1.7 million)  (US$2.0 rnillion)
Average Loan           Lek 195,409      Lek 161,157      Lek 217,872      Lek 220,193
Outstanding            (US$1,954)       (US$1,114)       (US$1,461)       (US$1,602)
Real Effective Interest   13%              -7%              21%              31%
Rate
Delinquency Rate          3.4%             5.5%             0.8%             0.7%
Portfolio at Risk"        7.4%             9.4%             2.8%             4.0%
Delinquency rate: amount of payments more than 30 days overdue divided by total outstanding balance of
loan portfolio.
Portfolio at risk: total outstanding balance of loans with payments more than 30 days overdue
divided by total outstanding balance of loan portfolio.
Impact. According to a beneficiary assessment carried out in September 1998, the microloans had an
important impact on the creation ofjobs and new microenterprises. The majority of microbusinesses
sampled hired 1-5 new employees as a direct result of the microloan, and another one third of the
businesses were newly created as a result of the loan. In total, the businesses sampled doubled their
employment, from 344 jobs before the loans to 706 jobs after the loans. This information suggests that the
urban microcredit program supported, in total, 8,700 jobs, including the creation of over 4,300 new jobs. A
large majority of borrowers sampled (85 percent) also expressed full satisfaction with the urban
microcredit progran. Finally, the component resulted in the creation of a potentially sustainable and unique
microcredit program that addresses the financing needs of Albania's smallest entrepreneurs.
Sustainability. Despite good performance of the urban microcredit program, it required subsidies to cover
operational costs during the project period. This lack of self-sustainability was a major weakness that
limited its future growth and impact. The institutional setting for the urban microcredit program (within the
ADF, a multi-functional governmental foundation) was not conducive to the financial discipline necessary
to develop a sustainable microfinance institution. Consequently, on May20, 1999, the staff and assets of
the urban credit program were transferred to Besa Foundation, a local Albanian foundation. Besa
Foundation was founded by the Open Society Institute of Albania in order to provide an appropriate
private, local institution for long-term delivery of sustainable microcredit services. Besa Foundation will
enforce financial discipline and improve productivity in order to achieve full sustainability within five
years.
C. Studies and Training.
This small component was only partly implemented. Although the ADF did organize one procurement
seminar for municipal staff, and provided anple hands-on training during infrastructure subproject
implementation, systematic training and study tours for municipal staff were not realized, mainly because
of high local government staff turnover following the 1996 local government elections and the growing
-9-



instability that culminated in the 1997 c:ivil crisis. Under the component, a beneficiary assessment was
carried out in 1998 for the urban microcredit program and used to design the urban microcredit component
of the follow-up Microcredit Project.
D. Implementation Support.
In September 1994, the Government converted the Rural Development Fund to the ADF to allow the
extension of its activities to urban areas. The project financed the project-related equipment and operational
costs of the ADF, as well as training and technical assistance for ADF finance and administration.
4'.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
No economic or financial analysis was carried out during project preparation, because it was not possible
to identify a priori the subprojects to be financed by the infrastructure works program or the investments to
be supported by urban microcredit. The project was designed, however, to finance simple and cost-effective
public infrastructure considered a priority by local communities. Urban microcredit interest rates to final
borrowers were positive in real terms (with the exception of a brief period during the crisis of 1997) and
very similar to rates charged by comparable financial institutions. Each investment subproject financed by
the urban credit program had to demonstrate an adequate financial rate of return. Albania has no significant
price distortions, hence economic rates of return are compatible with financial rates of return.
4 4 Financial rate of return:
See above.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project resulted in substantial institutional development impact. During the project period, the ADF
developed and improved its capacity to finance urban infrastructure subprojects. Municipal governments
gained valuable experience in local infrastructure investments, including competitive bidding practices and
subproject management, skills they are now applying to their own investments. Under the urban microcredit
component, an effective urban mnicrolending program was established, providing practically the only source
fcc urban microcredit in Albania.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
A. Cash Flow Problems. Despite concerns expressed by the Albanian delegation during negotiations, the
Special Account was restricted to half of iits authorized allocation (US$250,000 rather than US$500,000)
until disbursements reached SDR 500,000 (about US$790,000). This Special Account size limitation
turned out to be a project design error that substantially slowed project implementation during the first 10
months by creating a viscous circle--lack of funds slowed disbursements, which in turn lengthened the time
to reach SDR 500,000 in disbursements.
B. 1997 Civil Crisis. The project implementation period--December 1995 to June 1999--was marked by
enormous turrmoil in Albania. 1996, the first year of project implementation, saw macroeconomic
backsliding, increased political instability, and the mushrooming of fraudulent pyramid schemes. The
collapse of these pyramid schemes in late 1996 and early 1997 triggered massive civil unrest: arms were
looted from military barracks, government. buildings were destroyed, banks were robbed and burned, and
the Government--which defacto lost control of most of the country--was forced to resign. The project's
sixth supervision mission--which included the project's mid-term review--was carried out in late February
1997, ending just days before the eruption of violence. The mid-term review of the urban credit component
was completed; however, review of the urban works component was canceled because site visits to
-10-



infrastructure subprojects were prevented by security concerns (the review was carried out subsequently in
November 1997). All mission travel to Albania was banned for 2 months, but close contact was maintained
with ADF staff, who focused on protecting ADF property and maintaining the integrity of the microloan
program. During the worst of the crisis, microlending activities (disbursement and repayment of loans) and
infrastructure works were necessarily suspended. Notably, however, there was very little damage to the
ADF's infrastructure subprojects (in contrast to the widescale destruction of Government infrastructure).
The urban credit program experienced an increase in loan delinquency, as expected given the
circumstances, but credit officers maintained contact with borrowers and delinquency was kept to a
manageable level. The most difficult problem for the urban credit program was the destruction and closing
of all banks in Berat and Shkoder, necessitating the rescheduling of about 5 percent of the total loan
portfolio. Security gradually improved, and a new Government, elected in June 1997, quickly focused on
restoring macroeconomic stability and putting the country back on track to economic growth. Overall, the
1997 crisis caused a significant, albeit temporary, setback fbr project implementation, including a sharp
decline in project disbursements, the quality and size of the urban microloan portfolio, and new civil works
subprojects (only three subprojects were started in 1997, versus seven in 1996). A September 1998 coup
attempt caused the brief return of instability to Albania, resulting in a slight increase in the urban microloan
delinquency rate.
C. Donor Coordination. Recognized for its effectiveness, the ADF has attracted many donors. Most
donors have provided funding to be compatible with the IDA-financed projects--using the same Manual of
Procedures. However, the European Union (EU) selected the ADF to implement a large (over 20 million
ECU) Local Communities Development Programme (LCDP) using a separate set of infrastructure works
procedures for mainly medium and large infrastructure subprojects in rural and urban areas. The LCDP,
the IDA-financed projects, and the IFAD-financed Northeastern Districts Rural Development Project have
enabled the ADF to carry out an extensive works program throughout Albania. At the same time, the large
amount of EU funds and the pressure for fast disbursement have strained the ADF's institutional capacity,
slowing the implementation of the urban works component. And despite efforts by ADF staff and
consultants to harmonize--to the extent possible--IDA and EU procedures, the slightly differing
philosophies and procedures may be confusing for contractors, local government partners, and ADF's
infrastructure engineers.
5.2 Factors generallv subject to government control:
A. Central Bank Transfers. The Government of Albania requires all Special Accounts to be established in
the Bank of Albania, which transfers project funds to a project-specific commercial bank account.
However, throughout the project implementation period there were unreasonable delays (e.g. 10 days) in
transferring funds from the Bank of Albania to the ADF's account in the National Commercial Bank,
contributing to ADF's cash flow difficulties and slowing project implementation.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
A. Weak ADF Management and Administration. The project was hindered by ADF's weak management
and administration. The urban credit component's implementation was slowed during the first 6 months by
a lack of support from central ADF management and administration (inadequate provision of office space
and transportation). The urban credit department director changed four times during the project period; and
the absence of an urban credit department accountant during a period of 5 months caused long-lasting
turmoil in the department's accounts and statistics.
- 11 -



5.4 Costs andfinancing:
Pre-Pilot Phase. The pre-pilot phase and project preparation activities, carried out from February 1994 to
December 1995, were financed by a Japan PHRD Grant (Trust Fund 22683, JPY 42.9 million or about
US$442,000); the UNDP (US$100,000); the Fondation pour le Progres de L'Homme, a Swiss Foundation
(JS$100,000); and Freres d'Esperance, a French NGO (US$13,000). The PHRD Grant was effective on
April 15, 1994, and closed (fully disbursed) on December 31, 1995.
Project Financing. The total project cost was estimated at appraisal at US$4.4 million, of which US$4.0
million (2.6 million SDR) from IDA and US$0.4 million from Government. No cofinancing was anticipated
at the time of appraisal. Project costs did not correspond to pre-identified investments; rather, the project
represented a "program" that could be easily contracted or expanded according to the actual financing
available.
As a result of SDR depreciation against the U.S. dollar, SDR 2.6 million corresponded to US$3.6 million
equivalent in IDA Credit funds available for the project. SDR 2.52 million (US$3.5 million equivalent)--97
percent--were disbursed. SDR 0.08 million (US$0.I million) were undisbursed, because some
infrastructure works were uncompleted al: the time of the IDA Credit's closing date (June 30, 1999). (The
follow-up Community Works Project will finance the final payments for the infrastructure works.) Local
government contributions to civil works amounted to US$122,000. Swiss financing (Trust Fund 20279),
amounting to about US$930,000, extended the project components to Puka District. The Swiss trust fimd,
which amounted in total to US$2.7 million, also financed the Rural Development Project components in
Puka District. At the time of this ICR, the Swiss trust fund was 91 percent disbursed, with US$0.25
million remaining as undisbursed, and the trust ftnd's closing date was extended to June 30, 2000.
Considering all sources of financing, the project arnounted to about US$4.6 million.
Government Contribution. Government agreed to provided US$400,000 in counterpart funding, to be used
far urban works and ADF's operating costs. No Government contribution was provided to ADF in 1996
anid 1997. In 1998, the Governrment provided Lek 95 million (about US$640,000) to the budget of ADF for
all its programs, and the Government provided Lek 70 million (about US$510,000) in 1999. The ADF used
the Govermment funding to finance additional rural and urban infrastructure subprojects, without allocating
any of the Government funding specifically to the project. Therefore, no central Govermment funding has
bcen included in the total project cost, and no government-funded subprojects are included in the project
olltputs.
Taxes. The amount of value added tax (VAT) paid under the project is estirnated at about Lek 27.4 million
(about US$190,000). The Government's total VAT reimbursement to ADF (for all projects) amounted to
Lek 48 million (US$322,000) in 1998 andl Lek 80 million (US$584,000) in 1999.
The project was designed to be implemented and disbursed over 3 years. Although the project experienced
significant delays, mainly due to the 1997 crisis, the IDA Credit was closed on time, on June 30, 1999, 3.5
years after effectiveness.
6. Sustainability
6.,! Rationale for sustainability rating:
It is highly likely that the achievements generated by the project will be maintained.
- 12-



The ADF started as a very small institution that piloted microcredit and infrastructure rehabilitation. By
1998, the ADF's three main programs--rural microcredit, urban mnicrocredit, and local infrastructure
rehabilitation--were substantially developed and had different paths for the future. It became apparent that
each activity required its own specialized institution to further expand and develop to its full potential.
Although the ADF proved itself an effective institution for piloting and testing microcredit, it did not
provide the appropriate institutional environment for the development of sustainable (self-financing) credit
delivery.
Precisely to assure future sustainability of microcredit and infrastructure works, the ADF underwent an
institutional transformation on May 20, 1998. ADF's rural credit program was transferred to a new,
quasi-governmental Rural Finance Fund (RFF), and the ADF's urban credit program was transferred to
Besa Foundation, a new, private microfinance foundation established with the assistance of the Open
Society Institute of Albania. A follow-up Microcredit Project (Cr. 3253), which became effective on
November 5, 1999, will support the development of RFF and Besa Foundation and the further expansion of
rural and urban microcredit.
Following the separation of the rural and urban mnicrocredit programs from the ADF, the ADF has become
specialized in local infrastructure rehabilitation, financed by the follow-up IDA Community Works Project
(Cr. 3164), the EU-Phare Local Communities Development Project, and the IFAD Northeastem Districts
Rural Development Project. Under the Community Works Project; the ADF will continue to monitor the
maintenance of infrastructure subprojects, including those financed under the urban works component.
Municipalities are likely to maintain subprojects because they have been partners in the rehabilitation
process, and they have already demonstrated their "ownership" of the infrastructure when they protected the
subprojects during the 1997 unrest. In addition, municipalities will have a strong incentive to maintain
existing subprojects in order to remain eligible for future ADF subproject financing.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Under the follow up Microcredit and Community Works Projects, all necessary arrangements are in place
to ensure the future operation of the urban rnicrocredit program and the urban works program.
The stated mission of Besa Foundation is to promote the micro and small enterprise sector in Albania
through the creation of a private, self-sustaining Albanian microfinance foundation, which will operate
according to private sector principles. Besa Foundation's five-year business plan, which will be supported
by the Microcredit Project, calls for an expansion of urban microcredit activities: three new branches
(bringing the total number of branches to ten), about 15 new staff, increased operational efficiency (with a
target of 144 clients per loan officer), and the disbursemnent of about 15,000 loans over the five-year period.
The business plan also addresses areas needing improvement--essential for reaching sustainability within
three to five years--including new operational and finance/administrative manuals, management information
systems and a full accounting system, and systematic staff training.
The separation of the microcredit programs from the ADF is enabling the ADF to focus on its mandate of
local infrastructure improvement. Under the Community Works Project, new procedures will be
implemented to increase the level of stakeholder participation. Installation of a computerized management
information system is underway, which is essential for increasing the ADF's capacity to manage a growing
number of subprojects and to ensure adequate monitoring and evaluation. Beneficiary assessments will be
undertaken annually to obtain stakeholder feedback and assess project impact.
- 13-



7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
IDA staff played a proactive role in project design by securing grant financing for the "pre-pilot phase" and
by actively guiding pre-pilot activities. The project may have been appraised too early, given ambiguous
government comnitment that led to a 12 month delay between appraisal and negotiations.
7 2 Supervision:
Overall, the project received high quality and "hands on" supervision from IDA. Continuity of the IDA task
team (during lending and supervision) and the team's strong commitment to the project contributed to high
supervision performance. The project team's continuous support and capacity to innovate was instrumental
to much of the institutional development described above, including the eventual separation of the
rmicrocredit and infrastructure works programs to specialized institutions. However, supervision would
have benefited from more engineering and financial expertise. A large number of supervision missions were
possible (16 missions over 47 months), despite small supervision budgets, because mission costs were
shared with supervision of the Rural Development Project and preparation of the Microcredit Project and
Community Works Project.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Highly satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The ADF played a key role during project preparation by carrying out pilot urban works subprojects, and
by initiating the urban credit department and testing urban microcredit. However, the Government's delay
of project negotiations (see paras. 3.4 and 7.1) had a detrimental impact on the project's preparation and
start up.
7..5 Government implementation performaance:
The central Government did not have a direct role during implementation, other than providing counterpart
funds (as a lumpsum to the ADF, see para. 5.4) and general support to the ADF. Although some level of
pc,litical influence was arguably unavoidable, political interference from Government and members of
parliament (e.g. ADF staff recruitment without using competitive selection procedures, use of cars during
elections, selection of infrastructure investments) had a negative impact on the ADFs mission, the ADF's
institutional efficiency, and project objectives. Consequently, Government implementation performance was
marginally satisfactory.
7. 6 Implementing Agency:
Although the ADF suffered some of the inefficiencies of a public institution, including weaknesses in
management and administration (see para. 5.3), the ADF still proved itself to be one of the most successful
project institutions in Albania. The ADF earned respect from IDA, cofinancers, and Government for its
effectiveness in implementing infrastructure investments and microcredit. Many ADF staff were highly
commnitted to the project. Overall, the ADF's performance in implementing the project--under some very
difficult circumstances--was highly satisfactory.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Satisfactory.
- 14 -



8. Lessons Learned
The main lessons learned from the project are the fbllowing:
8.1. The Board of Directors of a social investment fund should include technical specialists and
stakeholders. The ADF's Board of Trustees was comprised entirely of Government ministers or high level
officials, rendering the ADF vulnerable to political influence and frequent changes in Board membership
(the ADF's Board Chairman changed six times during the project). Board members were extremely busy,
making it difficult for them to devote time to understanding the ADF's various programs. The high-level
composition of the ADF's Board of Trustees gave the appearance that the ADF was a political instrument.
(In May 1999, the ADF's Board of Trustees was expanded to include representatives of local government
and NGOs, although the Board remains mainly comprised of ministers.) Senior managers of social
investment funds should be apolitical and have relevant technical or managerial skills in order that he/she is
not vulnerable to political changes.
8.2. The Bank should not restrict the initial allocation of a Special Account when financing a follow-up
project with an experienced implementing institution, especially when nearly all expenditures must be
made from the Special Account. The restricted initial allocation significantly slowed project
implementation during the first year.
Regarding the Infrastructure Works Component:
8.3. Early attention should be given to record keeping, and specialized technical assistance should be
provided for installation of a computerized management information system (MIS). Although the ADF
produced annual quarterly reports on physical progress, record keeping was very poor (with a heavy
reliance on memory and no central filing of key documents) and there was an inadequate MIS. It is easier to
install an MIS when staff are relatively new and procedures are flexible. Implementation of an MIS during
the preparation of the Community Works Project was difficult, partly because the ADF is now a mature
institution with established procedures and staff habits.
8.4. There should be a sufficient number of municipalities to create competition among municipalities for
funding. Initially, the project area for urban works (seven municipalities for US$1.7 million in investment)
was too limited-some municipalities took flmding for granted and were not responsive to the ADF's
requests for quality, cofinancing, and subproject maintenance. Project implementation and subproject
quality improved when the project area was expanded.
8.5. Procedures for stakeholder participation are neededfor urban infrastructure investments. The ADF
worked directly with municipalities and did not require stakeholder consultation (although some
municipalities did consult stakeholders). Before a subproject starts, public meetings, posters, brochures,
and consultation groups should be used by municipalities to inform users and other beneficiaries about
subproject objectives, benefits, and possible impacts. Line ministries or other essential partners should also
be fillly involved. Although a certain amount of local subproject ownership was clearly achieved (see para.
8.6, below), broader participation would have generally resulted in higher subproject quality and
sustainability. Insufficient consultation with users and partners resulted in a few major errors: an
orphanage with no operational funding from the state budget, a road blocked by local residents, and a failed
telecommunications subproject due to disputes with the telephone utility company.
15 -



8.6. Supporting local investments through local government can result in significant local ownership.
Overall, the ADF's urban works methodology resulted in investments that responded to local needs. Strong
local ownership of subprojects was demonstrated when subprojects were largely protected during the 1997
civil crisis (slight damage was reported to a couple of subprojects), despite complete destruction of
neighboring public infrastructure.
- 16-



Regarding the Urban Microcredit Component:
8.7. The Bank and the Government should agree in advance to the privatization of a microcredit
program. While the ADF proved a convenient institution for piloting the urban microcredit prograrn, the
ADF's multi-purpose and "soft budget" environment impeded the urban credit program's progress toward
sustainability. To expand and achieve sustainability, the urban credit program needed a private
environment where financial discipline is enforced and all decisions are based on business principles.
However, transferring ADF's urban credit program to a private foundation becarne a difficult political
decision for the Government, ultimately delaying both the Comrnunity Works Project and Microcredit
Project. The privatization of the urban credit program would probably have been smoother and less
controversial if it had been a stated objective of the project. Experience in Albania underlines the
importance of using-from the outset if possible-private institutions to channel microcredit. If a
government foundation is used to pilot rnicrocredit, it should be agreed in advance to privatize the prograrn
by a given date.
S.8. Early attention should be given to financial management and transparent financial procedures.
From the outset, the urban credit department should have been established as a "cost center" within ADF,
able to produce its own financial statements, in order to easily and transparently assess the program's level
of sustainability. Early technical assistance should have been provided to establish sound financial
management procedures, including a loan write off policy. (Long-term technical assistance for the urban
credit program was planned, but an acceptable and affordable candidate was not found despite international
advertisements.) Because there was no loan write off policy, no loans were written off until December 1998
(and again in April 1999 when the program was transferred to Besa Foundation). Despite some
irregularities in financial management the urban credit department did make an effort to provide periodic
reports on delinquency and portfolio at risk, in accordance with microfinance best practices. Besa
Foundation is currently establishing sound and transparent financial procedures.
9. Partner Comments
('z) Borrower/imnplementing agency:
This ICR was written with the assistance of the ADF and Besa Foundation, which provided data and
worked closely with IDA's ICR mission. In addition, the ADF prepared an evaluation of the urban works
component, and Besa Foundation prepared an evaluation of the urban rnicrocredit component (see Annex 7,
List of Supporting Documents).
A draft ICR was provided to the Government, Besa Foundation, and ADF. ADF and the Government had
no comment on the draft ICR. The Besa Foundation concurred with the ICR, but expressed the opinion that
the Urban Microcredit Component should be rated "High" in Annex 5 for poverty reduction, gender, and
private sector development, because it exceeded its objectives in outreach (loan disbursements and number
of branch offices), had a significant impact on employment creation (doubling the employment of client
mnicroenterprises), and extended a relatively high percentage of loans to women microentrepreneurs.
(b) Cofinanciers:
A draft ICR was provided to the Swiss Agency for Development Cooperation, which had no comments.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/privatesector):
None.
- 17 -



10. Additional Information
A. Detailed tables on the Infrastructure Works Component.
Table IO.A. I
Number and Types of Urban Works   provcts Started Each Year
Type of Subproject    1994       1995     1996       1997      1998      1999     Total
(Pre-pilot)
Markets                    2    _   1          1         1         1         1         7
.Roads                                         1                   1         1         3
'Water supplies                                1                   2                   3
Telecommunications                             2                                       2
Kindergartens                  _               2                   1                   3
Sewerage                                                           1         1         2
Water ways             _       _    1          1                                       2
'rotal                     2         2         8         1         6         3        22
-18-



Table IO.A.2
Contract Value and Types of Urban Works Sub projects Started Each Year (in Lek '000)
Type of Subproject   1994      1995     1996      1997     1998      1999     Total   Average
(Pre-pilot)                                                        Subproject
Cost
Markets                7,308     7,041    10,369    17,695   25,190   20,998   88,602    12,657
Roads                                     3,728              16,252   22,569   42,550    14,183
Water supplies                            4,961              36,184             41,145     1,247
Teleconimunications                       28,223                                28,223    14,111
Kindergartens                             16,964              9,141             26,105    8,702
Sewerage                                                     9,550    14,005   23,555    11,778
Waterways                        11,617    8,674                                20,340    10,170
Total                  7,308    18,708   72,919    17,695    96,318   57,572   270,520
Average Subproject Cost  3,654    9,354    9,115    17,695    16,053    19,191    12,296
Table IO.A.3
Amount of Urban Works Subprojects, b Municipality
Municipality           Urban      Number of Value of   Value of
Population  Subprojects Subprojects Subprojects
('000)               (Lek '000)
(US$ '000)
Berat                      61         2        36,168      264
Elbasan                   120         2        23,681      173
Fushe-Arrez (Puka)         5.5        2        23,392      171
Gjirokaster                31         1        20,998      153
Gramsh                     16         1        8,674       63
Kavaje                     32         2        12,869       94
Kelcyre (Permet)           8          1        15,810      115
Peqin                      9          1        4,961       36
Pogradec                   32         1        14,005      102
Puke                       6          3        46,109      337
Roskovec (Fier)            7          1        9,550       70
Sarande                    23         1        16,252      119
Shijak (Durres)            11         1        2,809       21
Shkoder                   100         2        14,868      109
Vlore                      90         1        20,374      149
Total                     552.5       22      270,520     1,975
Financed by Switzerland.
US$ equivalent calculated at US$1.00  Lek 137.
- 19-



Table 10.A.4
Catalog of Urban Works Subprojects, In Order of Start Date
Municipality   Subproject Type   Start Date   Community  Total Cost ('000     Donor
Contribution      Lek)
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  ( %)
Shijak (Durres)  Central market   1994            8            2,809         UNDP
_ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~  ~  ~  _________        (Pre-pilot)
Shkoder        Central market     1994            5            4,498         UNDP
____________                               (Pre-pilot)
Puka           Central market    7/1995           0            7,042       Switzerland
phase I    _
Fushke Arrez    Water way!       8/1995           0            11,667       Switzerland
(Puka)             road       _
Elbasan         Kindergarten     3/1996           5            5,986           IDA
(formerly
orphanage)
Berat           Kindergarten     4/1996           0            10,978         IDA
Shkoder        Central market    5/1996           0            10,369      UNDP/IDA
phase II
Kavaje             Road          6/1996           4            3,728          IDA
Gramsh           Water way       6/1996           4            8,674          IDA
Puka             Phone line      7/1996           4            16,498      Switzerland
:Fushke Arrez    Phone line      7/1996           5            11,725       Switzerland
(Puka)      ___________I
'Peqin          Water supply     8/1996           5            4,961           IDA
iElbasan        Cental market    9/1997           10           17,695         IDA
Kavaje          Kindergarten     1/1998           5            9,141           IDA
'Vlore          Water supply     2/1998           8            20,374         IDA
Roskovec (Fier)    Sewerage      5/1998           10           9,550           IDA
Berat          Central market    5/1998           9            25,190          IDA
Kelcyre         Water supply     7/1998           8            15,810         IDA
(Permet)
Sarande            Road          8/1998           8            16,252         IDA
Pogradec          Sewerage       2/1999           10           14,005         IDA
(3jirokaster   Central market    4/1999           8            20,998         IDA
I'uka              Road          6/1999           5            22,569       Switzerland
Total                       _                                 270,520
- 20 -



B. Detailed tables on the Urban Microcredit Component.
Table IO.B.1
Loan Disbursements by Year, End of Period
1994     1995      1996     1997      1998     1999   TOTAL
(Ist half)
No. of Loans Disbursed         25       84       497       597      1,161     595     2,959
Amount of Loans Disbursed    5,450    18,740   124,108  134,695  351,975   188,115  823,083
(Lek '000)
Amount of Loans Disbursed    57,368   201,505  1,241,080 928,931  2,302,248 1,373,102 6,164,235
(US$)
Table 1O.B.2
Active Loans by Year, End of Period
1994     1995      1996     1997      1998     1999
(1st half)
No. of Active Loans            3        79       494       726      1,175    1,254
Amount of Loans Outstanding   850     17,890   96,531   117,237  255,867  276.122
(Lek '000)                                      _
Amount of Loans Outstanding    8,947   192,366  965,310  808,531  1,717,228 2,015,489
(US$)
Average Loan Outstandg       2,982    2,435     1,954    1,114      1,461    1,607
(US$)
Table 1O.B.3
Loan Disbursements by Type of nvestment (in ercent of total)
1995     1996      1997     1998      1999     Total
.______    (1st half)
Trade                         48%      48%       51%      65%       64%      59%
Services                      32%      41%       40%      21%       26%      30%
Production                    4%        6%       4%       10%       7%        7%
Handicraft                    6%        4%       5%        2%       1%        3%
Transport                     5%        1%   -  0%         1%        1%       1%
Construction                   0        0         0        2%       2%        1%
Other                         6%         0        0         0        0         0
- 21 -



Trable 10.B.4
Loan Disbursements by Type of Borrower (in percent of total)
1995     1996      1997      1998      1999    TOTAL
.__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _     (lst  half)
Gender
Male                                 92%       77%       78%       76%      79%       78%
Female                                8%       23%       22%       24%      21%       22%
Age
30 or less                            15%      10%       12%       11%       9%        10%
]3etween 31 and 40                   43%       42%       39%       43%       51%      44%
]3etween 41 and 50                   26%       29%       35%       32%       28%      31%
Over 50                               15%      19%       15%       14%       13%       15%
Education
Elementary school education           15%      10%       11%       9%        9%        10%
Secondary school education           64%       71%       65%       74%       68%      70%
lJniversity degree                    20%      19%       24%       17%       22%      20%
Employment Status at Time of Loan
Existing microentrepreneurs          54%       47%       52%       69%       77%      63%
UJnemployed                          43%       43%       42%       23%       16%      30%
Salaried worker                        0        7%       3%        6%        4%        5%
Pensioner and others                  4%        2%        3%        1%       3%        2%
Business exists for more than six months.
Table 1O.B.5
Loans for New and Existing Microente prises
l-                                    1995      1996     1997      1998      1999     Total
l _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  .__ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _  (Ist    half)
No. of Loans to Existing              48        229      313       960       479      2,029
Nlicroenterprises
No. of Loans to New Microenterprises   36       268       284      201       116       905
- 22 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
Develop an effective way to rehabilitate local                               Achieved. The works resulted in direct and
urban infrastructure, in order to create                                     indirect job creation, and stimulation of the
immediate and long-term urban employment                                      construction industry. The works are
and stimulate the private sector.                                             benefiting about 260,000 inhabitants (15
percent of Albania's urban population) in 15
municipalities.
Develop an effective credit delivery system                                   Achieved. The microloans supported an
for urban microentrepreneurs, in order to                                     estimated 8,700 jobs, including the creation
assist the development of microenterprises.                                   of over 4,300 new jobs. A large majority of
borrowers expressed full satisfaction with the
urban microcredit program. A potentially
sustainable and unique microcredit program
was developed to continue to address the
financing needs of Albania's smallest
entrepreneurs.
Improve the capacity of local governments to                                 Achieved. The works provided local
undertake local development.                                                  governments with valuable skills for
promoting long-term development-the ADF
closely collaborated with and trained local
govemment staff through subproject
implementation, exposing local government
officials and engineers to competitive
procurement procedures, project
management, and contract administration.
Output Indicators:
Rehabilitate about 30 social and economic                                     22 social and economic infrastructure
infrastructure subprojects                                                   subprojects rehabilitated
Disburse about 2,000 microloans                                              About 3,000 microloans disbursed
Provide training to municipalities                                            Mainly hands-on training provided to
municipalities
Transform the Rural Development Fund to                                       ADF capacity strengthened
an Albanian Development Fund, with
capacity to work in urban areas
End of project
- 23 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Pro ect Cost by Cor onent (in US$ million ivalent)
A. Urban Works                                             1.74             1.87             95
]3. Small Credit and Microenterprise Support               1.79             1.98            III
C. Studies / Local Government Training,                   0.11              0.03             27
D. Implementation Support                                 0.56              0.68             98
Total Baseline Cost                                       4.20              4.56
Physical Contingencies                                   0.13
Price Contingencies                                      0.07
Total Project Costs                  4.40             4.56
Total Financing Reiquired                 4.40              4.56
F'roject Costs by Procurement Arranclements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
|11. Works                    0.00           0.00          1.75         0.00           1.75
______________________       (0.00)        (0.00)        (1.43)        (0.00)        (1.43)
2. Goods                      0.00           0.00          0.17         0.00           0.17
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.15)       (0.00)        (0.15)
3. Services                   0.00           0.00          0.60         0.00           0.60
(0.0,0)       (0.00)        (0.60)       (0.00)        (0.60)
4. Miscellaneous              0.00           0.00          0.00         0.00           0.00
_______________________      (0.010)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
4. Credit                      0.010         0.00          1.52         0.00           1.52
______________________       (0.00D)       (0.00)        (1.52)        (0.00)         1.52)
5. Incremental Operating      0.01D          0.00          0.35         0.00           0.35
Costs                        (0.010)        (0.00)        (0.30)        (0.00)        (0.30)
Total                       0.00D         0.00          4.39          0.00          4.39
______________________       (0.0'D)       (0.00)        (4.00)        (0.00)        (4.00)
- 24 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
~WIN
I. Works                       0.00           0.00          1.81          0.00           1.81
(0.00)        (0.00)        (1.18)        (0.00)         (1.18)
2. Goods                       0.00           0.00          0.12          0.00           0.12
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0 1          (0.00)         (0.10)
3. Services                    0.00           0.00          0.27          0.00           0.27
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.22)         (0.00)        (0.22)
4. Miscellaneous               0.00           0.00          0.00          0.00           0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)         0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)
4. Credit                      0.00           0.00          1.84          0.00           1.84
(0.00)        (0.00)        (1.55)         (0.00)        (1.55)
5. Incremental Operating       0.00           0.00          0.52          0.00           0.52
Costs                          (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.46)         (0.00)        (0.46)
Total                       0.00           0.00          4.56           0.00          4.56
(0.00)        (0.00)        (3.51)        (0.00)         (3.51)
Project Financing by Component (in USS million ea ivalent)
Percentage of Appraisal
Component             Ap raisal Estimate          Actual/Latest Estimate                   _
Bank     Govt.     CoF.      Bank      Govt.     CoF.   Bank  Govt.  CoF.
A. Urban Works           1.55     0.32      0.00      1.19      0.12      0.56    76.8   37.5   0.0
B. Small Credit and      1.75     0.00      0.00      1.69                0.29    96.6   0.0    0.0
Microenterprise Support
C. Studies and Local    0.14      0.00      0.00      0.03      0.00      0.00    21.4   0.0    0.0
Government Training
D. Implementation Support   0.56  0.77      0.00      0.60                0.08    107.1   0.0    0.0
TOTAL                   4.00      0.40      0.00      3.51      0.12      0.93    87.7   30.0   0.0
-25 -



Annex 3: Economics Costs and Benefits
No economic or financial analysis was carried out during project preparation, because it was not possible
to identify a priori the subprojects to be financed by the infrastructure works program or the investments to
be supported by urban microcredit. The project was designed, however, to finance simple and cost-effective
public infrastructure considered a priority by local commnunities. Urban microcredit interest rates to final
borrowers were positive in real terms (with the exception of a brief period during the crisis of 1997) and
very similar to rates charged by comparable financial institutions. Each investment subproject financed by
the urban credit program had to demonstrate an adequate financial rate of return. Albania has no significant
price distortions, hence economic rates of return are compatible with financial rates of return.
- 26 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle              N6. of Persons and Specialty              Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etce)    Implementation     Development
MonthfYear    Count       :Specialty                       Progress         Objective
Identification/Preparation
9/1993                  3   Microfmance, Microenterprise
Development, Operations
11/1993                 1   Microfinance
1/1994                  6   Microfinance, Operations,
Microenterprise Development,
M&E, FMS, Sociologist
Appraisal/Negotiation
4/1994                  5   3 Microfinance,
Microenterprise
Development, Operations,
Engineer
1/1995                  3   (Post Appraisal) Microfinance,
FMS, Operations
4/1995                  3   (Negotiations-Paris, France)
Microfinance, Operations, Legal
7/1995                  4   (Post-Negotiations)                  HS                HS
Microfinance, Operations, FMS,
Management
Supervision
10/1995                 2   Microfmance, Operations
1/1996                  3   2 Microfinance, Operations
4/1996                  2   Microfinance, Operations              S                 S
7/1996                  2   Microfinance, Operations             S                  S
10/1996                 2   Operations, Microfmance,             S                 S
2/1997                  2   (Mid-Term Review of Urban             S                 S
Credit) Operations,
Microfinance
5/1997                  2   Operations, Microfinance              S                 S
9/1997                  2   Operations, Microfinance              S                 S
11/1997                 3   (Mid-Term Review of Urban
Works) Operations,
Microfinance, Engineer,
2/1998                  3   Operations, Microfinance,            S                  S
Engineer,
4/1998                  2   Operations, Microfinance
7/1998                  3   Operations, 2 Microfinance           S                  S
11/1998                4   Operations, Microfinance,
Engineer, Procurement
2/1999                 5   3 Engineers, FMS, Procurement          S                 S
ICR
8/1999                  3   2 Engineers, Economist
- 27 -



(b) Staff
Stage&of Project Cycdlelii50  i0              Adtual/.Latest.Estimateir -
:;;;~~~~~~~o Stf:   ;0                              :          gf;0 ;j0 i t  gw:;t    j_|lM.eeks   t  i0|-l 0fX--0X j;- US$i (,00% :-lltj0)i}:|
Identification/Preparation                   17.4                            16.1
Appraisal/Negotiation                        38.0                           67.3
Supervision                                  53.9                          133.0
ICR                                           8.0                           30.0
Total                                       117.3                          246.4
- 28 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
Macro policies                           O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
t Sector Policies                         OH  OSUOM  O N  * NA
ZPhysical                                 OH *SUOM ON ONA
I Financial                               OH   * SU O M  O N  O NA
Z Institutional Development               0 H  * SU O M  0 N  0 NA
E Envzronmental                           OH   O SU O M  O N  * NA
Social
Poverty Reduction                 O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
ZGender                            OH OSUOM O N O NA
O Other (Please specify)
Z Private sector development              0 H  * SU O M  0 N  0 NA
3 Public sector management                0 H  0 SU O M  0 N  0 NA
El Other (Please specify)
- 29 -



ALnnex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(IHS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U==Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                Rating
El Lending                                          * HS O s  OU   OHU
21 Supervision                                      * HS O S   C U  O HU
ZI Overall                                          *HS OS   O U  O HU
6.2 Borrower performance                            Rating
. Preparation                                       OHS OS   O U  O HU
2 Government implementation performance             O HS O S  0  U  0 HU
Z Implementation agency performance                 O HS O s  0 U  0 HU
M Overall                                           OHS OS   C U  O HU
The central Goverrument failed to provide counterpart funding for the project.
- 30 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Back-to-Office Report for ICR Mission, September 14, 1999
An Evaluation of Municipal Infrastructure and Pilot Water Project for the Albanian Development Fund and
World Bank, Paul Dean, August 1999
Evaluation of Urban Infrastructure Component, Albanian Development Fund, September 1999
Urban Microenterprise Component Final Evaluation Report, Besa Foundation, October 1999
Beneficiary Assessment Report, ADF Urban Credit Program, Institute for Contemporary Studies,
November 1998
- 31 -






MAP SECTION






IBRD 30635
- r 0'  -                19~0o                     19G30'                                            280                      21'00'
I     - !/.  . }           FED. REP. OFY  GOSLAVIA
I  CROATIA !           r' \ - 8                                                         ,             (SERBIA / MO TENEGRO)
-- 420301             --. t_    /EC                                          t     . .  ,+    Yaiborla      \               1                            42230
' ' '-2    \'                      aH{e /i  2               TRf         <,             l i~~~Of 
.,  I-",--       TROPOJE 
> ( "Hot' $ %,: e Ba~~~~~~~~~~~irom 3  
* Ze_ S S*s Wh *  4_HE  <
)I iNoI                Curn'
ALBANIA                                        /15  KopliI                   Fierzi
URBAN WORKS AND                                                          ' SHK
MICROENTERPRISE                             K>                 275                  P                                               - s
00,   PILOT PROJECT                                                                                                                                   2 I, KES -  ' 4200-
8    URBAN MICROCREDIT COMPONENT                                      LEZH           '1     1        R,c                  /
(Number Of Loans Disbursed)   .                                                                 / )
URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE WORKS COMPONENT:   t          e z '                       KbeLI Ot          IBER   .' 
2      MARKETS                                                                            P-.. 'eskkopi
'S     WATER SUPPLIES AND SEWERAGE                 -                       t X                          0 .
C.     KINDERGARTENS                                   F    Kuge LA(:0 L    .
E2     TELECOMMUNICATIONS                                                             MATMrosi  OlBrrel  .
@2'    WATERWAYS                                                 7    KWE    >                (Bulqiz      S
30,      0       ROADS                                              -RRE5 + ;'-<    + /                                                    FYR       41'30
Tl  BULQIZE.-           MACEDONIA
o    SELECTED CITIES                                                 T , I_    RANE  
0    DISTRICT CENTERS                             D       vrr 330                              > 8  2       t
    NATIONAL CAPITAL                                        L
----- RIVERS                            *e0 .tbe                                                      BRAZd
- DISTRICT BOUNDARIES                                     9                     ralrzhdl
-  . -  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                               KAVAJf   ;-           4  
PEQIN>    *Elba~son N        Pr(s RLk
ELEVATtONS IN METERS:                                                                    e ELBA SAN   -a W;hdS
0       4 -  l 20                                                 '/X-.. irk                                                            /           41 00'
120 ,                                                         fSHNJE                  G A 5            POpAd                   F,sh$t
-200                                                             MUshnje A KR R-   --
1- oKioj      RAMSH  ?9Ag
'~Sea
5030l~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~I 190'-   O3t        \Slnic\ - 481                  v de>                                         0
Fier
BERAT      '                   KORO$ J          DE  U7
*so ush -\                                Kan;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KAPR -Kr
(MALLAKAST                 RAA
'SWEDE \    oLND       .     -'% L'IA    FED.                                'Orei -J                         - ' 
SWEDEN, )  J       ~~~~~~~~RUSSiAN                                \
DENMXRK                               FED.                            K'4              h's
,. -~ gLITHU ROANIA                                        vrOvBO               -biDLIN . 
.- ITL 'P ;\I/Os(\BLARAME ggf/                                                                                              lO TR
Sea ~  ~    .4~ REP.,                                                 GREECE,>SBagTRE           ,e Kj         namner>eanedglttofnl:Srn
REP.                   UKRAINTS-2                                                       .  cj 20         210
V~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DL)
GERMA Y    Rl1Th        RMANA                                                                Deii-
TRIA'                           40'OBUGAIA00                                                                'I
ITALY',~ -JHUGAYM .TEj ELSI
$~~~racsdB~~~~~~~~ ~030                             2120 3   40  (
CR  RICCID                                              -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AURY20



