Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2770 ALB
Project Agreement
(Urban Works and Microenterprise Pilot Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
ALBANIAN DEVELOPMENT FUND
Dated August 11, 1995
CREDIT NUMBER 2770 ALB
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 11, 1995, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association) and ALBANIAN DEVELOPMENT FUND (ADF).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
Albania (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to make 
available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to two million 
six hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 2,600,000), on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that 
ADF agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set forth in 
this Agreement;
(B)
by a subsidiary agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and 
ADF, the proceeds of the credit provided for under the Development Credit Agreement 
will be made available to ADF on a grant basis on the terms and conditions set forth 
in said Subsidiary Agreement; and
WHEREAS ADF, in consideration of the Association's entering into the Development 
Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth 
in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Page  2
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have 
the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) ADF declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, 
shall carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial and engineering practices, and shall provide, or 
cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and ADF shall otherwise agree, ADF shall carry out the 
Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement.
Section 2.03. Without limitation upon the provisions of Article IX of the 
General Conditions, ADF shall:
(a)
prepare and furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months 
after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between 
ADF and the Association, a plan, of such scope and in such detail as the Association 
shall reasonably request, for the future operation of the Project;
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
ADF on said plan; and
(c)
thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence and efficiency and in 
accordance with appropriate practices, taking into account the Association's comments 
thereon.
Section 2.04. ADF shall, until the Project completion, employ an executive 
director whose experience and qualifications shall be at all times acceptable to the 
Association, and consult with the Association with respect to the replacement of the 
executive director prior to any such replacement.
Section 2.05. ADF shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use 
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.06. ADF shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, ADF shall not take or 
concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or 
waiving the Subsidiary Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.07. (a) ADF shall, at the request of the Association, exchange views 
with the Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of 
its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Agreement, and other 
matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)
ADF shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by ADF of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of ADF
Section 3.01. ADF shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial and business practices under the 
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in 
Page  3
adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. ADF shall at all times operate and maintain its equipment and 
other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs 
and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound technical and financial practices.
Section 3.03. ADF shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or make 
other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks and 
in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) ADF shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in 
accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
(b)
ADF shall:
 
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) 
for each  fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so 
audited; and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof, as the Association shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
ADF thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate 
in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)
the date twenty years after the date of this Agreement.
 
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its 
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association 
shall promptly notify ADF of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
Page  4
request. The addresses so specified are: 
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
For ADF:
Albanian Development Fund
Rruga Durresit
Instituti i Tokave; Laprake
Tirana, Albania
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of ADF, or by ADF 
on behalf of the Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement, may be taken or 
executed by the Executive Director of ADF or such other person or persons as the 
Executive Director of ADF shall designate in writing, and ADF shall furnish to the 
Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated
specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Kemal Dervis
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia
ALBANIAN DEVELOPMENT FUND
By /s/ Lublin Dilja
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
General
 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the Guidelines and the following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Page  5
Part B:
Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Procurement of Small Works
 
Works estimated to cost $150,000 equivalent or less per contract, and not to 
exceed $1,141,000 in the aggregate, shall be procured under lumpsum, fixed price 
contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three qualified domestic 
contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a 
detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required 
completion period, a basic form or agreement acceptable to the Association, and 
relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience 
and resources to successfully complete the contract.
2.
Community Participation
 
Works estimated to cost $30,000 equivalent or less per contract, and up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $285,000 and required for Part A of 
the Project shall be procured in accordance with procedures acceptable to the 
Association.
3.
International Shopping
 
Goods estimated to cost $60,000 equivalent or less per contract and $104,000 
equivalent or less in the aggregate, may be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
 4.
National Shopping
 
Goods estimated to cost $20,000 equivalent or less per contract and $28,000 
equivalent or less in the aggregate, may be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 
3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
5.
Direct Contracting
 
Goods which are of a proprietary nature and costing $19,000 equivalent or less 
in the aggregate, may, with the Association's prior agreement, be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
6.
Items or groups of items financed by credit under Parts B.1 and B.2 of the 
Project, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $1,521,000, shall 
be procured by the Beneficiaries through their current purchasing practices, which are 
based on competitive price quotations and which are acceptable to the Association.
Part C:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Procurement Planning
 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
 
With respect to each contract for: (i) the first three contracts for works 
procured through national shopping procedures; (ii) goods more than $50,000 equivalent 
procured through international shopping procedures; and (iii) goods procured through 
direct contracting, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
Page  6
1.
Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts 
shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by 
the Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the
Association. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the 
Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Association shall be used.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association review or approval of budgets, 
short lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation 
reports and contracts shall not apply to contracts estimated to cost less than $50,000 
equivalent each.  However, said exceptions to prior Association review shall not apply 
to: (a) the terms of reference for such contracts; (b) single source selection of 
consulting firms; (c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by 
the Association; and (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting 
firms or individual consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or 
above.
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
The provisions of this Schedule shall apply for the purposes of Section 2.01 (b) 
of this Agreement.
1.
Under Part A of the Project, ADF shall:
 
(a)
make available to the Beneficiaries of Sub-projects I grants and/or loans 
referred to in the Operational Guidelines under agreements to be entered into between 
the ADF and each Beneficiary, under the terms and conditions referred to in the 
Operational Guidelines which shall have been approved by the Association; and
(b)
exercise its rights under such agreements in such manner as to protect 
the interests of the Association and ADF and to accomplish the purposes of the 
Project, and shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any of such agreements, or any 
provisions thereof.
2.
Under Part B.1 of the Project, ADF shall make available to the Beneficiaries of 
Sub-projects II the loans referred to in the Operational Guidelines under agreements 
to be entered into between the ADF and each Beneficiary, under the terms and 
conditions referred to in the Operational Guidelines and which shall have been 
approved by the Association.
3.
Under Part B.2 of the Project, ADF shall:
 
(a)
with prior approval of the Association, make available to the 
Beneficiaries of Sub-projects III loans or loans with partial grants referred to in 
the Operational Guidelines under agreements to be entered into between the ADF and 
each Beneficiary, under the terms and conditions referred to in the Operational 
Guidelines which shall have been approved by the Association; and
(b)
exercise its rights under such agreements in such manner as to protect 
the interests of the Association and ADF and to accomplish the purposes of the loans 
and grants, and shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any of such agreements, or 
any provision thereof.
4.
ADF shall:
 
(a)
take all measures to ensure that the amount of any loan made: (i) under 
Part B.1 of the Project shall not exceed the equivalent of $10,000; and (ii) under 
Part B.2 of the Project shall not exceed the equivalent of $15,000.
(b)
coordinate and monitor the overall execution of the Project and supervise 
the carrying out by the Beneficiaries of their obligations pursuant to their 
respective agreements in accordance with policies and procedures satisfactory to the 
Association;
(c)
not later than November 30 of each year, prepare and furnish to the 
Association for review and comment, work plans and budgets for activities under each 
Part of the Project, which would include, among other things, specific proposals for 
Page  7
the use of Borrower's contribution;
(d)
by April 15, July 15, October 15 and January 15 of each year, prepare and 
furnish to the Association for review a quarterly report, of such scope and detail as 
the Association shall reasonably request, on the progress of and the execution of the 
Project; and 
(e)
carry out a mid-term review not later than September 30, 1996 evaluating 
the progress of and the execution of the Project.
