Page  1
 CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2770 ALB
Development Credit Agreement
(Urban Works and Microenterprise Pilot Project)
between
ALBANIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated August 11, 1995
CREDIT NUMBER 2770 ALB
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 11, 1995, between ALBANIA (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Project will be carried out by Albanian Development Fund (ADF) with 
the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make 
available to ADF the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Association 
and ADF;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications thereto 
set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement:
Page  2
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
 
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
 
"Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not a member of the Bank or for goods procured in, or 
services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any 
payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or 
import, to the knowledge of the Bank, is prohibited by a decision of the 
United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United 
Nations."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"ADF" means the Albanian Development Fund, established as an independent 
entity with juridical personality pursuant to Government Decision No. 427 of September 
8, 1994;
(b)
"Beneficiary" or "Beneficiaries" means for the purposes of:  (i) 
Sub-projects I, a governmental or non-governmental entity such as a municipality or an 
association which proposes to carry out Sub-projects I under Part A of the Project; 
and (ii) Sub-projects II and Sub-projects III, a microenterpreneur or other urban 
resident who proposes to carry out Sub-projects II and Sub-projects III under Parts 
B.1 and B.2 of the Project. 
(c)
"Government Decision No. 298" means the Government Decision No. 298, 
dated June 12, 1995, on the Borrower's contribution to the financing of the Project;
(d)
"Guidelines" means the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and 
IDA Credits" published by the Bank in January, 1995;
(e)
"Operational Guidelines" means the guidelines containing the 
administrative, promotion, appraisal, and supervision criteria to be followed by ADF 
and to be approved pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.01 (b) of this Agreement;
(f)
"Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association and ADF, 
of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term 
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(g)
"Sub-projects I" means a specific development project to be carried out 
by a Beneficiary utilizing the proceeds of a grant and/or loan under Part A of the 
Project;
(h)
"Sub-projects II" means a project, to be carried out by a Beneficiary 
utilizing the proceeds of a loan under Part B.1 of the Project;
(i)
"Sub-projects III" means a project, to be carried out by a Beneficiary 
utilizing the proceeds of a loan or a loan with partial grant under Part B.2 of the 
Project;
(j)
"Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and ADF pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be 
amended from time to time, and such term includes any schedules to the Subsidiary  
Agreement; and
(k)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to two million six hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 2,600,000).
Page  3
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of works, goods, services and small credits required for the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in the Bank of Albania on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1999 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other 
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
June 15 and December 15 commencing December 15, 2005 and ending June 15, 2035. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on June 15, 2015 shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years, and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by 
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments 
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each 
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification 
to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such 
installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on 
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, 
provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the 
grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment
modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Page  4
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09. ADF is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Development 
Credit Agreement, shall cause ADF to  perform in accordance with the provisions of the 
Project Agreement all the obligations of ADF therein set forth, shall take and cause 
to be taken all action, including the provision of funds,
facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable ADF to 
perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which 
would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b)
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit available to ADF under 
a subsidiary agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and ADF, under terms 
and conditions acceptable to the Association.
(c)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in 
such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the Association shall otherwise 
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary 
Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. Without limitation upon the provisions of Article IX of the 
General Conditions, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare and furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months 
after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between 
the Borrower and the Association, a plan, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall reasonably request, for the future operation of the Project;
(b)
afford the association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan; and 
(c)
thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence and efficiency and in 
accordance with appropriate practices, taking into account the Association's comments 
thereon.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall cause ADF, until the Project completion, to 
employ an executive director whose experience and qualifications shall be at all times 
acceptable to the Association and to consult with the Association with respect to the 
replacement of the executive director of ADF prior to any such replacement.
Section 3.05. The Borrower undertakes that, unless the Association shall 
otherwise agree, Sub-projects I, II and III shall be promoted, identified, appraised, 
carried out, and maintained in accordance with the procedures set forth or referred to 
in the Operational Guidelines.
Section 3.06. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land  acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by ADF 
pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
Page  5
the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower 
shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound 
accounting practices, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures are 
retained until at least one year after the Association has 
received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Credit Account was made; and
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records.
 
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of 
this Section and those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested, 
including a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
together with the procedures and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
ADF shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the Project 
Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that ADF will be able to perform its obligations under the Project 
Agreement.
(c)
Government Decision No. 427 of September 8, 1994 shall have been amended, 
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the 
ability of ADF to perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(d)
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of ADF or for the suspension of its 
operations.
(e)
The Operational Guidelines shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, 
repealed or waived, or other legal provisions shall have been enacted, so as to affect 
materially and adversely, in the opinion of the Association, the carrying out of the 
Project.
(f)
Government Decision No. 298 shall have been amended, suspended, 
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the 
implementation of the Project.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
Page  6
(a)
any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall have 
been given by the Association to the Borrower; and
(b)
any event specified in paragraph (c), (d) or (e) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur. 
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower and 
ADF; and
(b)
the Operational Guidelines have been approved by ADF in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by ADF, 
and is legally binding upon ADF in accordance with its terms; and
(b)
that the Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the 
Borrower and ADF and is legally binding upon the Borrower and ADF in accordance with 
its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this Agreement, the Minister 
of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Bulevardi "Deshmoret e Kombit"
Tirana
Albania
Telex:
4295 Komplan AB
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
Page  7
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
ALBANIA
By /s/ Lublin Dilja
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Kemal Dervis
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                              Amount of the
                            Credit Allocated            % of
                             (Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                     SDR Equivalent)        to be Financed
(1) Civil works under             830,000           100%
    Part A of the
    Project
(2) Small-scale credits           850,000          100%
    under Part B.1 of
    the Project
(3) Loans and grants               30,000           100%
    under Part B.2 of
    the Project
(4) Consultants' ser-             350,000           100%
    vices, studies and
    training under
    Parts B.3, C and D
    of the Project
(5) Goods under                   100,000           100% of foreign
    Parts B.2 and D                                 expenditures,
    of the Project                                  100% of local
                                                    expenditures
                                                    (ex-factory
                                                    cost) and 85%
                                                    of local expenditures
                                                    for other items
                                                    procured locally
(6) Incremental                   180,000           100%
    operating costs
(7) Unallocated                   260,000
        TOTAL                   2,600,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
Page  8
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term "incremental operating costs" means operation and maintenance 
costs which would not have been incurred absent the Project and includes, inter alia, 
costs with respect to: (i) maintenance and operation of equipment procured under the 
Project; (ii) salaries paid to ADF staff hired for purposes of the Project; (iii) 
remuneration for ADF staff, not hired for purposes of the Project, for work done for 
the Project which is not covered by their salaries; and (iv) consumable office 
supplies.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except for expenditures not exceeding SDR 65,000 made after February 28, 
1995; and (b) Sub-projects unless the Sub-projects have been made in accordance with 
the procedures and on terms and conditions set forth or referred to in Schedule 2 to 
the Project Agreement.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for small credits under Part 
B.1 of the Project, loans or loans with partial grants under Part B.2 of the Project, 
and recurrent costs and contracts for goods and services not exceeding $50,000 
equivalent, and for contracts for works not exceeding $150,000 equivalent, under such 
terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to
the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to develop appropriate mechanisms for 
lending to microentrepreneurs, for rehabilitating small urban infrastructure, and for 
assisting in the development of microenterprises; (b) to stimulate private-sector 
development and create immediate and long-term employment in urban areas; and (c) to 
assist local government with obtaining local development skills. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Urban Works Program
 
Provision of grants and/or loans for Sub-projects I, including their evaluation 
and preparation, of Beneficiaries for, inter alia: (a) rehabilitation of market 
facilities; (b) cleaning city waterways; (c) rehabilitation of public buildings; (d) 
repair of municipal roads and sidewalks; (e) constructing garbage shelters; (f) 
planting trees and urban landscaping; and (g) preparing sites and services for 
squatter settlements.
Part B:
Small-Scale Credits and Microenterprise Support
 
1.
Provision of loans for Sub-projects II of Beneficiaries for income generating 
activity in urban microbusiness including, inter alia, small production, trade, and 
services. 
2.
Provision of loans or loans with partial grants or equipment for Sub-projects 
III of Beneficiaries for the establishment of model microenterprises to demonstrate 
new technology and new forms of production and marketing.
3.
Provision of business and technical advise to microenterprises, carrying out 
marketing and technical studies for key subsectors and establishment of a database and 
information center on small technologies.
Part C:
Urban Studies, Technology and Training 
 
1.
Carrying out of studies and assessments of the new economic situation in the 
urban areas, including the impact of the Project, orient the activities of ADF, and 
provide basic information for development policies.
Page  9
2.
Training of Beneficiaries in project evaluation, financial management and market 
economies, business planning and management for urban entrepreneurs, and professional 
exchanges with local governments or enterprises in other countries. 
Part D:
Institutional Development
 
Improvement of ADF's institutional capacity, inter alia, in designing its 
information system, auditing and evaluating the impact of its operation, and 
identifying, preparing, appraising, supervising and promoting Sub-projects, through 
provision of technical assistance, training and equipment. 
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by October 31, 1998.
SCHEDULE 3
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (6) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, services and small-credits required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the 
eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $500,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Association 
shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount 
equivalent to $250,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals shall be equal to or 
exceed the equivalent of SDR 500,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed 
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower 
shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
Page  10
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to  suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make 
withdrawals form the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the 
General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that 
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount. 
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
