Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 9519
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
NORTHWEST REGION INTEGRATED DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
PHASE I
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PROJECT
(LOAN 2060-BR)
APRIL 30, 1991
..iculture Operations Division
Country Department I
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY AND EQUIVALENT UNITS
Appraisal:
Currency Unit = Brazilian Cruzeiro (Cr$)
US$1.00  =  Cr$68.1
Cr$1.00 = Cr$0.015
Completion:
Currency Unit = Brazilian Cruzeiro (Cr$)
US$1.00  =  Cr$42.3
Cr$l.00 = US$0.024
GOVERNMENT OF BRAZIL FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
POLONOROESTE PROGRAM FISCAL YEAR
April 1 to March 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
The metric system is used throughout the report.



FUNAI              Fundasao Nacional do ±ndio
(National Indian Foundation)
IBAMA              Instituto Brasileiro do Meio Ambiente e doe Recursos
Naturais Renovaveis
(Brazilian Institute of the Environment and Renewable
Natural Resources)
IBDF               Instituto Bra4.leiro de Desenvolvimento Florestal
(Brazilian Forestry Development Institute)
IEF                Instituto Estadual de Floresta
(State Forestry Institute)
INCRA              Instituto Nacional de Coloniza,co e Reforma Agraria
(National Institute of Colonization and Agrarian Reform)
ITERON             Instituto de Terras de RondOnia
(RondOnia State Land Institute)
NUAR               Ndcleo Urbano de Apoio Rural
(Rural Service Centers)
PIN                Programa de Integra,co Nacional
(National Integration Program)
PDRI               Projeto de Desenvolvimento Rural Integrado
(Integrated Rural Development Project)
POLONOROESTE       Programa Integrado de Desenvolvimento do Noroeste do Brasil
(Northwest Region Integrated Development Program)
SAR                Staff Appraisal Report
SEMA               Secretaria Especial do Meio Ambiente
(Special Secretariat for the Environment of the Ministry of
the Interior)
SEMARO             Secretaria de Estado do Meio Ambiente
(RondOnia State Secretariat for the Environment)
SEPLAN-RO          Secretaria de Estado de Planejamento e Coordena9fo Geral
(RondOnia State Secretariat for Planning and Coordination)
SETRAPS-RO         Secretaria de Estado do Trabalho e Acio Social
(RondOnia State Secretariat of Labor and Social Action)
SUDECO             Superintendencia do Desenvolvimento da Regigo Centro-Oeste
(Superintendency for Economic Development in the Center-
West Region)
SUDHEVEA           Superintendencia do Desenvolvimento da Borracha
(Superintendency for Rubber Development)



GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS
BB                Banco do Brasil
(Bank of Brazil)
BASA              Banco do Amazonas Sociedade AnOnima
(Bank of Amazon)
CAGERO            Companhia de Armazens e Silos do Estado de RondOnia
(State Warehouse and Silo Company)
CEPLAC            Comisslo Executiva para a Lavoura Cacaueira
(Executive Commission for Cocoa)
CFP               Companhia Ce Financiamento da Produglo
(Company for Production Financing)
CIBRAZEM          Companhia Brasileira de Armazenagem
(Brazilian Storage Company)
CNPq              Conselho Nacional de Pesquisa
(National Research Council)
CODEAGRI          Companhia de Desenvolvimento Agricola do Estado de RondOnia
(State Agricultural Development Company)
CODARON           Companhia de Desenvolvimento Agricola do Estado de RondOnia
(State Agricultural Development Company of RondOnia)
DER-RO            Departamento de Estradas de Podagem de RondOnia
(State Highway Department of RondOnia)
EMATER-RO         Empresa de AssistOncia T6cnica e ExtensAo Rural do Estadc
de RondOnia
(State Technical Assistance and Rural Extension Company of
RondOnia)
EMBRAPA           Empresa Brasileira de Pesquisa Agropecuaria
(Brazilian Agricultural Research Company)
EMPA-RO           Empresa de Pesquisa AgropecuAria do Estado de RondOnia
(State Agricultural Research Company of RondOnia)
FIBGE             FundaVAo Instituto Brasileiro de Geografia e Estatistica
(Brazilisn Institute of Geography and Statistics)
FIPE              Fundaglo Instituto de Pesquisas Economicas
(Institute of Economic Research of the University of S&o
Paulo)



THE WORLD BANK vIoa                     a 15ONY
WASt"F160n. O.C. 20433
U.S.A.
OMe. CA 0'sectzw G.p
April 30, 1991
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on BRAZIL
Northwest Region Integrated Development Program - Phase I
Agricultural Development and Environmental Protection Project
(Loan 2060-BR)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled 'Project
Completion Report on Brazil - Northwest Region Integrated Development
Program - Phase I - Agricultural Development and Environmental Protection
Project (Loan 2060-BR)" prepared by the Latin America and the Caribbean
Regional Office with Part II of the report contributed by the Borrower. No
audit of this project has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department
at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restcted distnbution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
o( their official duties. Its contents may not otherfwse be disclosed without Wotid Bank authonzation.
I ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
NORTHWEST REGION DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM - PHASE I
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT AND ENVIP')NMENTAL PROTECTION PROJECT
(LOAN 2060-BR)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
PREFACE ......................... ..                                     i
EVALUATION SUMMARY  . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..                  .     ii
PART I:   PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE  . . . . . . . .        1
Project Identity  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        1
Project Background  . . . . .         . . . . . .  . . .       1 .
Project Objectives and Description  . . . . . . . . . .        2
Project Design and Organization   . . . . . . . . . . .        3
Project Implementation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        5
Project Results   . . .     .       ... . .  . .   13
Project Risks   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    22
Project Sustainability  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    23
Bank Performance  . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . .  .    24
Borrower's Performance  . . . . . . . . . .   . . . . .   25
Project Relationships   . . . . . . . . . .       . . . .    25
Consulting Services        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  ..    .  . . . .  26
Lessons Learned   ... .  .     .  .  .    ...... .  .  .  .   .    26
Project Documentation and Data          . . .  .  .   .      28
PART II:  PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE  . . . .   29
Comments on Part I  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   29
Evaluation of the Bank's Performance and Lessons Learned   29
Evaluation of Borrower's Own Performance and
Lessons Learned   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       .   30
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   37
Related Bank Loans  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        37
Project Timetable   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    38
Loan Disbursement   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    38
Project Implementation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    39
Project Costs and Financing   . . . . . . . . . . . . .    45
Project Results   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   . . .    46
Status of Covenants   . . . . . . . . .     .  . . . . .    49
Mission Data  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   53
ANNEXES      . . . .  .  .  .  .  .... . . . . .  . . .   54
MAP - IBRD 15483R



- i -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
NORTHWEST REGION DEVELOPMENT PROGRAH - PHASE I
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPHENT AND EMVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PROJECT
(Loan 2060-BR)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Agricultural
Development and Environmental Protection Project under the Northwest Integrated
Regional Development Program in Brazil, for which Loan 2060-BR in the amount of
US$67.0 million was approved on December 1, 1981. The loan was closed on
March 31, 1990, four years behind schedule. It was fully disbursed and the last
disbursement was on September 6, 1990.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Agriculture Operations Division
of the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office (Preface, Evaluation
Swummary, Parts I and III), and the Borrower (Part II).
Preparation of this PCR was started during the Bank's final
supervision mission of the project in May 1990, and is based, inter alia, on a
report prepared by Bank consultants after a field visit in May 1990, the Staff
Appraisal Report, the President's Report, the Loan and Project Agreements, the
Borrowerts progress and final reports, studies by the State of RondOnia and the
Institute of Economic Research of the University of Sao Paulo, Bank supervision
reports, correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower, and internal Bank
memoranda.



- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
F'AZIL
NORTHWEST REGION DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM - PHASE I
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTIoN PROJECT
(Loan 2060-BR)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
1.          The Agricultural Development and Environmental Protection Project was
one of five projects approved by the World Bank between during 1981-1983, to
support the Northwest Integrated Regional Development Program (POLONOROESTE) in
Brazil. The Program aimed to: (a) promote orderly occupation, development and
integration into the national economy of the less developed Northwest Region,
which at the time was already encountering severe migratory pressure from other
parts of Brazil; (b) increase the productivity, incomes, health and social
welfare of the Region's population; and (c) ensure that the development of the
Region was consonant with the need to protect its land resources, ecological
system and indigenous communities. As such, the POLONOROESTE Program tried to
meet various objectives, ranging from corrective actions to cope with the effects
of existing migration to the Program area, to efforts to stimulate new
development in the Northwest Region. Of the five projects, Loan 2060-BR was
primarily directed towards the first task, while others (e.g. Loan 2062-BR,
Northwest Highway Project, and Loan 2353-BR, New Settlements Project) were more
concerned with the latter.'
2.          Specifically, Loan 2060-BR was intended to consolidate existing
settlements in Central Rond8nia, which was already partially occupied by migrants
who were still practicing itinerant, slash-and-burn cultivation of annual crops,
despite the fact that the relatively good soils on which they had settled were
capable of supporting environmentally more suitable and economically more
profitable perennial crops. By introducing technological change and improving
infrastructure, social and agricultural services, the project sought to raise the
productivity and incomes of these settlers, as well as to absorb, at a relatively
low cost, a portion of the new migrants who might otherwise move into environmen-
tally more fragile parts of the Amazon Basin. Finally, the project also sought
to improve environmental protection in the entire area of influence of the
POLONOROESTE Program and to support preparatory activities for future phases of
the Program.
3.          At appraisal, project costs were estimated at US$199.3 million, and
it was expected that the Bank loan of US$67.0 million would finance 35Z of total
costs net of taxes. In 1983, a supplemental loan of US$22.8 million was approved
1/ An Evaluation Overview of the overall POLONOROESTE Program is provided
in Annex 10.



- iv -
as part of a Special Action Program to increase the Bank's cost-sharing and
accelerate disbursements  for ongoing projects  in Br .eil.   In March 1985,
disbursements were informally suspended under thii and other POLONOROESTE loans.
They resumed in August 1985, after compliance with key actions agreed. At loan
closing (March 31, 1990, with final disbursement on September 6, 1990), the Bank
had disbursed US$71.5 million and canceled some US$18.3 million. Final total
proiect costs were estimated at US$132.2 million or 66X of the original estimate,
with the Bank loan financing 54? of the total costs.
Implementation Experience
4.          During the early years, project implementation did not proceed as
anticipated (Para. 5.01). Following a Mid-Term Review in November 1984, the Bank
informally suspended loan disbursements on this and the other POLONOROESTE loans,
pending corrective actions related mainly to enhanced protection of Amerindian
communities and environmental protection, but also including the shortage of
rural credit, the causes of delays in construction activities, and poor
monitoring and control within some implementing agencies. Disbursements were
resumed in August 1985, when the Bank was satisfied that corrective actions were
in place. Project implementation was expected to take five years, but the loan
closing date was extended four times until March 31, 1990. The final disburse-
ments took place on September 6, 1990. By loan closing, disbursements were about
80 percent of the appraisal estimates, as revised in 1983, or US$71.5 million.
The final project cost was US$132.2 million, of which 54 percent was financed by
the Bank.   The Brazilian Government expended an additional US$26.1 million
equivalent in the implementation of the Amerindian Protection Special Project,
as well as an undocumerted, but probably substantial amount, on rural credit,
input supply and land titling in support of the settlement consolidation
subproject.
Results
5.          The project achieved part of its objective of absorbing population
into existing settlements in Central RondOnia. Even with the almost threefold
increase in the state's population from 1980-89, population in the project area
as a share of the total population of RondOnia increased from 502 to 60X. While
the rest of the State became almost 70? urban, the project area maintained the
majority of its inhabitants in rural areas, as had been the case in 1980. By
1990, the project area accounted for 75? of the rural population of Rondonia,
compared with only 60? a decade earlier.
6,          Project achievements were more modest in raising incomes and the
standard of living c' target farmers and fostering a change from shifting
cultivation of annual crops to sustainable production of perennial treecrops.
The number of dire't beneficiaries was 62? of the appraisal estimate (about
13,300 compared to 18,200 families). Incomes of project beneficiaries did
improve, but not as much as anticipated at appraisal: actual average family
income is estimated to have reached only 56? of appraisal estimates or US$6,600.
Total incremental cropped area was very close to that estimated at appraisal but,
with the exception of cocoa and beans, actti'. yield increases were some 5? to 50?
below appraisal estlmates. While farmers vith adequate financial resources and
technical assistance did introduce perennial crops and progressed well, most were



not able to make this transition and continued shifting cultivation and
deforestation.
7.          Most  of the physical targets of the environmental protection
component of the project were also attained, but the broader objective of
establishing effective environmental safeguards under the POLONOROESTE Program
was not met. Environmental protection and ecological research activities were
too limited in scope.  Also, the p..oject did not ir..:lude any mechanisms to
introduce environmental considerations into public investment planning in the
State, nor did it address the policies and regulations that would continue to
undermine the project's environmental protection objectives. On the other hand,
in spite of its obvious shortcomings, the project was instrumental in establish-
ing an institutional framework and capability which will be extremely useful for
environmental protection in the future. It also helped to increase the debate,
awareness and polit:.cal commitment to protection and conservation of the
environment in this part of the Amazon Basin, and as a reflection of this, a
substantial share of project funds originally intended for other purposes was
redirected to environmental protection during the later years of project
execution.
8.          With regard to Amerindian protection, the Government achievements
exceeded the physical targets which had been included in a parallel Special
Project financed solely with Government funds. Many more Amerindian groups (67)
were assisted than the 28 specifically covered under the Special Project,
including an indigenous population of 9,600 (vs. 4,200 estimated at appraisal);
9,300 kms of Amerindian reserve borders were demarcated, involving an area of 9.0
million ha (vs 3,900 kms and 3.1 million ha foreseen at app. tsal) and more
schools, infirmaries and FUNAI administrative units than estimated at appraisal
were constructed.  In spite of these accomplishments, the institutional and
financial weaknesses of FUNAI resulted in underutilization of the physical and
social infrastructure, and the limited enforcement capacity of the Federal and
State Governments resulted in frequent invasions of the Amerindian reserves.
9.          When  the project was  launched,  RondOnia was  still a Federal
Territory, converting to statehood only in end-1981.  Consequently, the new
State's institutional base was quite weak. Through the project, key institutions
were created and/or strengthened (e.g., the State Forestry Institute and Forest
Military Police, a State Secretariat for the Environment and a State Land
Institute were established, and the State agricultural extension service was
greatly strengthened). These institutional developments may ultimately have a
wider impact than the project itself.   Project institutions, drawing on the
lessons learned during implementation, should now be better able to design and
implement future Government policies and investment activities for sustainable
development and environmental protection.
Sustainability
10.         The staffing strength r  key project institutions was created,
maintained or increased. Increment    1x revenues received by both the State and
the Federal Government should be sufficient to maintain the productive components
of the settlement consolidation subproject in central RondOnia. For individual
farmers, financial sustainability of agricultural production at the farmi level



- vi -
is dependent on success in establishing farming systems and cropping patterns
that are consistent with the agronomic and economic characteristics of the
project area. Farmers who did not have secure land tenure, investment capital
and technical assistance continue to rely on s.tift and burn cultivation of annual
crops. This system is not sustainable, although project experience suggests that
financially, economically and agronomically sustai.iable agricultural systems can
be developed if farmers are provided with satisfactory financial and technical
assistance. Finally, deforestation of soils without sustainable develor .
potential has not occurred on a significant scale under the project.  To a sman1
extent it did, and contributed to soil erosion and siltation of rivers.
Findings and Lessons Learned
11.         The  following are the main  lessons  learned  in  the course  of
implementing this project, which should be taken into account in the design of
other similar cperations.
(a)   Public investments in frontier areas characterized by a fragile
natural environment should be based on better technical knowledge of
the sustainable development potential than that which was available
at the beginning of this project. Agro-ecological zoning to guide
public investment to suitable locations should be a condition sine
qua non of future projects in such areas.  In addition to public
investments, the policy and regulatory framework governing land
occupation and development patterns in the project area should be
made consistent with the recommendations of the agro-ecological
zoning (i.e., by increasing the private costs of occupying t I more
fragile  areas).    Otherwise,  direct  investment  to protect  the
environment may be undermined by stronger incentives to exploit it
in an unsustainable manner.
(b)   The economic and political conditions outside the project area which
affected the level of migration to that area should have been better
analyzed.  While the project strategy was conceptually sound, the
scope and content of project interventions were insufficient to
achieve its ambitious objectives. Although reasonably successful in
benefitting farmers in the settlement consolidation sub-project
area, these achievements were inadequate, considering the large
population that moved to RondOnia during project implementation.
The project was designed to benefit 18,200 families during a period
when RondOnia grew by more than one million people. Such a massive
influx of migrants created demands on infrastructure and on the
environment, which were clearly beyond the project's ability to
address.
(c)   Project organization and management arrangements, with many agencies
and excessively centralized decision making at the Federal Govern-
ment level, hdmpered project implementation. Decentralization in
favor of the state and municipalities, including more control over
budgetary resources, would have resulted in greater accountability
of project management to the community and would have facilitated
project implementation.   Also,  an increased role for NGOs and



- vii -
private organizations in project implementation could have enhanced
accountability  to the ultimate beneficiaries and improved the
responsiveness of project executing agencies.
(d)   When agriculture requires long-term financing, a careful analysis
should be made of the avatlability of credit for the farmer
beneficiaries and of the suitability of the terms for the kind of
cu.ltivation planned (in this case, perennial tree crops which would
not generate any income during the development period). If suitable
sources of credit are not available and where the failure of the
agricultural  development  strategy  could  result  in  widespread
environmental legradation (i.e., extensive deforestation), the Bank
should either make spacial provision for credit in the proiect
itself or should not support the project at all.
(e)   For innovative projects with above-average risks, it is essential
that monitoring and evaluation systems be oriented to generate early
warnings about project impact and implementation problems, and that
project design provide considerable flexibility to allow for the
timely introduction of adeouate corrective measures. At the same
time,  the Bank should be prepared to take sufficiently strong
actions early on (i.e., suspension of disoursements) to remedy such
problems. In addition, a longer start-up period and less optimistic
assumptiors atout speed of farm development should be assumed for
projects to be implemented in relatively unknown or difficult
environments.
(f)   The physical demarcation of environmental conservation units and
Amerindian reserves is a necessary, but not sufficient, condition
for their protecticn. Financial disincentives, such as the absence
of pub,:^ physical and social infrastructure in the surrounding
areas ana strong enforcement capacity to prevent and punish
invasions are also required for ensuring the protection of such
areas.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
NORTHWEST REGION DEVELOPMINT PROGRAM - PHASE I
AGRICMTURAL DEVELOPMENT AND ENVIROIMNTAL PROTECTION PROJECT
(Loan 2060-BR)
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.   Proiect Identity
- Project Name:     Northwest Pigion Development Program -
Phase Is Agricultural Development and
Environmental Protection Project
- Loan No.    s     2060-BR
- RVP Unit    s     Latin America and Caribbean Region
Country Department I
- Country     :     Brazil
- Sector      s     Agriculture
2.   Proiect Background
2.01      Over the last two decades, increasing scarcity of arable land and
mechanization of agriculture in the South of Brazil, and droughts and
persistent poverty in the Northeast, have stimulated large numbers of rural
families to migrate towards the Northwest States of the Amazon Basin in
search of land to farm and a better standard of living. During the 1970s,
the population of the territory of Rond6nia grew at an annual rate of 162,
making this the most rapidly expanding agricultural frontier in all of
Brazil.  The Government road-building and colonization schemes which had been
established to help integrate the Northwest region with the rest of the
country were unable to keep pace with this rapidly accelerating migration.
Between 1970 to 1975, some 60,000 new families migrated to RondOnia, but only
about half of these were absorbed in various settlement schemes. An equal
number joined the marginal populations of newly created towns or became
squatters on the fringes of public projects, 1,n traditional indigenous areas
and forest reserves. By the late 1970s, RondOnia's population had more than
quadrupled when compared to that at the beginning of the decade.  Socio-
economic problems were mounting, defcrestatic.s was largely uncontrolled, and
the security of the State's indigenous inhabitants was serious3y threatened.



-2-
2.02      In 1980, in recognLtion of the pressing socio-economic problems
c. 4ed by rising spontaneous migration to the region, the Brazilian
Gc.ernment launched a program of major investments in the agricultural
frontier areas of Rondonia and Western Mato Grosso. The program, known as
the Northwest Region Integrated Development Program or "POLONOROESTE", aimed
to absorb the human influx in a sustainable manner, by increasing
agricultural productivity,  rural incomes and social welfare.   The major
components were road construction and improvement, including the completion
and asphalting of the main Federal highway into the Northwest Region (BR-364)
between Cuiaba and Porto Velho (the capitals of Mato Grosso and Rondonia,
respectively), consolidation of existing settlement schemes and support for
the establishment of new ones, improvement of phvsical and social
infrastructure and services, and measures to protect the natural environment
and the interests of the indigenous population.
2.03      POLONOROESTE activities were financed under five complementary Bank
loans (Part III, Table 1), including the Agricultural Development and
Environmental Protection Project, which  ; the subject of this Completion
Report.   This particular project was designed mainly to: (a) consolidate
existing settlements in an area which was believed to include the best soils
in the territory (now State) of Rond8nia; (b) implement environmental
protection activities in the entire POLONOROESTE program area; (c) support
preparatory activities for Phases II (Agricultural Development in Mato
Grosso) and III (New Settlements in RondOnia) of POLONOROESTE; and (d)
strengthen POLONOROESTE program management, monitoring and evaluation. In
parallel, and within a framework agreed with the Bank, the Brazilian
Government financed a Special Amerindian Project for the protection of the
indigenous population in the POLONOROESTE program area. It also committed
itself to finance rural credit, land titling and several other activities to
support settlement consolidation in Rond8nia.
2.04      The  project  was  prepared  by  the  Government  with  extensive
assistance from the Bank, FAO/CP and consultants. More than 300 staff weeks
were used in the preparation and appraisal of the project between June 1979
and February 1981.  Project preparation took into account both Government
studies which had been done before launching the POLONOROESTE Program and the
findings of the 1980 Bank report "The Integrated Development of Brazil's
Northwest Frontier", which provided the background and basis for Bank
involvement in the POLONOROESTE Program.
2.05      Loan  2060-BR,  in  the  amount  of  US$67.0  million,  for  the
Agricultural Development and Environmental Protection Project was approved on
December 1, 1981, signed on December 15, 1981, and became effective on April
26, 1982.   An Amending Agreement increasing the loan amount to US$89.8
million was signed on December 14, 1983, under the Bank's Special Action
Program (SAP) for Brazil.
3.   Proiect Obiectives and Description
3.01      The Agricultural Development and Environmental Protection Project
sought to consolidate settlement in six municipalities (about 30,000 km2) of



Central Ronddnia which had already been partially occupied during the
previous ten to fifteen years.  It was expected to establish about 18,000
permanent and sustainable smallholdings of under 100 ha each, thereby
improving output and incomes of existing settlers and absorbing, at a
relatively low cost, part of the new migrants who would otherwise move into
environmentally more fragile areas of the Amazon Basin.   The underlying
strategy was to promote a transition from shifting cultivation of annual
crops and deforestation to the production of environmentally more suitable
and economically more profi+r.a perennial tree crops.  Production of coffee,
cocoa and rubber/latex  r-.  axpected to increase by some 55,000 tons.
Improvements in physical        social infrastructure and security of land
tenure were  also  expc       to benefit  the  broader  population  in  the
settlements and general] . ei'd t) an increase in the density of occupation in
areas with good soils.  T1't p-ojact also sought to improve environmental
protection in the entire area cf influence of the POLONOROESTE program (i.e.,
all of RondOnia and part of Ma:. Grosso), to support preparatory activities
for future phases of POLONOROESTE, and to help strengthen program management,
monitoring and evaluation.   The project thus included the following four
inter-related subprojects (and components), which were to be implemented over
a five-year period:
(a) settlement consolidation in RondOnia (including farm access roads,
establishment of rural service centers, rural extension, agricultura'l
research, crop drying and storage, farmer organization, and education);
(b)  environmental  protection  and  ecological   research  in  the
POLONOROESTE program area (including the establishment of national forests,
natural reserves and ecological stations, forestry control, and ecological
research);
(c) land tenure regularization in Western Mato Grosso in preparation
for POLONOROESTE-Phase II (Mato Grosso Agricultural Development), and soil
surveys and other studies in preparation for POLONOROESTE-Phase III (New
Settlements in Rondonia); and
(d) program management, monitoring and evaluation.
In parallel with (a) above, the Government committed to finance with its own
resources rural credit, seed production and land titling. In parallel with
(b,, and withinL a framework appraised and agreed by the Bank, the Government
undertook to implement a Special Project for the protection of the Amerindian
population in the POLONOROESTE program area.
4.   Project Design and Organization
4.01      The largest subproject, settlement consolidation, was designed as
an integrated rural development project under the POLONOROESTE regional
development program.   This and the other sub-projects were recognized as
being ambitious in light of weak institutional capacity, limited knowledge of
the Northwest Region and its indigenous communities (which were still at an
early stage of contact with the national society), and the location in an



- 4 -
environmentally risk-prone frontier area. Also, several activities key to
project success (Amerindian protection, rural credit and land titling in
Rond8nia) were not actually included in the project, and consequently not
financed by the Bank, but were to be coordinated and executed in parallel by
the Government.  Nonetheless, it was believed that the priority which the
Government assigned to the POLONOROESTE program, combined with the measures
already being taken by the Government for environmental and Amerindian
piotection, and the establishment of a monitoring and evaluation system
designed to provide early feedback into the decision-making process, would be
sufficient to ensure project success. Also, it was planned that one agency,
the State Agricultural Development Company of RondOnia (CODARON) would be
responsible for planning and implementation of all agricultural activities
and physical infrastructure, thereby simplifying the requirements for inter-
agency coordination.
4.02      The project was clearly designed as a remedial effort to help bring
order to the accelerating spontaneous migration to the Federal territory of
Rondonia. In retrospect, more attention should have been paid to analysis
and corrective actions in relation to the policies, regulations and public
investment programs which were fostering this migration, and also to those
which would govern the future pattern of land use in the project area.
Statewide land use mapping based on adequate technical knowledge of soil
capabilities, and zoning to better orient and discipline government
investment (particularly roads and other infrastructure), should also have
been in place before starting the project.
4.03      Finally, project design was based on some important assumptions
which proved to be optimistic. Among these were chat: (a) assistance to only
18,000 families over a five-year period would be adequate, at a time when
annual migration had already reached that level and was clearly on the rise;
(b) the Government would provide sufficient and timely credit to target
farmers without support from the project; (c) the Government would have the
capacity to carry out the Special Amerindian Protection activities without
financial assistance from the project; and (d) the priority to provide scarce
counterpart funds would be as great for sustainable agricultural development
and environmental protection as for the pavement of BR-364. In the event,
migration and settler turnover proved to be much higher than anticipated.
Soon after appraisal, the Federal Government suspended special credit lines
which were to have been used by the project, although the commercial banking
system was still relatively under-developed in the project area and the
untenured status of most migrants precluded their having access to these
limited services anyway.   The chronically weak and under-funded National
Indian Foundation (FUNAI) was unable to implement the Special Amerindian
Project  efficiently.    Plagued  by  problems,  originating  partly  from
competition with State sectoral institutions and allegations of corruption,
CODARON was abolished in 1985. While the direct involvement of the normal
state departments and agencies responsible for agriculture and infrastructure
development had positive aspects, it did result in even more complex project
administration/ implementation arrangements than were originally conceived.
The State Coordination unit did not have sufficient authority to enforce
decisions on project execution, ensure interagency coordination or monitor or



supervise project activities, nor did it have control over the performance of
Federal Agencies involved in the project. The National Coordination Unit was
too distant from project implementation needs at the field level and also
lacked authority to coordinate the federal agencies. Finally, the difficult
fiscal situation in Brazil led to inadequate and late disbursement of
counterpart funds, the impact of which was heightened by weather conditions
in the Amazon Basin which limit the period during which physical works can be
implemented to only a few months in each year.
5.   Proiect Implementation
5.01      During the early years, project implementation did not proceed as
anticipated,  for reasons cited in paragraph 4.03.   Following a Mid-Term
Review in November 1984, the Bank informally suspended loan disbursements on
this and the other POLONOROESTE loans, pending corrective actions related
mainly to enhanced protection of Amerindian communities and environmental
protection, but also including the shortage of rural credit, the causes of
delays in construction activities, and poor monitoring and control within
some implementing agencies. Disbursements were resumed in August 1985, when
the Bank was satisfied that corrective actions were in place.
5.02      The original Bank loan of US$67.0 million was expected to finance
342 of total project expenditures (35Z net of taxes). This financing share
was raised to 50? in 1983 under the Special Action Program for Brazil (para.
2.05). The increased share of Bank financing and changes in the allocation
of loan proceeds reduced but did not fully avoid, project implementation
delays resulting from counterpart funding problems.
5.03      Project implementation was expected to take five years, but the
loan closing date was extended four times until March 31, 1990. The final
disbursements  took  place  on  September  6,  1990.    By  loan  closing,
disbursements were about 802 of the appraisal estimates, as revised in 1983,
or US$71.5 million. The final project cost was US$132.2 million, of which
54Z was  financed by the Bank.   The Brazilian Government  expended an
additional US$26.1 million equivalent in the implementation of the Amerindian
Protection Special Project, as well as an undocumented, but probably
substantial amount, on rural credit, input supply and land titling in support
of the settlement consolidation sub-project.
5.04      Settlement Consolidation Sub-Proiect.  (a) Farm Access Roads.  The
project provided for planning, construction, rehabilitation and construction
supervision of some 3,900 km of all-weather farm access roads. A total of
about 2,350 km of access roads were constructed and 2,300 km of roads
rehabilitated. In addition, several kms of drainage and about two kms of
small bridges were built. The component achieved its principal objectives of
providing access to markets and services by settlers, although quality was at
times sub-standard.   Roads were  laid out in straight lines,  following
settlement plans which allocated rectangular plots of roughly equal size to
each family, with little regard to the contour of the land or the
hydrographic network in the area. CODARON, the agency responsible in the
early years for the execution of this component, failed to coordinate its



- 6 -
work adequately with the Department of Roads (DER-RO), or to provide
appropriate road design and construction supervision.  When execution was
transferred to DER-RO in 1985, the quality of works and supervision improved.
However, road maintenance capacity did not improve, largely because of
chronic budgetary shortages, and limited implementation capacity.
5.05      (b) NUAR Irfrastructure.  To facilitate the provision of services
and promote the de%ilopment of stable communities in remote areas, the
project provided for the construction of rural service centers (NUARs) and
related basic 'urban" infrastructure at 39 locations. The NUARs were to be
zoned as urban areas occupying 40 ha each and located at the crossings of
main settlement feeder roads, supporting some 800 farms per center.  Each
NUAR was to include a deep well and water supply system, an electricity
generator and distribution system, offices for the local project
administration and key executing agencies, a multi-grade school, health post,
crop drying and storage unit, small sawmill and project guest house. Land
was also prepared and subdivided into residential lots which settlers could
purchase (the alternative being to establish residences on the farms
themselves), and space for the development of small private commercial and
industrial enterprises (e.g., pharmacies, restaurants, clothing makers,
etc.). Some of the NUARs were the only source of support to the settlers and
developed very rapidly into small towns and cities with three having become
the capitals of new municipalities. Others competed with existing political
subdivisions of the State, and some early implementation delays can be traced
to political conflicts with local authorities.  In 1985, the Bank and the
Government agreed that 19 of the originally planned NUARs would not be
constructed.   In some of these cases,  previously  existing towns were
providing  the  required  support  services  to  settlers;  in  others,  the
settlement of the area was progressing so slowly or the soil quality of the
area was lower than anticipated and the construction of a NUAR was not
justified.  Except for storage units, only two of which were constructed, and
sawmills, none of which was constructed, all remaining infrastructure was
completed according to the revised target.
5.06      (c) Agricultural and Forestry Extension.   The project financed
extension services to assist project beneficiaries in improving agricultural
production and forest conservation techniques and in cultivating ecologically
suitable perennial crops. The State Technical Assistance and Rural Extension
Company of RondOnia - ASTER-RO, (later EMATER-RO), was initially responsible
for all agricultural and forestry extension, except for cocoa, which was
handled by the Executive Committee for the Cocoa Development Plan (CEPLAC).
It also organized farmer and project staff training courses, assisted farmers
in obtaining credit, and participated in the drying and storage and community
organization components (paras. 5.11-5.13).   The RondOnia State Forestry
Institute (IEF), established in 1986, also participated in forest extension.
5.07      About 11,300 farmers (62Z of the original target of 18,000) were
individually assisted at farm-level, and 3,300 were contacted under a group
assistance scheme, bringing the total of farmers reached with technical
assistance and agricultural orientation messages to 14,600, or 802 of the
appraisal goal. Specific training courses in subjects such as perennial crop



- 7 -
planting and cultural practices, farm administration and soil conservation
were offered to some 13,500 participants (almost five times the appraisal
target), with some farmers taking more than one course and including farmers
also receiving technical assistance at the farm level. EMATER established
900 demonstration units (four times the appraisal estimate) for crops such as
coffee, rubber, black pepper, guarana and other tropical fruits and for
improved practices of soil conservation and management of small animals.
Rural   extension   infrastructure   and  transportation   facilities  were
constructed/acquired as scheduled, but hiring of extensionists was delayed,
reaching 95? of the appraisal estimate only at the time of loan closing.
Although pre-service training was regularly provided, only 84 EMATER staff
(56Z of appraisal estimates) received specialized in-servire training under
the project.
5.08      Overall, extension performance under the project was good, despite
such constraints as: (a) lack of adequate coordination with, or poor
performance by, other agencies responsible for complementary services (e.g.,
community organization, marketing, land regularization and rural credit); (b)
scarce and often untimely arrival of operating funds; and (c) the limited
prinr experience of most extensionists with the climate and agronomic
conditions of the project area.  Extensionists, most of whom lived in the
communities assisted and worked very closely with farmers, were instrumental
in promoting perennial crops and improving farmer incomes.  When lack of
credit became a major constraint, the extension service proposed and
implemented a system of credit-in-kind, which made possible the introduction
of perennial and other higher-value crops.   By assuming responsibilities
originally assigned to other agencies, the extension service was instrumental
in developing community organizations and promoting the adoption of
simplified storage and processing methods. Productivity of both annual and
perennial crops increased, seed and seedling production by farmers'
associations developed rapialy, and the total area planted to perennial crope
expanded. Rural extension was also responsible during the later years of the
project for farmers' experimentation with diversification into mixed cropping
systems (including viable new crops such as timber and fruit treeb,, crop
rotation, enrichment of fallow land and improved silvipastoral systems, and
efforts to retain forest reserves at farm level by introducing appropriate
replanting and product extraction techniques. While many of these activities
are only now beginning to take holc =nong settlers, they should yield greater
agricultural and environmental benefits over the next years.
5.09      (d) The Agricultural Research component was to be complementary to
ongoing national research programs of the Brazilian Agricultural Research
Company (EMBRAPA), focussing on adaptation of the main annual and perennial
crops and crop rotation and farming systems to thc specific conditions of the
project area. The actual number of experiments, demonstration units, seed
production, soil tests and mapping and production of technical and scientific
publications reached or exceeded appraisal targets, and practically all
proposed physical research infrastructure was completed. However, both low
salaries, which were responsible for high personnel turnover, and budget
constraints did limit quality of experimental work. As the fiscal deficit at
the Federal level became increasing severe, EMBRAPA had difficulty in



- 8 -
sustaining its activities and continuity of research work under the project
was achieved only with additional financial participation of the state.
5.10      Despite  the constraints,  the adaptive  research component did
generate some satisfactory results for immediate use by settlers. The main
achievements concerned coffee progenies adapted to the region; crops new to
Rondonia, such as guarani, black pepper, citrus, avocado, mango, and
tangerines; agro-forestry systems including native forest species with
coffee, rubber and annual crops; and the selection of annual crops, improving
planting dates and seeds. Limited research was conducted on pest and disease
control, technical aspects of forest product utilization by settlers and wood
processing by local industries.   Institutional coordination between the
agencies responsible for research and extension, both to determine farmers'
needs and disseminate research results, was poor at the beginning of the
project but improved in later years.
5.11      (e) Crop Drytna and Storage.   This component provided for the
construction by the Brazilian Storage Company (CIBRAZEM) of 19 large
warehouses with drying, cleaning and handling equipment, and having a
capacity to store 2,500 tons of grain each, to complement existing public
storage faciliLies in providing support to the Federal Government's minimum
price program (CFP).   Only two such units were built.   Because of their
location and size, and the difficulties vhich CIBRAZEM encountered in
operating them, utilization by small farmers was extremely limited. The Bank
and the Borrower decided in 1984 to reorient this componentt the remaining 17
large warehouses were dropped in favor of 18 smaller community storage units
(600 tons each), to be managed by farmers' associations.   Although this
revised strategy responded better to settlers' needs, the impact of the CFP
scheme was relatively limited. A parallel, and more successful approach to
facilitate marketing of settlers' output was carried out with the
collaboration of EMATER and farmers' associations. Several farmers' retail
markets were established in municipal capitals to sell directly to consumers,
and processing facilities for coffee and rice were installed at the community
level. It is estimated that these markets and processing facilities did
improve the prices received by farmers for most products, yielding net gains
of 10-202 in the prices for coffee and rice.
5.12      (f) The Farmer Organization component financed infrastructure and
the services of technical staff of the State Secretariat of Labor and Social
Action  (SETRAPS-RO)  in Rond6nia.    The  objective  was  to  promote  the
establishment of farmers' associations which would participate in a range of
community activities, such as construction and maintenance of access roads,
school and health post maintenance, agricultural extension groups, and
nutrition and health education. Farmers' initial response to this activity
was poor. In 1985, EMATER, which was already in charge of assisting farmers
on production-related activities, also assumed responsibility for fostering
community organization. Some 47 formal community based rural organizations
were formed in the project area by EHATER.



- 9 -
5.13      Appraisal assumptions about the kinds of activities  in which
farmers' associations and community groups would be interested in
participating  proved  to  be  wrong,  mainly  because  farmers  viewed
infrastructure construction and maintenance as Government functions. On the
other hand, EMATER's approach of organizing around themes which would have a
dir4ct   and  measurable   impact   on   incomes   (e.g.,   storage,   joint
marketitig/transport and processing of agricultural products) elicited an
immediate and positive response from farmers.
5.14      (g) The Education component was designed to improve both physical
infrastructure and the quality of teaching in the project area.   It was
originally planned to construct a four-classroom school at each NUAR and one
classroom satellite schools, to be operated on a two-shift basis. However,
because of much greater than expected population pressure, limited efficiency
(i.e., more children had to repeat grades than anticipated) and fanmer
demands for higher grades at the NUARs, six-classroom schools operating four
shifts were actually built at each of the 20 NUARs.   Many of the 199
satellite schools were expanded to two or three-classroom facilities and
operated three shifts.   In total,  24,300 additional school places were
created (61Z of appraisal targets).   The expanded physical educational
infrastructure provided under the project, while not reaching appraisal
targets because of the reduction in the number of NUARs, has been able to
meet much of the incremental demand in the project area because of more
intensive use of facilities.
5.15      The basic education level of teachers in the project area is higher
than elsewhere in the State, but finan_ial difficulties have limited teacher
recruitment, (only 470 of the 1,090 new teachers who were to have been
retained had actually been employed by the end of the project period), in-
service training, supervision, and the availability of didactic and otkir
school materials, thereby depressing the Laneral quality of teaching. School
drop-out, repeater and graduation rates have only reached levels similar to
those of other public schools in Rondbnia, outside the project area, which
are themselves low compared with results of other parts of Brazil.   The
development of a curriculum, adapted in terms of content and language to
rural RondOnia, had been an important objective of the project. Although
such a curriculum was prepared by a special group in the State Secretariat of
Education, it was based on individualized instruction, with which few
teachers had any experience or training, and therefore was dropped in 1986.
An innovative school calendar adapted to the needs of the rural areas (i.e.,
with vacations scheduled during periods of peak labor demand on the farms,
rather than during the traditional vacation months in Brazil) was not adopted
because of administrative and logistical difficulties in implementation.
5.16      (h) Parallel Activities.  Activities essential to the success of
the settlement consolidation subproject (land titling in RondOnia, rural
credit, and seed production and distribution) but not included in the project
are discussed in paragraphs 6.10 and 6.12 on Project Results.
5.17      The Environmental Protection and Ecological Research Sub-Proiects.
(a) National Forests. This component was to finance the establishment of two



- 10 -
national forests covering 300,000 ha, including identification, delimitation,
patrolling, inventories and feasibility studies of possible commercial
development options. Two national forests totalling 505,000 ha were legally
created at Jamari (225,000 ha) and Bom Futuro (280,000 ha), although only the
first was demarcated during the project period. A management plan for the
administration and dsvelopment of Jamari was prepared and the needed
infrastructure and equipment put in place, but the plan Was not implemented
because inadequate staffing and resources and the overall weaknesses of the
Brazilian Forestry Development Institute (IBDF) in charge of the component.
Field studies and development proposals for Bom Futuro also were not
implemented, for similar reasons.
5.18       (b) Forestry Control.  To improve the monitoring and control of
logging and the supervision of forestry extension, the infrastructure and
operating capacity of IBDF was to be strengthened. The existing headquarters
and control posts in both RondOnia and Mato Grosso were to receive
assistance, and four additional control posts were to be constructed,
equipped and staffed.  By project completion, three new control posts had
been constructed in each State (i.e., two more than pX.nned). However, the
effectiveness of forestry control efforts was limited by both IBDF's
managerial weaknesses and inability to hire and retain adequate numbers of
qualified staff, and by the rapid development of local wood industries. As
a result, throughout much of the project period, deforestation went virtually
unchecked in the POLONOROESTE program area, particularly in Rondonia.
5.19      A series of corrective measures taken during the later years of the
project did help to improve forestry control: in particular, increases in
the level and incidence of taxes for forest exploration and of fines against
violators reduced the rate of increase in deforestation, and the resulting
revenues helped to strengthen the institutional capacity to implement
forestry control in Rondonia and Mato Grosso.   Both a Forestry Military
Police to improve forest protection and enforcement, and a State Forest
Institute to provide adequate forest extension, were created in RondOnia. In
Mato Grosso, an existing institute was strengthened and a Forest Military
Police group created to improve forestry and environmental protection.
During the last year of project execution, the start-up of an Emergency
Program to control deforestation and burning in the Amazon area was also
financed and a satellite imagery system to monitor deforestation was
implemented.
5.20       (c) Natural Reserves and Ecological Stations.   This component
provided for the establishment of three Natural Reserves (the Pacaas Novos
National Park and the Guapore and Jaru Biological Reserves), improvements to
three Ecological Stations in Mato Grosso (Ique, Serra das Araras and Taima),
establishment of one Ecological Station in RondOnia (Cunia), and incremental
staff costs of both IBDF and the Special Secretariat for the Environment
(SEMA). By project completion, the boundaries of all of the Natural Reserves
and Ecological Stations had be6n demarcated, and most of the planned
investments in infrastructure and equipment had been made. The project was
successful in establishing these units and in facilitating the official
protection of  important ecosystems  of the Amazon area.   However,  the



- 11 -
institutional weaknesses of IBDF and SEMA. lack of adequate staffing of the
Reserves/Stations and financial constraints, particularly during the early
project years, resulted in poor functioning of the facilities and an apparent
inability to avoid sporadic invasions into most of the areas.
5.21      Corrective measures and additional activities introduced during
project implementation led to marginal improvements and a-n expansion of
preservation and protective activities to other areas. In particular, the
creation of the State Secretariat for Environment and the State Land
Institute in Rond6nia, together with the newly established IEF and Forestry
Military Police (para. 5.19), and the consequently increasing participation
of the State in the execution of this component were important achievements,
although they did not eliminate problems of invasions into the protected
areas. Additional activIties included studies for the establishment of new
conservation   units,   not   contemplated   originally   in  the  project,
infrastructure, equipment and protection for the Pantanal National Park in
Mato Grosso and environmental education and pollution control. As a result,
four new conservation units, covering an area of 1.6 million ha, were
created, the protection of the Pantanal area was enhanced with enforcement of
law and regulations for protection of fauna and flora, new State legislation
and norms for environmental protection were approved, and activities to
control polluting industries such as casserite and gold mining were
initiated.
5.22       (d) Ecological Research.  The project planned to finance ecological
research, which had hitherto been practically non-existent in RondBnia.
About twenty research projects were ultimately undertaken, in such areas as
meteorology, hydrology, animal and plant ecology, and anthropologicai. and
.human ecology. Major Brazilian universities and other research institutions
were involved, with the participation of more than 170 researchers, including
some 56 at PhD and 50 at MSc. level.   About 200 scientific papers and
articles were published, directly attributable to this project component.
However, the very good diagnostic capabilities of many of the researchers
notwithstanding, the lack of policy focus and clear linkage with project
implementation reduced the direct impact of this component on project
results.
5.23      (e) Parallel Activity - Amerindian Protection.  It was recognized
at appraisal that rapidly accelerating occupation and development of Western
Mato Grosso and Rond8nia was placing increasing pressure on the Amerindian
communities in those areas, and that this situation would worsen with time in
the absence of strong protective measures.  In particular, there would be
increased competition for land traditionally used by Amerindians, they would
be exposed to contagious diseases to which they had no immunity, and their
cultural identity would be eroded.   The Bank regarded this as a critical
issue and conditioned its broader support for POLONOROESTE on the Federal
Government's commitment to protect Amerindian interests in the program area.



- 12 -
The Federal Government prepared and agreed to finance and implement, as a
parallel activity to the Environmental Protection Sub-Project, a Special
Project for Amerindian protection.
5.24      As appraised by the Bank, the Special Project sought to provide
assistance to 28 Amerindian reserves in RondOnia and Mato Grosso, estimated
to include a total of 4,250 Indians.   Specifically,  the Project would
demarcate 3,940 kms of the boundaries of seven of the reserves covering a
total of 3.1 million ha; construct and equip 28 infirmaries and 20 schools;
construct/reconstruct 18 administrative units.  The costs of this Special
Project (US$26.1 million) were not included in the cost estimates for the
Agricultural Development and Environmental Protection Project since the
Government did not wish the Bank to participate in its financing.
Implementation of the Special Project was, however, a condition in the Loan
Agreement.
5.25      During project implementation,  a further 39 new areas and/or
indigenous groups were identified, and the Government also extended to
several of these areas or groups activities included in the Special Project.
As a result, 9,600 Indians living in an area of about 11.0 million ha,
received some assistance under POLONOROESTE, and by project completion most
of the original physical targets agreed in the Special Project had been
exceeded.   Some 9,300 kms of Amerindian reserve borders were demarcated,
covering about 9.0 million ha of reserves, 38 infirmaries and 32 schools were
constructed and equipped, 1,000 ha of crops developed, and 63 Amerindian
posts constructed or rebuilt.   In spite of these accomplishments,  the
institutional and financial weaknesses of FUNAI resulted in underutilization
of the physical and social infrastructure, and the limited enforcement
capacity of the Federal and State governments resulted in frequent invasions
of the Amerindian reserve3.
5.26      Preparation Activities for POLONOROESTE Phases II and III
Sub-Proiect. The content and impact of this sub-project is discussed below
in paragraphs 6.22 and 6.23 on Project Results.
5.27      Proiect Management. Monitoring and Evaluation Sub-Proiect.   At
State level, project management was the responsibility of the Project
Coordination  Unit  within  SEPLAN-RO.    Implementation  of  agricultural
activities and infrastructure was to be undertaken by CODARON, a RondOnia
State public enterprise created in 1980, to substitute the Rond6nia
Secretariat of Agriculture and other State institutions and thereby simplify
execution arrangements.   A  federal POLONOROESTE Coordination unit was
established within SUDECO, serving as the secretariat to an Inter-Ministerial
Council for the program. CODARON constructed (under contract) roads and the
rural service centers, including schools and health posts, and reconstructed
existing  roads.    However,  lack  of  expertise  resulted  in  poor  road
maintenance, implementation of agricultural activities and management of some
of the service centers.   Problems arising from competition with State
sectoral institutions and allegations of corruption caused the extinction of
CODARON in 1985, at which time the sectoral institutions assumed direct
responsibility for project execution. The State project coordination unit in



- 13 -
Porto Velho was not given sufficient authority to coordinate the project
effeptively, suffered seven changes of project manager, and had to rely on 14
other agencies once CODARON was abolished. Program management also remained
over-centralized in Brasilia, with many decisions depending on SUDF(,0.
However, the Inter-Ministerial Council itself hardly operated, and although
SUDECO controlled the flow of POLONOROESTE funds to RondOnia, it wag not
strong enough to resolve problems that had to be decided at higher levels of
the Federal Government.   Finally, those Federal institutions which were
directly responsible for execution of some project activities (i.e., FUNAI,
IBDF) operated very independently of both SUDECO and the State, and in
general performed poorly. Decentralization of many environmental activities
over the life of the project, from Federal to State institutions, improved
the situation.
5.28      Total Proiect Cost.  In U.S. dollar terms, the total project cost
was 34? less than estimated at appraisal, due to the reduction in the number
of rural service centers, the respective reduction in the cost of production
and social infrastructure, and lower than anticipated expenditures on laud
regularization  and  project  management.    Aggregate  loan  disbursements
represented about 80? of the original and supplementary loans and 54? of
total project costs (details provided in Part III).
6.   Project Results
6.01      General.  The project achieved part of its objectives of absorbing
population into existing settlements in central RondOnia.   Even with the
almost threefold increase in RondOnia's population from 1980-89, population
in the project area as a share of the total population of the State increased
from 50 to 602. While the rest of the State become almost 702 urban, the
project area maintained the majority of its population in rural areas, as had
been the case in 1980. Consequently, by 1990 the project area accounted for
752 of the rural population of Rondonia, compared with 60? a decade earlier.
Improved physical infrastructure, particularly the road network, and
agriculture and social services (including the establishment of schools and
health posts in previously almost unassisted communities) were largely
responsible for this result.
6.02      Project achievements in raising incomes and standards of living of
target farmers and fostering a change from shifting cultivation of annual
crops to sustainable production of perennial treecrops were more modest.
While farmers with adequate financial resourcee and technical assistance did
introduce perennial crops and progressed well financially, not enough of them
were  able  to  make  this  transition.    Continued  widespread  shifting
cultivation, both within settlement areas on assigned plots and elsewhere in
the State, resulted in severe deforestation throughout most of the 1980s. In
retrospect, the scope of the project was too limited to effectively improve
production and income of the large and rapidly increasing rural population in
the area in the 19809.
6.03      Most of the physical targets of the environmental protection sub-
project were attained, but the broader objective of establishing effective



- 14 -
environmental safeguards under the POLONOROESTE Program was not met. This
was partly because the environmental protection and ecological research
activities were much too limited in scope and the project did not include
any mechanisms to guide direct public investments in the State on the basis,
inter alia, of environmental considerations, nor did it deal explicitly with
the main policies  and regulations  undermining environmental protection
objectives.   While the migration and deforestation process was already
underway in Rondonia by 1980, the paving and completion of BR-864 (under
another of the POLONOROESTE pcojects) and the construction of an extensive
road network under this project, combined with the failure to implement the
project agricultural strategy on a wide enough scale, were important factors
encouraging  deforestation  in Rondonia.    In  the  case  of Mato  Grosso,
Government subsidies and fiscal incentives were primarily responsible for
increased deforestation by large cattle ranchers.
6.04      With regard to the Amerindian protection,  the Government did
achieve much more than the physical targets established in the Special
Project.  Many more Amerindian groups were i.dentified and assisted in the
course of project implementation than the 28 specifically covered under the
Special Project, alt.hough delimitation/legalization of some of these areas
was not completed.   Protection and corrective action against recurrent
invasion of these areas was also less than satisfactory.
6.05      When the Project was  launched,  Aond6nia was  still a Federal
Territory, converting to statehood only in end-1981. Consequently, the new
state's  institutional base was  quite weak.    Through the project,  key
institutions were created and/or strengthened (i.e., State forestry institute
and forest military police, a State Secre4ariat for the Environment and, most
recently, a State Land Institute have been created and state agricultural
extension services strengthened).   These institutional developments may
ultimately have a wider impact than the project  itself.   The project
institutions, drawing on the lessons learned during implementation, should
now be better able to design and implement future Government policies and
investment projects for sustainable development and environmental protection.
Finally, a large number of personnel at all levels are now trained in rural
project planning, administration, monitoring and evaluation, and to a lesser
extent, in the design and enforcement of environmental protection activities.
6.06      Production.  At appraisal, it was estimated that the project would
increase agricultural production through both an expansion of cropped area,
increased crop yields, reduced post-harvest losses and an expansion of small
animals and livestock production by small farmers.   Total SAR and PCR
estimates of incremental cropped area and animal production are detailed
belows



- 15 -
SAR and PCR Estimates for Incremental Cropped Area
and Production at Full Development
SAR                              PCR
Area            Production        Area          Production
(ha)           ('0(0 tons)        (ha)          ('000 tons)
Rice (paddy)      11,800               33.6            2,200            12.3
Maize             10,600               20.6           11,400            23.3
Beans              6,300                3.7           13,600             9.7
Manioc             2,200               22.2           -3,200           -24.7
Coffee            17,400               24.2           21,500            14.8
Cocoa             15,000               22.5           20,200            24.3
Rubber            10,000                9.9            2,900             2.4
Citrus              -                    -             3,800            56.5
Beef (tons)                             1.0                              1.8
Milk (Mill. lts)                        2.5                             17.0
6.07      Total cropped area was originally estimated to reach about 270,000
ha at full development, which represented an increment of 73,000 ha over the
pre-project situation. The main increase was to come from coffee, cocoa and
rubber (582), rice and maize (302), and other crops (12?). Based on EMATER
and SEPLAN-RO data, it is fstimated that the total cropped area under the
project actually reached 267,000 ha or almost 100? of the appraisal estimate.
The incremental 70,000 ha derived from (a) a greater than anticipated
expansion in the area planted to cof£*e. cocoa, beans and maize, (b) a
substantial shortfall in the anticipated e,xpansion of rubber and rice, (c) a
decrease in area planted to manioc resulting from a declining demand for this
product, and (d) the introduction of citriis in the project area, which had
not been foreseen as a significant activity at appraisal. It was estimated
at appraisal that the average farmer would increase his cropped area by some
4 ha. The actual average increase was 6., "ia planted.
6.08      Livestock production also increase^!.  The number of head of cattle
in the project area grew from 126,000 in 19EL to 780,000 in 1988. However,
as the impact of the project began to be felt, cattle growth declined,
compared with the rest of the State.  Betwezn 1981 and 1985, the number of
cattle in the project area grew 356Z.   From 1985 onwards, as the mixed
farming model promoted by the project began to take hold, involving increased
emphasis on perennial crops, the number of cattle grew by only 36t in the
project area, compared to 1452 in the rest of the State. The importance of
cattle in the project area reflected the trend common to frontier development
elsewhere in Brazil, but with a significant difference. While outside the
project, cattle production is generally pursued as an extensive single
production-line enterprise with emphasis on beef and breeding, cattle in the
project area are complementary to other farm activities, comprising part of
a mixed and rotational farming system with emphasis on beef and milk
production. Swine production increased at rates similar to other , irts of
the State, and milk production became en important and stable source of
income in the project area.



- 16 -
6.09      Appraisal targets for increases in productivity, however, turned
out to be too ambitious for most crops, as detailed below:
SAR and PCR Estimates for Crop Yields (tons/ha)
ADDraisal                              PCR
Without Proiect   With Proiect       Without Proiect   With Proiect
Rice           1.9               2.6                1.7               1.9
Maize          1.6               2.0                1.7               1.8
Manioc         6.0               8.0                9.0              10.0
Beans         0.4               0.6                 0.5               0.6
Coffee         0.8               1.0                1.0               1.2
Cocoa           -               1.5                0.4                0.7
Rubber                           1.0                1.0               1.1
Citrus                             -                 -                5.0
As shown in Annex 2, average yields were estimated at appraisal to increase
between 232 and 53X, through expanded use of fertilizers, improved crop
rotation systems, and adoption of improved genetic material and certified
seeds and seedlings.  The only significant crop yield achievement was for
cocoa, which received specific credit and intense technical assistance from
CEPLAC and to a lesser extent for beans, for which a disease-resistant
variety was introduced on a limited scale.   Shortages of investment and
production credit, higher than expected fertilizer prices, lower product
prices and less technical assistance resulted in actual yield increases that
were some 52 to 50S below appraisal estimates. Actual low average yields for
cocoa and coffee reflect, to some extent, the fact that plantationp are not
yet fully developed. As shown in Annex 3, the value of incremental project
output at full development was estimated at about US$62 million, compared
with appraisal targets of US$144 million to be attained at full project
development. Prices for several products fell short of appraisal forecasts.
Prices for cocoa and coffee at project completion were 572 and 63?,
respectively, of the levels forecasted at appraisal.
6.10      As conceived at appraisal, on-farm investment and working capital
were to be financed under existing Government rural credit programs as a
parallel activity to the project, without Bank support due to the large
subsidies involved. Seasonal production credit was considered important for
annual crops and for maintenance of pere3nials, while availability of
medium/long-term credit was considered essential for the establishment of
perennial crops.   In the event, virtually no official credit was made
available to project beneficiaries in the early years, other than long-term
credit tarough CEPLAC for cocoa planting. This had a major impact on project
performance in meeting output and productivity targets. Extension agents,
trained to assist farmers in obtaining and using credit, had difficulty in
developing useful messages  for farmers without credit.   A commendable
experiment with in-kind credit during the later years of the project did
succeed in directly raising the total area planted to perennial crops, but
the output and productivity results will not be felt for a few years, until



- 17 -
these crops mature.   The distribution of seeds and seedlings was another
parallel activity to the project, which was to be wholly financed by the
Government without Bank support. Although a capacity to produce seeds for
annual crops, and rubber, coffee and forest trees seedlings has been
established by the Government (Part III, Table 4), there is little follow-up
data about the use made of the planting materials which were distributed.
Project authorities believe that this program did have positive results in
helping to offset partially the absence of credit, particularly for perennial
crops. However, forest seedlings produced by the project had no signific:ant
impact in counteracting deforestation.
6.11      Employment  Generation.    It  was  assumed  at  appraisal  that
agricultural intensification and the development of perennial crops wotald
create a demand for an incremental 20,700 fully employed laborer years, of
which about 4,600 would be provided by hired labor. However, based on a
recalculation of the labor requirements of the most common farm models, only
about 14,800 incremental laborer years were actually created (712 of target),
of which some 2,700 laborer/years were provided by hired labor. Although
there was a larger than expected increase in the area planted to coffee and
cocoa, the lack of financing for fertilizer and herbicide and for other
cultural practices reduced labor demand per ha cultivated.
6.12      Land Tenure. To help consolidate existing settlements in RondOnia,
the Government committed itself to provide land titles to all settlers by
1982. INCRA only partially achieved this objective, providing titles to some
19,800 farmers occupying about 2 million ha (i.e., slightly more than the
number of direct beneficiaries of project extension activities, but only a
third of the estimated 60,000 families living in the virinity of the
settlement schemes). Nonetheless, these land regularization activities had
a significant impact in terms of estdblishing a core of family-owned farms in
central RondOnia, and reducing the incidence of squatters and extensive
ranching which has characterized the occupation of most of the rest of the
Brazilian agricultural fronticr.   Indeed, land ownership  (coupled with
financing and technical. assistance) proved to be the most stabilizing factor
in the sub-project area, leading to less frequent turnover of farms, the
introduction of sustainable mixed farming with perennial crops and the
consequent reduction in shift and burn cultivation/deforestation in this part
of the State. About one-third of the original settlers in the older INCRA
colonization schemes are still cultivating the same plots, or about the same
as the proportion of titled to total families (19,800/60,000) mentioned
above.   This compares very favorably with the situation outside the sub-
project area, where only about 102 of present occupants are original
settlers.   From 1980 to 1985, the relation of squatters to total farm
establishments in the sub-project area declined from 51? to about 25?, also
in contrast to trends elsewhere. Finally, the number of farms larger than
100 ha, producing almost exclusively livestock, declined from 36? to 16? of
all farms within the sub-project area, whereas elsewhere in the State, the
proportion of such larger farms to the total number of farms increased from
30? to 46? during 1980-85. Data for later project years are not available,



- 18 -
but the decrease in the growth of livestock and field observation in the
project area indicate that these tendencies have most likely been maintained.
6.13      Environmental Protection.   At appraisal,  it was  assumed that
strengthening the institutional capacity of IBDF and SEMA, and creating
several conservation units and biological and ecological reserves would
counterbalance the effects on deforestation of paving the BR-364 highway and
the accelerated investment in roads and other infrastrvcture in the
settlement  areas  in central RondOnia.   However,  as showT  in Annex 4,
deforestation continued at a rapid rate, and by 1988, estimates for the
deforested area of Rondonia ranged between 132 (INPE) and 24? (Mahar-IBRD),
compared with only 0.52 in 1975 and 3? of the State in 1980. Besides the
very high rate of migration and continued widespread shifting cultivation,
deforestation also increased because the number of wood industries in
Rond6nia grew rapidly from 400 in 1982 to more than 1.100 in 1987, and the
output of processed lumber increased from 1.4 to 4.2 million m3 during the
same period.   Satellite imagery clearly suggests that, for all practical
purposes, deforestation in Rondonia begins and is coterminus with newly
constructed roads. Contributing factors included the establishment of the
colonization schemes themselves; other official investment programs,
particularly roads; a growing wood industry; and limited institutional
capacity to control illegal logging and forest burning for shifting
cultivation. In addition, various public policies and regulations, such as
special fiscal incentives (particularly important in Mato Grosso), and
inadequate land registration and titling procedures actually encouraged rapid
natural resource depletion. The resulting policy framework was one in which
the full economic costs of uncontrolled deforestation was not reflected in
financial costs, which artificially stimulated deforestation for agricultural
and logging purposes.
6.14      Several corrective actions taken during project implementation did
help in strengthening the institutioral capacity for forest control and
enforcement.  Of particular importance were the decentralization from the
Federal Government to the State of forest acAnkinistration and the
establishment of the State Forestry Institute (IEF) and the State Forestry
Military Police.   IEF combined the functions of controlling deforestation
with education/extension for farmers about agro-forestry practices and the
State Forestry Military Police is responsible for protecting against
invasions of forests, natural and biological reserves, and Amerindian
reserves. During the last project year, the start-up phase of an Emergency
Program to reinforce deforestation control and forest burning, was financed
under the project with the support of IBAMA. Satellite imagery was used to
detect forest burning and illegal deforestation, directing more effectively
the monitoring, control and enforcement efforts of IBAMA, IEF and the
Forestry Military Police. As a result, and although illegal deforestation
and sporadic invasions of reserves persist, according to IBAMA and the newly-
created National Secretariat for the Environment, the rate of deforestation
and burning has finally begun to decrease over the past three years.
Furthermore, the technical and institutional capacity created by the project
will be critical in achieving additional reductions in the future.



- 19 -
6.15      As indicated in Annex 5, all National Forest, Natural Reserves and
Ecological Stations included in tne project were established. The project
also financed protection activities for other conservation units in Rondonia
and Mato Grosso, and for studies which provided the basis for the creation of
additional conservation units and one extractive reserve in RondOnia in 1989.
While all planned infrastructure and equipment was put in place, serious
management, staffing and budgetary problems of the two Federal agencies in
charge of the environmental conservation component (IBDF and SEHA) resulted
in underutilization and in some cases roandoning of that infrastructure. The
preparation of developmen4 plans anl implementation of pilot sustainable
forest management schemes in the National Forests did not take place, and
measures to protect the conservation units were poorly implemented, if at
all. Nonetheless, 10? of the total area of Rond6nia has been officially set
aside for conservation units, which is the highest percentage of officially
protected area of any Brazilian State.
6.16      Finally, although not foreseen at appraisal a State Secretariat for
the Environment (SEMARO) and a State Environmental Council were created in
Rondonia with project suppo.t. SEMARO initiated the regulation and control
of polluting industries, such as casserite and gold mining, and environmental
education throughout the State.   In Mato Grosso, the project funded the
activities of a Forestry Battalion to enforce legislation against hunting and
degradation of unique flora and fauna in the Pantanal National Park. Results
were significant, not only in terms of initial apprehension of infractors and
the volume of fines collected, but also in terms of public education
undertaken to enhance environmental protection of the Pantanal area.  The
project also supported the creation in Mato Grosso of a Secretariat of the
Environment, which has focussed its initial work on controlling mining and
chemical pollution into the Pantanal basin.
6.17      Overall,  in spite of its many shortcomings,  the environmental
protection sub-project was instrumental in establishing an institutional
framework and capability which will be essential for improvements in the
future.  It also helped to increase the debate, awareness and political
commitment to protection and conservation of the environment in at least part
of the Amazon Basin.   A3 a reflection of this incr(eased awareness and
commitment, a substantial share of project funds originally intended for
other purposes was redirected to environmental protection during later years
of project execution. The appraisal report estimated thedt US$15.0, or only
7Z of total project costs, would be spent on environm:ental protection.
However, final estimates of project outlays for environmental protection
total US$36.7 million, or 23% of project costs, US$25 ne.  on of which were
used during the last three years of the project.
6.18      Amerindian Protection.   Protection of indigenous lands was the
cornerstone of the Special Project. The regularization of an Amerindian area
includes   identification,   delimitation   (which  precedes  demarcation),
Presidential confirmation of the physical demarcation, and registration in
the cart6rio (land registry). For all practical purposes, demarcation, which
requires an accurate survey of reserve boundaries, is the single most
important step. The share of the Amerindian population living in demarcated



- 20 -
reserves in the POLONOROESTE Program area increased, due to the project, from
only about 182 in 1980 to 852 in 1989. However, in January 1990 an earlier
demarcation of one of the largest Amerindian areas was revoked and is now
awaiting  re-identification  and  re-demarcation.    The  total  Amerindian
population currently living in demarcated areas is about 7,457 Indians or
78Z.  As shown in Table 4, in addition to physical demarcation of known
Amerindian areas, substantial progress was achieved in the identification and
delimitation of new ones.
6.19      The pace of demarcation work accelerated after the Bank informally
suspended disbursements in 1985 (para. 5.01).  The situation subsequently
improved, but protection of the reserves against illegal logging, mining and
squatters has been difficult given the profitability of these operations, the
collusion of loggers and miners with Indian leaders, the size of the area,
and the limited enforcement capacity of the Government. Nonetheless, while
there are no accurate data on the extent of such invasions, based on
information provided to Bank supervision missions from various sources, they
are estimated to involve less than 5X of the Indian lands.
6.20      The project also helped to stabilize Indian health conditions.  The
heavy mortality of the contact period was reduced and the birth rate rose.
However, the incidence among Amerindians of tuberculosis, malaria, measles
influenza and intestinal parasites is still high.  During th, %eriod, many of
the health services in field infirmaries deteriorated due to high staff
turnover and inadequate training, inadequate supply of medicines and poor
maintenance of equipment. Additionally, acculturative influences favoring
types of food not readily available to the indigenous population and pressure
on the environment which reduced game and fishing, have negatively affected
the diet and nutrition of some of the region's indigenous groups.
6.21      Thirty-two schools were built on the reserves, but the teachers had
inadequate training and inappropriate textbooks, and the poor living
conditions for teachers limited the utilization of these facilities.   By
1988, virtually the only functioning schools on the reserves were those
operated by missionaries. Lastly. some 1,000 ha of crops were developed, but
efforts at establishing communal gardens and marketing failed. In general,
Amerindians refused to work communally; therefore, much equipment was not
used and most gardens were abandoned after a short time. Almost all of the
trading posts which had been created closed down quickly, as few Amerindians
had adequate commercial experience.
6.22      Preparatory Activities for Phases II and III of POLONOROESTE.  Two
activities financed under the project were considered prerequisites for what
would be the second and third phase POLONOROESTE projects (Mato Grosso Rural
Development Project and New Settlements Project in Rond6nia).   The first
involved regularization of land tenure in Mato Grosso to reduce land
conflicts and enable smallholders to obtain investment credit. However, only
501 of titling targets were achieved and the project had little effect in
stabilizing land occupation by small farmers in Mato Grosso as a basis for
Phase II of POLONOROESTE. Field estimates and data provided by unions and
church groups indicate that there are still about 50.000 landless families in



- 21 -
Mato Grosso. An additional 40,000 farmers have settled on the soils around
Juina and Alta Floresta in northern Mato Grosso, which are not considered to
have an aptitude for sustainable agriculture.
6.23      Tl.e second preparatory activity financed under this project was
soil surveys for Phase III of POLONOROESTE, in support of new settlements to
the North of the Loan 2060-BR project area in Rondonia. Since this area was
generally believed to include poorer soils, it was essential to have detailed
soil survey results before deciding where to locate new infrastructure.
However, because of the higher than expected migration to Rondonia, the
Government and the Bank ultimately agreed to start colortzation (under Ln.
2353-BR) one year before the soil studies had been completed. This proved to
be a precipitous decision. Once the results of the studies were known, it
was necessary to reduce drastically the scope of Phase III to exclude much
more extensive areas of poorer soils than had been anticipated.
Unfortunately, by the time this decision was taken, three colonization
schemes with rural service centers and some important road infrastructure had
already been constructed in areas with limited sustainable development
potential.
6.24      Economic Rate of Return. At appraisal, the economic rate of return
(ERR) was estimated at 22Z.  It was derived by including 10OZ of project
costs  of  the  settlement  consolidation  sub-project  (rural  extension,
agricultural research, farmer organization, storage and drying facilities,
agricultural service centers, access roads, and sub-project coordination,
management and monitoring at the Rondonia level), except for education and
the parallel activities financed exclusively by the Government. The costs of
the other sub-projects (environmental protection and ecological research,
preparatory activities for Phases II and III of POLONOROESTE, and
program-wide management, monitoring and evaluation) were also excluded. The
benefit analysis included all the incremental production related t., the
project for the 18,200 farmers who received direct technical assistance.
6.25      Applying these same assumptions, the ERR was re-estimated using
1989 constant prices. Past expenditures, excluding taxes and duties, were
calculated in U.S. dollars and adjusted to 1989 constant prices using the
M.U.V.2 deflator.   For labor,  a conversion factor of 75Z was used at
appraisal. Due to high demand for labor both within and outside the project
area, a labor conversion factor of 90Z was used in the PCR calculations. The
prices of tradeable goods (rice, maize, coffee, cocoa and rubber) and
fertilizers were calculated at 1989 constant prices using the World Bank's
Commodity Prices and Price Projections (Annexes 6 and 7). The total value of
incremental project production was obtained by aggregating the output of the
various farm models, adjusted for actual changes in cropped areas and yields,
by the number of assisted farmers shown in Annex 8. The re-estimated ERR is
about 16Z (Annex 9).  Factors contributing to reduce the ERR include the
2 M.U.V. (Manufactured Unit Value) 1982 to 1989 as follows: 1982 - 1.447,
1983 - 1.484, 1984 - 1.511, 1985 - 1.495, 1986 - 1.264, 1987 - 1.156, 1988 -
1.063, 1989 - 1.0



- 22 -
smaller than anticipated number of farmers assisted by the project, low
productivity levels of several crops and the decrease in real prices for most
crops over the period 1982-1989. Factors contributing positively to the ERR
include a 342 reduction in total project costs due mainly to the reduction in
the number of rural service centers constructed under the project (from 39 to
20), a reduction in investment maintenance costs at full development without
a corresponding reduction in area planted, greater than anticipated
production of some key crops, and the development of other crops not
anticipated at appraisal (e.g., citrus production actually contributed 8.5Z
of incremental farm income at market prices in 1989, and income from millk
production also grew much more than anticipated at appraisal).
6.26      Financial Performance.  The appr61sal report estimated that at full
development the weighted average annual farm family income of beneficiaries
would increase more than tenfold, from an estimated US$d50 to US$11,900.
Price projections for most project products proved to be optimistic and farm
family incomes varied with the different models between about US$3,500 and
US$8,000, reaching a weighted average of only 56Z of appraisal estimates
(i.e., US$6,600 per family or a seven-fold increase). This income, which can
still be considered good, was possible because farmers assisted under this
project were located in the best soils of RondBnia which required lower
expenditures for inputs which in turn compensated for the lower yields and
product prices. In all farm models, the financial rate of return matched or
exceeded appraisal estimates. A comparison of the FRR estimated at appraisal
with the four models analyzed (including a new citrus model) is shown in
Part III, Table 9.
6.27      Fiscal  Impact.    The  appraisal  report  anticipated  that very
substantial benefits would be obtained from taxation of production marketed
inside and outside Rondonia from the settlement consolidation sub-project.
It was assumed that at full development the marketing tax (ICM) would produce
an annual revenue for the State of US$11.4 million. Export taxes estimated
on the basis of US$50 per 60 kg bag of coffee beans would yield an
incremental US$20 million for the Federal Government at full project
development.   Rural social security tax revenues would increase by some
US$2.5 million per year by full development. At completion the ICM reached
only about US$6.2 million dollars (54? of appraisal estimates), due in part
to decreases in product prices, but more importantly because there was
virtually no improvement in tax collections (which had been expected to
increase from 30? to 702 of all marketed products).   Federal Government
revenues from coffee exports are now estimated at US$18 million (90? of
appraisal estimates) due to lower export prices than those used at appraisal
and a corresponding reduction in the tax per bag in US dollar terms. Rural
social security revenues are only about US$1.8 million (72? of target) due to
less employment generation than anticipated at appraisal.
7.        Project Risks
7.01      The nature, but not the full extent, of most project institutional,
production, Amerindian and environmental risks were correctly identified at
appraisal.   Institutional risks were related to the ability of project



- 23 -
management to achieve the necessary coordination among all executing agencies
and the capacity of the executing agencies to accomplish their tasks.
Production risks were associated with the incomplete knowledge of production
and soil conservation techniques appropilate for the frontier region.
Amerindian risks included the known weaknesses of FUNAI, the need for careful
sequencing of protection activities in relation to the regional development
process, and the continuity of Government commitment to the protection of the
indigenous population. Environmental risks related to the limited technical
knowledge of the frontier environment, the ecolog4cal risks of increased
deforestation of poor soils and the risks that encroachment on fragile
environmental areas would continue in spite of the project. The magnitude
and rate of spontaneous migration into Rondonia and the effect of Brazil's
fiscal crisis on project financing were also not fully appreciated at
appraisal.  The underestimation of these various risks led to most of the
undesirable consequences associated with this operation.
8.   Project Sustainability
8.01      The staffing strength of key project institutions  (e.g., IEF,
Forestry Military P-lice, SEHARO, EMATER) was created, maintained or
increased. Roads, school, health posts, storage and the basic infrastructure
of project executing agencies was expanded.   Incremental  tax revenues
received by both the State and Federal Government should be sufficient to
maintain the productive components of the settlement consolidation sub-
project in central Rond8nia.   Environmental and Amerindian activities to
protect conservation units and Amerindian reserves in the whole POLONOROESTE
program area are dependent on scarce and fluctuating budgetary allocations,
but the State and Federal Governments are making strong efforts to maintain
these investments and continue the work initiated under the project.
8.02      For individual farmers, financial austainability of agricultural
production at farm level is dependent on success in establishing farming
systems and cropping patterns that are consistent with the agronomic and
economic characteristics of the project area.  In the general condi.,ons of
the Amazon frontier, and even in the sub-project area which has the best
soils of Rond8nia, this would favor mix-farming including inter-cropping of
perennial crops and agro-forestry and rotational systems between crops and
pastures for the production of transport insensitive products. Farmers who
did not have secure land tenure, investment capital and technical assistance
continue to rely on shift and burn cultivation of annual crops. Under thie
system, a farmer deforests part of his plot, clearing it by burning, and then
uses the soil fertility accumulated under the forest canopy for a few years.
Thereafter, to maintain yields of annual crops, even with relatively good
soils, the farmer needs to fallow part of his land and continue deforesting
other parts of his plot. This system is not sustainable within the limits of
the farmer's plot, unless the farm is large enough to provide sufficient
income by cultivating at any given time only a fraction of the land.
However, project experience suggests that financially, economically and
agronomically sustainable agricultural production systems can be developed if
farmers are provided with satisfactory financial and technical assistance.



- 24 -
8.03      Deforestation of soils without sustainable development potential
has not occurred on a significant scale under the project.   To the small
extent it did, and contributed to soil erosion and siltation of rivers. Land
clearing in the Amazon may also have detrimental effects on the region's
hydrological balance, the earth's ozone layer and ecological/ biological
diversity but the extent to which the project may have contributed to these
effects cannot be quantified.
9.   Bank Performance
9.01      The Bank involvement measured in terms of staff inputs throughout
the life of the project has exceeded by far the average for Bank agricultural
projects. Identification, preparation, appraisal and negotiations extended
over a period of more than two years and absorbed a total of about 330 Bank,
FAO/CP and consultants staff weeks. A total of 18 mult.,-person supervision
missions were fielded over a period of 9 years, and several additional one-
person missions (generally specialized consultants) also visited the field
during the same period, so that a total of 340 sw were used during project
implementation.   Many of these missions served the purpose not only of
informing the Bank about progress in project execution. but also provided
technical assistance to the POLONOROESTE coordination and implementing
agencies and helped to obtain essential decisions/actions at higher levels of
Government.    The close Bank-Government working  relationship helped  to
identify needed project corrective measures (such as the expansion or
introduction of new environmental protection measures). Nonetheless, project
coordinators report that, on occasion, insufficient staff continuity
(especially in the use of consultants), resulted in inadequate follow-up by
the Bank of problems identified by supervision missions. Problems like the
delays in release of counterpart funds, inadequate credit, and the need to
strengthen environmental and Amerindian protection activities should have
been addressed earlier, rather than waiting nearly four years to the 1984
mid-term review to take definitive action. The Bank's decisions to increase
the percentage of the cost of the project financed by the loan and to extend
the loan closing date by a total of 39 months (through four extensions)
proved to be sensible, because they enabled the agencies involved to build on
the experience gained in the earlier years to execute the remainder of
several project components in a more effective manner.   The Bank also
demonstrated reasonable flexibility in adapting the project to changing needs
during execution (including support for the start-up of an Emergency
Environmental Protection program to reduce forest burning in the last year of
project implementation).   However, the Bank's quick decision to provide
supplemental funding for increasing the share of loan funding proved, in
retrospect, premature, considering that a similar amount of loan funds was
canceled at project completion. Although the wisdom and timing of the Bank's
decision to support the completion and pavement of BR-364 under another
POLONOROESTE project (Ln. 2062-BR) can be questioned, once that decision had
been taken the Bank did make a valuable contribution under this project to
promoting more orderly settlement than would otherwise have occurred, and to
strengthening the protection of the environment and of the Amerindian
population in RondOnia and Mato Grosso.



- 25 -
10. Borrower's Performance
10.01     The  Borrower  cooperated  closely  with  the  Bank,  FAO/CP  and
consultant missions during the preparation, appraisal, implementation and
project completion phases of the project, and was generally open to
suggestions on how to improve and modify the project in response to changing
circumstances and the need to increase environmental protection because of
rapidly accelerating migration into the project area. However, throughout
most of the life of the project, the Borrower did not proviCdt the necessary
counterpart funding for the POLONOROESTE Program.  Although the prolonged
economic crisis and associated fiscal deficit were contributing factors, this
must ultimately bc attributed to a decision regarding its priorities,
inastuch as the Borrower did allocate substantially greater expenditures to
other investment programs during the same period. Moreover, even within the
level of counterpart funding that was made available for POLONOROESTE,
greater emphasis was given to the completion of physical infrastructure
(paving of BR-364, and feeder roads) than to essential agricultural support
services and environmental protection. By project completion, the Borrower
had complied with most of the 1985 mid-term evaluation agreements and the
main loan covenants, although with some delays, except for those relating to
the provision of agricultural credit and adequate counterpart financing. The
Amerindian and environmental covenants were implemented, but the maintenance
and effectiveness of protection services are not yet adequate.  Given the
complex organization and management structure of the POLONOROESTE Program,
and the limited decision-making authority of the Federal and (particularly)
State coordination units, the Borrower managed the project about as well as
could be expected.   Within the limitations imposed by chronic budgetary
constraints,  staff resources were reasonably deployed and trained.   The
Borrower also prepared a satisfactory Project Completion Report.
11. Proiect Relationships
11.01     The Bank-Borrower relationship, satisfactory until the end of 1984,
became strained during 1985 when, based on the critical findings of the
November 1984 mid-term evaluation mission, the Bank informally suspended loan
disbursements and conditioned the resumption of its financiug on the results
of corrective measures agreed by the Government in April 1985. Disbursements
were normalized in August 1985 after the Bank determined that the Government
had complied with the key measures.   From that time onwards, apart from
occasional misunderstandings originating from conflicting guidance by
different specialists participating in the Bank's supervision missions, a
fruitful dialogue was re-established between the Government and the Bank, and
among the implementing agencies.
11.02     Some of the imbalances observed in 1985 and the detrimental effect
on the Program of suspending disbursements might have been avoided if there
had been closer coordination among Bank units supervising implementation of
the POLONOROESTE Program, so that its strengths and weaknesses would have
been appreciated earlier on. The Bank should also have reacted more rapidly



- 26 -
and firmly in cases where important conditionalities were not being met,
either by insisting on compliance or, where the Government was clearly unable
to comply, by identifying and agreeing on alternative solutions.
12. Consulting Services
12.01     FIPE Evaluation Team.  The Institute for Economic Resear-ch of the
University of Sao Paulo conducted on-going independent evaluation of
POLONOROESTE, including a report for the Mid-Term Review of the project in
1984.    Relations  between  SUDECO  and  FIPE  became  tense  and  at  times
acrimonious, as PIPE filed increasingly critical reports on project
performance.   From FIPE's perspective, SUDECO and project management were
defensive and unwilling to consider constructive criticism. From SUDECO's
perspective, FIPE's evaluation was superficial and heavily based on second-
hand information, and concentrated on documenting problems without offering
practical alternative solutions.   Some of the Bank's supervision reports
rated FIPE's reports as very good. Eventually, however, the value to project
management of the evaluation reports declined because of the atmosphere of
mistrust.
12.02     FAO/UNDP BRA 87/037.   From the beginning of 1988,  technical
assistance was provided under the FAO/UNDP BRA 87/037 project. Much of this
assistance made only a limited contribution to the project. However, three
project officers based in Porto Velho did very good work in forestry
development, education and project administration, and another three
technicians based in CuiabA assisted with economic/project analysis,
marketing and Amerindian communities. The inputs of these six specialists
were much appreciated by the National Program Coordin&tion and by the States,
and they made substantial contributions to the preparation of the follow-up
RondOnia Natural aesource Management Project and to draft working papers for
this PCR.
13. Lessons Learned
13.01     The following are the principal lessons learned from the project,
which may be relevant for the design of similar operationst
(a) Public investments in frontier areas characterized by a fragile
natural environment should be based on better technical knowledge of the
sustainable development potential than that which was available at the
beginning of this project. Agro-ecological zoning to guide public investment
to suitable locations should be a condition sine aue non of future projects
in such areas. In addition to public investments, the policy and regulatory
framework governing land occupation and development patterns in the project
area should be made consistent with the recommendations of the agro-
ecological zoning (i.e., by increasing the private costs of occupying the
more fragile areas). Otherwise, direct investment to protect the environment
may be undermined by stronger incentives to exploit it in an unsustainable
manner.



-. 27 -
(b) The economic and political conditions outside the project area
which affected the level of migration to that area should have been better
analyzed. While the project strategy was conceptually sound, the scope and
content of project interventions were insufficient to achieve its ambitious
objectives. Although reasonably successful in benefitting settlers in the
settlement  consolidation  sub-project  area,   these  achievements  were
inadequate, considering the large population that moved to Rondonia during
project implementation   The project was designed to b.nefit 18,200 families
during a period when RondOnia grew by more than one million people. Such a
massive influx of people created demands on infrastructure and on the
environment, which were clearly beyond the project's ability to address.
(c) Project organization and management arrangements with many agencies
and excessively centralized decision making at the Federal Government level,
hampered project implementation. Decentralization in favor of the state and
municipalities, including more control over budgetary resources, would have
resulted in greater accountability of project management to the community and
would have facilitated project implementation. Also, an increased role for
NGOs and private organizations in project implementation could have enhanced
accountability to the ultimate beneficiaries and improved the responsiveness
of project executing agencies.
(d) When agriculture requires long-term financing, a careful analysis
should be made of the availability of credit for the farmer beneficiaries and
of the suitability of the terms for the kind of cultivation planned (in this
case, perennial tree crops which would not generate any income during the
development period).  If suitable sources of credit are not available and
where the failure of the agricultural development strategy could result in
widespread environmental degradation (in this case extensive deforestation),
the Bank should either make special provision for credit in the project
itself or it should not support the project at all.
(e) For innovative projects with above-average risks, it is essential
that monitoring anid evaluation systems be oriented to provide early warnings
about project impact and implementation probleme, and that project design
allows for considerable flexibility.   At the same time, the Bank must be
prepared to take sufficiently strong action early on (i.e, suspension of
disbursements) to remedy such problems. These conditions would allow for the
timely introduction of adequate corrective measures to original project
design.    In  addition,  a  longer  start-up  period  and  less  optimistic
assumptions about speed of farm development should be assumed for projects to
be implemented in unknown and difficult environments.
(f) The physical demarcation of environmental conservation units and
Amerindian reserves is a necessary, but not sufficient, condition for their
protection. Financial disincentives, such as the absence of public physical
and social infrastructure in the surrounding areas and enforcement capacity
to prevent and punish *nvasions are also required for ensuring the protection
of such areas.



- 28 -
14. Proiect Documentation and Data
14.01     The Staff Appraisal Report,  the reports of Pederal and State
project coe,rdination units at SUDECO and SEPLAN-RO, supervision missions, and
the work of FIPE and the FAO/CP technical assistance, provided a good basis
for the Borrower and the Bank to implement the project and supported needed
modifications  and adjustments.   Although SUDECO and the State Program
Coordination maintained project implementation records, not all data relevant
for the preparation of the PCR was readily available. In particular, project
monitoring efforts at the level of the project implementing agencies have
been directed mostly to short-term administrative controls and comparisons of
financial resources versus targets, rather than to data needed for a broader
ex-post evaluation of project impact.



- 29 -
PART II - PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE'
1.        Comments on Part I
1.01      The Borrower's final evaluation of the project was prepared by the
executing agencies involved and is part of the Final Project Reports
submitted by the National and State POLONOROESTE Coordination Units. The
data were discussed and analyzed during a mission by Bank consultants in May
1990.   This information was used to prepare the Bank's Part I and the
Statistical Annex to this completion report.
2.        Evaluation of the Bank's Performance and Lessons Learned
2.01      The  aspects  relating to the performance  of  the  Bank  during
appraisal refer, inter alia, to the analysis of the problems in the region
and the risks inherent in the project, the limited intervention of national
institutions at this stage, the underestimation of the technical and
institutional difficulties, as well as the inadequate allocation and
problematic flow of funds for project activities including environmental
protection and indigenous communities.
2.02      Already from the first year of project implementation, the flow of
national counterpart fundin&, was irregular. To correct this situation, the
Loan Agreement was amended in December 1983, raising the Bank's participation
rate from 34Z to 50Z, thereby facilitating project execution.
2.03      In 1985, based on a mid-term evaluation which revealed the lack of
effective  solutions  for  various  problems   (especially  institutional
organization in general and the components for protection of the environment
and indigenous communities), the Bank unilaterally suspended disbursements on
all POLONOROESTE loans, a situation which lasted six months, with evident
prejudice to the implementation of these same activities.
2.04      With particular reference to the institutional aspect, also in the
context of the mid-term evaluation, the Bank presented a proposal to
reformulate the management structure of the POLONOROESTE Program.   This
proposal was not considered feasible and was therefore subsequently
discarded.    From  that point  forward,  a consensus  prevailed  that  the
institutional   development  effort  should  be  directed  more  towards
strengthening the technical and managerial capacity of the implementing
agencies and the national and state coordination units, which in turn gave
rise to the training and technical cooperation programs financed under
POLONOROESTE Loan 2353-BR.
81 Translation of "Avaliaglo do Projeto do Ponto de Vista do Governo' dated
November 5, 1990 and prepared by the Secretariat of Regional Development.



- 30 -
2.05      Another  aspect  meriting  comment  concerns  the  sequence  and
management of Bank supervision missions, which during various stages of the
projec:. did not allow a smooth relationship among the various levels involved
in the Bank and the Government. Succeeding missions gave different guidance,
resulting in unnecessary disagreements, although the supervision of the Bank
did help to reorient and implement the operating arrangements for the
project, especially in the financial area. On various occasions the Bank's
position on subjects like the environment and indigenous communities,
resulted in the Brazilian Government's feeling that it was being pressed to
carry out activities which, left to its own initiative, it might not have
done in same time frame.
2.06      The main lessons learned were:
(a) Bank/Government relations should be characterized by a greater
sense of cooperation, based on mutual agreements.   Unilateral positions
should always be avoided, since besides prejudicing the Bank/Government
relationship, they can also adversely affect project implementation.
(b) Communications between the Bank and the Government should be
continuous and well-documented, particularly as concerns the composition of
missions, timetable and preparation of the same. Some problems could have
been avoided if the Bank had consulted the Government about the composition
of its missions and changes in its teams.
3.        Evaluation of Borrower's Own Performance and Lessons Learned
3.01      Project execution was compromised by a series of factors which
often were beyond the direct control of the Government's project coordination
and management, including: (a) excessive migration to the POLONOROESTE
region; (b) lack of credit for small producers; (C) sectoral policies which
were inadequate for the region or which did not take into account
environmental and indigenous issues; (d) constant delays in the release of
national counterpart fundlng; (e) fragile executing agencies; (f) low
salaries paid to technicians in many institutions, etc.
3.02      Some  components  performed  better,  such  as  those  concerning
infrastructure, like the construction and maintenance of roads and
construction of public buildings in general (schools, health posts, offices
for  executing  agencies,  etc.).    However,  the  provision  of  technical
assistance, rural extension, education and supervision left much to be
desired. Various factors contributed to this, including: insufficient number
of technicians, low salaries, inadequate training, lack of resources needed
to maintain support for program activities, etc.
3.03      Another aspect which contributed to unsatisfactory performance was
the fact that the farm models actually used by many colonists were based on
products that did not allow adequate capitalization of the farmer.   This
problem, combined with the complete lack of familiarity of the colonists with
the environmental conditions of the Amazon (different climate and soils, high
incidence of tropical diseases, principally malaria, etc.), resulted in many
of them not establishing themselves satisfactorily on the land and, in some



- 31 -
cases, abandoning the lots received in search of new frontiers or other
activities, especially mining and urban under-employment.
3.04      More  emphasis  should be  given  to activities  related to the
protection of the environment and indigenous communities which could not be
adequately controlled because of the concept and location of other Government
investments (settlements in unsuitable soils, road construction, etc.) or
because of the weak performance of the institutions involved (IBDF, SEMA,
FUNAI, IEFIRO, Forestry Police, SEMARO, etc.).
3.05      Nonetheless, some successes were achieved through implementation
of the project, includings
-    creation of State agencies with competence in the areas of activity of
the project (IEF, ITERON, SEAM, CAGERO, SEMARO, Forestry Police);
-    strengthening of other institutions related to the project (EMATER-RO,
EMBRAPA, DER-RO, SEPLAN-RO, SEAGRI);
-    demarcation and protection of indigenous areas;
-    establishment and demarcation of conservation units;
-    development of the Socio-Economic-Ecological Zoning of the State;
-    the fact that environmental legislation of RondOnia and the State
Constitution now include important aspects of the Socio-Economic-
Ecological Zoning;
-    use of the above as the basis for preparation of PLANAFLORO, which
rcflects the positive and negative lessons learned from the project;
-    environmental protection programs financed for other areas (the program
to preserve the Pantanal of Mato Grosso, the Emergency Program to Combat
Forest Fires in the Amazon).
3.06      Maior Lessons Learned
(a) General
The great complexity of the project resulted in an excessive number
of agencies involved, and this multiplicity of State rand Federal organs
caused some problems and generally made coordination very difficult.
In projects of the type being analyzed, this complexity is
inevitable. However, it is necessary to concentrate coordination efforts on
those sub-groups of components which require especially close cooperation in
order to succeed (e.g., extension/research/inputs/marketing; community
organization/education/training).
The sequence of actions should be carefully planned, to ensure that
those which are prerequisites for other important actions (e.g., agro-



- 32 -
ecological zoning, structuring of executing agencies and coordination units,
training) take precedence in the timetable. It is indispensable that before
implementation of projects of this kind, agro-ecological zoning of the area
be completed.
(b) Administrative
Monitoring and evaluation need to be improved, especially at the
level of the executing agencies, where there are deficiencies in terms of
data on physical and qualitative achievements and results (impact, such as
yields, income, etc.), despite reasonable financial monitoring.
It is necessary to define and operationalize an integrated and
coherent system of programming, monitoring and evaluation.
There is an apparent need to train people at all levels in
programming, monitoring and evaluation, to serve better the decision-making
process. This training should be based on the programming system which has
already been developed (GESTOR), and on its linkages with systems of
monitoring and evaluation, seeking to monitor and evaluate not only the
perticular year's annual operating plan (POA), but also the pluriannual
project.
Monitoring and evaluation of the project should, in the first
place, serve as an instrument for articulation among the agencies involved.
In this sense, it is appropriate to speak of a participatory monitoring and
evaluation, involving both the institutions which execute, coordinate,
monitor and evaluate, as well as the beneficiaries.
The high turnover of technical and managerial personnel prejudices
project performance.
It is necessary to find means to improve salary levels and training
in order to eliminate some of the causes of turnover.
The decentralization of responsibilities for exectution, from the
Federal agencies to the States, and from the latter to tte municipal and
local levels, is an adequate means of improving implementation, monitoring
and evaluation.
The training programs should be substantially reinforced to obtain
better results for future projects.
The technical assistance to executing and coordinating agencies
should promote effective integration of work with local technicians, to
guarantee in-service training, better utilization of the assistance, and
better selection of the consultants.
The delays in release of national counterpart funds prejudiced the
entire performance of the project, with average delays of three months
between the start of the fiscal year and the decree, two more months until
release of funds to the State, and another two months until they were



- 33 -
received by the executing agencies. Heans should be sought to eliminate this
problem, for example by obtaining a 1002 advance of the Special Account at
the outset of the fiscal year, to be replenished as soon as national funds
become available.
(c) Environment
It is necessary to make a great effort in the area of education,
dissemination of information and training about preservation, conservation
and rational use of natural resources, as well as to substantially strengthen
infrastructure and provide additional personnel.
The project provided for the establishment of a valuable
infrastructure to serve implementation of various activities under the
environment component. Operationalization of this structure has, however,
not developed satisfactorily as a result of several factors, including:
centralization  of  decision-making  by  Federal  organs  in  Brasllia;
institutional weakness of new State entities which have been created;
difficulties in contracting personnel; low salary levels; inadequate training
and limited importance given to this sector by the Government.
Apparently, the activities foreseen under POLONOROESTE for the
environmental/forestry components should have been capable of reversing the
serious problem of natural resource degradation in the project area.
However, the simple inclusion of this component could not meet the real needs
for environmental protection, unless concommitant changes were made in the
general policy framework, to compatibiliz6 the geo-environmental potential
and limitations. On the one hand, efforts were made to minimize negative
environmental effects, but on the other, incentives continued to encourage
deforestation for agricultural development, to establish land rights, to
obtain fiscal incentives, etc.
Given this situation, it was indispensable to modify the policy
framework and to adopt means to provide for integrated development adapted to
the environmental conditions of the region, utilizing, under any hypothesis,
the important planning instrument of Socio-Economic-Ecological Zoning.
One of the major problems encountered by this component relates to
the implementation capacity of the ex-IBDF and ex-SEMA. For various reasons,
these institutions did not execute their activities satisfactorily because of
centralization of decision-making in Brasilia; difficulties in contracting
personnel; lack of political will; etc.
The State institutions created to improve execution of these
project components also ended by performing below expectations, principally
because of local administrative difficulties which, to a certain extent,
compromised their technical performance.



- 34 -
(d) Indigenous Affairs
In the preparation of projects to protect indigenous communities,
it is important to consider the cultural diversity of the groups present in
the same geographical region.   These groups are differentiated by their
language and social organization, and in the degree to which they have been
in contact with the national society. Each activity of a particular project
should be planned and implemented with this fact in mind.
It is recommended that any project designed to assist indigenous
groups be preceded by the preparation of an analysis of their present
situation (demographic, land tenure, sanitary, economic, anthropological and
social). Studies should be carried out of the effective management capacity
of the project executing agencies, with the objective of strengthening these
institutions and establishing an efficient and permanent monitoring and
evaluation system. Specialized consultants should be contracted to carry out
these studies.
Despite all its deficiencies, the project collaborated in the
demarcation of indigenous areas, which was a basic action necessary to
guarantee their survival. Principally during the years 1984-88, actions were
developed which allowed the demarcation of more than 9 million ha of
indigenous territory in the POLONOROESTE region, benefitting more than 10,000
Indians.
The simple physical demarcation of indigenous lands is not,
however, sufficient to guarantee them in the face of invasions. Permanent
control and supervision by specialized public agencies (Forestry Police,
IBAMA, etc.) is also necessary, as well as participation over the medium and
long term of the indigenous communities themselves, as the parties
principally  interested  in  protecting  their  own  territories.    It  is
fundamental to guarantee the participation of the indigenous communities by
stimulating their traditional activities of hunting, fishing, gathering and
itinerant agriculture, which serve the strategic purpose of the occupation of
the areas. It is also important to find means of establishing boundaries in
a clearer and more permanent manner.   Besides the periodic checking and
replacement of stakes and sign posts, borders could be distinguished through
planting of different forest species.
The quality, technical capacity and training of personnel involved
in this type of project is fundamental for its success.   Well-trained
personnel with vision about the indigenous question are as important as the
physical infrastructure, which can otherwise become useless because of the
lack of personnel trained to utilize it adequately.
Great care should be taken in the introduction of any new economic
activity or technology into indigenous areas.   Any economic development
project should seek to optimize traditional indigenous agricultural and
extractive practices, which are the fruit of secular wisdom and of a process
of harmonious adaptation to the environment.   The introduction of new
economic activities should be consistent with the degree of acculturation of
these societies.



- 35 -
Special attention should be paid to the situation of 4solated
indigenous groups which are found in the project area, through activities
designed to guarantee the physical protection of these people and their
territories.
The indigenous agency (FUNAI) has demonstrated its inadequate
capacity to assume the various responsibilities for implementing indigenous
project components like those in POLONOROESTE. Ideally, FUNAI can exercise
a coordinating role, but it is important that other public entities
(including universities and research centers) and NGOs participate directly
in the project,  contributing in their areas of specialization.   Where
possible, the indigenous communities should be involved in the planning,
implementation and evaluation of the project.
Health activities should not overlook the value of traditional
medicine, and the responsibility for maintaining health care should be shared
by the communities.
(d) Productive Activities
Institutional credit constituted a problem for small- and medium-
sized producers. The in-kind system ("troca-troca"), despite some problems,
was better adapted to the characteristics of this target group.
There has been an expansion of areas devoted to pasture and
livestock, especially in the earlier part of the project period. Although
there are no concrete data after the 1985 census, an increase can be observed
in land accumulation as well as in the areas devoted to pasture by small
settlers, assisted by the project.
The technology used for cultivation of the principal annual
subsistence crops, particularly rice and corn, has not changed significantly.
The traditional processes of clearing/burning/planting/exhaustion of the soil
still continues.   The lack of competitiveness of these products in other
markets, the reduced prices and the cost of inputs have made technological
change unattractive. There has been a certain exception to the above rule in
the cultivation of beans. This crop tripled in the project area, maintaining
its productivity and actually raising it in the case of producers assisted by
EMATER. One important factor which contributed to this result has been the
availability of improved seeds through the in-kind credit system.
The project contributed significantly to the establishment of
important areas of perennial crops, above all coffee, principally through the
establishment of improved quality seedlings, with the assistance of EMATER,
and cocoa with the assistance of CEPLAC.



- 37 -
PART III. STATISTICAL INFORMATION
A. Related Bank Loans
Table 1: IBRD LOANS RELEVANT TO THE PROJECT
Loan Number                Year of            Purpose of             Status
Approval           Project
--Loan 2062-BR                 1981         The centerpiece of      Closed
Northwest Highway                         POLONOROESTE was the    1988.
Project                                  completion of a           PCR
highway -BR-364-         under
linking Cuiaba (the     preparation
capital of the State
of Mato Grosso) and
Porto Velho (the
capital of the State
of Rond6nia)
--Loan 2061-BR                 1981        Designed to improve       Closed
Northwest Health                          and maintain health      1988.
Project                                   conditions in the        PCR
settlement areas of     Completed
Rondonia
--Loan 2116-BR Mato            1982         Designed to upgrade      Closed in
Grosso Agricultural                       existing agricultural   1988. PCR
Development and                           settlements in Mato      completed
Envirorfnental                           Grosso
Protection Plan
(Northwest II)
--Loan 2353-BR                 1983         Supported               Extended to
New Settlements                           colonization of          03/31/91
Project (Northwest                       unoccupied lands in
III)                                     RondOnia
Comments:
1. In 1980, in recognition of the growing socio-economic problems caused by
accelerated migration, the Brazilian Government launched a program of major
investments in the Northwest agricultural frontier areas of RondOnia and Kato
Grosso. The Integrated Development Program for Northwest Brazil
(POLONOROESTE) aimed to absorb the human influx in an orderly and sustainable
manner. POLONOROESTE activities have been supported by five complementary
Bank loans including the Agricultural Development and Enviroramental Protection
Project (Northwest I).
2. Parallel to the Bank-financed Agricultural Development and Environmental
Protection Project, the Government agreed to implement with own resources an
Amerindian Protection Project.



- 38 -
B. Prolect Timetable
Table 2: PLANNED, REVISED AND ACTUAL DATES OF PROJECT TIMETABLE <1>
Item            Date Planned        Revised Date        Actual Date
Identiflcation      July 19, 1979                           July 19, 1979
Preparation <1><2>  November 21, 1980                       November 21, 1980
Appraisal           January 1981                            January 1981
Project Brief       March 1981                              March 1981
Loan Negotiations   September 1981                          September 1981
Board Approval      December 1, 1981                        Decomber 1, 1981
Loan Signature      December 16, 1981                       December 16, 1981
Loan Effectiveness  December 31, 1982                       April 26, 1982 <3>
Loan Closing <4>    December 31, 1988  December 31, 1989  March 31, 1990
Loan Disbursement   December 31, 1986  April 30, 1990       September 6, 1990
Closing
_________________
(1> A supplemental Bank loan of US322.8 million was signed in December 1983.
<2> Preparation with FAO/CP assistance.
(3> With retroactive financing starting May 31,1981.
<4> Total number of formal closing date extensions: 4
Comments:
A supplemental Bank loan of US322.8 million was Identifi td In Febuary 1983. An approisal mlslon was
conducted in April 1983, with a short post-appraisal mission In June 1983. Negotiations were held
during October 1983. The proceeds of the loan were used to increase Bank's share of *ligible project
costs to maintain project implementation rates and oesist Brazil during a period of economic
stab;iization.
C. Loan Disbursement
Table 3: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL DISBURSEMENTS
(USS million)
Fiscal Year         1982    1983    1984    1986    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991
Appraisal estimate  4.66    18.40   34.00   62.60   64.00   67.00   --         --      --      --
Reviced (1)          --      22.10   36.87   62.36   82.16   89.80   --        --      --      --
Actual (3)          --       17.99   26.92   37.37   42.68   47.86  56.91   e6503   70.97   71.49
(2)
Actual as % of
revised estimate    --       81      70      60       62      63      63      72       79      so
(1) The revised values Include supplemental loan of US$22.8 million.
(2) Includes financing for years 1982, 1983 and retroactive financing.
(3) Including payments up to final disbursements.



0. Projoct Implmntation
Table 4: PROJECT IIPLEMENTATION INDICATORS
COWONENT                             IUltI  S.A.R.  fR&VIsed I Actual  IR ks                                                      I
!                                          Z~~~~~~~ ~ ~            ~    ~~~Target   | 
IA. Roodonia Settlemt Consolidation          I            1         1         1
I   ~         ~       ~ I
I.Acces Roads                                                                           I                                                 I
Aces" Road - M                                             1 2,19               2,a21
Accas  Roads - Ioprovemnt                                                       2,933
90td,> *nd S"ll Brldgo  I    W    |         I        |   1,9306| lMaInly wood construction.                        I
Drain Holes        Md                       I   Mt               I              6,6 1                                                   1
I Technical Support Units                       no.            to19              n.a. I                                                 I
2.ServIce Centers (ARsb)
Rural Service CAters                            no.            as      20          20 1
Z ooning  WAR)                                     no.           39       2D         20
Deep WaleIs                                     no.           39       20          20I
Publ7c Water Supply Systm                       no.           39        20         20  For most WARs (1S) surface water was used.                    I
Extension'oY Water System                     It                            s      63    Missing information for 3 NUARs.
nbe., Consumers                               Do.                            2,S7 Ww
Elatricity Enra   Sy t                          no.           3        20         20  160 KVA Gnor. (Wood-fired Steam Eng.)y
I   Extension of Tramn lsion Llnes r               km     I         I               140 I Diosl oI-tric generators Installed in all MAR
|   Extonsion of Distribution Lines          I|ts    I              I        I  53,241 1                                                   I
Eletricity Consumers                          no.           39        2      2,383 I Resldential, commercial, Industrial.
Office for Technicians                          no            a9       21          201                                                  1
I Guest Residence                             I   no.            I91      201        201
H llamo for Resident Technicians                   no     I    195                   G  6o |
SoSa   il l                                     no:           39                   a                                                    I
Storeg Units                                    no.           19           I       2
3.Agriculteral Extension                     I           I          ;        j          j
I                                             I           I         I        I          I
Directly Assist. _enf. Frmer                I   no.       18,269 0         |  11,339 I 8,440 by EMATER and 2,899 by CEPLAC.
Group Assist. Scheme. Farmrs                    no.    g          I            3,300
Training Course  for Extensonisti   t          part          159      I           84 I First   project years.
I Training Courses for Farwrm                 I part./no. 12,890/ - I        113,627/9611 Includes both Farmer Leaders and Youth.         i
Dm onstration Plots                          I  plots          20  1        I      9301                                                  I
Support Staff                              l tot./Inc.    - /169 1         1 110/ 66 1
Extensionist Staff Mmber (at NUAR levl)  tot./Inc.   165/110            j  84/ S9 39
I   Subject Matter Specialist (Rog.OffIce)          *         7/                  4/ 4
Central Ad1inistrators                         *         2/ 21               2/  2 1
Administrativ Support Staff               I    *      I -        /          20/ 20
Extensionist Office (WAR)                                      9 no.       201    211                                                   1



COWNONENT                            I  Units      S.A.R.  lRevised I Actual  I                      Remarks
'                              !    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Targre t    
14.Agricultural Research 
D oetration Fo rs Os                            n                                  3   For crop and liv.stock.
Expmrimontal Stito ons                          no                                 3  With 10 ha :ach3
Weather Observation Station                                                     I      Locatd  t EMBRAPA research station.
Soil Laboratory                            I   no.                                 I 1  I  11
Soil Test end Mapping Services                  no.                           26,0   
Incroemntel Staff                             I                  51              25W850
Technical and Ct ntific Publications                           6 1               236
D  onstr tlon UnlU                               o                               412                  
I Sedllng Production                               no.              I        1 198,030 1 
* Sed Production                                 ton                                160 
I Agricultural Experiments                    I   no.    I          1        1     4461                                                  1
Construction of Regional Center                 no.    I       I          I        i 1
C5.Crop Storage and Drying                    1           1         1        1          1
Construction of Storage Units              I no./ton  119/2,6 W           j 2/2,606 j Collector Storage. Includes equipments. 
no./ton                       18/ 600 I Community Storage. Includes equipments.
IO.Fareor Organization
Co mmunity Crbups / Organizations               no.                               47 1Formally assisted groups.                       I
Cooperatives                                    no.                       1        6I Cumulative 1983 - 1989.                                     o
Auoiations                                 Issoc.   I                            172 I                                                I
Producer Groups                                group   j                       1,439 l
Rural Women  Group                         |  group   I          I        I      291             *
I Rural Youth Group                              grop                              1 '
7.Eucaton                                                 I         I        I 
Schools
NUAR - Construction and Equipment             no.            9                  20  APP: 4 claser., 4s stud./eirssr.,2 daily uhiftel
I                              PCR: 6 classr., 36 stud./classr.,4 daily shiftel
Satellte - Construction and Equipment         no.    I      90                 199  APP: 1 _-asr., 40 etud./closer. 2 daily shiftal
New Teachers  l       I        l         IPCR: 1 classr.,80 studont/claser,3 daily shift*l
|Now T tchers                                    no.    ||1                        6    1988 
I UAR Schools                                 no           312                 233a 11    are certified teachers.                   I
Surrounding Schools                      I   no.           780          1      238  68 are certified teachers.
Teachers Trained                                no.          840          I      430 j Cumulative (Includes teachers, school directorel
I                                             I           I         I        I          I secretary and supervisors).                    I
Curriculum Adjust usnt     to.                                 I         1          1I Adopted until 1986.                            I
Not Incrosse of School Places                   no.       40,000          i  24,3001                                                  I
I~.                                                                                                                 I



I       COUPONENT                           1  ~Units I S.A.R.  IRv ised   Actul IF I                      Remarks                   1
COPOEN                                                Target!!II
1B. Parallel Activitist Sele                 I                      - I    I          I                                               I
I  Consolidation                             I          I         I        I          I                                               I
I1.FFro CroditI
I Credit for Agriculture                    1
I   Small Farm  eneficiary                   I   no        18,208          I   3,823  FAPP (Fundo do Asslitencl so Pequeno Produtor)
I                                         II                             I sIwtilrYno  8,0
Credit-in-kind                            I                     I       I
Total Seed Contracted                   i kg                              0 I  56,167  A successful Innovation to maks Up for th  lackl
Total Seedlings Contracted              I   ha                            21,000  of conventional credit. Seds: rice, maiz and I
I I  I    I beans, noodlings, coff,e, cocoa, rubber,      j
tropical fruits and forest trees.
Seed and Seedling Production Program
Seed Processing Plants                    I   no.    I       3                   8  Only one operating (Ji-Parana)
Srage Unit                                I   no.   I        3 
Targt Production                          I tons/year I  38,000         I          I
Se dllng Production Assisted by EMATER    IIIIII
Rubber                                      l million  I                     1.5'
Coffee                                     m miliIon  I                     24.5                                                 I
Forest                                    t housand                   I    20.7                                                  ID
Sodling Production for SEAGRI Nurseries                                       1. I                                                 I          F-.0
C.ert. Seed Prod. for EidATER Distribution I ton/yr           I2848 9 I            Sds for annual crops                          I
Production Sites for Distributed Seed        no.    I                 1      2001
Aquisition of Seeds for Seed Production      ton106
3DICRA Land Titling                         j                                        I |
Definitive Titles  (Issue)                     ha            _              19,779  Realized by INCRA-RO                           I
Area Regularizd                                                         12,206,698



COWONENT                            I  Units   I S.A.R.  IRovised I Actual  I                     Rmarks                     I
I                             I           I~~~~~~~~~~            ~~Target     !I
L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
C. Environmental Protection *d wteological Research                                                                                  I
1l.National Forost
Identification of FLOUMs localization     I   no.    I       2 I      2 i        2 ,   
jInvontoring and Demarcation               i ha        ; 8,000 1390,000 1 225,000 1 
L anasgosnt Plan Studies                      no.    I       21       2!         1
Manag et Plans Executed                   I percent        lag      lee1 10
Infrastructure and Equipmet               I percent        le e     1 G        80 I For FLONA JAMARI
12.Forestry Control                                               I        i                                                          i
I                     .                                 I         I        I         I                                                I
I Strengthening of Local IBDF Offices       I   no.             2 1     2 1        2 I Porto Volho and Culaba offices constructed
|                                           I           I         I        |         I with IBDF resources.
I Control Posts - New                       I   no.             41      71         7?  RONONIA: P.Bueno, JI-Parana, Rolla * Ioura;
t                                           I           1         i        I         I HATO CROSSO: JUins, Pontos * Lecorda,Braznorte 
I  I       |   I                   I         | and Km 14 Transpantanoira                 1
I Control Posts - Improve Existing          I   no.             8       a          3 3  I RONDONIA: Vilhona;
S ttelite Forest Iagery Monitoring           Years                    S          a  Years 1988, 1985 and 1987.
I Establishment of IEF-RO                   1           |         |        I                                                         l
-Equip. and Finan. Supp. For Local Officesl          1         1    26 I       26  IEF also executed extensTon services.
- Forest Coftrol and Extension Training    I cours    I                                                                                      X I    10  S  I  
Establishment of Rondonia Forest Police                   I                     2  Partly Fnsnc d by on 233
- Equl. *ndFinn.  upp.  or Poles Pots |   n.    |   | a        2  Police post of Alto flor ta construct  ofdnd l
-Equip. and Finan. Supp. For Police Poets    no.qI partly  HinancdquLarein C23:3.                                    undr cns-
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ equipment. Headquarter in Iadirudros
truction.
- Equip. and Finan. Support Surveillance    percaft                 100        I0 Surveillance for total State area.               I
- Forest Control and Extension Training    I courses                 s o 69 I   4 I Courses for 120 forest policemen.
I Establish. of Rondonia Environ. Secretariatl  percent           I   100e        60   Activities: Environmental control, survoillancel
I                                           I           1         l       l          I and eduacation.
Support For Foret Surveillance In UT                 I         I        I          I Enphasis to northen part of the State.
- Equipment and Financial Support of INEA I percent  I         I   100 |       8g1
Control and Surveillance of Defom.station  j                   j        I          I For all logal Amazon region States.
In Lepal Amazon Area                     |           |                                                                             I
- Equipment and Financial Support         I                    I   1001        8
13.Natural Reserves                                                                  i                                               i
II                                                      I         i       I          II
Pacass Novos Natural Rserv Ie
Demarcation              /                      km     I         1    901        901 Th park Is localized partly inside the
I          I         I        J         I Uru-eu-wau-wau Amerindian area.
Dl)evlopment of Mbnagemnt Plan               D no.          I        1         1
Infrastructure                             percnt         100      1001       so
I  Operational Support                      1 percent         l0e1    100         so
Jaro Biological Reserve                   1 I                                     I                                               I
Infrastructure                          I percent         100     1           801                                                 1
Operational Support .                      percent  I    100 1   i 1          69 8
I   ______________________________________ I    _________I _______        _______I__I _____    1____________I___________________I________  



COWMNENT                            I  Units   I S.A.R.  IRevisod I Actual  I                       Remarks                    I
I                                                     _ I                    _Target   I                                                 I
Cuapore Biological Reserve                                                                                                            I
I             .                                                                        I                                                 I
Infrastructure                              percent  I     1W0      100 I       80
j  Operational Support                       I percent  ;    1W          I e      80,                                                 I
I  Demarkation                                    no.        I            I          I 1
Development of Management Plan            1   km      |         1   200         ;  0011
I  Studies For Establish. of New Conservationl    no.    I                2 1        2   Chapada don Cularass * Pontal do Mato Crosso. I
units In  ata Gatosso                     I           I         I               4  I
ISupp to Pantenal Cr tos ross.sp Not Park   percent                     ISO         40
(equpmnts)                                  I
I4.EcologlI Stations
T lo  (Expansion)
Infrastructure and Equipments               percent        10o1    110         1101
Serra das Araraes (Estblishments)          I                     i                                                                    I
Infrastructure and Equipments               prcent          100      10       1 ee
Ique (ExSh1slon)                                                                    | I                                              I         >
Infrastructure and Equipmnnt                percent  1     1        10         l1a I
Colaa (Establishment)
I  I       1          Ii
Infrastructure and Equipoents               per            11 W     11 W       100 I Proscribed in favor of  BAMA.                  I
C.Ecological Research
Research Projct.                              no            2Q       20         201
Equlponts and Local Support.                 p rcont        1 W      100        10011
Human Resource Development at FUFUT          porcent        lee      1W         100
|D. Parallel Actlvlty to Envirom ntal        I tl
Protection                                                               i                                                           I
I                                ~     ~     ~~I  I                     .I                                                   I
1. A orindiln Prot ctlon                                                                                                             I
I  _ _  _                      1           1         1        1          1~~~~  I 
|    Indian Population                            no.        4,250 | 9,60 0      9,60 |
I    Indli nous Area                         I   no.            28       87         671                                                 I
I    Demarcation                             I           I         I        I          I
I      Reserves                              I   no      I       7                  28    No target sot.
I      Area                                   hn(mIlilon)l    3.! 1      * 1      9.0 1 * No target set.
I      Borders demarcated                    I   km      1  3,940 1         1    9,300 1No target set.                                  I
I    Schools                                      no.           20                  321
I    Infirmaries                             I   no. 1          281                 381
FUNUI Administrat;ve Units              |   no.           1821                82I
I      conitruction/reconstruction           I           I         I        I          I                                                I
I                                                                                                _ 



CWVGNENT                             I  Urnits   I S.A.R.  IR*VisWd I Actual  I                       Remarks                     I
I Target      I               I                                                 I
E.Studles and Program Coordination
I
1.Land R.gularlzatlon In abto Grosso                                                    I For iTfNorthwest Phase U  are.                  I
Discrimlinttd Area                         ha(milIIon)I      S.3          I       . 6 3
_ retloa                                    ha(Ilion)       06                  1 .4  For farers owning 2 to IN ha.
- Topornphleal Sulrv y
- Phy ieul Dmarcation
Pr ITinn qr R qulear  to                                              
- Cadastral Miero-film                                 I       I          1          1         G
- Trising of INCR Staff                      perent  I                 lee In Vto Grosso
Titling (Farmrs)                               no.    |                        400Ii
2.Soil Surveys for Mmq Settlements
Soil Survey                                                  170 1        1      2Wi  For Northwest Phase III area, but completed
- urpa                                     Inb (Xing)         7061                     only In 190S 
S.Program Coo dinatlon and Survey                                                                                                         I
Northwe t Coordination Unit                                                             Total Federal Program Coordination disbur sentl
was US8B.o million or 34X of foreseen at        I
appraisal.
Rondonia Coordination Unit                                                              Total Rondonia Coordination disbursement was   I
t                                             I I        I          I                    I US14.7 million or 232X of foreseen at approisall
|Settlemsnt Consoltd. Area - Salvage Logging  |            II       I                    I Proposed studies for this activity were
|-  |   }   |  l    | not undertakon.
I,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Note. 1- Table Identifies all quantitative and qualitative targets of SAR.
For a number of tarpets appralsal and PCR concepts are not fully comparable.
2- Percentage of achievement based on information provided by national
project mangement.
Source: SEPLUN-RO, National Project Managsment (SUDECO), Bank files and PCR mission.



- 45 -
E . Proloct Costu and Financing
Tablo 6: PROJECT COSTS
(US8 million)
SAR Estimates        X            Actual
(1>    X
A. Rondonia Settlement ConsolIdatlon
Access Roads                                  29.1            20.9             88.8    29.3
Service Centers (NUAR)                        42.8           38.6              12.9     9.8
Agricultural Extension                         6.4             4.6             12.8     9.2
Agricultural Rosearch                          4.4             3.2              4.7     3.0
Drying and Storage                            12.6             9.1              0.9     0.7
Farmer Organization                            1.9             1.4              1.4     1.1
Education                                      6.2             8.7              6.8     4.0
Input Supply                                    --              --             4.9      8.0
Rondonia Coordination Unit                     2.0             1.4              4.7     8.6
Sub-Total:                               104.0            74.8            8.60    64.3
S. Environmental Protection and
Ecological Research
National Forestry                              1.8            1.0              81.9(2> 24 .1
Forestry Control                               2.4             1.7              (8)    (<>
Natural Reserves                               8.6             2.6              (8 (<8
Ecological Stations                            1.6             1.1              0.9     0.7
Ecological Research                            7.0            650               4.0     8.0
Sub-Total:                                15.9            11.4            88.7    27.8
C. Studios end Prolect Coordination
Administration                                 8.6             6.2              8.4     2.6
Land Tenure Regularizatlon                     0.6             0.4              6.5     4.9
Soil Research                                 10.1             7.2              0.6     0.4
Sub-Total:                                19.1            18.8             10.4     7.9
D. Total Project
Baseline Costs                               189.0           190.             182.2   100.0
Physical Contingencies                        16.6            11.9               --      --
Price Contingoncies                           43 8            81.6
Final Total Project Costs:               199.8           148.4           182.2  100.9
(1> includes agricultural and infrastructure services In Mato Grouso.
(2> Includes funding for the Pantanal area.
(8> Components aggregated undor National Forestry
Source: SAR and SUDECO financial reports.



- 46 -
Table 6: PROJECT FINANCING
Source                        Planned                               Final
(US$ million)            (X)          (US$ million)            (X)
World Sank loan           67.0              84              71.6 (1)              64
coo                      1322                               60.7 (2)              48
Total                    199.8             100             182.2                 100
(1) A Supplemental Loan (2060-1-BR) of US822.8 million was signed In Decomber 1988.
(2) Zn additlon, the COB financed fully the Amerlndion Protection Project. Planned
cost for this componont was US126.6 million, of which US826.1 million were utilized.
F . Prolect Results
Table 7: DIRECT BENEFITS OF PROJECT
Appraisal    Estimato at           Estimato at
Indlcator.                              Units   Estimate   Closing Date      Full Develooment
Farm famillo                             no.      18,200         11,380 (1)            11,330 (1)
Family Incom                             USS       11,900          6,677                 8,686
Direct beneficlarioe                     no.       87,000         70,000                70,000
Totel incromentel cultivated area       000 ha.      73.8           72.4                  72.4
Total Incrementsl value of producto US2 millon   148.5             70.8                  70.8
Incremontal on-farm Jobs              man/years   20,700          14,800                14,800
School placos                            no.       40,000         24,300                24,800
Water supply benoficlarie.             residence                   2,822 (2)             2,822
Electric energy beneficiarles          resldence                   1,082 (8)             1,982
(1) Aslssted directly on the farm by EMATER and by CEPLAC.  In addition, some 8,800 farmers were
assisted by EMATER through the group assistance schme.
(2) Estimated benoefciery population 10,687.
(8) Estimated beneficiary population of 9,117. Total number of connected establishments
(residence, commercial, Industrial): 2,868.



- 47 -
Table 8i ECONOMIC IMPACT
Appraisal
Estimate            PCR
Economic
Rate of Return (ERR)                                   22X             la%
Underlyina Assumptions (1)               units
Incromental Production
Ric                                 '00O tons      83.8           12.8
Maize                                              20.6           21.3
Bean*                                               3.7            9.7
Coffee (beans)                                     24.2           32.4 (2)
Cocoa                                              22.6           24.3
Rubber                                              9.9            2.4
Citrus                                  S            --           66.5
Manloc                                             22.2          -24.7
Beef                                                1. 6           1.0
Pork                                  units         6.5            2.2 (3)
Milk                            liters (million)   2.5            17.0
(1) Incremental prodLctton by year 1996 for moat activities.
(2) In cherry.
(3) In tons.
Table 9: FINANCIAL IMPACT
SAR                    PCR
(if)
Financial Rate of Return:
Coffee                                > s0                    > s0
Coffee sharecropper                   > 50                    > SO
Cocoa                                   34                    > 60
Rubber                                  21                    > 50
Citrus (1)                              --                    > s0
Other financial indicators:
(US2 million)
ICM Revenues                          11.4                    8.2
(1) Not foreseen at appraisal.



48 -
Table 10: STUDIES
tud-es                    Purpose                    Status                     Impact
Independent outside       To *valuat, the            Completed                  Used for tho 1984
evaluation of project    direct and Indirect                                    Mid-Term Review
performance                Impact of the project
for the Mid-Term
Review (by FIPE)
Sotl Survey                To provtdo tho basis      Completed In 1986          POLONOROESTE III and
for location of now                                  now settlements
settlements and                                      started more than one
infrastructure                                       year before the soil
Inv-stment under                                     survey was completed.
POLONOROESTE III                                     Once the results of
Project                                              the study wore known,
the scope of
POLONOROESTE III was
dristically reduced
to exclude areas of
very poor soils.
Salvage Logging            To determine most         Not completed              A parallel study was
efficient salvage                                    carrieod out, however,
logging methods                                      by the timber
industry.



- 49 -
G . Status of Covenants
Table 11: COMPLIANCE WITH LOAN COVENANTS
Covenont
Section        Description of Covenant                     Date                Status of Compliance
8.03           The Borrower *hall cause SUDECO             Each                Complied with.
to (a) establish the Program               October 81.
Coordination Unit and to employ a
coordinator and two section
chiefs satisfactory to the Bank,
and (b) by October 31st of each
year to furnish to tho Bank the
proposed plan of operations for
POLONOROESTE activities for the
following fiscal year.
3.04           The Borrower shall cause (a) each           March 81,           Compl ed w;th.
Executing Entity involved in               1982.
POLONOROESTE activities to
establish and furnish to the Bank
by March 31, 1982, detailed
monitoring plans and procedures
satisfactory to the Bank; and (b)
SUDECO to enter into by March 81,
1982, contractual arrangements
with independent consultants for
the purposes of assisting the
Borrower in continuous evaluation
of POLONOROESTE in its entirety,
such evaluation to be carried out
on the basis of plans and
procedures satisfactory to the
Bank.
8.06           The Borrower shall cause UEPAT to           Each year.          Complied with.
publish the results of the
research activities carried out
under Part A(4) of the Project
(agricultural research),
annually, a*d in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank.
8.08           The Borrower shall, for purposes            June 30,            Complied with.
of Part B(1) of the Project                1988.
(National Forest): (a) take the
necessary measures through its
Ministry of Agriculture and
Ministry of Interior to assign,
in consultation with the Bank,
the specific responsibilities for
their respective agencies for
land-use planning and for the
identification and development,
Including financing, execution of
national forest projects in the
Program Area; couse IBDF to
establish and operate a forestry
development planning group, to
furnish terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank for the
proposed planning studies to be
carried out undor Part B(1)
(Natlonal Forests) and by June       -
80, 1088 to carry out such
studlos.



- 50 -
Covenant
Section        Descerlption of Covenant                    Date                Status of Compliance
3.07           The Borrower shall, for tho                 December            Complied with.  However,
purposes of Part B(2) of the               31, 1982.           IBOf has not consistently
Project (Forestry Control) by                                  maintained staff at these
December 31, 1982, provide all                                 posts.
necessary facilities, staff,
services, and other resources for
each of the seven forestry
control posts In the Project
Area.
3.08           The Borrower shall, for the                 March 31,          Substantially complied
purposes of Part B(3) of the               1982.               with.  However, IBDF has
Project (Natural Reserves): (a)                                not consistently
by March 31, 1982, define and                                 maintained staff In the
legally establish the Guapor6                                 field.
biological Reserve, end (b) cause
IBDF and FUNAI to enter into
contractual arrangements
satisfactory to the Bank,
defining the respective
responsibilities of the two
agencies with respect to the
protection of the Pecaas Novos
National Park and overlapping
interdicted Amerindian *reas, the
works to be carried out by IBDF
in this Park, and the procedures
for FUNAI staff to accompany IBDF
field staff as necessary.
3.09           The Borrower shall, for the                 --                 Complied with.
purposes of Part B(4) of the
Project (Ecological Stations):
(a) cause SEMA, together with the
appropriate agency of Rondonia,
to delimit the Cunia Ecological
Station in Rondonia and
thereafter legally establish this
station; and (b) cause SEMA to
furnish to the Bank for approval,
detailed engineering designs and
plans for the works on the
Ecological Stations of Ique,
Serra das Araras, Taiama, and
Cunis.
3.10           The Borrower shall for the                  --                  Complied with
purpose of Part C (Ecological
Research) cause CNPq to prepare a
detailed research program
satisfactory to the Bank
including a budget, terms of
reference and execution
arrangements and to promptly
enter into contractual
arrangements satisfactory to the
Bank for the carrying out of this
research including the provision
for annual dissemination by CNPq
of a progress report setting
forth the findings and
recommendations of the research
carried out under such research -
program during the preceding
POLONOROESTE fiscal year.



- 51 -
Covenant
Section        Description of Covenant                     Date                Status of Compliance
8.11           The Borrower shall, for the                 -                   Substantially compiled
purpose of Part 0 (Land Tenure                                 with.  INCRA has not
Regularlzatlon) cause INCRA to                                 allowed farmers with
(a) establish with necessary                                   holdings smaller than the
resources Its land tenuro project                              official arural moduloe  to
In Vile Bela and complementary                                 be titled.
flold units at Ponts* E Laeorda,
Mirassol d'Oeste and Barra do
Bugres, In the Program Aroa In
Mato Grosso where rural
dovelopment or settlement
activities are plannod and to
provide owners of moro than two
hectares In such areas with good
*nd definitivo titles promptly
fttr the completion of
demarcation of their respective
plots.
3.12           The Borrower shall cause SUDECO             --                  Complied with.
to carry out the special studies
under Part F (general studies on
future development projects In
the Program Area) on the basis of
terms of reference satisfactory
to the Bank and to promptly
furnish to the Bank the results
of each study carried out under
such Part F of the Project.
8.13           The Borrower shall take all                 --                  Partially compiled with.
necessary measures to discourage                               Some actual or planned
the agricultural exploitation of                               conservation areas have
areas which have been determined                               been subject to occasional
to be unsuitable for agricultural                              Invasions by squatters.
development or of areas whose                                  In most cases they have
suitability for such development                               been removed by the
has not yet been determined and                                Government.
to prevent the occupation of
areas that have been legally
defined as reserves.
3.16            (a) Not later than six months              Six months          Complied with.
after the Closing Date (as                 after
modified by the Borrower and the           closing
Bank) shall cause each of the              date.
Executing Entities to prepare and
furnish to the Bank through
SUDECO a report of such scope and
detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request.
3.16           The Borrower shall take all steps           --                  Complied with.
necessary to acquire when needed
all land and land rights as
required for the construction and
operation of the facilities
provided under the project.



- 52 -
Covenant
Section        Descrlption of Covenant                     Date                Status of Compliance
4.01            Tho Borrower shall take mesxures           --                  Partially complied with.
to ensure the timely availability                              Seasonal credit was
of adoquate funds for 10,200                                   available during most
small-scale farmers required for                               years of project
seasonal crop credit and                                       Implementation although at
maintonance of annual crops and                                very high Interest ratet
on-farm Invostment credit.  The                                Investment credit to
Borrower shall make available                                  establish perennial crops
credit for the above purposes                                  was not available durlng
with priority for small-scale                                  most of the project, with
farmers rceiving credit for the                                the excoption of the lost
first time to establish peronnial                              two yeOrs when an In-kind
crops.                                                         credit system was
established.
4.02           The Borrower shall carry out in             --                  Substantially complied
Rondonis the Seed Production                                   with: seds were not
Program which shall provide funds                              always available on a
for the instaliation of three                                  timely basis.
seed-processing units, the
training of technicians and cause
UEPAT to mako available on a
timely basis an adequate supply
of basic seeds for the production
of improved seeds In the sub-
Project area.
4.08            The Borrower shall cause IBDF to           --                  Not complied with.
carry out feasibility studies In                               Howover, a parallol study
the sub-project area to determine                              wae carried out for the
the most efficient salvage                                     timber Industry.
logging mothods and furnish to
the Bank for review and comment
the recommendations of such
studies and thereafter to take
all measures to put Into effect
such recomnendatione.
4.04           The Borrower shall (a) cause                                    Partially comptled with.
INCRA to provide all landowners                                (a) Titlos were issued to
within the settlement armas of                                 19,000 settlers In the
the sub-project area with good                                 project areas. (b)
and definitive land titles; and                                Partially complied with.
(b) carry out or cause to be                                   Land tenure studies are
carried out, on the basis of                                   underway.
terms of reference and a schedule
satisfactory to the Bank, a study
on the land tenuro and use
conditions and regulations In the
sub-project area.
4.065          The Borrower shall take all                 --                  Total areas demoreated
necessary measuroe  to put Into                                *xceeded original targets;
effect promptly the Special                                    some now areas, identifled
Project for protecting the                                     during project executlon,
Interests of the Amerindians.                                  sttil require demarcation
and/or full
rogularizatlon. There
have been occasional
Invasions of Indian land.
Health care has been
Irregular and poorly
coordinated.



- 53 -
H . MISSION DATA
Table 12: BANK MISSION DATA AND STAFF WEEKS BY STAOES OF PROJECT (1>
Stwofot                                     Flold                          Total
Proiet Cycle        Wot/Yer          Staff Weeks    Specialization         Staff           Performance    Types of
(2)                          Represented (3>        Weks            Roting Status  Problems
(-4)
1. Through           7/79              2             E
appraisal         2/80              2             E
6/80             23.2           E, A, U, F, E, L, ED
7/80             17.0           E, F, S, M, A
10/80             23.0           E, T, EG, F, A
11/86             20.0           E, F, A, EN, EG
2/81             41.6           E, F, S, ED, i, A,
Sub-total                                         L, E, A, EN, EG, AN   T1
2. Post-appraisal/  8/81               8             A, E, F, AN            28.1
Negotiations
8. Supervision       1/82            1.6            E, EN, AN, EG, T                      2               P, Ii
-/82              8.6           E, EG, T, A, AN, MM                   2               F, M, P
7/82              2.0           AN
11/82              6.6           E, EC, EC, M, AN                      2               F, M
2/83              1.0           U
3/83              1.0           EC
4/83              1.6           AN
6/83              2.2           E, EC, A                              2               F, M
8/83              1.6           DM                                    2               M, F
10/83              2.2           E, EC. T
4/83             14.5           E, EN, A, AN, DM, M, EC               3               M, T, F
10/83              4.4           E, EC, T, ED                          2               M, F
4/84             12.6           E, EN, T, AN, DM, M, EG               3               M, T
12/84             21.0           E, AC, EC, EN, T, AN, H, ED, DMi
6/86              6.0           AN, EN, EN, AG                        2
9/85              8.0           AN, M, AC, T, DM                      3               F, M
3/86              4.0           AM, T                                 3               M, F
7/88              8.0           T, T, M, A
12/86              2.0           AN                                    2
8/87              9.0           AN, A, F, AN
10/87              3.0           E, AN                                 2
11/88 (6>          4.0          AN
6/89              6.0           EC, EN
2/90 (7>          4.0           AN, A
4/90 (7)          2.0           E
6/90 (7)          6.o           E, A, EN
(1> Includes FAO/CP participation during projoct preparation
(2> Dote of return to hoadquarters
(3) E'= Economist; A = Agriculturalist; U c Manageent Specialist; F 2 Financial Analyst; L a Livestock
Specialist; ED = Education Specialist; S * Soil Specialist; T * Tree Crop* Spemiolist; EG * Engineer;
EN = Environmentalist; AN a Anthropologist; DM a Demographer; M a Heolth Specialist
(4> 1 a Problem-free or Minor Problems; 2 a Moderate Problems; 3 a Major Problems
<6> F a Financial; M = Monageriol; T a Technical; P a Political; 0 a Other
<e> During 1988-1990 this project was suporvised frequEntly in the context of preparation of tho proposed
follow-up Rond8nia Natural Resourcoes Mnagemont Project. However, most of the time was not separately
roported.
(7) PCR Mission



- 54 -                                Annex 1
BRAZIL
RONDONIA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
RONDONIA
RURAL AND URBAN POPULATION
IN PROJECT AREA
lose - 1989
___________________________________-_______--.______________________________________.___________________.__
POPULATION IN 1980              POPULATION IN 190
LOCAL-TY     -                       _ _ _   __     __        _       ____ _ -____   --- --
RURAL     X     URBAN     X     TOTAL      RURAL      X     URBAN      X     TOTAL
Ariquemes                 28,884    64    24,606    46    63,489      124,998    68    57,76?    32   182,706
CIcoal                    48,434    72    l8,836    28    67,269       65,301    66    47,431    42   112,732
Espigao d'Oste (2)                                                     22,360    67    11,196    33    33,548
J3ru (1)                                                               81,049    72    31,652    28   112,701
Ji-Parane                 80,628    68    41,536    34   122,164       64,004    42    76,036    68   129,039
Ouro Preto (1)                                                         68,436    66    36,363    34   103,799
President* Medici (2)                                                  79,608    87    11,802    13    91,410
Rolim do Moura (2)                                                     69,9560    6    32,280    36    92,230
Project total          167,948    66    84,976    36   242,922    566,e96    B6   302,468    36    68,162
Other municipalities   104,911    42   143,192    58   248,103      172,263    24   388,249    69   660,512
Total - State          262,867         228,168          492,025     727,959         690,715       1,418,674
- Project/State (U)        66              37               60          76              44              66
(1) Theos municipaflities were created In June 1981 by subdivdlon of
Ariqu-m s, Cacoal and Ji-Porena municipalitioo.
(2) These municipalities were creatod after 1984 by subdiviston of other
project municipalitios.
Source: FISCE and SEPLAN - RO



- 55-                                     Annex 2
BRAZIL
AORICULTURAL DEVELOPMMENT ANL ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SAR Ylold Estimates                  PCR Yilld Estimates
Without     Wlth                    Without      With
Project Project 1/        #       Project 2/  Project         X
-------tons/h -----------         -----------tons/he-----------
Rice           1.92       2.69        8t            1.74      1.90         9
Maize          1.69       2.01        26            1.70      1.80         6
Manloc         6.00       8.00        88           8.98      10.00        11
Beans          0.89       0.60        68           0.49       0.68        81
Coffee 8/      0.82       1.01        28           1.04       1.20        15
Cocoa            -        1.60        --           0.89       0.74        90
Rubber 4/        --       1.00                      1.06      1.10        10
Citrus           --         --        --              --     16.00        --
Banana           --       2.00        --           0.91       0.90        (1)
SOURCE: Staff Approleal Report; FIBQE, EMATER-RO.
Farms assisted by EUATER-RO or CEPLAC.
1/ Average ylld otf better and moderate soils.
2/ Yields estimated for PCR based on Appraisal cropping pattern.
8/ Beans as exported.
4/ Pure stand trees.



- 56 -
Annex 3
BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Incremental Production at Full Development
SAR Estimates                  PCR Estimates
Production      Fanm-Gate      Production      Farm-Gate
Value                          Value
('000 tons) (US$ million)      ('000 tons) (US$ million)
Rise                       33.6            8.4             12.3            2.4
Corn                       20.6            4.2             23.3            2.5
Beans                       3.7            1.9              9.7            6.3
lManioc                    22.2            1.2           (24.7)          (1.2)
Coffee                     24.2           45.8             14.8           10.0
Cocoa                      22.5           35.5             24.3           23.8
Rubber                       9.9          29.6              2.4            4.3
Banana/Citrus                 --            --             56.5 3I         5.7
Beef                        1.0            1.5              1.8            1.9
Eggs                       21.6 1/         1.1               --
Chickens                    1.2 1/         2.2               --             --
Pork                        8.5 1/        11.3              2.2            1.5
Milk                         2.5 2/          .8            17.0            3.1
Total                                  143.5                            61.5
1 Million units
2/ Million liters
3/ Citrus



- 57 -
Annex 4
BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Status of Deforestation in Rondonia According to Different Sources
(Z of State Area)
Source                     1975      1978      1980     1963      1987     1988
IBDF/IBAMA                 0.50      1.72     3.12      5.85      9.61       --
INPE                          --       --        --       --        --    12.60
SEPLAN/RO                     --       --        --              19.20    23.70
D. Mahar                   0.30      1.70      3.10       --        --    23.70
Fernside 1/                0.50      1.71      3.12     5.74    15.18    17.08
1/ Information for 1975 to 1983 based on IBDF data.
Information for 1987/88 obtained from J.P. Kalingreau.



- 58 -
Annex 5
BRAZIL
AGRICU-LTURAL DEVELOPMENT AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Conservation Areas Established in RondOnia and Mato Grosso
with Support from Polonoroeste
CONSERVATION UNITS                           AREA
(ha)
RONDONIA                                2.432,534
National Park
Pacaas Novos                            764,801
Biological Reserve
Guapor4                                 600,000
Jaru                                    268,150
Ecological Station
Cunia                                   100,000
National Forest
Jamari                                  215,000
Bom Futuro                              280,000
Extractive Reserve
Rio Ouro Preto                          204,583
MATO GROSSO                               422.600
National Park
Pantanal Matogrossense                  135,000
Chapada dos Guimarges                    39,000
Ecological Station
Ique                                    200,000
Serra das Araras                         32,600
T~. *.,                                  16,000
Source: SUDECO



- 59 -
Annex 6
BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Economic Prices Derivation
(US$/ton)
SPECIFICATION                    MAIZE      RICE    RUBBER    COFFEE       COCOA
International Market Price 1/    102         296      1,271      2,010     1,020
Quality Price Adjustment 2/                  266                 1,809
Overseas Transport and
Insurance                         60       100        200      (150)     (120)
Price at Port of Santos            162       366      1,471      1,659       900
Transport to Project Area           50        50        117      (120)     (120)
Sub-Total                        212       416      1,588     1,539        780
Conversion Factor for
Processing                                  55                    45
Converted Prices                   212       229      1,588        692        780
Processing Costs 3/                          (25)      (77)       (30)
Sub-Total                        212       229      1,511        662       780
Taxes (ICM and FUNRURAL)                     204                   102       121
Farm-Gate (Economic Prices)                  204      1,511        560       659
1/  For maize, rice and rubber prices based on World Bank projected prices.
For coffee and cocoa average New York prices (source: Gazeta Mercantil).
2/  1OZ reduction in prices for quality adjustments.
3I/ Processing costs since the farmer sells coffee in cherry and rice with
shell.



- 60 -
Annex 7
BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Economic Price of Fertilizer
Urea                 Potassium
Chloride
.......... .(US$/ton) ..........
World Bank price projections
in constant 1989 dollars 1/                 179                         96
Overseas transport and
insurance                                  +100                       +100
C.I.F. Price Santos                         279                        196
Port handling, storage and
losses                                      +70                        +70
Transport to project area                   +60                        +60
Farmgate prices:                            409                        326
1, Based on World Bank price projections bulletin October 1988.



BRAZIL
AGRICULTURE AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Participating Farmers Directly Assisted by Extension Service
Farm Model/CroP      Years   1            2            3           4            5           6            7
Coffee Farmer               514        2054         2497        2940        3732         3866        4000
Coffee Sharecropper         276        1104         1342        1580        2006         2078        2150
Cocoa                       371        1484         1804        2124        2696         2793        2890
Rubber                       92         370          449         529         672          696          720
Fruit Tree                  202         806          980        1154        1465         1517        1578
Total                    1455        5817        7073         8329       10571        10950       11330



AQIC%k*TIRtE AND BWIftRIS6EAL P6OTECTIO PROJ6CT
PROJECT CUMLETI4M REPORT
Co91st   Ssof  Stesom for Econic kAIsy.i.
(WI '000)
Tear          1       ~~      ~~       ~~~2  3  4  5     6        I                9       10       11      12       13       14      15       16       17       16      19       20
* ~~~S  F~~~ W  --TS --51-6.6  15960.- ---2 --214-9-4.9-- 2,33-32.?- - 356-46.0, - 45-195.0 --3944.- 5-72-0-7.2-- 57060.--1-6-095-4.0 - 59-23-5.1 5-24.35447 - 5-32 2-4. 0-  51-2 3 2.0 ---389-36.1-- 4536.6567.9674.5--s.
SErMEBE4T COWAOLM TION 26636.5  14767.2  16470.8  8573.3  66M. 5   7304.0  620.6  15421.9  1930.4  1930.4  1930.4  1930.4  1930 4   1930.4  1930.4  1930.4  1930.4  193.4  193D.4  1930.4
ACICLLTUR6L FtVERC4          0.0  1149.7   662.2  1113.7  1284.6   72.53   506.9   154.6   154.5   154.8   154.5   154.5   154.5   154.5   154.5   154.5   154.5   154.5   1541.5   154.5
091WC AND ST0A9E             0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0   140.2      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0
LAND TENUR RL6IZATIGN 1061.9  2391.5  3499.7   901.6  1129.4   163.1    55.0   120.6              0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0
NATIONAl- F01ETS           351.4   30.2  1969.3  1163.0  1480.3   626.5  It114.1t  7769.7         0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0
ECQlOICAL. RESED          1296.1    56.0    55.9   500.0   482.0   322.9   639.8   356.2          0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
5SOIL REEA                  0.0   653.3       0.tp     0.0     0.0      0.0    44.0    51.1I      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0
AM3INISTRATION             622.6   725.2   251.9   626.0   439.7   399.7    64.4    24.2          0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0
I                                                                                                                                   0%~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
FAM/WMV#MTl4  COSS  2656.6  9163.9  566.5  3301.5   5M.0   2621.1  1620.   753. 1   539.5   655.4  1270.5  2794.2  1117.0  1102.9  1636.3   650.5   741.4   565.2   500.4  -5692.0 
FAp6M/PM1C1t04 COS S   361.4  6147.6  11096.3  16097.0 20657.0 21693.9  25477.4 23346.6  23196.6  24816.6 23781.5 22747.9 22075. 4  21973.0 2172.7  14124.7  17369.9  2091.6  2357.1 225166.1              3
o TOAL. COST           -33226.9 -35377.6 -41192.7 -32196.5 -39516.6 -34061.6 -33647.2 -48140.2 -25602.6 -2735.1I -27136.9 -27626.9 -25277.3 -25161.5 -25448.9 -16660.0 -20216.1 422941.6 .26162.3 -19360.1
TOTrAL MET WITfS        -32710.2 -19406.4 -19697.6  -866.6  -3672.6  11113.6 20097.7  9067.0 31257.6  3359.9 32096.2  29597.4 2921  4 26062.5 25763.2 22076.1  25147.7  33731.2  33867.2  4060. 4
Rot. of r.tre * 16.2
S.itchi. .*lwes, for low6mitaeiy cost of capital * 32.0 6
FRE4T VALLES S64CH4130 VALLES
PER COET
FRO.ET * QVS FAMI IBEfITS (1006)            27244. 55        -10.3
SErTLBENT CONW'.sDAT0IO                     -7SI63.73         37.3
A09IOLTLS3A  REE.RMO                         -3671.71        723.4
llINc AND ST?R9M                               -56.65      49462.1
LAM) TOOM  REOLIAZATICI4                     4743.89         415.3
NATZIWAL FORSTS                              -7122.02        3n2.4
EICU..OICAL. RESEARt                         -3449.74        611.9
SOIL RESEAMC                                  -561.36       4909.6
NDMIUISTAATI09                               -2312.07        12213.5
FANMjDfvESTIeEW COSTS                       -23364.76         119.6
FARPES/2OLITI109 COSTS                     -121350.96         23.1 
wImTIJ FRO)ErT SALAIES                 0.00           - - -
PET BALANE                  2600.6



- 63 -
Annex 10
Page 1 of 14
BRAZIL
NORTHWEST REGION DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
EVALUATION OVERVIEW
I. INTRODUCTION
1.          This overview of the Northwest Development Program (POLONOROESTE) is
based on the Project Completion Reports on the Northwest Agricultural Development
and Environmental Protection Project (Loan 2060-BR) and the Northwest Highway
Project (Loan 2062-BR), as well as other studies and Bank documents. Its scope
is limited because a number of other projects, which also supported the Program,
are not dealt with. These include the Northwest Health Project (Loan 2061-BR)
and the Mato Grosso Rural Development Project (Loan 2116-BR), which have been
evaluated in separate Completion Reports, and the New Settlement Project (Loan
2353-BR), wraich is not yet completed. There were also other sectoral loans to
Brazil with components in the Region.
2.          The  basic  purpose  of  the  Program was  to  achieve  the  sound,
sustainable economic and social development of the Northwest Region, with a
particular emphasis on its rural areas. The specific objectives of the Program
and how well they were achieved,  is discussed in Section II.   Section III
discusses the sufficiency of these objectives to meet the basic purpose of the
Program. Section IV offers broad conclusions on the impact of the Program on the
Region, and Section V outlines lessons for the future.
II.   SPECIFIC OBJECTIVES
3.          Before the Program was initiated in the early 1980's, there had
already been extensive migration to the Northwest Region. Much of the resultant
irncrease in population could not be absorbed in official settlement schemes and
the Region was faced with mounting socio-economic problems, uncontrolled
deforestation and serious threats to the health and culture of the Amerindian
population. To address these problems and to assure the sound development of the
Region, the Program had a number of specific objectives designed to increase
mobility (discussed in Section A), encourage orderly land settlement and
agricultural production (Section B), protect the environment (Section C), promote
health and education (Section D) and protect the Amerindian population (Section
E). Progress in achieving these objectives was to be carefully monitored and
evaluated (Section F).
A.    Increased Mobility
4.          More than 502 of the Program costs of about US$1.6 billion (in 1981
prices) were for road construction to facilitate the movement of people into the
Region and of goods to, from and within the Region, particularly from farms to



- 64 -
Annex 10
Page 2 of 14
markets.   The movement of people to the Region was part of a long-standing
Government effort to encourage migration to frontier areas to alleviate serious
unemployment and poverty in other parts of Brazil, and to settle the Amazon
region for strategic reasons.
5.          The population of RondOnia, the major focus of the Program, had been
increasing rapidly from about 110,000 to 490,000 between 1970 and 1980. even
before all-weather transport became available. With the paving of the Cuiaba-
Porto Velho road and its completion in 1984 under the Program, one year ahead of
schedule, the average daily traffic on the road more than tripled from about 435
vehicles in 1980 to over 1,400 vehicles in 1987.  The road reduced transport
costs by 302 to 60? for different types of vehicles and made transport possible
the entire year. Annual migration into Rond6nia increased rapidly from about
60,000 in 19RA-1982 to more than 15,000 in 1984-1986. As a result, Rondonia's
population nearly tripled during the 1980's, reaching about 1.4 million in 1989.
6.          The construction and improvement of feeder and access roads was fully
completed in 1986, after some initial delays, and this part of the Program also
achieved its main objective of giving settlers access to markets and services.
However, as discussed in para. 15, some access roads were built in areas later
determined to be unsuitable for agriculture, a few were located too close to
Amerindian reserves and therefore contributed to the problems of invasions, and
designs did not always take adequate account of the land contours and
hydrographic features ot the settlement areas.
7.          The Northwest Highway Project also intended to strengthen the State
Highway Department but this component was implemented less successfully. As a
result, in 1987 the Department was maintaining less than half the roads for which
it was responsible. Moreover, by 1990 one-third of the pavement of the main
highway was in poor condition and some short sections had reverted to a gravel
surface and was receiving emergency repairs; its maintenance was the
responsibility of the Federal Highway Department. Axle load restrictions were
not enforced and the weigh stations financed under the project have not been
operational.
B.    Land Settlement and Agriculture Production
8.          The  second  largest  component  of  the Program,  including  three
agricultural projects, and accounting for about 40? of total costs, was to
encourage the settlement of farmers in areas where sustained agricultural
producticn was possible and to increase agricultural productivity. In the first
of these three projects, the Agricultural Development and Environmental
Protection Project (Loan 2060-BR), which accounted for about 13? of total Program
costs, the emphasis was on the consolidation of existing settlements in an area
with the best soils in RondOnia, although soil surveys were included to prepare
for expansion of settlements to other areas under another project. The strategy
was to promote a move from shifting cultivation of annual crops to the production
of environmentally more suitable and economically more profitable perennial tree
crops. At the same time, settlement in unsuitable areas and in those which had
not yet been bufficiently studied, was to be discouraged, and an excessive
concentration of land ownership was to be prevented. The following observations



- 65 -
Annex 10
Page 3 of 14
refer exclusively to the results of Loan 2060-BR.
9.          It  is  now  estimated  that  the  Agricultural  Development  and
Environmental Protection Project provided individual extension services at farm
level to about 11,330 farm families, compared to 18,200 expected at appraisal.
The decrease is explained by a slower expansion of extension services, especially
in the early years (para. 10), the limited availability of credit (para. 12), the
reduction in rural centers (para. 30), and a gradual change in the strategy of
the extension siarvice from individual to group assistance techniques.  As a
result of the latter, about 3,300 additional farmers were contacted under a group
assistance scheme, bringing the total of assisted farmers to about 14,360, or
about SOZ of the original target. Also, training courses on specific subjects,
such as perennial crop planting, were offered to 13,500 farmers. The incremental
area cultivated of about 72,400 ha. is almost the same as expected at appraisal.
As a result, the average farmer increased the area cropped by 6.5 ha., instead
of 4 ha. estimated in the SAR.
10.         Most extension staff received pre-service training, but only 84
participated in specialized in-service courses; this was considerably lower than
the original target of 155.  The extension service operated under difficult
conditions, 3uch as insufficient operating funds, lack of farm credit and limited
experience of most agents with the climate and agronomic conditions of the
project area. Nevertheless, it provided valuable advice on crop diversification
and rotation, efforts to retain forest reserves at the farm level, developing
community organizations, simplified storage and processing methods, etc. These
activities are only now beginning to take hold among settlers but should yield
important wider agricultural and environmental benefits in the future.
11.         The value of the annual incremental production under the project was
initially estimated at US$144 million at full development but is now expected to
reach only $71 million. The major reasons are the sharp declines of prices for
coffee and cocoa, serious shortages of agricultural credit until the last 3 years
of the Program, and lower yields for most commodities, reflecting primarily less
intensive use of fertilizer and other inputs. For similar reasons, incremental
employment generation, which had been estimated in the SAR at the equivalent of
about 20,700 labor-years, is now expected to reach only 14,800 labor-years.
12.         Funds for on-farm credit were not included in the Project because
interest rates were highly subsidized, but the Government had given assurances
in the Loan Agreement that adequate credit would be available from existing
sources.   However,  virtually no credit was made available to the project
beneficiaries because of Brazil's tight financial situation. This interfered
particularly with the production of perennial crops for which farmers must wait
several years before receiving any income, To alleviate the credit restraint,
a new program of credit-in-kind was initiated, beginning with the 1985/6 crop
year, providing seedlings primarily for coffee and rubber, and seeds for beans,
corn and rice. The credit was essential for the rapid expansion of the area for
coffee and bean cultivation.



- 66 -
Annex 10
Page 4 of 14
13.         The incomes of the beneficiaries did not rise as much as had been
estimated.   At appraisal,  the average annual income of participating farm
families was expected to increase from about US$850 to US$11,900, but it is now
estimated that incomes will average only about US$6,600, which is still a
substantial increase. The financial rates of return are as high as anticipated
and the economic rate of return, while somewhat lower, is still a satisfactory
16X.   Lower prices and yields have been offset at least in part by greater
production of some crops and lower expenditures for on-farm investments and
inputs. For the Program as a whole (including the roads), the economic rate of
return is also estimated at 162 compared to a SAR estimate of over 50Z, with
lower cost more than offset by lower agricultural production. While the method
of re-calculating the economic rate of return is comparable to that in the SAR,
its significance is limited by the fact that it does not allow for important
external costs (e.g., deforestation) and benefits (institution-building) which
cannot be quantified. It should also be emphasized that the relatively good rate
of return was possible only because this particular project was located in the
best soils of central Rond6nia; similar results could not be obtained in other,
agronomically more marginal, parts of the POLONOROESTE Program area.
14.         The Program improved the pattern of land ownership.  Titles to land
were provided to nearly 19,800 farmers occupying about 2.2 million ha. While
this is more than the number of direct project beneficiaries, it is only one
third of the 60,000 farm families in the settlement schemes, all of which were
to receive title under the Project. However, as a result of the project, the
proportion of farm owners, in RondOnia, increased from 402 to 57? of all farm
establishments between 1980 and 1985 while the proportion of squatters declined
from 512 to 28Z.
15.         The project also financed soil surveys north of the project area in
preparation for possible new settlements under another POLONOROESTE project.
Because of the high immigration, the Government and the Bank agreed to start
settlement under Loan 2353-BR (New Settlements Project) before the surveys were
completed. Unfortunately, much of the area proved to have poor soil and before
new settlement could be prevented, three settlement schemes with rural service
centers and feeder roads had already been constructed in areas where agricultural
production was not sustainable.
16.         The number of cattle in the project area increased rapidly from
126,000 in 1981 to 783,000 in 1988. However, the growth of the cattle herd in
the project area slowed down during the second half of that period as the mixed
farming model promoted by the project and emphasizing perennial crops, took hold,
while the increase accelerated outside the project area.  For the most part,
livestock in the project area serves as a complement to the farm activities of
small farmers, supplementing their income and reducing their risks. It does not
have the damaging impact of extensive ranching involving major deforestation,
land speculation and absentee ownership. as occurred elsewhere in other frontier
areas of Brazil.
17.         The performance of agricultural production in the project area has
been good so far in that farmers who received technical assistance and who had
savings or were able to obtain credit, introduced perennial crops and developed



- 67 -
Annex 10
Page 5 of 14
sustainable production systems. But many were not able to make this transition
and therefore continued shifting cultivation and deforestation. The long-term
viability of the agricultural development of sensitive frontier lands will depend
on institutional, financial and technical factors. The agricultural institutions
which the project helped develop, though still weak, can be sustained with the
additional resources which have become available from marketing and export taxes.
For individual farmers, financial sustainability is only possible on the basis
of intercropping of perennial crops and agro-forestry.
18.         An important limitation of the settlement consolidation component is
that its size was insufficient to meet the needs of the project area. It planned
for the assistance to 18,200 settler families involving some 87,000 people,
during a period when Rond6nia's population increased by more than a million.
Such growth imposed demands on land, infrastructure and institutions far beyond
the scope of the Project.
C.    Environmental Protection
19.         A third major objective of the Program was to protect the environment
by strengthening the capability to control deforestation; studying the promotion
of sustainable forestry operations in suitable areas; establishing natural
reserves end ecological stations for biodiversity preservation; and undertaking
ecological research. The Northwest Agricultural Development and Environmental
Protection Project was intended to address the environmental issues for the
entire Program.
20.         These activities were estimated to cost about US$21 million (in 1981
prices), accounting for about 1.4Z of total Program costs. The Bank supported
project originally allocated US$15.8 million for environmental protection but the
amount was increased to US$36.7 million in the later years of the project.
21.         Deforestation in Rondonia had accelerated rapidly in the late 1970's.
By 1975, about O.5Z of the forest was cleared, by 1980 it was more than 3Z, by
1983 nearly 6Z and by 1988 the estimates ranged between 132 and 24Z according to
different sources. Most of the deforestation was the result of clearing along
the main highway and feeder roads. The number of registered logging operations
in RondOnia increased from 400 in 1982 to 1,150 in 1987, and the volume of
processed lumber from 1.4 to 4.2 million m3. Such rapid deforestation had, in
fact, been encouraged by the government's broad policies to develop the Amazon
region, including road construction, colonization schemes, fiscal incentives and
subsidized credit, which created high, though short-lived, private profits at
substantial public costs.
22.         To address this problem, two national forests were established but
the plans for their protection and development were not implemented because of
lack of funds and staff. While the number of forestry control posts constructed
exceeded the original program, their effectiveness was very limited because the
responsible Federal agency, Brazilian Eorestry Development Institute (IBDF), was
weak and had insufficient resources, the large migration to Rondonia and the
rapid development of local wood industries.  As a result, deforestation went
virtually unchecked for much of the project period. In recent years, a series



- 68 -
Annex 10
Page 6 of 14
of corrective measures were taken to improve forestry control, including higher
taxes on forest exploration, greater fines on illegal exploration, the
establishment of a Forestry Military Police to strengthen enforcement and of a
State Forest Institute to provide forest extension services, and an Emeirgency
Program was initiated to control deforestation and burning. These efforts have
begun to reduce the rate of deforestation and burning, according to the
responsible government agencies, and have laid the basis for possible
improvements in the future.
23.         The project did not plan for public reforestation, but relied instead
on a strategy of smallholder intercropping of perennial crops and agro-forestry
development on private lots. Of the two planned seedling stations to promote
perennial tree crops and forestry development, only one was completed, and credit
constraints limited the number of settlers who could implement such farming
systems (paras. 12, 17). Little is known about the distribution, utilization and
survival of forest seedlings produced, but they evidently had no significant
impact on counteracting deforestation.
24.         Several Biological Reserves were established and the National Park
of Pacaas Novos was strengthened under the project. Because of a shortage of
resources of the responsible agencies, maintenance of the reserves is precarious
and policing is inadequate to prevent frequent invasions by settlers, loggers and
miners. Four ecological stations were built and equipped and a State Environment
Agency (SEMARO) was established in 1986 to control pollution and initiate
environmental education.   Only 55Z of the funds for ecological stations were
spent because of institutional weaknesses and lack of counterpart funds.
25.         The project included US$7 million for ecological research, but only
US$4 million were spent. About 20 research projects were undertaken, involving
179 researchers from major Brazilian institutiuns, and more than 200 scientific
papers were published. While much of the work reflected very good diagnostic
capabilities of the researchers, a lack of policy 2ocus and direct connection
with project implementation greatly reduced its impact on project results. The
implementation of the environmental protection component was weak and long
delayed.   However, as awareness of the seriousness of the problems and the
commitment to address them grew, the funds for environmental protection were more
than doubled, as indicated in para. 20.
26.         The most serious difficulty in achieving the environmental objectives
was the institutional weaknesses of the two key agencies - IBDF and the Special
National Secretariat for the Environment (SEMA).   Staffing with appropriate
personnel was exceedingly difficult with low salaries, reduced even further by
delays in payments during periods of high inflation. As a result, most IBDF
employees in RondOnia resigned at different times during project implementation,
so that many accomplishments were threatened or even wiped out. Behind these
difficulties were not only the serious budgetary problems of the Government, but
an ambiguous commitment to the environmental objecttves.  However, the lack of
effectiveness of IBDF led to the creation of a State rerestry Institute in 1987,
which opened local offices in many parts of the project area. It has established
a permit procedure for clearing and burning forests which, if pursued
consistently, would provide a valuable instrument for controlling forest



- 69 -
Annex 10
Page 7 of 14
destruction, but its present effectiveness cannot yet be evaluated since the
necessary data are not being collected.
27.         The project did not anticipate adequately the very large increase in
migration and the massive impact this would inevitably have on the environment.
As a result, the scope of environmental measures was too small to meet the scale
of environmental problems resulting form the rapid increase in population. On
the other hand, the project has laid the institutional and research basis which
would permit in the future a greatly expanded effort if supported by the
necessary political commitment. But given the serious financial constraints of
the State and Federal Governments, the long-run sustainability of this effort
remains uncertain.
D.    Social Infrastructure and Urban Development'
28.         The Agricultural Development and Environmental Protection Project
included US$5.2 million for education. The number of school places was too be
increased from 27,000 to 67,000.  In addition, 1,900 new teachers were to be
employed and 840 teachers were to be trained.   The project as implemented
increased the number of school places by 24,300, instead of 40,000, ard only 470
new teachers were employed. The quality of education was generally low. The
training of teachers and the provision of text-books and teaching aids was
deficient primarily because of a shortage of funds.
29.         The project also included funds for 39 service centers (NUAR) to
provide support to groups of farms, including public water systems, electricity
supply, schools, administrative offices, health posts, crop drying and storage
units, etc. These NUARs were seen as the forerunners of future towns, under a
strategy to encourage a more even development of urban areas in Rond6nia and
avoid overcongestion of Porto Velho and the other main cities. The number of
NUARs was later reduced to 20, mostly in areas where existing small towns were
already developing rapidly, and in a few cases because settlement was progressing
too slowly to justify construction of a center. Most of the NUARs have since
developed into towns and several into the capitals of new municipalities.
E.    Protection of Amerindian Population
30.         The Program recognized that the rapid development of the Region would
place increasing pressures on the local Amerindian communities. In particular,
there would be increased competition for land traditionally held by Amerindians,
they would be exposed to contagious diseases and their culture would be
threatened.  The SAR regarded this as a critical issue "to be addressed and
satisfactorily resolved prior to the further implementation of the proposed
Northwest Program" (Annex 8, para. 11).   The Federal Government agreed to
implement a Special Project to protect Amerindians, involving land demarcation
1 Two of the POLONOROESTE projects-not dealt with in this assessment (para.
1) also had social infrastructure components, and the third was a freestanding
health project for the Program area.  The results of these more significant
social investments are not dealt with in this analysis.



Annex 10
Page 8 of 14
and regularization, health and education services and economic development. The
costs of this project (US$26.1 million) were not included in the costs of the
Agricultural Development and Environmental Protection Project, because the
Government did not wish the Bank to participate in its financing, but its
implementation was a condition in the Loan Agreement.
31.         Protection of indigenous lands was the cornerstone of the Special
Project.  At appraisal, the Special Project sought to demarcate 3,900 kms of
Amerindian reserve boundaries covering a total of 3.1 million ha. During project
implementation, additional areas were identified and the Government extended
demarcation activities to these new areas.   As a result some 9,300 kms of
Amerindian reserves were actually demarcated, covering about 9.0 million ha of
reserves. The share of the Amerindian population living in demarcated reserves
in the POLONOROESTE Program area increased from only about 18? in 1980 to 852 in
1989. However, in January 1990, the Government revoked the earlier demarcation
of one of the largest Amerindian areas and the total Amerindian population living
in demarcated areas is now about 7,500 Indians or 78? of the total.
32.         The project greatly accelerated the pace of demarcation, especially
after the Banlc suspended disbursements in 1985 because of insufficient progress.
More land was demarcated after 1985 than in the entire history of Brazil before
then. However the protection of the Reserves against illegal logging, mining and
squatters has been difficult given the size of the area, the profitability of
these operations and the political support they receive, the collusion of loggers
and miners with Indian leaders, and the limited capacity of the Government to
fully enforce the law against exploitation. There are no accurate data on the
extent of such invasions, but they are frequent and involve perhaps 5? of the
Indian lands.
33.         To strengthen the health services for the Amerindians, 38 infirmaries
and health posts and 51 wells were built, also exceeding original targets, and
health professionals and workers were recruited.  However, living conditions for
the staff were poor, many had little training, the turnover was high, medical
supplies were frequently not available and equipment was not maintained, so that
local medical services became increasingly limited. In time, they became focused
on a few cenx 1 facilities at regional headquarters, but there, too, the quality
of medical c._ declined due to lack of trained personnel,  facilities and
medicine.   The  level of diseases  such as tuberculosis,  malaria,  measles,
influenza and intestinal parasites among the Indians is very high. Acculturative
influences such as the introduction of powdered milk, and environmental pressures
such as deforestation and the consequent reduction of wild game, have adversely
affected their diet and nutrition. Nevertheless by the late 1980's, the high
mortality rate during the initial contact period had been reduced and the
birthrate and the population were increasing.
34.         Thirty-two schools were built on the Reserves but the teachers had
inadequate training and inappropriate textbooks, and the poor living conditions
drove them away.   By 1988, virtually- the only schools on the Reserves were
operated by missionaries.
37.   To encourage development, the project provided equipment and supplies for



- 71 -
Annex 10
Page 9 of 14
large communal gardens. A few of these were planted and some flour and bananas
were sold but in general the Indians refused to work communally, output was low,
the equipment was not used and most gardens were abandoned after a short time.
A number of trading posts were established but almost all of them closed down
quickly since the Indians had no commercial experience.
F.    Monitoring and Evaluation
35.         Given the great uncertainties surrounding the project, major emphasis
was placed on establishing a monitoring and evaluation system which would provide
timely information on the implementation and impact of the project, and thus
permit prompt corrective action. Because of conflicts between the responsible
consultant FIPE (The Institute for Economic Research of the University of Sao
Paulo) and the Program management, monitoring and evaluation did not play the
important role envisaged, though it was crucial in calling attention to the
gravity of the tnerindian protection problem and environmental and health risks.
The use of external consultants for monitoring and evaluation was effectively
suspended in 1987, in favor of the monitoring system developed by POLONOROESTE's
own staff.  Information on the result of the project is still quite limited,
reflecting more the emphasis of the system on compliance with physical and
financial targets than on basic project impact.
III. SUFFICIENCY OF OBJECTIVES
36.         Even if the four major objectives of the Program had been achieved,
this would not have been sufficient to assure the sound development of the
Northwest Region because two important problem areas were not addressed - mining
and urban development.
A.    Mining
37.         The improvements in transport accelerated the development of mining
in RondOnia, where between 100,000 and 200,000 people are estimated to be
involved in gold and casserite prospecting. Casserite shipments are estimated
at 48,000 tons in 1989 with a market value of nearly US$200 million. The value
of gold mined is not known but some researchers place it as high as US$l billion
per year.
38.         The potential value of mining activities and the extent to which they
would develop over the project period were not foreseen by the Bank and the
Government at the appraisal stage, and hence adequate regulation and enforcement
mechanisms were not built into the design of the POLONOROESTE Program. Mining
has led to serious environmental degradation, especially water pollution and
deforestation. Placer mining and river dredges have contaminated the rivers with
large amounts of mercury and discarded crankcase oil.   SEMARO, which was
supported with Bank funds, has initiated efforts to control pollution and provide
environmental education, but it is st.ill too weak for adequate inspection and
enforcement.



- 72 -
Annex 10
Page 10 of 14
B.    Urban Development
39.         The Program also underestimated what would be an extremely rapid rate
of urbanization of RondOnia, because of incorrect assumptions about the likely
pace of migration to the State.  The urban population had already increased
rapidly between 1970 and 1980 from about 60,000 to nearly 230,000 and has since
grown to about 700,000. The mining operations require extensive commercial and
service activities for support and have contributed to rapid urbanization, so
that by 1990 about 45 percent of the population of RondOnia lived in urban areas.
The NUAR construction program (para. 30), while helpful, did not provide an
adequate response.   Many of the other new towns and the largest cities in
RondOnia lack adequate infrastructure, such as water supply and sewage disposal,
essential public services, including public health, and urban housing conditions
are frequently poor. Industrial pollution from saw mills and the processing of
raw materials is growing and the official control of these activities is
inadequate.
IV. CONCLUSIONS
A.    The Impact of the Program
40.         As emphasized before (para. 1), this is only a limited assessment of
the Program since several projects in its support are not covered. Moreover,
some important up-to-date information, such as the distribution of land
ownership, is not available. Subject to these limitations, it would appear that
in most respects, the Program did not achieve the sound economic and social
development of the Region. But by establishing and strengthening institutions
and initiating important research, it laid the basis for expanded efforts in tae
future provided a strong political commitment is backed with adequate resources
of staff and fends. Specificallyt
(a)   The  effort  to  consolidate  land  settlement  and  agricultural
production in central Rondonia was too small to make a sufficient
impact on the needs of that area. While agricultural production has
increased considerably, the long-term viability of this agricultural
development is still in question because of series of institutional,
technical  and  financial  constraints.    The  sustainability  of
agriculture in other, agronomically less suitable frontier lands in
the Program area is unlikely under existing economic and
technological conditions.
(b)   Environmental conditions in the area have continued to deteriorate.
Deforestation has beeu rapid and agro-forestry efforts have not been
implemented on a significant scale. Mining has led to extensive
water and soil pollution. Biological reserves were established but
they suffer from frequent. invasions by settlers, loggers and miners.
Four ecological stations were established but their effectiveness as
:ssearch stations has been weakened because of insufficient
financial support and many of the results were not effectively
utilized.  A State Environment Agency, State Forestr) Institute,



- 73 -
Annex 10
Page 11 of 14
State Land Institute, and Forestry Military Police have been
established and which is an important accomplishmeutt in spite of
their operational limitations.
(c)   The education system was expanded and is helping to meet demand, but
the quality of teaching is not adequate.
(d)   The lands and culture of the Amerindian population continue to be
threatened by the rapid development of the Region.  Most of the
Indian reserves have been demarcated, but protecting the reserves
against  illegal  invasions  has  been  difficult.    Health  and
educational services have had only a limited impact, though the
population is now increasing.   The effort to initiate economic
development did not succeed.  The SAR had recognized this as an
important risk but beli$ved it could be minimized by a strong
Government commitment, a strengthening of the responsible agency
(FUNAI) and careful monitoring.
41.         It seems likely that without the Program, migration into the Region
would have been less or spread over a longer period of time, depending on the
Government's ability to complete the road (BR-364) without Bank assistance. but
that agricultural settlements would have been less orderly and productive and
that protection of the environment and the Amerindians would have been
substantially weaker.
B.    Reasons for Shortcomingts
42.         There are a number of reasons for the shortcomings of the Programs
(a)   The Government of Brazil was strongly committed to opening up the
frontier area to migration, but it gave less priority to the other
components of the Program, especially the protection of the
environment and the Amerindians.  As a result, bhe major highway to
RondOnia was completed ahead of schedule while effective demarcation
of Indian reserves started on a significant scale only after the
Bank informally suspended disbursements in 1985, and implementation
of the environmental protection component was weak until the last
years of the project period.
(b)   The economic and  financial  situation of Brazil was  extremely
difficult during the period, so that budgets were very limited and
by the time funds were received, their value had been further
reducad by rapid inflation.   The Bank tried to help meet this
problem by increasing disbursements under the Special Action
Program, but a shortage of funds remained porvasive.
(c)   The key institutions responsible for the environment were weak as a
result of serious managemeat, staffing and budgetary problems. The
Project had recognized this as a major risk, but improving
institutions, especially those operating in frontier conditions, is
difficult and takes a long time. The implementation schedule for



- 74 -
Annex 10
Page 12 of 14
the Program was not realistic. However, the Program has created or
strengthened key institutions in Rond8nia, such as those dealing
with agricultural research and extension, forestry protection and
the environment, which will be important for future development.
(d)   The volume of immigration into the Region had not been foreseen. As
a result the scale of the Progran was too small to deal with the
impact of such massive migration. Related to this was the failure
to address adequately the problems of mining and urban development.
(e)   The phasing of the implementation of different components undermined
orderly development.  In particular, the early completion of the
main highway accelerated migration before the institutions and
policies were in place to assure proper agricultural settlement and
protection of the environment and the Amerindians.   Similarly,
physical infrastructure such as NUAR's, schools, health posts and
forest control posts could not be utilized properly because of
inadequate staff and operating funds.
(f)   The  arrangements  for monitoring  and evaluation  did  not work
adequately.   Since the Program was inherently experimental and
risky, monitoring was particularly important to warn the responsible
agencies promptly of problems in implementation.
V. MAJOR LESSONS
43.         The implementation of the Program offers a number of important
general lessons, in addition to the more specific lessons discussed in the PCRs.
A.    Strategy for Frontier Development
44.         The Program was based on the Government's strategy of alleviating
serious unemployment and poverty, particular in the southern parts of Brazil, by
encouraging migration to frontier areas.   The Bank does not seem to have
questioned that strategy but tried to channel its implementation toward sound
economic and environmental development. Given the fragility of these areas, the
limited opportunities they offer for sustainable employment, and the potential
for great harm to the environment from their development, such a strategy needs
to be carefully weighed against other policies to improve employment
opportunities and living standards in Brazil.
B.    Government Commitment
45.         Government commitment to the objectives el a program is always
Important, but it becomes crucial when the political and economic risks are
unusually high, the institutional basis weak and the Government is faced with
serious financial difficulties. The SAR recognized the importance of this but
the Government's strong commitment to the construction of the road, on the one
hand, and the lower priority given to the protection of the environment and the
Amerindians, on the other, was not fully appreciated.



- 75 -
Annex 10
Page 13 of 14
C.    Proiect Preparation and Monitoring
46.         The Project was based on extensive preparation efforts including a
comprehensive, multidisciplinary study of the Region, but in retrospect they were
not sufficient. The knowledge of soil conditions, of appropriate production and
conservation techniques, of methods to protect forests, of mining activities,
etc. was incomplete.   Moreover, preparatien did not address macro-economic
policies, such as fiscal inrentives and subsidized credit, which were
inconsistent with the objectives of the Program by encouraging unsustainable
livestock development and deforestation.
47.         The SAR recognized the risk of incomplete knowledge, though not the
extent of it. There is, however, a trade-off between more preparation, involving
costs and time and still inevitably not resolving all uncertainties, and starting
a project with more limited knowledge, and recognizing that it is an experiment
which needs to be carefully monitored and adjusted as the lessons of experience
are being learned. This choice was particularly difficult in this Program since
the migration to the frontier was already in full swing.  Unfortunately, the
risks from insuEficient preparation were often not adequately met by prompt
modifications in implementation.
D.    Integration and Phasing of Program Components
48.         The various components of the Program are interrelated so that
successful implementation of some depend on adequate progress with others. This
was not always the case. The early completion of the road encouraged migration
before there was sufficient knowledge about soil conditions for farming, and many
environmental actions were not initiated until considerable damage had already
been done. Such integration of activities, for which different agencies with
different degrees of administrative competence are responsible, is inherently
difficult but the SAR did not address its importance in achieving the sound
development of the Region.
49.         A related problem concerning phasing arose from the fact that while
most of the infrastructure financed under the Program was built and the needed
institutions were established, their effective operation turneid out to be much
more difficult than had been anticipated.   The road was bu..lt, but has been
poorly maintained; forest reserves were established, but plans for their
protection were not implemented: schools were built but the quality of
instruction  is  inadequate.    It  is much  easier  to hire  contractors  for
construction or enact legislation to establish a new agency than to assure the
availability of sound management, qualified staff and adequate financial
resources.   This problem is not unique  to the particular projects  being
evaluated, but it raises important issues about unrealistic goals and
expectations, reflected in unrealistic implementation plans. These issues are
particularly relevant in this Program because of the very difficult physical
environment in which it was being implemented ant the need to establish new
institutions or rapidly expand old one8, at a time of serious shortages of staff
and financial resources.



- 76 -
Annex 10
Page 14 of 14
E.    Role of the Bank
50.         The Bank played a valuable role in promoting orderly settlement,
strengthening the protection of the environment and of Amerindians and in
encouraging necessary modifications during implementation. On the other hand,
by financing the road, it helped to accelerate migration to the Region before the
institutions were ready to handle the rapid increase in population. Nor does the
Bank seem to have questioned the basic strategy for development of the Amazon
Basin and the financial policies which in effect subsidized uneconomic forest
exploitation and were, therefore, inconsistent with the Program objectives. The
Bank did not appreciate that the scope of the Program was insufficient to address
the range and size of the problems which the Region faced.
51.         The Project raises an important issue about the Bank's supervision
function. Supervision has two purposes - to inform the Bank about progress in
project implementation, including compliance with loan conditions, and to provide
technical assistance to the implementing agencies.   For most projects these
functions can be carried out by two or three field missions per year. However,
in a project of this size and complexity and with such major risks, the Bank may
want to consider the desirability of stationing its own staff in the project
area, especially during crucial periods of implementation. It would provide the
Bank with more up-to-date information on progress and greater opportunities for
technical assistance. But it runs the risk that the Bank would interfere, or
could be seen to interfere, with the Government's exclusive responsibility for
project implementation auid thus even weaken the responsible agencies. If that
risk can be minimized, the full-time stationing of staff in the area deserves
careful consideration in projects of this type. This was in fact done for the
Road Project but not for the Agriculture and Environment Project.



MAP SECTION



BRAZIL
/
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT AND
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PROJECT
"C- tRONDONIA  SETTLEMENT CONSOLIDATION  COMPONENT
)f                                              K                             Exsimg arnd  Plonned Infrastructure
f             K                                 :-
A  ,-½~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N
A, ~ ~ ~ ~ - _~r->,f                                                                                                                                I ,,>,
- in.._                           '?                                                      -   -                                                   /   
1 '                      .                           C                                                          'p'   
C'' *                 !   '                                                V 
-                     (}~~~~''  *                                Cl M*  A'\  0
C           ..      rS. *  *'' _,ro
__~~~~/ _fls'(
J) ''                             _,,-A,::                                                  J'    -_            X~ 
~~~~~~  -P      '-\\c$o                                                                                                                                       )~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  oraou
C                                                       in,,D u~  .uex*) -csopQS..............  -ppers< 
,r C.             .... it   >,  A,   2<                      7                                                                                                                                  ---'
}  S  e,,~~~~~~~~~~~~ 0d'sssoz                                                                                                                     eCok-ttV'eo.sk,
>1                                                                           7,                                            ''.                                                 /
/                                                                                                                            N-~ 
___              N                                                                                                                              k---                          N    >  



