Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY   FI"lL E  CO0PY
Report No. 3512b-BR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BRAZIL
NORTHWEST REGION DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
FIRST PHASE
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PROJECT
October 30, 1981
Projects Department
Latin America and Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit            =      Brazilian Cruzeiro (Cr$)
US$1                =      Cr$68.1 (January 1981)*
Cr$1                =      US$.0147
Cr$l million        =      US$14,700
Average Exchange Rates    May 1980    January 1981   June 1981
US$1 = Cr$             50.8            68.1           88.1
* The January 1981 rate was used throughout the report (unless otherwise
mentioned) and price contingencies were computed accordingly.
GOVERNMENT OF BRAZIL FISCAL YEAR - January 1 to December 31.
POLONOROESTE FISCAL YEAR - April 1 to March 31.
The metric system is used throughout the report.
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS AND SPECIAL TERMS USED IN THE TEXT
ASTER-RO        Associacao de Assistencia Tecnica e Extensao Rural-Rondonia
(Technical Assistance and Rural Extension Association-Rondonia)
BASA            Banco da Amazonia
(Bank of the Amazon)
BB              Banco do Brasil
(Bank of Brazil)
BNDE            Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento Economico
(National Economic Development Bank)
CENA            Centro de Energia Nuclear na Agricultura
(Center for Nuclear Research in Agriculture)
CEPA            Comissao Estadual de Planejamento Agricola
(Agricultural Planning Commission)
CEPLAC          Comissao Executiva do Plano da Lavoura Cacaueira
(Executive Commission for the Cacao Development Plan)
CERON           Companhia Eletrica de Rondonia
(Rondonia Electricity Company)
CIBRAZEM        Companhia Brasileira de Armazenagem
(Brazilian Storage Company)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CODARON        Companhia de Desenvolvimento Agricola de Rondonia
(Rondonia Agricultural Deve'lopment Company)
CNPq           Conselho Nacional de Desenvolvimento Cientifico e Tecnologico
(National Research Council)
DER-RO         Departamento de Estradas de Rodagem de Rondonia
(Rondonia Roads Department)
DNAEE          Departmento Nacional de Aguas e Energia Eletrica
(National Department of Water and Electrical Energy)
DNER           Departamento Nacional de Estradas de Rodagem
(National Roads Department)
EtBRAPA        Empresa Brasileira de Pesquisa Agropecuaria
(Brazilian Agricultural Research Company)
FUNAI          Fundacao Nacional do Indio
(National Indian Foundation)
IBC            Instituto Brasileiro do Cafe
(Brazilian Coffee Institute)
IBDF           Instituto Brasileiro de Desenvolvimento Florestal
(Brazilian Forestry Development Institute)
INCRA          Instituto Nacional de Colonizacao e Reforma Agraria
(National Institute of Colonization and Agrarian Reform)
INPA           Instituto Nacional de Pesquisas da Amazonia
(National Institute for Amazon Research)
NUAiR          Nucleo Urbano de Apoi o Rural
(Rural Service Centers)
POLONOROESTE   Programa Integrado de Desenvolvimento do Noroeste do Brasil
(Northwest Region Integrated Development Program)
SEAC           Secretaria de Agricultura e Colonizacao de Rondonia
(Rondonia Secretariat of Agriculture and Colonization)
SFHA           Secretaria Especial do Meio Ambiente
(Special Secretariat for the Environment of the Ministry of Interior,
SEPTAN_RO      Secretaria de Planejamento de Rondonia
(Rondonia Planning Secretariat)
SOSP           Secretaria de Obras e Servicos Publicos
kSecretariat of Public Works and Services)
Thnis doument has a restritetd distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of theirofficialduties.ts contents may not otherwise bedisclosed without World Bank authorization.



SUDECO         Superintendencia do Desenvolvimento da Regiao Centro-Oeste
(Superintendency for Economic Development in the Center-West
Region)
SUDHEVEA       Superintendencia da Borracha
(Superintendency for Rubber Development)
UEPAT          Unidade de Execucao de Pesquisa de Ambito Territorial
(Rondonia Agricultural Research Unit at Territorial Level)



- iii, -
BRAZIL
NORTHWEST DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
FIRST PHASE
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
PageNo~.
le THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ..........,......... ........ .
A.   Agriculture in the Economy ....................             1
B.  Government Agricultural Policies .................           2
C.   Bank Involvement in the Agricultural Sector ......          3
II.   THE NORTHWEST REGION INTEGRATED DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM ...          3
A.  Objectives and Strategy ..........................           3
BX   Cost Estimates ...................................          5
C.   Financing and Fund Channelling ...............              5
D.   Program Benefits .................................          6
III.   PROJECT AREA ............         ......... ..    ........       7
A. The Northwest Program Area               .        .           7
General   .............................        .         7
Land Capability and Use ........................         8
Amerindians and Amerindian Reserves ...... .....         9
Natural Reserves and Ecological Stations .......         9
B.   Rondonia Settlement Consolidation Sub-Project Area         10
Gneneral   ......... .... .... .... ... ...........   LO
Climate and Soils ..     ......................         10
Physical and Social Infrastructure   .       .     ...... 0 i
Land Tenure  ...1.........................               1l
Agricultural Production ...................              11
Institutional Background .......................        12
Input Supply, Credit and Marketing ............         13
The report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission in January 1981
staffed by Messrs. M. Asseo, J. Coates, Ms. M. Koch-Weser, Messrs E. Los, and
C. Weiss9 Jr. (Bank) and Messrs. W. Beattie, N. Fisher, D. Gifford, R. Jarquin
and J. Vivas (Consultants).



- iv -
Table of Contents (Continued)
Page No.
IV.   THE PROJECT ........... * 4 44 ............  4...........   13
A.  General Description . ............................      13
project Origins, Components and Objectives  .....    13
Project Rationale and Design  .....                  14
B.   Detailed Features .     ... ........ 0 ..........    16
Rondonia Settlement Consolidation Subproject ...     16
Environmental Protection .....     0 ....  ..        22
Ecological Research  ........................    25
land Tenure Regularization in Mato Grosso .....      25
Soil Surveys for Future Settlement Areas   .......    26
Program Coordination, Monitoring and Studies ...     26
V.  PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING             .     .     .        27
A.   Consolidated Project Costs  4...... .......            27
B.  Financing ............... .... .     ...................    27
C.  Procurement ........*4..............................    29
D.  Disbursement .       . .      .................    29
VI.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION       ..............................  30
A.  Central Program Administration and Coordination ..    30
Ceneral .....................................    30
SUDECO          ............                         30
Amerindian Protection ....................           31
B.   Settlement Consolidation Subproject Management'.:.    32
Program Coordination at Territory Level ........    32
The Agricultural Development Company of Rondonia     33
C.  Other Subprojects .. ..................................    34
Environmental Protection .-.............. .          34
Ecological Research Institutions       .     .       35
Land Tenure Regularization in Mato Grosso ..a....    36
Soil Surveys for Future Settlement Areas .......    36
D.  Implementation Schedule .............. .......... o    36
E.  Monitoring and Evaluation ..       ......................    37
The Northwest Program .    . ......................  37
Specific Subprojects ....  . .......................    37
F.  Accounting and Auditing  .........................    37
VII.  PRODUCTION, DEMAND, MARKETING AND PRICES ............    38
A. Production ..............                  . .38
B.  Demand, Markets and Prices ............ ...........    39
C.  Marketing Channels . ......4..    ..............    43



v a
Table of Contents (Continued)
V-f- III    FINANCIAL ANALYSIS   ............................
A.   Illustrati-ve Farm Types ..........................
B.   Producer Income ... :seios              encvos
C.   Fiscal Impact   .............  ...........  ..  ....
IX.   ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ..o................
A.   Economic Rate of Return ..........................
B"   Project Beneficiaries 2 ...........................
C.   Employment ..... .. .......  .......  ........  os ..
De   Environmental Impact ...... - .............-,
Rondonia Settlement Consolidation Subproject
Other Project Components ......................
E.   Project Risks ...        ..      .....................
Institutional Risks .      .      .      ..........
Production Risks .... ..........e..   .  e.........     52
Amerindian Risks .... ..........................
Environmental Risks ............ I..........
X.   SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ......
ANNE XES
1 . Project Implementation Schedule
2.   List of Executing and Collaborating Agencies
3.   Project Coordination and Management Chart
4.   Agricultural P'anning:  Tecbnical Coefficients and
illustrative Farm Models
5.   Tables
5,1 Cost and Benefit Streams for Economic Analysis
5,2 Annual Phasing of Project Costs
5=3  Estimated Schedule of Bank Disursement
5.4  Main Prices Used in Economic and Financial Analyse-
6.   Salvage Logging Studies
7.   Environmental Protection and Research
8.   Protection of Amerindian Communities in the Northwest Regj.>
9,   List of Working Papers and Key Documents Available in
Project File
_1AP S
14865R1    Brazil-  Northwest Region
15482R     Agricultural Aptitude and RainfalL in Rondonia Se;c:.
Consolidation Area
15483R     Existing and Planned ionfrastructure in Rondonia "
Consolidation Area






BRAZIL
NORTHWEST REGION DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
FIRST PHASE
AGRI"ULTURAL DEVELOPMENT AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PROJECT I/
I. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
A0 Agriculture in the Economy
2
Th-e national territory of Brazil covers 8.5 million km , of which
S6  is re½astered as bLing in agricultural properties.  The same share of
Bra- 11 oS A-s  111ion sopulation in 1980 lived in rural areas (down from 44%
-          . ani agri.ulture employs 36% oL the counitry's labor force (industry
. >se-vi eo 41%).  There are wide variations in population density among
regions, from 1i7 inhabitants per km2 in the North to 56.3 in the Southeast
(>80 cNata-  Of- the 306 million ha in agricultural properties, 42 million ha
(13.8,%') are in either annual or perennial cropping use, 166 million ha (54.1%)
are Usedi for livestock. 68 million ha (22.1%) are in extractive or planted
3Lora'cV-- oDsrations. and the remaining 31 million ha (10.0%) are considered
as pi odouctive agr.cultural land not currently utilized.  A considerable
proi,rtion of the laLter is to be found in the Northwest region.  With large
areas or undeveloped land, Brazil has traditionally relied on an expansion
of it  d:  fopm-t frontiers to increase its agricultural production.  During
t>ph 1901-19185  aeriod, in part because of the rapid expansion of sugarcane for
t_i. Alcohol for FUel Program, 4t is estimated that up to 2.8 million ha of new
Ia L-tiiAJ be put: into cuLtivation annually.
U. 02     Xr½g £-he last five years, agriculture has maintained its relative
iaxL.ance withl'ix domestic production (between 10.5% and 12.4%) in spite of
sev-ral years ox: weather-related poor harvests, but has experienced a drop in
J^ sl   o- e---forts f47%9 with a total value of US$9.5 billion, in 1980, down
£ffr.a  21 -a 1975)5.  The appreciable rate of growth in agriculture has resulted
fffr tn~e soD part from. increased area under cultivation (mainly for soybeans,
frAits- aa, egetablas) rather than improved yields.  In fact, rain-fed rice,
'a'afC,      L-.ca mC-sosava--all of which are major domestic food crops--have
ea - -m  c-  err-io and slightly decreasing yields over the last 30 years.
'he   jf'exportcfrops are comfee, sugarcane, soybeans, cocoa, oranges, cotton
and sOSafO  sList greatly diversified in comparison to the mid-sixties when
COQf½e  aCCOT!ntA es for X45% of total export earnings.  By 1975 coffee's share
./  a'.  a: pricc  1±s associated with a Northwest Highways Project and a
P.e:'--t for -he Territory of Rondonia.  The three projects were
processed simultaneously for a joinit presentation to
-    - ec,tive Directors. They would form the first phase of
Pra,    ion in the financing of the Brazil Northwest Region
.lopien t Program.



-2-
had dropped to 11%, replaced by soybeans and soybean products as the country's
largest foreign exchange earner. The Brazilian cattle population had reached
89 million head by 1979, with some 38 million pigs, 310 million chickens and
considerable numbers of horses,, goats and sheep. The 1980 milk production was
estimated around 10 million tons, after a rapid growth period between 1972 and
1976. Some 10.7 million cattle were slaughtered in 1980 and the poultry
industry has been growing extremely rapidly. Wieat has recently accounted for
one-third of the value of Brazil's agricultural imports (3.8 million tons of
wheat imported in 1979). Other principal agricultural import commodities
include natural rubber, live animals for breeding, temperate zone fruits, milk
and certain meats and seeds. Bad crop years result in periodic importation of
basic food crops such as maize, rice and beans (US$1 billion in 1980).
B. Government Agricultural Policies
1.03      Agricultural development has been assigned a high priority in
Brazil's 1980-1985 development plan to (a) help dampen inflation through
expanded food production and stronger transport and marketing systems; and
(b) alleviate the balance-of-payments constraints through increased
production of export crops and energv substitutes. To help achieve these
objectives the Government has reinforced its support of special regional
programs. Nonetheless, due to the high inflation rate and the public sector
deficits, the Government is restraining public expenditure and also trying to
reduce the very high agricultural credit subsidies. Despite a series of
recent medsures, however, Lhe ielative rate of subsidy on regular rural credit
remains quite high. Even more heavily subsidized specific crop incentive
programs remain available, such as those to produce natural rubber. Regionally,
credit distribution is biased in favor of more modern agriculture in the
South. Also, about 80% of crop-specific credit has gone to six crops (soybeans,
wheat, rice, maize, coffee and sugarcane) which account for 60% of gross
agricultural production.
1.04      For the past several years, the minimum price program has set
guaranteed floor prices for 42 commodities to (a) help farmers make planting
decisions; (b) provide for the establishment of Government regulatory stocks;
and (c) ensure stable feed prices to livestock producers. Although minimum
prices are periodically adjusted upward in real terms, they still remain
below market prices prevailing at harvest.
1.05      Provision of fertilizers and other inputs and implements is usually
done by the private sector, except in more remote areas where it is handled,
often poorly, by state enterprises. The use of improved seeds, fertilizers
and insecticides remains concentrated in the southern half of Brazil. Consid-
erable scope exists for the expansion of their use in other regions. National
consumption of fertilizers increased at a rate of 16% per year between 1972
and 1978 and is now slightly above 3 million tons per annum. Some 40% of
nitrogen fertilizers and 70% of phosphoric components are domestically pro-
duced. All potassium fertilizer is imported. Soybean growers are the main
fertilizer users (21%) followed by sugarcane, wheat, coffee, rice and maize,
which account together for another 54% of fertilizer consumption.



-3-
1.06      The principal regional development programs, largely devoted to
providing agricultural services and infrastructure comprise: (a) the Develop-
ment Program for Integrated Areas in the Northeast (POLONORDESTE), aimed at
the rural poor in priority areas of that region; (b) the Development Program
for Integrated Areas of Amazonia (POLAMAZONIA), to help coordinate investment
for agricultural and mineral development in the Amazon basin; and (c) the
Development Program for the Integrated Central Areas (POLOCENTRO) to bring the
vast "cerrado" lands into agricultural production. The Northwest Region
Integrated Development Program (POLONOROESTE), now in the process of establish-
ment, would aim at the further settlement, equitable development and environ-
mental protection of its area of action.
C. Bank Involvement in the Agricultural Sector
1.07      The Bank has so far made 21 loans, totalling US$801.6 million,
for agriculture and rural development in Brazil. These include two, amounting
to US$119.2 million, for agro-industries; two, totalling US$60.5 million,
for livestock development; one for US$18.2 million for grain storage; two
amounting to US$100 million for agricultural research; one for US$100 million
to improve agricultural extension services; and 13, totalling US$403.7 million,
for various settlement, irrigation and rural development projects, 11 of which
are located in the Northeast. In addition, there have been three loans
totalling US$196 million for fertilizer production; a loan of US$19 million
for a nutrition research and development project; a loan of US$32 million for
a Northeast basic education project; and two loans, totalling US$165 million
for secondary and feeder roads. Several additional agricultural and rural
development operations have been recently appraised or are currently at a
relatively advanced state of preparation: a rural development project in the
Northeast state of Maranhao, and two other projects linked to the Northwest
Development Program: a rural development project in Mato Grosso (appraised in
June, 1981) and a project for new settlements in Rondonia and Mato Grosso.
Additional agricultural and rural development projects are also under
consideration for possible future Bank financing. Completion and Project
Performance Audit Reports have been issued for the grain storage and the two
livestock development projects. In each of these three projects, significant
differences developed between the Government and the Bank regarding interest
rate policy, leading to some cancellation and/or early repayments of the
loans. Completion and Project Performance Audit Reports are currently under
preparation for an agroindustry credit project and the Alto Turi land
settlement project (see para 4.04).
II. THE NORTHWEST REGION INTEGRATED DEVELOPMENT
PROGRAM (POLONOROESTE)
A. Objectives and Strategy of POLONOROESTE
2.01      The Northwest Region Integrated Development Program (POLONOROESTE)
originated with the general objectives of paving the road (BR-364) which
already links Cuiaba, the capital of Mato Grosso, to Porto Velho, the capital
of the Tetritory of Rondonia (an area of considerable productive potential,
which has experienced rapid immigration over the last decade), and concomitantly



providing for the investments necessary to achieve the harmonious socio-
economic development of the region influenced by that road and the protection
of the physical environment and Amerindian population of that region. Built
in the 1960s, BR-364 provided the first overland access to most of the region
but is now in very poor condition. Sections of it are closed for weeks
during the long rainy season, and, even when passable, entail very high
transportation costs.
2.02      Paving of the BR-364 highway will increase the economic contribution
of the underutilized physical resources of this region to the national economy,
reducing substantially transport costs and thus improving the region's terms
of trade with the more developed and populated areas lying to the south. The
improving of BR-364 would, however, make its area of influence more accessible
to potential immigrants and increase the pressure on the local physical and
social environment. Hence, policies and corresponding implementation struc-
tures are being set up to help avoid a disorderly development of the region
which could irreversibly place in jeopardy those same resources that paving of
the BR-364 highway would aim at developing. There is little doubt that,
whether BR-364 is paved or not, continuing immigration would, without adequate
administration, result in long term damage to the environment and society
through occupation of poorer soils with ill-adapted agricultural practices,
loss of valuable timber, encroachment onto Amerindian and natural reserves,
agglomeration of land in the hands of relatively few, and a possible agglomera-
tion of migrants in urban areas ill-equipped to receive them.
2.03      The program strategy of seeking reasonable social and environmental
balances in the Northwest region as the BR-364 highway is paved combines
measures of dissuasion to keep immigrants away from areas not yet sufficiently
studied (or those proven to be inadequate) with measures to attract rural
settlers to areas of proven agricultural or forestry potential and to introduce
appropriate cultivation techniques.
2.04      A decree defining the objectives and resources of the program on
the basis of extensive studies conducted in the program area was signed by
the President of the Republic on May 27, 1981. As defined in that decree,
the Northwest Development Program is intended to be implemented between 1981
and 1985. Bank financing of the Program is currently envisaged in three
overlapping phases. Since these phases would each require about five years to
be completed, and an interval of one year is expected to elapse between the
start of the first and third phases, the overall program would require
about six years to be completed. The first and most extensive phase would
include (a) the paving of BR-364; (b) the strengthening of malaria control
and establishment of a network of rural health posts and urban health referral
centers in Rondonia, and health related research; and (c) agricultural development
in Rondonia and environmental protection. The rural development actions initiated
in the latter project would be shortly extended to similar settled areas of Mato
Grosso to provide assistance to some 17,500 small-farmer families in a second phase
of the Northwest program to be soon initiated. A third phase would soon thereafter
aim at gradually developing new planned settlement schemes in unoccupied areas
which would have been identified as having adequate potential, both in Rondonia
1/   The program area is described in paras 3.01 through 3.05 of this report.
More details on the Northwest region and development program are found in
Report 3042a-BR: "The Integrated Development of Brazil's Northwest
Frontier;" December 23, 1980.



-5
and Mato Grosso, and which clearly fit into the long term an,,,' use deativelopment
plans being generated under the POLONOROESTE program.  Though the projected
new settlement phase of the program was initially expected to heaD place some
30,000 fa-milies on 3 million ha, in Rondonia and Mato Gro's-o ' lul-I.` r    ':--it
five to S4X years, accessibility of suitable lands,          utL.
conistrainits and dela-ys or complications in the devel-Jpmrut a
production recommendations where cultivable soils of relative ,           s;uality
are to be used, may well 'Limit the number of Larmers and the total new area
settled, or may also extend the execution period for these new settleLents.
Since most of the larger blocks of quite uniformly better quality soils are
occupied by existing settlements, efforts are planned under the first phase
project to increase the settler absorption capacity in these areas and to
better protect areas of poorer soils and reserves. Measures to discourage
spontaneous occupation of areas of doubtfu.l suitability are discussed i.n
para 4.19).  An important program to reinforce protection of and 6upport for
the Amerindian population in the region (see paras 3.04 and 6.(Ji¢ to be exe-
cuted with PFOLNOROESTE funding, has been initiated and would In implomented
in parallel to all three program phases. Selective feeder roads to existing
and planned settlements in Rondonia and Mato Grosso would also be financed in
parallel to the three program phases, through the Highway Loan, or existing
or future feeder road credit lines of the National Economic Development Bank
(BNDE), partly financed by the Bank.
B.  Cost Estimates
2.05      The total cost of the Northwest Program, including physical arid price
contingencies, is tentatively estimated at about US$1L55 billion, including
physical and price contingencies. This estimate is expected to be refinled
along with progress in the preparation and appraisal of the thlird (new settle-
ments) phase of the program, which represents about 24% of programd costs, 18
The general composition of program costs estimated by Bank m.issions is shown In
the following table. They exclude agricultural credit of the ordier of USl100
million to be provided through existing channels.
C. Financing and Fund CharnelliLN
2,06      A preliminary b"dget established for POLONOROESTE -provides for 43%
of the program, to be financed from the own budgets of the various executing
agencies, and 23% from special national developments funds (PIN and PROTERRA).
The Government has requested the Bank help finance the remainder (about_  34%).
Agricultural credit would be finarced through existing credit ptograwz outside
the POLONOROESTE budget.
I/   The cost of the third phase of the program remains zc               ..
Government assumption that 30,000 farmer families wou2dt  u-b



- 6 -
Table 1.   Estimated Northwest Program Costs
(Baseline costs in January 1981 terms)
Component                                          (million US$)    % of Total
A.   Transport
A.1  Cuiaba-Porto Velho Road 1/                     448.6          41.6
A.2  Strengthening of Rondonia Roads Dept.           30.7           2.8
A.3  Feeder Roads                                    91.3           8.5
B3   Settlement of New Areas                             261.5           24.2
C.   Land Tenure Services                                  8.6            0.8
D.   Rural Development
D.1  Rondonia                                       104.0           9.6
D.2  Mato Grosso                                     56.8           5.3
E.   Environmental Components
E.1. Forestry and Reserves                            8.9            0.8
E.2  Ecological Research                              7.0           0.6
F.   Rondonia Health Project                              24.7            2.3
G.   Protection of Amerindian Communities                 26.6            2.5
H.   Administration                                       10.1            1.0
TOTAL BASELINE COST                         1,078.8          100.0
Physical Contingencies                        136.4
Price Contingencies                           332.8
TOTAL                                       1,548.0
2.07      Funding would be channelled through the various implementation
agencies after approval by the Federal Planning Secretariat (SEPLAN) and
under supervision of the Superintendency for Economic Development in the
Center-West Region (SUDECO), which would coordinate and monitor all program
activities. Funds allocated to agencies of the State of Mato Grosso and the
Territory of Rondonia would be channelled through their respective Planning
Secretariats.
D. Program Benefits
2.08      The preliminary economic assessment of the Northwest development
program is based on a comparison of the "with" and "without program" situa-
tions. The "without" situation assumes no investments in the main or feeder
roads, no institutional strengthening and no additional technical support of
agriculture. Agriculture would expand uncontrolled within its present tech-
nology and yields would gradually decline while access costs would increase.
1/   Includes US$38.2 million for the end segments of the road built by the Army.



- 7 -
The "with program"' scenario incorporates all actions to be undertaken under
the program, generating sustained expanded agricultural production and savings
in vehicle operating costs. The internal rate of return of the program over a
20-year period is above 50%. There are also major expected benefits of the
program of a largely non-quantifiable nature. They include the better protec-
tion of large ecologically sensitive areas (see Annex 7) and of the Amerindian
population, considerable strengthening of the institutional capacity in the
region and improved knowledge of the Amazon Basin environment. There are also
difficult to quantify costs attached to the development of the Northwest
region, such as those associated with invasions of unsuitable soils, potential
endangerment of native flora and fauna species and pressure on previously
isolated Amerindian populations. Since, however, the occupation and develop-
ment process of the region has already substantially begun, such costs would
be far higher if development activities were not guided and coordinated
through the proposed program. Environmental monitoring built into the program
(see para 4.24) should considerably enhance the capacity to detect and respond
to adverse ecological trends. Details on the economic analysis of the Northwest
program are provided as an annex to the Northwest I - Highways Project Staff
Appraisal Report.
III. THE PROJECT AREA
A. The Northwest Program Area
General
2
3.01      The Northwest Region of Brazil covers approximately 410,000 km
about three quarters the size of France, though slightly less than 5% of the
Brazilian territory. It includes the entire federal Territory of Rondonia and
fourteen western municipalities of the state of Mato Grosso, all officially
considered within the area of influence of the Cuiaba-Porto Velho highway,
BR-364 (Map No. 14865R1). The regional population was estimated in the neighbor-
hood of 1,000,000 in 1980 and has been growing at 10.8% per year during the
last decade (7.8% per year in Mato Grosso and 15.8% per year in Rondonia). The
average population density of the region is still less than three inhabitants
per km2 (1.6 if the city of Cuiaba/Varzea Grande is excluded), mostly con-
centrated in cities and agricultural settlements built along BR-364. The
dominant feature of the region is the east-west oriented ridge of the Serra
dos Parecis (about 600 m), continued in Rondonia by the Serra dos Pacaas Novos,
separating the Amazon basin, north, from the River Plate basin, south. North
and east of the Serra dos Parecis is an ancient sandstone plateau. The
natural landscape of Rondonia is of virtually uninterrupted tropical moist
forest, giving way to grass land and swamps on poorer soils to the south-west.
North of the Pacaas Novos ridge, rainfall is near or above 2,000 mm. A
central settlement area of some three million hectares, established by the
National Institute of Colonization and Agrarian Reform (INCRA) during the
last ten years has large patches of very fertile soils. Older settlements,
resulting mainly from private colonization, are to be found within the nine
municipalities of Caceres, Mirassol d'Oeste, Jauru, Salto do Ceu, Quatro
Marcos, Rio Branco, Araputanga, Barra do Bugres and Tangara da Serra in Mato
Grosso. They lie over a landscape starting in tropical forest in the west and
gradually shifting to "cerrado" or savannah (1,600 mm rainfall) and the highly
specialized environment of the seasonally flooded Pantanal (1,200 mm rainfall)
to the south-east. A few very large ranches established with Government
incentives (which have since been abolished) occupy a large segment of the



- 8 -
Guapore va'lley along the Mato Grosso border with Bolivia, with several rela-
tively small Nambikwara Indian reserves scattered among them. Extensive
Amerindian and natural reserves are found north of the central stretch of the
highway, and the very large municipality of Aripuana on the Northwestern
corner of NHat  Grosso remains virtually uninhabited.
3.02     Socio-economic development of Rorndonia is almost exclusively
concentrated along the BR-364 axis, mainly within the area of the Settlement
Consolidation subproject. The Territory of Rondonia is expected to achieve
statehood by early 1982. Until then its administration will remain under
Federal authority. No major modifications are expected to result in the
structures or functions of existing institutions. However, their staff is
expected to be considerably strengthened, and while the state gradually
develops fts own financial base, federal funding would remain available
during a transition period of a few years.
L.and Capabili tv and Use
3.03      The N\Torthwest region is estimated to have some 29,000 km  (about
7% of the total) oL good eutrophic podsols, mainly in Rondonia.  A further
half of the remaining soils are estimated to be capable of sustaining agricul-
ture with liming and fertilizers. The better soils are found mainly in
central and southern Rondonia, the western part of Aripuana and the southern
Guapore Valley and the Mirassol d'Oeste region in Mato Grosso. As development
in these areas is very new, however, there will clearly be a need for systematic
research and evaluation of the most effective means to treat production
limitations which could emerge and which could affect returns on production in
certain of those areas. In many areas, tree crops are likely to be preferred,
on environmental grounds, over annuals or cattle grazing.  In 1978 about 1%
of the region was planted in either annual or tree crops, 14% was in natural
or seeded pasture (mostly in the savannah and Pantanal); less than 5% was
under forestry operations; and about 80% remained in its natural state.
Less than 5% of the forest area had been cleared up to 1980, and while the
pace of deforestation has increased in recent years, there remain millions of
hectares of virgin forest which could be developed into productive national
forests, national parks or biological reserves.
Table 2.   Northwest Region Land Capability
Agricultural
Aptitude          Rond2nia           Mato G osso             Regi2n
Class          '000 km       %      '000 km      %        '000 km      %
Good 1/         24.1        9,9        5.2      3.1        29.3       7.1
Moderate 2/   14358        60e0       36.1     21.6       181.9      44.4
Marginal        18.0        7.4       63.8     38.2        81.8      20.0
Unsuitable      55.1       22.7       61.9     37.1       117.0      28.5
Total       243.0     100%       167.0    100%         410.0    100%
Sources, RADAMBRASIL (1:1,000,000 map for Rondonia and part of Mato Grosso;
1i5,000,000 map for remainder of Mato Grosso); FAO/UNESCO Soil Map;
mission observations.
1/   These soils have no major barrier to annual or perennial crop production
where topography is not a limiting factor. They would require moderate
fertilizer inputs after several crops.
2 /   These soils have variable management requirements; they need higher
levels of fLertilizer inputs in general. They are suitable for pere-nnials
and pasture and, partly, for annual crops.



- 9-
Amerindians and Amerindian Reserves
3.04      As many as 8,000 Amerindians are estimated to be living in the
Northwest region, within 22 knowhn tribal groups of different size, language,
culture and degree of acculturation to Brazilian society. Some have not yet
been contacted. About 4,600 of them live in 5.3 million ha (13% of the
region) which have been designated official Amerindian areas. Only a third
of that area has been actually demarcated, and the presence of squatters and
other intruders within many Amerindian reserves has been a recurrent problem,
especially in the Sete de Setembro reserve in the north-east of Rondonia,
where invading settlers have clashed with the indigenous population over the
last decade and are now being evicted through Government action. In the
Guapore Valley, in Mato Grosso, the establishment of large ranches was accom-
panied by displacements of Nambikwara tribes and numerous redefinitions of
their legal reserves (as tribes displaced to environments totally different
from their own gradually made their way back to their forests of origin).
While the overall situation of these groups is still precarious, relative
improvements during the last few years have resulted in a reversal of the
previous decline in their population. A group of Amerindian tribes, globally
identified as the uru-eu-wau-wau, are known to dwell in the central areas of
Rondonia and are now in the process of being contacted. The National Indian
Foundation (FUNAI), has established 26 Amerindian posts in the Northwest
region, through which direct contacts with the indigenous population take
place. However, few of the posts are yet adequately staffed or equipped, and
12 of them had no staff at all in 1980. Three mobile health teams, one also
attending areas outside the region, carry out routine and emergency missions.
(Measures to strengthen the FUNAI program in the region and described in
Annex 8).
Natural Reserves and Ecological Stations
3.05      Official natural reserves in the region total some 2 million ha,
or 5% of the region. They are placed under the management of the Brazilian
Institute for Forestry Development (IBDF). The main ones are (a) the
Pacaas Novos Park (765,000 ha in Rondonia); (b) the Jaru Biological Reserve
(268,000 ha in Rondonia); and (c) the Cara Cara Biological Reserve (80,000 ha
in the Mato Grosso Pantanal). A Biological Reserve of 500,000 ha in the
Guapore valley awaits a decree establishing it. Surrounded by cliffs, the
Pacaas Novos Park is rather isolated from the plain below. It is extremely
significant for conservation because of the fertile soils it contains, cri-
tical to supporting the flora and fauna found mainly in those areas of Rondonia
where settlement and forest clearing occur. A 200,000 ha ecological station
established by the Special Secretariat for the Environment linked to the
Ministry of Interior (SEMA) in Mato Grosso just outside the Northwest region
would be used as a model for similar stations proposed within the program
(see para 4.23). Aside from the reserves, one of the main conservation measures
is the rule, often difficult to enforce, prohibiting private land owners
from clearing more than 50% of their holding. To improve the prospects for
strict enforcement of the principle that land should be held in reserve, INCRA
is considering replacing individual reserves in future settlement areas with
an equivalent agglomerated reserve. The legal status of such reserves has not
yet been defined.



- 10 
B, Rondonia Settlement Consolidation Subproject Area
General
3.06      The five INCIA. settlement schemes of Burareiro, Marechal Dutra,
Adolpho Rohl, Ourc Preto and Gy-Parana, where most of the subproject infra-
structure and services would be concentrated, straddle BR-364 over some 350 km
(Map No. 15483). They are located within the six municipalities of Ariquemes,
Ji-Parana, Cacoal, Presidente Medici, Ouro Preto do Oeste and Jaru. 1/
Today, some 37,000 families (more than half of the farming population of
Rondonia) live within the 3 million ha (about 12% of the Territory area) of
these schemes, including areas of spontaneous settlement where land tenure is
now being regularized in the periphery of the original 2.2 million ha settle-
ments. The typical settler is provided with a 100 ha plot, including the 50%
forest -eserve.  Of the 3 million ha, only 117,000 ha are in annual crops,
80,000 ha ir tree crops and 63,000 ha in natural pasture.  The remaining area
is mostly undisturbed dense or open tropical forest. Most settlers come from
the southern states of Brazil.  They have farming experience, especially with
coffee, but bring little else with them. The average family of 4.8 people
is estimated to have the equivalent of 2.2 adults of available labor. There
is strong demand for hired labor, especially during harvesting season.
Climate and Soils
3.07      The subproject area lies between 100 and 400 m above sea-level.
It has a humid5 tropical climate, monthly mean temperatures of 210 to 26  GC,
rainfall between 1,800 and 2,200 mm and three to four months with less than
50 mm rainfall coinciding with the cooler nights of the year, which reduce
the risk of some plant diseases, The terrain is gently undulating, often
dissected by streams or rivers.  Up to 1.8 million ha of eutrophic red-yellow
podsols of usually considerable depth found in the general area of the sub-
project are unusualiy fertile for the Amazon basin. The better soils of the
area are mostly found in the southern settlements.  Soils oF the Ariquemes
region requ re more careful management. Altogether, some two thirds of the
area are wall- suited to long cycle crops, half of that area being also
suitable for annual crops, with proper cultivation techniques and adequate
use of fert-llizers  Masp 15482)   The standing timber volume varies between
100 and '20     -per hectare (70 to 93 m3/ha classified as marketable, of which
some 1.5 to 25 M3/haa of export quality, some already extracted).
Phvsical and Social  Infrastructure
3.08      The road  wi-rastructure of the area follows an orthogonal pattern with
feeder roads stemm.ing out of BR-364 every 15 to 30 km and cut perpendicularly
by access roads everv four kilometers.  The access road network, intended
to have an extension of some 6,400 km (0.22 km/km2), is only half constructed,
in various stndards and with inadequate maintenance.  Since 1979, the Rondonia
SecretartaL o  tgri- ulture (SEAC) and, more recently, its successor, the Rondonia
Agricultiural DeveLopment Company (CODARON), have opened and maintained some
1/   The last three of these municipalities were created in June 1981 by sub-
division ofi the first tnree,  Their geographical limits have not yet
been legally established, and they are not shown on the maps appended to
the reDort,



- 11 -
3,500 km of farm access roads using community labor complemented with contracted
equipment. Local contractors are currently employing a total fleet of some 50
D6 and D8 bulldozers in the subproject area under the planning and supervision
of CODARON. The 1981 objective of CODARON is to open 1,500 km of new roads
and rehabilitate another 1,500 km of previously built roads. By early July
1981, approximately half of that objective had been reached. Under the heavy
local rainfall, however, these roads (as currently constructed) would need
complete reconstruction every two years. There are some 580 rural primary
schools in the three municipalities of the project area, attending about
27,000 students, or one-third of the relevant age population, under totally
inadequate conditions. There are also 12 main health posts and 21 mini-posts
with a total of 13 doctors and ten nurses. The incidence of malaria in the
area is very high.
Land Tenure
3.09      Forty four percent of the 33,500 owner farmers of the area
had received definitive titles by the end of 1980, and an accelerated
titling program is expected to provide titles to all remaining plot owners
by the end of 1981. Under the present conditions, a family can cultivate
up to a maximum of 10 ha, of which not more than half in perennial crops,
relying on outside labor only during peak season. Beyond that, better-off
farmers seek permanent outside labor, and the farmer population is gradually
becoming stratified between (a) owners who have successfully planted signifi-
cant areas of perennial crops giving them a high income potential; (b) less
successful owners who have yet to establish a perennial crop; and (c) non-
owners, whose opportunities remain limited to provision of labor or to share-
cropping. There are, today, some 3,500 non-owner families. The number of
sharecropper families is, however, higher as some are also squatters in the
periphery of the settlements. By the end of the project investment period,
the area population is expected to increase to some 75,000 families, at least
half of wlhich would be non-owners.
Agricultural Production
3.10      A new settler will normally sell the most valuable timber on his
lot (about 2% of the total timber) and fell the remaining forest of lesser
logging value by axe or chainsaw, burning it where it falls. The main annual
crops -- rice, maize and beans -- are grown by low-cost, low risk (and low
yield) traditional methods relying on family labor. They are often inter-
planted among immature coffee or cocoa. Pasture is often planted after
annual crops, but, due to the cost, cattle on these farms are still quite
rare. The main cash crops are coffee -- half in arabica planted without
government credit and half in robusta financed by the Brazilian Coffee
Institute (IBC) since 1976 -- and cocoa, with rubber recently on the increase.
Tree crops establish rapidly, and coffee and cocoa bear early and heavily.
Coffee leaf rust, witches broom disease of cocoa and the South American Leaf
Blight fungus on rubber are present, but tested control mechanisms exist.
They have been successfully used in other regions of Brazil, including the
Amazon basin, where they have proven financially acceptable to the farmers.
Coffee and cocoa production methods are satisfactory, similar to those
elsewhere in Brazil. Areas under annual and tree crops both rose by some
30% between 1979 and 1980. No planted rubber has yet reached maturity.
Once land title is provided, the main constraints on agricultural production
will be high transport costs and difficult access to services. Post-harvest
losses of rice which matures during the rainy season, when it cannot be
moved from the farm, are estimated at 25 to 40%. Farmgate prices are often
far below official prices for the same reason. Annual income of settler



- 12 -
families is quite variable, averaging now an estimated US$1,000 for owners and
US$700 for non-owners. Furthermore, the relative purchasing power of these
incomes is somewhat less than in the rest of Brazil given the high cost of
many products in the isolated areas of Rondonia.
Table 3: Production of Principal Crops in
Rondonia Settlement Consolidation Area
Subproject
Average                                          Area             Brazil
Yield     Ariquemes       Ji-Parana/Cacoal      Total            Total
Crop          t/ha   '000ha  'OOOt    '000ha   '000t  '000 ha  '0OOt  million tons
Paddy         1.5    19.0    28.5        46.6       69.9   65.6    98.4        9.6
Maize         1.6    10.0    16.0        27.0       43.2   37.0    59.2       20.2
Beans        0.4      3.5      1.4        3.3        1.3    6.8      2.7       2.0
Manioc       15.0     2.1    31.5         4.8       72.0    6.9   103.5       25.0
Coffee(a)   (0.3)    8.3       2.5       18.5        5.6   26.8      8.1       1.3
Cocoa (a)   (0.1)   20.0       2.0       12.8        1.3   32.8      3.3       0.3
Rubber         -       -        -         0.8         -     0.8       -         -
Banana(b)   (0.2)    7.8    15.6         11.0       22.0   18.8    37.6        4.9
(a)  Assumes average age of three years for coffee and two years for cocoa.
Coffee production given in processed green beans, as exported.
(b)  Planted as shade to young cocoa; commercial yield assumes 75% losses,
due to lack of a developed local market.
Source: ASTER/CEPA-RO and FAO/CP estimates; Brazil total: USDA estimates.
Institutional Background
3.11      The management of the five settlement schemes was originally
the sole responsibility of INCRA. In the late 1970s, Territorial and other
Federal institutions became directly involved in the schemes, absorbing some
of the INCRA staff. Agricultural extension services are currently provided
by the Executive Commission for the Cocoa Development Plan (CEPLAC) for
cocoa, by SEAC for coffee planting and rubber, and the relatively weak
Rondonia affiliate of the national extension company (ASTER-RO) for coffee
maintenance and all other crops. The Brazilian Agricultural Research
Enterprise (EMBRAPA) has a station at Porto Velho and a trials facility at
Ouro Preto. As extension and research institutions have been in operation
in the area for relatively short periods of time, their staff are still of
uneven experience and training. The main thrust of various extension
programs has been on the administration of credit, and the number of farmers
effectively reached per agent has been relatively low. Recently, ASTER-RO
has begun to emphasize extension to the lower income farmers and has initia-
ted a network of 50 demonstration sites as focal points for group extension.
Emphasis is still on credit, however, rather than planning for optimal overall
use of resources available to the farmer. Public storage units, owned and
operated by the Brazilian Storage Company (CIBRAZEM) and acting as delivery
points for the Government minimum price purchase scheme, have been constantly
underutilized, mainly due to access problems. Five new stores (including
driers and cleaners) are being built by CIBRAZEM within the subproject area
qdO8xtmrore around it, bringing total storage volume in the region to about



- 13 -
Input Supply, Credit and Marketing
3.12       Coffee and cocoa seeds cleaned and classified at Central Processing
Units are provided to growers under IBC and CEPLAC crop credit programs. SEAC
operates about 150 ha of rubber nurseries, and ASTER-RO trains some private
sector seed producers. Fertilizers are seldom used on annual crops and the
supply system is weak. Pesticides are sold by private merchants in area towns.
The Bank of Brazil (BB) is the main Government credit agency in the region,
with Bank of Amazonia (BASA) participating in rubber financing. These banks
have few outlets in the area, creating access problems for farmers, who,
furthermore, have traditionally had to apply separately for credit for each
crop they grow. Despite recent increases in nominal interest rates, these
rates remain negative in real terms. There are producer cooperatives in the
three main towns of the area, mainly concerned with marketing cocoa, some rice
and, in the future, coffee. Much of the area production is sold, however, to
intermediaries buying at the farm gate at prices well below the going market
rate in Brazil.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. General Description
Project Origins, Components and Objectives
4.01      The Northwest I Agricultural Development and Environmental Pro-
tection Project is one of the three projects proposed for Bank financing under
the first phase of the Northwest Region Development Program. It consists of
the following subprojects: (a) a Settlement Consolidation subproject to
increase the productivity and develop the migrant absorption and agricultural
production capacity of already settled areas of the Federal Territory of
Rondonia where such potential clearly exists and could be further developed
at minimal environmental costs; (b) an Environmental Protection subproject
to (i) establish natural reserves and ecological stations in areas of the
Northwest of more fragile ecology or with specially diverse fauna and flora;
(ii) strengthen deforestation control capability; and (iii) study the promo-
tion of sustainable forestry operations in suitable areas; (c) an Ecological
Research subproject to (i) study and monitor the hydrometeorology and biogeo-
chemical balances in soils of the program region; (ii) carry out an inventory
of plant and animal species native to Rondonia; and (iii) small scale research
projects, possibly including research on minimum ecosystem sizes; (d) assistance
to INCRA to ensure timely land tenure regularization in settled rural areas of
western Mato Grosso; (e) assistance to INCRA to identify new areas with suitable
soil potential for future settlement; and (f) a component to strengthen overall
program coordination and monitoring capability. In addition, parallel to this
project, but as part of the POLONOROESTE program, the Federal Government would
carry out with its own funds a program to ensure the protection of the Amerindian
population (detailed in Annex 8). Studies on means to improve salvage logging
in settlement areas would be financed in parallel with the assistance of FAO
(detailed in Annex 6). The Government would also study the feasibility of
increasing the density of settlement and agricultural development in the
occupied areas of highest agricultural potential in Rondonia (para 4.18).



- 14 -
Project Rationale and Design
4.02      The Rondonia Settlement Consolidation Subproject.  The agricultural
aptitude and present land tenure situation in the area is conducive (provided
that adequate support measures are taken) to the establishment of a large
number of sustainable middle-income farms. By improving the productive
infrastructure of already settled areas, where production today lags far
behind the sustainable capacity of the land, considerable demand can be
generated for further labor, thus absorbing, at a relatively low cost, part
of the demographic pressure which would otherwise tend to spread out onto less
suitable areas of the region. Such an approach would represent a noteworthy
departure from the subsidized latifundia found in certain areas elsewhere in
the Amazon basin and would have a much higher chance of success than previous
attempts at settling the Amazon region which were located on poorer soils and
were often inadequately planned. Most farmers living in the Rondonia settle-
ments are today among the poorer farmers of Brazil, formerly sharecroppers or
small farmers in other parts of the country, who have only recently settled in
the area. Many of them have not yet benefitted from agricultural services.
Reflecting both a more recent arrival to the area and more difficult access to
basic services, farmers further away from the main road are today, in general,
less successful, with a smaller area cleared and planted and subject to
greater hardship than farmers settled nearer to BR-364. However, their
pioneering spirit and dynamism make it probable that, within not too long a
time, many of those who would obtain legal title to land and would be located
within reasonable reach of credit, extension and marketing services, would be
capable of achieving a much higher level of income. Those few farmers who are
already located relatively near existing agricultural service centers could be
expected to improve their income considerably even in the absence of the
subproject, albeit at higher environmental and social costs. The intention
of the subproject is therefore to assist the Government of Rondonia in its
high priority effort to expand the reach of fundamental agricultural services
to some 18,200 of the less favored, recent settlers found in outlying areas
and non-owner farmers, to help these farmers make better long term use of
their land and labor resources, increase their production and move towards
commercial agriculture based on environmentally more acceptable perennial
cropping and continuous rather than shifting cultivation of annual crops.
The subproject would provide for (a) restructured and reinforced agricultural
extension, applied research and better inputs; (b) reductions in crop losses
through additional and improved transport, storage and basic processing
infrastructure; (c) farmer organization and training, improved land transfer
mechanisms and selective siting of major rural services and infrastructure
so as to direct and limit agricultural development to the better soils of
the area; (d) improved outreach and effectiveness of social services; and
(e) development of the planning and implementation capability of local
institutions. Through these actions, the project aims to create agricul-
tural production and land tenure conditions conducive to an increase of
agricultural population density in the areas with good soils. The subproject
also has considerable potential for institution-building, at a time when the
Territory of Rondonia is about to achieve statehood. The structures proposed
to be developed in the subproject area were designed to provide at least
the minimum infrastructure capable of sustaining private initiative on which
the ultimate development of the region will rely.



- 15 -
4.03      The subproject assumes the improvement of BR-364 and construction
of feeder roads through parallel but distinct actions. In the settlement
consolidation subproject, the Territory would undertake an integrated program
of investment to upgrade farm access roads and expand Government production
support services and social infrastructure which would be grouped mainly at
39 Rural Service Centers (NUAR). NUARs would be sited at strategic points in
the interior of the colonization schemes and linked to BR-364 by existing
or proposed feeder roads. NUARs would act as new foci for community development
and commercial activity.   Each would serve by 1985 some 1,900 rural families
spread over 600 km2, providing them with a social center where religious,
education and leisure needs would also be met.
4.04      Drawing from experience from other rural development projects in
Brazil, the Settlement Consolidation subproject is focused on the least
developed farmers of the area, giving priority assistance to first-time credit
requests. The project design also calls for the personal involvement of area
farmers in various community investments. More specific experience obtained
from the recently completed Alto Turi settlement project shows the importance
of a number of measures which have received special attention in the design of
this project, such as (a) development of a full range of environmental pro-
tection measures at the outset; and (b) active participation of executing
agencies in project preparation, to achieve a broader consensus on project
design and objectives, adequate funding arrangements and clear compatibility
of project objectives with general Government development priorities.  Further-
more, a broader range of production systems are proposed for Rondonia, and these
systems are not new to the region. Finally, project activities built around
community participation would count on traditions already established in the
territory.
4.05      The Environmental Protection and Ecological Research Subprojects.
Humid tropical ecosystems are in general far more complex and less resilient
than other terrestrial ecosystems. High year-round temperatures and heavy
rainfall can result in nutrient losses due to rapid soil decomposition and
leaching. Nutrients are held within the dense vegetation, which quickly
captures them from the soil and water before they are leached away. Tropical
forest has a greater number of different plant and animal species than other
forests, and in the Amazon basin, a large number of these species have their
entire population confined to very small areas 1/ and therefore could risk
total extinction as a result of extensive forest clearing. Knowledge of eco-
systems specific to the Northwest region, particularly in Rondonia, is still
very sparse because of difficult access, especially until the unpaved BR-364
was built in the 1960s, and because knowledge of the ecosystems cannot always
be extrapolated from other Amazon regions. Furthermore, as half of the rain
in the Amazon basin is believed to originate from within the basin itself,
fears have been expressed that extensive disappearance of the tree cover
might affect the climate of the region through changes in evapo-transpiration.
Further fears have been expressed that the release of carbon dioxide by
extensive burning or decomposition of the forest could affect world climate.
Preliminary base studies and a program for systematic environmental monitoring
would allow, however, the timely detection of adverse ecological modifications.
1/   This is due to the forest having receded into isolated patches during
drier periods of the geological past, each patch having developed
distinctive ecologies. Several of these refuges were in Rondonia.



- 16 -
Finally, the Northwest region's soils of moderate quality have considerable
potential for sustained and economically justified forestry activities. The
Environmental Protection subproject aims therefore at (a) strengthening the
action, in the region, of IBDF, which is responsible for the protection of
forests, especially in areas of poor soils, deforestation control and forestry
development; (b) financing the basic infrastructure and surveillance of three
Natural Parks and the further demarcation of one of them; (c) financing the
preparation of plans for national forests; and (d) setting up four ecological
stations under management of SEMA, where baseline ecological studies could be
carried out. In parallel, the ecological research program outlined in para 4.24
would seek to provide timely information to improve land use and conservation
decisions. It would also provide a network of environmental monitoring stations
and enhance basic knowledge of the Amazon environment and of technological
possibilities based on local resources. Such research would be complementary
to similar activities already being implemented elsewhere in the Amazon basin.
4.06      Program Coordination and Other Subprojects.  The Program Coordi-
nation subproject would aim at strengthening the capacity of SUDECO to
administer and monitor the POLONOROESTE program and contract and supervise
ad-hoc supporting studies. The project would also finance land tenure regu-
larization in Mato Grosso in the areas where the second phase and a portion of
the third phase of the POLONOROESTE program would be implemented (Mato Grosso
Rural Development and INCRA settlements). Such regularization is important
for the successful implementation of the proposed second phase project.
Similarly, the project would help finance soil surveys being conducted on behalf
of INCRA as part of their detailed planning of the third phase of the program
(new settlements).
B. Detailed Features
Rondonia Settlement Consolidation Subproject
4.07      Farm Access Roads.  The subproject would provide for the construc-
tion or rehabilitation by CODARON of some 3,900 km of all-weather access roads
linking individual farmsito NUARs or to feeder roads linking these NUARs to
the main highway. All-weather roads are required because part of the harvest
must be marketed during the rainy season, and agricultural extension must
reach farmers mainly during that season. Community labor (mutirao) would be
used for land clearing (up to a width of 30 m according to the orientation of
the road, to provide proper insolation) and construction of simple bridges and
culverts using logs.  Tht. road bed would be raised, gravelled and compacted
using small regional contractors' machinery, thus greatly increasing durability
and lowering maintenance costs. The roadway would be four meters wide, and the
simple design standards atuned to the relatively low traffic volume expected
(15 to 20 five-ton trucks per day at peak harvest months plus a few commercial,
official and private vehicles). CODARON is already actively involved in access
road construction and maintenance in the subproject area (see para 3.08).
The Rondonia Roads Department (DER-RO) of the Secretariat of Public Works and
Services (SOSP) would assist CODARON in the design, tendering and construction
supervision of access roads. DER-RO is planned to be substantially strengthened
under a US$40 million component of the parallel Northwest I - Highways project.
Ten technical support units (included in CODARON staff referred to in para
6.07) would be established to provide field level planning and supervision
of the road work and NUAR infrastructure, each unit having an engineer, two



- 17 -
foremen and apppropriate maintenance equipment. A condition of sub-project
disbursement would be that agreements had been signed between CODARON, DER-RO,
SOSP and the subproject area municipalities (a) defining their collaboration
on access road construction and maintenance; and (b) establishing a plan and
schedule for construction of the higher quality feeder roads (not included in
this project) that is compatible with this project's NUAR and access roads
construction schedule. The implementation of the first 500 km of feeder roads
in Rondonia would be financed as part of the Northwest I - Highways project
within the Territory's 1,530 km feeder road program. Assurances were received
from the Territorial Government of Rondonia that all access roads in the sub-
project area would be adequately maintained. Timely funding would be provided
under the Highway Project for the preparation of remainder of the proposed
parallel feeder roads program to be financed under a proposed Third Feeder Roads
Project. Maintenance of access roads would be provided by each municipality,
assisted by DER-RO. The municipalities already possess road maintenance equipment.
Further needs would be met through DER-RO. Operation and maintenance of a limited
amount of project infrastructure which spreads out of the boundaries of the six
municipalities where most settlers are located would be entrusted to these six
municipalities.
4.08      NUAR Infrastructure.  Each NUAR would initially occupy an area of
about 40 ha at the intersection of two roads. NUAR zoning would include
administration and service areas, some 200 lots for private houses, and recrea-
tional and commercial areas. The NUARs would, hence, provide the core for the
enhanced development of stable communities in the now more remote areas.
The subproject would finance the basic infrastructure on 39 NUAR sites, which
would be destumped and provided each with a deep well, a public water supply
system, a staff dormitory-cum-guest house, a multi-grade school (see para
4.13) and a health post, the later to be financed through the parallel health
project of the Northwest program. For most NUARs, the subproject would
include installation of small-scale sawmills, a generator of 160 KVA operated
by a wood-fired steam engine, a public electricity distribution system and a
crop drying and storage unit (see para 4.11). Except for the storage unit,
CODARON would be responsible for the construction of basic NUAR infrastructure.
CODARON would use community labor and small-scale contracts with regional
enterprises for NUAR construction work. Private trade and services, especially
for the provision of various farm inputs and tools, are expected to rapidly
develop in these centers. Experience in locations already designated for NUAR
construction shows that the more enterprising merchants establish their shops
in the NUARs even before the basic infrastructure is provided.
4.09      Agricultural and Forestry Extension.  The proposed component
would directly assist some 18,200 project beneficiary families (owners or
sharecroppers), to improve their agricultural production and forest utiliza-
tion techniques with particular attention to soil and forest conservation and
to the promotion of ecologically well-suited cultivation of perennial crops.
An intensive training program would be initiated for farmer beneficiaries as
well as project officials. ASTER-RO would be the executing agency, and
the project would finance (a) vehicles and equipment for an expanded agricul-
tural extension system; (b) training courses for 50 new or existing exten-
sionists during each of the first three project years; (c) training courses



- 18 -
for about 1,200 farmer leaders and 1,600 farm youth during the five project
years; (d) appropriate farmer training in pruning, grafting, fumigation and
use of other agricultural equipment; 1/ (e) salaries of the incremental staff;
(f) incremental operating costs of NUAR, municipal and central extension offices,
during the five years of project implementation; and (g) establishment and
operation of about 200 demonstration plots on farmer land to be selected on
the basis of adaptive research results for different soil types, with a view
to demonstrating various possibilities of soil management (improved seeds,
fertilizer use, crop rotation, use of legumes, etc.). On perennial crops
ASTER-RO and CEPLAC would transfer to the farmers technical packages which
have already been developed for each crop by their respective specialized
agencies. Extension staff would be increased from about 45 to 155 officers at
NUAR level plus seven subject matter specialists at regional offices and two
central administrators. The administrative support staff would be increased
by about 50 people. Advice in arrangement of credit would be brought to small
farmers through ASTER-RO. Cocoa extension operations would remain under
CEPLAC, but coordinated with ASTER-RO activities. All other extension activities
would gradually be aggregated under ASTER-RO. The Territorial Government
would consolidate in ASTER-RO all agricultural extension activities, except
those related to cocoa planting and maintenance, and that necessary measures
would be taken to complete recruitment (or transfer) and training of project-
financed staff required by ASTER-RO no later than June 30, 1984. Farmer
training programs and demonstration plots would be managed by ASTER-RO.
Extension services would be provided through (a) individual contact with
direct project beneficiaries, during two consecutive years, to assist them in
farm planning, cultivation techniques and credit requests; and (b) group
extension and general orientation reaching other area farmers as well.
Initial contact points for group extension would be the commissions initially
set up for community road building (see para 4.12), each of which, by the end
of the disbursement period, is expected to include about 60 plot owners (not
necessarily direct project beneficiaries) and their sharecroppers. Each
extension agent would, in the first year of the project, assist some 25
farmers directly and another 50 through group extension. At full development,
these figures would reach about 75 and 200 respectively. The extension agent
would spend roughly half his time with the commissions and the balance on
individual visits, credit work, special field campaigns and the like. The
agent would also receive regular training from senior subject matter specialists
and EMBRAPA researchers, who would, between them, be responsible for formulating
appropriate extension messages for farmers. Besides a general course in
extension techniques, this training would focus on each crop of interest to
the subproject and on various issues related to subproject implementation.
4.10      Agricultural Research.  Complementing the agricultural research
being carried out under the Bank financed First (Loan 1249-BR) and recently
approved Second (Loan 2016-BR) Agricultural Research Projects, which already
include research on perennial crops such as rubber, agricultural research
1/   Areas planted in rubber will require the training of a large number of
tappers by instructors who could themselves be trained at the rubber
research center in Manaus. However, substantial needs for such training
will materialize only after the five-year project implementation period.



- 19 -
under the project would be oriented to the short-term needs of the settlers
within the project area. It would mainly concentrate on the adaptation of the
main annual crops (corn, rice and beans) to conditions in the newly opened
region, and also on farming system research to be initiated with a view to
collect, as early as possible, more information about the optimal crop mixture
for small and medium farms. At least half of the experiments would be conducted
at farm level. Provisions would be made for the establishment of (a) three
demonstration farms, including perennial crops and livestock; (b) three experi-
mental substations, each of 10 ha, to test new cultivars; (c) three simple
weather observation stations located at EMBRAPA research stations; and (d) soil
tests and mapping services to support an improved land use policy and to provide
the extension service with the required information to train officers in proper
land use practices (including crop rotation) and erosion and environmental
control. To achieve these results, the project would finance vehicles,
equipment, salaries of incremental staff (3 senior and 6 junior research
staff, 12 technicians, 3 administrators and 27 workers), incremental operating
expenses during project implementation, about 20 months of consultancy services
and the yearly publication of results. EMBRAPA's research unit for the
Territory of Rondonia (UEPAT) would be the executing agency. Forestry research
aimed at determining the physical and technical characteristics of the wood
available to the settlers for local use or industrial processing would be
handled through the proposed salvage logging studies (see para 4.17). UEPAT
would publicize each year, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, the results
of research activities performed under the subproject.
4.11      Crop Drying and Storage.  Crop drying and storage units (which could
also be used for storage of inputs) would be constructed, equipped and staffed
by CIBRAZEM. Standard CIBRAZEM stores have a capacity of about 2,500 tons and
are equipped with grain driers and cleaners. Nineteen additional stores of
such capacity would be required in the project area. They would be sited at
strategically located NUARs, selected among the 34 which do not yet have a
store. Consideration will be given by CIBRAZEM to the design and construction
of smaller 1,500 tons stores, which may better match the need of individual
NUARs, and enable the project to provide each NUAR with its own store within
the present budget of the component. The project would finance construction
and drying, cleaning and handling equipment of at least nineteen warehouses.
CIBRAZEM would hire the personnel and meet all operating costs from storage
fees. A condition of disbursement against the storage component would be that
an agreement be signed between CODARON and CIBRAZEM defining (a) a storage unit
construction plan and schedule consistant with NUAR and access road construction
schedules; and (b) modes of coordination of construction operations between
the store and NUAR managers. Warehouses constructed under the project would
be adequately staffed and maintained by CIBRAZEM.
4.12      Farmer Organization.  The project would further develop the existing
tradition of community labor and the organization of subproject area farmers
through the Secretariat of Social Action (SAS) in Rondonia, working in colla-
boration with CODARON, ASTER-RO and other agencies. Initially, some ten farmer
groups would be organized in the area of influence of each NUAR, coordinated



- 20 -
by local social agents of SAS. These groups of farmers living along a given
section of access road would be trained to participate in various community
activities, such as access road construction and maintenance, 1/ agricultural
extension, nutrition and health education, and school and health post mainte-
nance. It is not intended at this stage to organize the farmers into formal
cooperatives but rather to help in the establishment of "mutirao" (community
action) groups, from which, later, farmer associations and cooperatives could
develop. The project would finance the Secretariat's incremental staffing and
operating costs for these activities.
4.13      Education.  CODARON would construct and equip one school of four
classrooms in each NUAR and 390 single classroom schools along surrounding
access roads. The central schools would initially provide for the first four
grades of basic education, but.gradually shift to grades 5 to 8. They would
also exercise supervisory functions over satellite schools. All classrooms
would be constructed to accommodate 80 students in two daily shifts. One-
third of the 390 single classroom schools would replace existing inadequate
facilities. The net increase in school places would be about 40,000. With a
two-shift use of the remaining 451 existing schools, a total of about 67,000
school places would exist, equivalent to 41% of the school age population
projected for 1985. The existing curriculum and calendar would be adjusted
to the educational needs of the rural population on the basis of an on-going
survey. Some 780 new teachers would be required in the satellite schools
and another 312 for the central NUAR schools. A two-stage training program
started in August 1980 is expected to reach some 840 teachers in the sub-
project area by February 1982 (out of a total staff requirement of about
2,000). Complementary training on teaching methodology of the new curriculum
would be financed by the project, together with the purchase of textbooks and
teachers guides. Operational responsibility for these schools would then remain
with the municipalities. Teacher salaries and other expenditures would be met
from Territory funds through the Secretariat of Education. Assurances were
received from the Territorial Government that it would (a) provide adequate
funding for teacher salaries; and (b) enter into agreements, before March 31,
1982, with each municipality in the subproject area, defining their respective
responsibilities in the implementation of the education component of the sub-
project.
4.14      Subproject Management.  The project would finance incremental
salaries and operating costs incurred by CODARON and the Rondonia Secretariat
of Planning (SEPLAN-RO) during the project implementation period in the
management of the Settlement Consolidation subproject. Funds would also be
made available for the monitoring of all subproject activities.
4.15      Parallel Activities.  On-farm credit would be provided principally
from the existing special lines of the Rubber Development Program (PROBOR)
for rubber, IBC for coffee and POLAMAZONIA, Selective Applications Program
(PROASE) and other BB or BASA investment lines for cocoa, livestock and farm
equipment, in parallel to the project. Standard credit lines of BB and BASA
would be available for annual crops and maintenance of perennials. Consider-
ing the high level of subsidies incorporated (interest rates now from 12 to
35%, with inflation in 1980 over 100%), credit would not be subject to
1/   Farmers are particularly interested in obtaining and maintaining adequate
access to their farms, since this is, among other things, an obvious pre-
condition for reasonable marketing of their produce as well as a pre-
condition for obtaining financing for some of the permanent crops.



- 21 -
project financing. Access to adequate credit remains, however, a fundamental
element of the development effort in the subproject area. On-farm invest-
ment credit of the order of US$38 million would be provided for a total of
some 18,200 small farmers (some getting more than one type of financing) to
help finance, among other things, the planting of coffee (some 6,600 loans),
cocoa (3,000 loans) and rubber (2,000 loans). Credit would also be utilized
for the purchase of a few cattle, pigs, chickens and on-farm equipment for the
proposed mixed farming systems. Seasonal credit would be provided to the same
producers, with priority to some 6,600 sharecroppers, for subsistence crops
during the initial years of tree crop establishment. BB and BASA would process
credit requests on the basis of applications approved by ASTER-RO. Estimated
seasonal credit requirements would reach about US$24.8 million by year 5 of
the project. Assurances were received from the Federal Government that
adequate working capital and investment credit would be made available in a
timely and simplified manner to project beneficiaries, with priority to
small farmers borrowing for the first time for perennial crop establishment.
4.16      The Secretariat of Agriculture of Rondonia and the Ministry of
Agriculture have developed a five-year annual crops seed production program,
which would aim to create within the territory the production capability of
certified seeds. That program would finance the installation of three seed
processing and storage units and the establishment of a coordinating committee
for the production of improved seeds and planting material and the training of
technicians. It would aim to produce about 3,000 tons/year of certified seed.
EMBRAPA would be responsible for the provision of selected basic seeds, and
ASTER-RO would train farmers who wish to be qualified as seed producers. The
total program costs of about US$1 million would be jointly financed by the
Territory and the Federal Government, with program implementation beginning
in 1981. The Government plan to improve seed supply (as defined by the Ministry
of Agriculture) would be fully executed in Rondonia before December 31, 1985,
and UEPAT would supply sufficient basic seeds for the production of improved
seeds in the project area. ASTER-RO and UEPAT would take such steps as may
be necessary to assure that prior to September 30, each year, they agree on
basic seeds requirements for the following crop-year.
4.17      As a continuation to the IBDF/EMBRAPA/FAO Tapajos National Forest
Project, feasibility studies would be conducted to study the composition of
the forest being cleared, identify trees with commercial value considering
transport costs to distant markets and determine the most efficient salvage
logging means to utilize trees of commercial value from the some one million
ha of forest expected to be converted to agricultural production within the
next ten years in the Settlement Consolidation subproject area (see Annex 6). I/
The FAO Technical Cooperation Program is expected to provide to IBDF a team of
eight consultants for that purpose, including specialists in tropical salvage
logging systems, forest industries, forest energy systems, forest revenue
systems, forest products marketing, forest economics, forestry extension and
agro-forestry, for periods of about two months each. Salvage logging
1/   Other commercial forestry activities in the Northwest region are discussed
in para 4.20.



- 22 -
studies would be completed by IBDF and their conclusions and recommendations
presented to the Bank before December 31, 1982. IBDF would then take the
necessary measures to put into effect such recommendations.
4e18      INCRA's on-going land titling program in the subproject area is
nearing completion. Assurances were received from the Federal Government that
INCRA would have provided all land-owners within the extended areas of the
five subproject settlements with definitive titles by March 31, 1982. Farmers
-who have received definitive titles are considered to have been "emancipated"
by INCRA. In principle, they are then free to sell part or all of their plot
on condition that each resulting holding maintain half of its area in forest
reserve, and that none of the resulting holdings be smaller than the official
INCRA "module," which is established at 30 ha in the region of the subproject.
The requirement to keep 50% of individual holdings in forest reserve has
proven difficult to enforce in other settlement areas. Also, this regulation
(though the aggregate objective is sound) results in higher access costs per
family settled or hectare planted because of the dispersion of planted areas.
Further, it may not necessarily ensure the preservation of biological diversity
as well as could be achieved within agglomerated reserves. INCRA will therefore
study the legal, technical and environmental feasibility of (a) authorizing
utilization of individual forest reserves for small farming purposes where
soils are proven to be suitable for crop production; and (b) where this proves
feasible, simultaneously establishing compensatory agglomerated forest reserves
elsewhere.  Such a study would be completed by INCRA and presented to the Bank
for review prior to June 30, 1982 and the recommendations of that study would
be carried out as appropriate promptly thereafter.
Environmental Protection
4.19      Zoning.  Zoning responsibilities in the Amazon region are shared
between various federal and state or territorial institutions. Detailed land
capability information on which to base future use planning and an improved
overall zoning of the Northwest region would be developed gradually, as the
combined result of a variety of actions. Some of these actions are already
undertaken outside the POLONOROESTE program, such as (i) existing Radambrasil
information at a 1:1,000,000 scale; and (ii) a soils and agricultural aptitude
survey at 1:250,000 scale contracted out by the Government of Rondonia to
EMBRAPA, for the whole territory, due to be gradually completed by 1984.
Other actions are being undertaken within the POLONOROESTE program, such as
(i) more detailed studies at a 1:50,000 scale contracted out by INCRA on
limited areas tentatively identified as suitable for agriculture, as a basis
for infrastructure and land use planning and individual plot allocations in
future settlements (see para 4.26); and (ii) the identification and demarcation
of Amerindian reserves (see para 6.03). Land capability knowledge at a scale
useful for on-farm planning, would be further developed by several distinct
approaches. Extension workers would be trained to develop empirical knowledge
to help farmers in their decisions, under the general extension program
discussed in para 4.09. A soils analysis laboratory would be maintained by
EMBRAPA to support this effort. At the same time, funds would be allocated
within the general EMBRAPA research program (see para 4.10) to provide for
some six months of consultancy services to collect all available information
and initiate land capability mapping. These operational zoning measures would
be complemented within the environmental protection subproject by several
special steps regarding the identification, establishment and protection of



- 23 -
forest reserves. Adequately implemented, these various measures would con-
siderably improve the land use planning of areas developed under this project.
The elaboration of similar measures would also be sought in future settlement
and rural development projects. In view, more particularly, of areas remain-
ing outside such specific projects, the Federal Government and the Territorial
Government have agreed to take all necessary measures to discourage the
agricultural exploitation of areas recognized as unsuitable for agricultural
development or of yet unproven suitability and to prevent the occupation of
areas which have been legally defined as reserves.
4.20      National Forests.  Proposals for setting up a national forest where
sustained commercial operations could be undertaken are still at an early stage
of preparation (see Annex 7, paras 5 and 6). A number of actions are required
prior to initiating corresponding investments in forestry production, research,
transportation, processing and marketing infrastructure. A forestry development
planning team has been set up within IBDF for initial research and field
studies in collaboration with INCRA to locate national forest sites (on future
agglomerated individual 50% reserves, on independent areas for leasing to
large agro-industries or on independent areas to promote forestry settlements
similar to agricultural settlements). The Fionas area, of some 300,000 ha,
located east of the Guapore Biological Reserve has been identified for purposes
of forestry development. IBDF will now proceed with (a) preliminary demarcation
and inventory; and (b) preparation of detailed plans for infrastructure and
management of a forestry development project, starting, if necessary, with a
pilot operation, with related financial and economic analyses. Actuai invest-
ments in production and support infrastructure would be the subject of a
separate project, while the subproject proposed here would finance the inputs
necessary to implement the preparatory phases, i.e. mainly consultant services,
transport and mapping costs, demarcation and protection of potential national
forest areas from encroachment. The Federal Government would, by March 31, 1982,
in consultation with the Bank, and through the Ministries of Agriculture and of
Interior, assign to agencies of these ministries specific responsibilities for
land use planning and for the identification, planning, financing and execution
of national forest projects. IBDF would set up its forestry development planning
team prior to March 31, 1982. It would also (a) provide to the Bank adequate
detailed terms of reference for the planning studies prior to June 30, 1982; and
(b) complete those studies prior to June 30, 1983. The Federal Government would
subsequently take all the necessary steps to implement appropriate controlled
forestry development plans.
4.21      Forestry Control Posts and Regional Strengthening of IBDF.  The
project would finance the reinforcement of the Porto Velho and Cuiaba offices
of IBDF, together with the establishment of a nursery at each of these locations.
Four new forest products control posts would be established in Pimenta Bueno
and Ji-Parana in Rondonia and Aripuana and Vila Bela in Mato Grosso, bringing
the total to seven, including existing posts in Vilhena (Rondonia) and Barra
do Bugres and Caceres (Mato Grosso), which would also be strengthened. Each
unit would be provided with offices, staff residences vehicles and equipment.
These control posts would monitor shipment of wood products, supervise forestry
extension and provide administrative assistance to existing and potential
forestry operators. Assurances were received from the Federal Government that
all seven IBDF forestry control posts in the Northwest region would be fully
equipped and operational by December 31, 1982.



- 24 -
4.22      Natural Reserves.  The project would help establish and protect
the Pacaas Novos National Park and the Guapore and Jaru Biological Reserves.
For the Pacaas Novos National Park, the project would build and equip central
administrative and residential buildings, six control posts and four simple
landing strips. It would provide for the purchase of transport and other
equipment, including a light, highwing, four seater airplane for monitoring
purposes. In addition, the project would finance personnel and operating
costs during five years and aerial photography of the Park. Since access
to part of the Park area has been interdicted by FUNAI until uru-eu-wau-wau
Indians dwelling in the area have been adequately contacted, prior to initiating
works in the Pacaas Novos National Park, IBDF and FUNAI will enter into an
agreement (a) spelling out arrangements to ensure collaboration between FUNAI
and IBDF in the protection of the Park and interdicted areas; (b) specifying
the IBDF works to be carried out in specific locations of the Park with the
agreement of FUNAI; and (c) defining procedures for FUNAI staff to accompany
IBDF workers where required. With the exclusion of the airplane, similar
inputs would be provided for the surveillance of the Guapore and Jaru Bio-
logical Reserves. Assurances were received from the Federal Government that
(a) the Guapore Biological Reserve would be defined and legally established no
later than March 31, 1982; and (b) IBDF would present detailed engineering
designs and plans for each reserve satisfactory to the Bank before the respec-
tive works are initiated.
4.23      Ecological Stations.  The project would assist SEMA in the estab-
lishment or extension of four ecological stations. In each ecological station,
SEMA would install the infrastructure and oversee its use by universities for
specific research programs agreed with SEMA. One of the stations, Ique, about
200,000 ha in Aripuana (Mato Grosso), is outside the official boundaries of
the Northwest region but is very useful for the knowledge of the region. A
second station, Serra das Araras (about 24,800 ha), is strategically located
in a forest/savannah transition area between Barra do Bugres and Caceres in
Mato Grosso. Infrastructure of the third station at Taiama (12,000 ha in the
Pantanal section of Caceres, Mato Grosso) would be completed by the subproject.
The fourth station (Cunia) lies on the Madeira river north of Porto Velho and
gives access to purely Amazonian landscape.  It includes some inundated land
as well as forest on "terra firme." Its definitive size (of the order of
100,000 ha) has recently been negotiated between SEMA, INCRA and the Govern-
ment of Rondonia. Costs of the four stations were estimated on the basis of
similar stations built by SEMA elsewhere in Brazil, adjusted for unit costs
prevailing in the region. A 20% physical contingency has been added to
accommodate possible design changes. Further details on the ecological
stations are provided in Annex 7, paras 13 through 17.  Assurances were
received from the Federal Government that the geographical boundaries of the
Cunia ecological station would be delimited by no later than March 31, 1982
and the station legally established thereafter. SEMA would present detailed
engineering designs and plans for each of the four ecological stations of
Ique, Serra das Araras, Taiama and Cunia, satisfactory to the Bank, before
any of the respective works are initiated.



- 25 -
Ecological Research
4.24      The Ecological Research subproject is to be carried out under the
supervision of the National Research Council (CNPq), which would subcontract
the implementation of various components to selected research institutions
and universities, preferably located in or near the program area. The research
would include (a) establishment of a hydrometeorology and biogeochemistry
monitoring system in Rondonia, conforming to national standards; (b) develop-
ment of a system for the inventory and collection of fauna and flora of
Rondonia; and (c) small-scale research projects on other selected topics as
may be agreed, possibly including research on the minimum size of eco-systems
and research on technologies appropriate to the region. Further details of
these research lines, which are subject to further revisions on the basis of
the final proposals of the institutions to be involved, are provided in
Annex 7, paras 21 through 24. CNPq would prepare by March 31, 1982 a detailed
ecological research program satisfactory to the Bank, including terms of
reference, budgets and implementation arrangements, and would promptly there-
after, assign implementation responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank based
on the detailed research proposals, including arrangements for CNPq to publish
by June 30 of each year a progress report setting forth the findings and
recommendations of research carried out under this program during the preceding
POLONOROESTE fiscal year.
Land Tenure Regularization in Mato Grosso
4.25      A 1979 survey showed that more than half of the farmers in the
proposed Northwest II - Mato Grosso Rural Development project area who were
eligible for legal title to their land had not yet received such title. Where
titles exist, furthermore, they often appear to be incorrect, and sometimes,
for historical reasons, more than one title exists for the same plot of land.
Inadequate titling has resulted in serious land disputes in areas of greater
population density and deprives the farmers of the incentive to carry-out
on-farm investment and of the collateral they often need to obtain investment
credit. It thus fosters shifting cultivation and other damaging forms of land
use. Land tenure regularization and titling would be implemented by the Land
Resources Department of INCRA and would cover all major areas of settlement of
Mato Grosso municipalities within the Northwest region, i.e. the nine municipal-
ities within the area of the proposed Northwest Phase II Mato Grosso Rural
Development Project (see para. 3.01) plus settlements along the Guapore Valley
(Pontes e Lacerda and Vila Bela). The project would provide (a) discrimi-
nation (identification of legal claims) of some 5.3 million ha; (b) demarcation
(topographical surveys and physical demarcation) of an estimated 600,000 ha
belonging to farmers owning more than 2 ha but less than 100 ha each; and (c)
titling of demarcated properties. The project would also finance preliminary
requirements such as cadastral micro-films and training of INCRA staff in Mato
Grosso. According to existing INCRA legislation, the costs of demarcation (to
be contracted by INCRA with local surveying firms) and titling is to be
financed by the landowners, but owners with less than 100 ha would be allowed
to spread their payments over five years. The project would therefore
finance the initial outlay of INCRA. Land regularization in Mato Grosso would
require three years to be completed. Geographical priorities would be estab-
lished in accordance with the requirements of the Mato Grosso Rural Development



- 26 -
project, for which land tenure regularization is considered to be a prerequisite
to active farmer participation. Small farmers concerned by the land tenure
regularization operations would be provided legal assistance throughout the
implementation of this component by lawyers to be employed for that purpose by
INCRA. INCRA would (a) establish, and provide adequate funds and staff for,
its Vila Bela Land Tenure project and complementary field units at Pontes e
Lacerda, Mirassol d'Oeste and Barra do Bugres by March 31, 1982; and (b) initiate
immediately titling procedures to provide owners of more than 2 ha in the Mato
Grosso Rural Development project area with definitive titles as soon as
demarcation of their plot is completed.
Soil Surveys for Future Settlement Areas
4.26      As a basis for its planning of new settlement in Rondonia and
Mato Grosso, the colonization division of INCRA has contracted out detailed
soil surveys (at 1:50,000 scale) of 70,000 ha in the Urupa area, south of Ouro
Preto, and 100,000 ha in the Machadinho region, north of Ariquemes, where
initial settlers of new settlement projects (Phase Three of POLONOROESTE)
could be established. As these pre-settlement surveys represent a key facet
of the underlying POLONOROESTE concept of rational land use planning and
zoning, the present project would finance these surveys, which are already
under way. Surveys of areas to be settled in subsequent years of the INCRA
settlement project would be financed within that same project.
Program Coordination, Monitoring and Studies
4.27      The project would finance all equipment and operating costs during
the project implementation period of a unit to be set up within SUDECO
for the specific purpose of coordinating all activities related to the North-
west program (see para 6.02). The project would also help strengthen local
SUDECO offices within the program area. Financing for the Rondonia Program
Coordination Unit is provided under the Settlement Consolidation subproject.
Similarly, the Mato Grosso Coordination Unit would be financed under the Phase
II Mato Grosso Rural Development project. Funds would be made available for
monitoring overall program progress, mid-term and final impact evaluation
surveys, ad-hoc studies on issues arising during and affecting project imple-
mentation, and general studies, including studies oriented to the identification
of future projects relevant to the development of the program area. The terms
of reference for special studies contracted by SUDECO under project funding
would have to be satisfactory to the Bank. Their results would be promptly
furnished to the Bank.



V. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
A. Consolidated Project Costs
5.01      The total project cost over the five-year implementation period
(1981-1985) is estimated at US$199.3 million, which includes physical contin-
gencies equivalent to 11.9% 1/ of the baseline costs, and price contingencies
equivalent to 31.5% of baseline costs plus physical contingencies. 2/ Base-
line costs, estimated at January 1981 prices using the prevailing exchange
rate of US$1 = Cr$ 68.1, reflect the high costs of equipment and construction
material in Rondonia resulting from difficult transport and irregular supply.
Detailed designs would not be necessary for the relatively simple access roads
and buildings provided by the project. Corresponding cost estimates are based
on recent tenders for construction of similar standards in the project area.
The estimated foreign exchange component is US$42.7 million, or about 21.4% of
total project costs. Project costs include about US$10.0 million of readily
identifiable taxes. The project cost summary follows, and the yearly phasing
is given in Table 2 of Annex 5.
B. Financing
5.02      The proposed Bank loan of US$67 million would finance 35% of project
costs, net of taxes. The balance of project financing would be provided by
the Government, in part through special programs funds and the remainder
through the regular budgets of the agencies and local Governments involved.
The Federal and Territorial Governments have agreed to provide adequate funds,
staff and materials in a timely manner to appropriately maintain and operate
all project-developed infrastructure and services. Agricultural credit would
be provided directly by local banks, through existing credit lines. The Bank
loan would be for 15 years, including a three-year grace period. The Federa-
tive Republic of Brazil would be the borrower and would assume the foreign
exchange risk.
1/   Physical contingencies for the Settlement Consolidation subproject
average 11% of that subproject's baseline costs (15% for access roads;
10% for NUARs, warehouses, education and subproject administration; 7%
for extension, research and farmer organization). For the environmental
protection and ecological research subprojects, which require some
further detailed planning, physical contingencies of 20% were applied.
10% physical contingencies were applied to the remaining components of
the project.
21   Price contingencies were calculated in US dollars, at 9% in 1981,
8.5% in 1982, and 7.5% in 1983, 1984 and 1985 for all project costs.
They assume that the exchange rate of the Brazilian cruzeiro will be
periodically adjusted to compensate for any domestic inflation
above world inflation rates.



- 28 -
Table 4:    TOTAL PROJECT COSTS
(US$'000)
% of
Total       %
Baseline Foreign
Project Activity                               Local    Foreign       Total     Cost       Exch.
A.  Rondonia Settlement Consolidation
1.  Access Roads                          19,490       9,600    29,090      20.9        33
2.  Service Centers                       33,950       8,488    42,438      30.5        20
3.  Agricultural Extension                 5,603         764     6,367       4.6        12
4.  Agricultural Research                  3,757         663     4,420       3.2        15
5.  Storage and Drying                    10,046       2,512    12,558       9.0        20
6.  Farmer Organization                    1,590         281     1,871       1.4        15
7.  Education                              4,669         519     5,188       3.7        10
8.  Rondonia Coordination Unit             1,831         204     2,035       1.5        10
Baseline Cost                         80,936     23,031   103,967    (74.8)
Physical Contingencies                 8,739       2,732    11,471    (11.0)
Price Contingencies                   26,052       7,484    33,536    (32.2)
Subtotal Settlement Consolidation        115,727      33,247   148,974                  22.2
B.  Environmental Protection and Ecological Research
1.  National Forests                         872         470     1,342       1.0        35
2.  Forestry Control                       2,013         355     2,368       1.7        15
3.  Natural Reserves                       2,681         893     3,574       2.6        25
4.  Ecological Stations                    1,294         323     1,617       1.1        20
5.  Ecological Research                    4,530       2,440     6,970       5.0        35
Baseline Cost                         11,390      4,481    15,871    (11.4)
Physical Contingencies                 2,278         896     3,174    (20.0)
Price Contingencies                    3,916       1,477     5,393    (34.0)
Subtotal Environmental Protection         17,584       6,854    24,438
C.  Studies and Program Coordination
1.  Land Regularization in Mato Grosso   7,754           862     8,616       6.2        10
2.  Soil Surveys for New Settlements         419          46       465       0.3        10
3.  Program Coordination                   9,058       1,006    10,064       7.3        10
Baseline Cost                         17,231      1,914    19,145    (13.8)
Physical Contingencies                 1,682         187     1,869    ( 9.8)
Price Contingencies                    4,426         492     4,918    (25.7)
Subtotal Studies & Program Coordination 23,339         2,593    25,932
PROJECT Baseline Cost                109,557     29,426   138,983       100
Physical Contingencies       12,699       3,815    16,514      11.9
Price Contingencies          34,394       9,453    43,847      31.5
TOTAL PROJECT COST                   156,650      42,694   199,344                  21.4



- zv -
C. Procurement
5.03      The project would involve numerous, individually relatively small
items of construction and purchases of equipment or machinery in quite widely
dispersed areas. Farm access roads and civil works related to the rural service
centers and other project components would be built mainly through relatively
small contracts adjusted to the capacity of regional enterprises. Force
account work would be allowed for minor works in more isolated areas. Grain
stores would be built by CIBRAZEM using present contracting procedures, with
bidding advertised in Brazil. Foreign bidders would not be excluded but are
not likely to be interested given the remote locations. It is not likely that
foreign or even major national companies would be interested in tendering for
other construction or supply contracts. Works would be let out competitively
to local contractors by established Government procedures, which have been
reviewed and found satisfactory. Vehicles, machinery and equipment, acquired
by a variety of agencies over the project execution period, would also be
bought through competitive bidding advertized in Brazil, following existing
Government procedures which are satisfactory.
D. Disbursement
5.04      The proceeds of the Bank loan would be disbursed on the basis of a
rate of 55% of expenditures for each component until March 31, 1983, and
thereafter at such a rate that results in an average disbursement rate equal
to 33% of all expenditures. Disbursements would be made against Statements of
Expenditures prepared by the implementing agencies, certified by them--with
the exception of expenditures incurred by territorial agencies, which would be
certified by the Project Coordination Unit established within SEPLAN-RO--and
submitted to the Bank through the Central Bank. Supporting documentation for
minor civil works by force account and for operational expenses would not be
submitted to the Bank, but would be retained by the agency responsible for
their certification and made available for inspection by the Bank during
project supervision missions. Standard documentation covering civil works,
vehicles, equipment and technical assistance would be submitted to the Bank.
Disbursements are expected to occur over a period of about five years. The
closing date of the loan would be December 31, 1986.
5.05      Retroactive financing of up to US$5.5 million is recommended for
the costs of (a) land regularization surveys initiated in Mato Grosso after
May 31, 1981; (b) land capability surveys in areas of future INCRA settle-
ments, initiated after June 30, 1980; and (c) all Rondonia Settlement Con-
solidation subproject activities implemented after May 31, 1981. The
estimated schedule of disbursement is given in Table 3 of Annex 5.
5.06      In order to reduce the interval during which the Government would
finance the Bank's share of project cost with its own resources, a Special
Account would be opened in the Central Bank with an initial deposit of up to
US$4.0 million. The Government may request the Bank to make advance payments
in dollars from the loan account into this Special Account. Withdrawals
in cruzeiros from the Special Account would be made on the basis of the
statements of expenditures forwarded to the Central Bank. Conversion from
dollars into cruzeiros would be made at the exchange rate that prevailed on
the date the expenditures were made. The Central Bank would send the state-
ments to the Bank, which would then replenish the Special Account.



- 30 -
VI. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Central Program Administration and Coordination
General
6.01      The overall administration and coordination of the proposed North-
west program and first phase group of projects would be within the legal and
organizational framework applicable to Brazil's other special programs for
regional development. Presidential Decree No. 83.436 of May 10, 1979 gives
the responsibility for planning, coordinating, monitoring and evaluating these
programs to regional superintendencies attached to the Ministry of Interior.
The Secretariat of Planning retains, however, a major role in the definition
of financing levels of all special programs. Inter-Ministerial Orders
(Portarias) 90 and 91 of May 27, 1980 define (a) the modalities of collabora-
tion between the Ministry of Interior, other Ministries and the State Govern-
ments and agencies involved in the special programs; and (b) programming,
budgeting and fund disbursement procedures. A complete list of agencies
involved in program implementation is given in Annex 2. Decree No. 86029
of May 27, 1981 formally established the POLONOROESTE program (discussed in
Chapter II) and an estimated budget. Adjustments which may be required to
that budget would be implemented through the annual rebudgeting process.
Failure to comply with any covenants in agreements between the Government and
the Bank on the proposed Northwest I-Highways and Northwest I-Health loans
would represent non-compliance with the agreements for this proposed loan,
pursuant to the Bank's general conditions.
The Superintendency for Economic Development in the Center-West Region (SUDECO)
6.02      Responsibility for the administration of the proposed Northwest program
has been entrusted to SUDECO. An Interministerial Coordination Group (Grupo
de Articulacao Interministerial), in which the key ministries concerned would be
represented along with the Ministry of Interior and the Planning Secretariat,
set up under Portaria 91, would facilitate coordination among the various
federal agencies and help jointly resolve issues arising out of the implementa-
tion of the program. SUDECO would establish a POLONOROESTE General Coordination
TUnit under its Deputy Superintendency of Planning, but also closely linked to the
Deputy Superintendency of Operations. The Coordination Unit would be divided
into two sections, one responsible for the harmonization of program activities,
by establishing liaison with federal and state level agencies (the latter
through SUDECO offices in Porto Velho and Cuiaba); the other in charge of
planning (i.e. consolidating proposals of various implementing agencies for
the), monitoring and evaluation of project progress and impact, and special
studies. Under the General Coordinator, the liaison section would have a
minimum staff of five professionals, and the Monitoring and Evaluation Section
would have seven professionals. A POLONOROESTE Coordinator has been appointed
within SUDECO, with qualifications, experience and employment conditions
satisfactory to the Bank.  SUDECO has agreed to (a) appoint the two Section
Chiefs of the POLONOROESTE program coordination unit, with qualifications,
experience and employment conditions satisfactory to the Bank and complete the
establishment of the POLONOROESTE program coordination unit by March 31, 1982;
(b) maintain this unit fully staffed at all times with personnel whose
qualifications, experience and conditions of employment are satisfactory to



- 31 -
the Bank; and (c) provide to the Bank the proposed budget for the POLONOROESTE
program by component, for the following year, by October 31 of each year, and
finalized budgetary allocations for the program each year as soon as that budget
is formally approved.
Amerindian Protection
6.03      Rapid occupation and development is bound to place increasing pres-
sure on the Amerindian communities in the Program area because of competition
for their land and risk of contagious diseases to which the Amerindian popu-
lation is not immune. In the very worst case, the cultural or even physical
extinction of Amerindian groups living in the area could be feared if devel-
opment were not carefully controlled. Government authorities have, therefore,
commited themselves, as part of the POLONOROESTE program, to strengthening
their capacity to protect the indigenous population in this frontier area.
FUNAI will give priority attention to the protection of Amerindian lands and
of their health in accordance with the special project prepared by FUNAI with
the concurrence of the Bank (see Annex 8). It will strengthen its operations
in the Northwest region by upgrading its regional administrative infrastruc-
ture, establishing and equipping new Amerindian posts and increasing and
training its field staff. Planning is to be decentralized for more efficient
field level involvement. Central coordination and synchronization with
POLONOROESTE activities is to be provided by a special coordinator who has
already been appointed. These activities would be financed entirely by the
Government, which would closely monitor and periodically review, with the
Bank, the Amerindian protection activities. For the protection of designated
indigenous areas, whether interdicted, delineated or fully demarcated, FUNAI
is to (a) have illegal trespassers and occupants evicted; and (b) demarcate
Amerindian areas as scheduled under its Special Project for indigenous com-
munities in the area of influence of BR-364 and, where necessary, upgrade
existing demarcation lines. Health care would be upgraded by improving and
expanding the operations of existing mobile health units and establishing
new health posts in the Guapore Valley. Back-up support would be provided
by the Vilhena hospital. FUNAI would provide (a) a full immunization coverage;
and (b) intensified assistance in cases of outbreaks of communicable diseases.
FUNAI would also maintain adequate medical supplies at all Indian Posts.
Further lines of action would seek to promote education and economic develop-
ment activities. FUNAI and DNER have entered into arrangements enabling them
to cooperate towards the protection of the Amerindian communities against
possible negative effects associated with the highway construction works.
FUNAI has received necessary funds for initiating planned Amerindian protection
measures in the POLONOROESTE area. Assurances were received that the Federal
Government would take all necessary steps to promptly implement the special
project for protecting the interests of the Amerindian communities located in
the program area, in phase with other program components so as to ensure that
key protective measures accompany or, where necessary, precede the initiation
of the relevant development activities. To this effect, the Federal Government
would (a) ensure timely provision of appropriate funds, staff and other



- 32 -
resources, authorizations and permits required for the implementation of the
protection measures; (b) upgrade the organization and operations of its
institutions entrusted with implementation of the program; (c) provide the
Bank a reasonable opportunity to periodically review in the field progress on
the implementation of these protective measures; and (d) present to the Bank
such information as the Bank may require on the carrying out an impact of the
protection program. It is FUNAI's intention to enter into a contract by
May 31, 1982 with a Brazilian institution or experts to assist them in their
monitoring and evaluation activities related to the Special Project. For the
same purposes, legal acts (portarias) delimiting all Amerindian areas in
the Guapore Valley have been executed, and additional personnel, equipment
and operating resources required by FUNAI have been provided in the program
area.
B. Settlement Consolidation Subproject Management
Program Coordination at the Territory Level
6.04      The Government of the Territory of Rondonia would have overall
responsibility for the execution of the Settlement Consolidation subproject.
A Territorial Directing Council, chaired by the Governor of Rondonia and
comprising high-level representatives of the federal ministries involved
through their agencies in the Northwest program, key state secretariats and
CODARON, would establish policies and guidelines, approve annual plans and
provide political coordination for POLONOROESTE operations within the Terri-
tory of Rondonia. Federal funds for territorial secretariats and agencies
would be channelled through SEPLAN-RO, which would coordinate the participa-
tion of territorial agencies involved in the POLONOROESTE Program in Rondonia,
enter into agreements ("convenios") with federal agencies, establishing their
participation under the program, and monitor progress in program implementa-
tion in the Territory. To this purpose, SEPLAN-RO has established a special
Program Coordination Unit, responding to the Territorial Directing Council.
(Funds for federal agricultural agencies operating within the subproject
area, such as IBDF, INCRA, EMBRAPA and CIBRAZEM will be channelled directly to
them from federal sources.) The Territorial Program Coordination Unit would
(a) provide liaison with SUDECO; (b) coordinate preparation of annual plans
for POLONOROESTE activities undertaken by various participating agencies
within the Territory; (c) organize personnel training; (d) maintain the
combined financial records and control of program expenditures in the Terri-
tory; and (e) undertake the overall monitoring and evaluation of these activi-
ties, complemented by special studies, as required. The Unit would consist of
an Administrative Nucleus and a Technical Support Nucleus. The Administrative
Nucleus would ensure the budgetary supervision and consolidation of project
accounts. The Technical Support Nucleus would ensure technical execution
coordination of various territorial agencies participating in the program,
through three subunits dealing respectively with agriculture, physical
infrastructure and social sector activities. The Agricultural Planning
Commission (CEPA) would handle for CODARON and the Program Coordination Unit



- 33 -
the monitoring of the agricultural components of the Rondonia Settlement
Consolidation subproject. A project coordination and management chart is
given in Annex 3.
The Agricultural Development Company of Rondonia
6.05      The main responsibility for the implementation of the Settlement
Consolidation subproject will be with the Agricultural Development Company
of Rondonia (CODARON: Companhia de Desenvolvimento Agricola de Rondonia).
CODARON is a public corporation created by Law No. 6805, dated July 7, 1980,
which became formally operational on January 27, 1981. Its creation was
closely linked to the establishment of the POLONOROESTE program. It is
planned that CODARON will take over most activities previously undertaken
by the Secretariat of Agriculture of Rondonia. Most of the 370 staff members
of the Secretariat are expected to be transferred to CODARON. The former
Secretary of Agriculture has been appointed as President of CODARON. The
corporate structure of CODARON is expected to considerably simplify con-
tracting, recruitment and other operational procedures, thus -- it is hoped --
increasing the administrative efficiency in handling the complex activities of
the POLONOROESTE program.
6.06      The actual implementation and local coordination of rural develop-
ment activities would be entrusted to regional units ("gerencias"), one to
be established in each municipality. CODARON-appointed managers of the
39 NUARs would respond directly to these regional units. Thus, the central
structure of CODARON would be kept lightly staffed and flexible, with a core
staff (five "coordinators") in the Directorate of Operations providing planning,
monitoring and advisory services to the regional units, mainly through ad-hoc
task forces. This core staff would include a Coordinator of Rural Organization,
who would be responsible for overseeing the planning and general supervision
of all investment activities carried out by CODARON under the settlement
consolidation subproject, i.e., mainly the construction of access roads and
NUAR infrastructure (including schools and, under the Northwest health project,
health posts). A Coordinator of Agricultural Production would ensure the
overall coordination of all services provided to farmers by local branches of
participating agencies, such as extension, credit and storage. He would also
organize and generally supervise the monitoring of on-farm results of the
development effort. A Marketing Coordinotor would be responsible for ensuring
commercial arrangements with controlled profit margins for the timely availability
of farm inputs such as improved seeds (produced by private farmers), seedlings,
fertilizers and herbicides. The other two coordinators (Special Projects and
Internal Productive Units) would not be directly involved in the Rondonia settle-
ment consolidation subproject. Preparation and financial supervision of civil
works and other procurement contracts would be done by CODARON's Directorate of
Administration and Finances. The regional CODARON units and NUAR managers would
provide the on-site technical supervision of contractors, organize community labor
and coordinate the local activities of ASTER-RO, CIBRAZEM, INCRA and other agen-
cies dealing with agricultural production and marketing at the farm level.
They would also help, at the local level, synchronizing the activities of the
participating institutions, such as the municipal Secretariats of Education
and Health and social workers of the area. This will help ensure consistency
between NUAR construction schedules and related municipal responsibilities,
such as the recruitment and training of teachers and health staff. A super-
visor and eight subordinate technical and administrative staff would be
recruited at each NUAR for the operation and maintenance of the facilities.



- 34 -
6.07      The initial staff of CODARON will consist of the employees trans-
ferred from the Secretariat of Agriculture, mainly agronomists, extensionists,
surveyors, social workers and support personnel. While the present staff of
CODARON has some experience in agricultural development, both through their
prior activities within the Secretariat of Agriculture and their participation
in the preparation of this subproject, they will require further training,
especially at middle administrative and field technical levels. Furthermore,
CODARON is at present undergoing rapid changes, and the numbers of both
headquarters and field staff are expected to grow considerably during project
implementation. Except for the incremental field operation (e.g., NUAR level)
staff financed by the project, the staffing and funding of CODARON would be
the responsibility of the Territorial Government. CODARON has hired a Brazilian
consultancy firm, for a period of one year, with whom they have been preparing
the basic manuals of the institution (organization, accounting, procurement,
personnel, etc.). CODARON still needs to complete recruitment of qualified
staff for key positions in its planned organizational structure. Furthermore,
CODARON would require longer term assistance in refining and developing its
administrative and technical systems. Assurances were received from the
Territorial Government that CODARON would (a) prepare detailed terms of
reference for, and then appoint before March 31, 1982, (i) a chief project
planning and supervision officer within CODARON's advisory unit (assesoria)
for the Settlement Consolidation subproject; (ii) a rural organization coordi-
nator; (iii) an agricultural production coordinator; (iv) a marketing coordi-
nator; (v) a chief accountant; and (vi) the chief of the procurement and
contracting unit, all with terms of reference, qualifications, experience and
conditions of employment satisfactory to the Bank; and. (b) contract by March
31, 1982 the services of consultants with terms of reference, qualifications
and experience satisfactory to the Bank, to provide CODARON with administrative
and technical expertise particularly in accounting, procurement, access road
construction and subproject monitoring, for a period of about two years, to
be extended or redefined as appropriate, based on findings of the project's
mid-term review.
C.   Other Subprojects
Environmental Protection
6.08      The Brazilian Institute for Forest Development (IBDF).  IBDF is an
autonomous organ of the Ministry of Agriculture, established in 1967 and
charged with (a) formulation of forest policy; (b) directing the rational use
and conservation of renewable natural resources; and (c) forestry development.
Its functions are based on the comprehensive Forest Code of 1965 and Fauna
Protection Law of 1967. (A new, more specific Amazonian Forest Policy paper,
proposed by an inter-ministerial commission to help implement land use policies
in the Amazon region, is now also under consideration by the Government.)
Under its President, IBDF has five executive departments: Research; Reforesta-
tion; Forest Economics; National Parks and Reserves; Industry and Commerce.
There is an IBDF delegation in each state. IBDF receives technical assistance
from a resident FAO mission. The Special Programs Division of the Forest
Economics department is to coordinate IBDF's work with POLONOROESTE. The said
department also has a division of Remote Sensing and Monitoring which produces
maps out of landsat imagery, showing the extent of forest clearing and new



- 35 -
planting and identifying any significant invasions occurring on National Parks
and Reserves. Overall, IBDF's conservation program has 23 National Parks
(8.3 million ha) and 11 Biological Reserves (1.2 million ha). Ten of these
units, totalling 7 million ha, have been created within the past two years,
but IBDF does not yet have the necessary staff and financial resources to
administer them. In 1980, IBDF's budget totalled Cr$1.6 billion (or about
US$32 million), two-thirds of which was allocated to the coordination of the
forest development policy. IBDF staff (October 1980) totalled some 3,400,
including 500 professionals (of which 167 foresters and 83 agronomists),
1,400 technicians and 1,500 administrative personnel. Until recently, IBDF
was largely inactive in Rondonia and had only limited activities in Mato
Grosso. The POLONOROESTE program, and this project in particular, will
represent a major strengthening of IBDF work in the Northwest.
6.09      The IBDF National Parks and Reserves Department would be respon-
sible for the establishment, protection and operation of the National Park of
Pacaas Novos and the Biological Reserves of Jaru and Guapore, according to
procedures established for other parks and reserves in Brazil. Since the
Pacaas Novos park is located in an area where uncontacted Amerindian tribes
are believed to dwell, IBDF would maintain permanent liaison with FUNAI
throughout project implementation. The small plane to be acquired within the
Pacaas Novos investments would be available for the monitoring of all other
natural reserves in the Territory of Rondonia. Implementation responsibility
for the preparation of National Forest projects would be with the Department
of Forest Economics, where an ad-hoc working group would use satellite infor-
mation, aerial photographs, fly-overs and field visits to identify large areas
of prime forest land (in blocks of possibly one million ha each) fulfilling
criteria of forest types, commercial timber volumes, topography and accessi-
bility. INCRA would also be closely involved in the preparation of these
studies because of the possibility of establishing national forests within the
agglomerated legal reserves of future settlements or because national forests
could possibly become themselves the frame of some future settlements. Once
national forest areas identified, they would be declared legal forest reserves
and protected by ranger patrols.
6.10      The Special Secretariat for the Environment (SEMA).  SEMA is an
autonomous agency of the Ministry of Interior, created in 1973 to work in
the fields of environmental conservation and rational use of natural resources
(monitoring environmental changes, establishing norms, and promoting train-
ing and public education). SEMA has at present nine ecological research
stations, including two in the Northwest region to be improved under the
project. In addition, the project would help establish two new stations.
Fourteen universities have current research programs in these stations, with
research funds coming from the Ministry of Education and Special Regional
Programs. SEMA has a staff of about 170. The ecological stations are usually
run by one director plus three administrative or support staff.
Ecological Research Institutions
6.11      Scientific and technological research in Brazil has been coordinated
since 1979 by the National Research Council (CNPq) with headquarters in
Brasilia. Responsibility for the various ecological research work would be
contracted out by CNPq based on an evaluation of proposals it receives from
research institutions wishing to participate, priority being given to institu-
tions located within or near the program area. It is already known that



- 36 -
research in hydrometeorology and biogeochemical budgets in the Amazon basin
is part of the work program of the Center for Nuclear Research in Agriculture
(CENA), with headquarters in Piracicaba, Sao Paulo, and the National Institute
for Amazon Research (INPA), with headquarters in Manaus, which receives ancil-
lary support from a number of institutes and from EMBRAPA. These agencies
have considerable experience with hydrometeorological networks in the Amazon
basin. There would be obvious advantages in linking the proposed Rondonia
network to the existing grid. INPA is also involved in an on-going minimum
ecosystem experiment. Together with the Museo Goeldi, located in Belem, INPA
has undertaken some taxonomic surveys of the Amazon region. Some lines of
research could also be appropriate for the University of Mato Grosso, in
Cuiaba, where research capability nearest to the project area is to be found.
The University of Rondonia, in Porto Velho, is at a much earlier stage of
development but may also play some role in the ecological research program.
Land Tenure Regularization in Mato Grosso
6.12      Since the areas to be regularized fall within 100 km on either side
of a federal highway (BR-364) of the Amazon region and/or within 150 km of a
national border, INCRA is, by law, the only institution authorized to establish
or confirm ownership rights and issue land titles. It does so through its
Department of Land Resources. Discrimination of areas to be regularized in
Mato Grosso would be done by the staff of the three INCRA land tenure projects
(projetos fundiarios) of Diamantino, Caceres and Vila Bela (for the Guapore
Valley). The Diamantino and Caceres projects are already operational, with
a total staff of about 110, of which some 40 are of professional level.
Activities in the Diamantino and Caceres areas are to be initiated in mid-1981.
The Vila Bela project is expected to become operational before the end of
1981. Topographical survey companies to do the actual demarcation work are
available in the region. Titling would be provided as soon as demarcation
is completed.
Soil Surveys for Future Settlement Areas
6.13      Soil surveys for the initial settlements of the future INCRA
program are already under way in areas shown by less detailed surveys to have
promising agricultural potential. INCRA's Land Settlement Department has
contracted these surveys to EMBRAPA's soil surveys section for the Machadinho
area and to the Technological Center Foundation of Minas Gerais (CETEC), for
the Urupa area. In the Urupa area, which lies very close to existing settle-
ments, INCRA has taken measures to avoid its invasion by squatters prior to
the construction of the eventual infrastructure. These surveys are almost
completed, and will be used in the preparation of the proposed INCRA project
(Phase III of POLONOROESTE) to be presented shortly to the Bank for appraisal
of possible financing.
D. Implementation Schedule
6.14      A chronogram of the main project activities is given in Annex 1.
While investments on farm access roads and rural service centers are expected
to be completed within five years, most of the construction and equipment
investments related to environmental protection and ecological research are
expected to be achieved within the first two to three years.



- 37 -
E. Monitoring and Evaluation
The Northwest Program
6.15      The Monitoring and Evaluation Section (see para 6.02) of SUDECO
would comprise a coordinator, an economist, an agronomist, a civil engineer,
a sociologist and an ecologist. This section, assisted by independent
consultants acceptable to the Bank to be contracted by March 31, 1982
following Bank policies and procedures, would be mainly responsible for the
on-going evaluation of the entire program's progress on the basis of monitor-
ing data elaborated and compiled by each implementing agency of the
POLONORDESTE program. Furthermore, it will monitor planning, programming,
budgeting and coordination activities at the federal administration level and
inside SUDECO, contract out ad-hoc mid term and final impact studies and super-
vise their implementation. Monitoring results would be consolidated into
quarterly reports.
Specific Sub-Projects
6.16      For the Rondonia Settlement Consolidation subproject, the Coor-
dination Unit of SEPLAN-RO (see para 6.04) with assistance from the Rondonia
Agricultural Planning Commission (CEPA-RO) on agricultural components, would
monitor subproject implementation progress and its impact on the farmers and
the environment. The Coordination Unit would consolidate resulting data into
quarterly reports. Similar procedures would be established on the environmental
protection and ecological research subprojects by IBDF and SEMA for the former
and CNPq for the latter. Monitoring indicators will be further elaborated by
the respective institutions and translated into specific monitoring arrange-
ments and procedures. These procedures would be developed around an existing
project-based computerized data system (SAPE-GRAFF) already in use by most
Government agencies. This system follows up the physical and financial progress
of various project activities. It would be complemented to (a) expand monitoring
to cover the qualitative and quantitative impact of the project on farmer
income and development; and (b) develop a project evaluation methodology.
Various universities and consultancy firms have already been contacted for
this purpose by SUDECO and by CODARON. Each of the executing entities involved
in POLONORDESTE activities would establish and provide to the Bank through
SUDECO, prior to March 31, 1982, detailed monitoring plans and procedures
satisfactory to the Bank. SUDECO would compile all quarterly monitoring
reports for transmittal to the Bank promptly upon completion and provide to
the Bank, promptly upon their completion, (a) research and evaluation studies
carried out during project execution; (b) a mid-term evaluation, to be
implemented before June 30, 1984, of progress in POLONOROESTE program activities
up to March 31, 1984; and, (c) within six months of project completion, a
completion report evaluating the project's impact.
F.   Accounting and Auditing
6.17      Each of the participating agencies would maintain separate accounts
of its project expenditures, which would be audited annually by the Central



38 -
Secretariat of Internal Control (SECIN) of the Federal Secretariat of Planning
according to standard Government practice, which is satisfactory to the Bank.
SUDECO would maintain accounts of its own project expenditures for program
coordination as well as summary records of the project accounts of each
participating agency. Copies of the audited statements of project accounts
of the various participating agencies would be provided to the Bank through
SUDECO within six months of the end of the fiscal year of the POLONOROESTE
program. Not later than six months after the close of the fiscal year, SUDECO
would present to the Bank the results of an audit of the Statements of Expen-
ditures carried out by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. This audit
report would convey the auditor's opinion (and comments as necessary) on the
methodology employed in the compilation of the Statements of Expenditures,
their accuracy, the relevance of supporting documents, eligibility for financ-
ing in terms of the project's legal agreements and the standard of record
keeping and internal controls related to the foregoing. The Special Account
would be audited by the Internal Auditing Department of the Central Bank.
VII. PRODUCTION, DEMAND, MARKETING AND PRICES
7.01      Chapters VII, VIII and most of IX deal exclusively with the Rondonia
Settlement Consolidation subproject, which is the directly production oriented
component of the project, and as such, most readily subject to quantifiable
financial and economic analysis.
A. Production
7.02      The Settlement Consolidation subproject would reinforce existing
Government programs already initiated in the project area to expand produc-
tion, principally of coffee, cocoa and rubber. Support would also be given to
improve the productivity, reduce losses and expand production of annual crops
such as rice, corn, beans and manioc, and to purchase and use small animals
and livestock fitting the typical farmer's production pattern and consumption
requirements.
7.03      Production increases in the subproject area are expected to result
from (a) increased production of 18,200 farmers who would directly receive
full project support and credit; (b) all other farmers in the subproject area
who would see their losses reduced due to better transport and marketing;
(c) increased production of annual crops by newly arriving sharecroppers or
laborers; and (d) an expansion, mainly of tree crops, in already developed
farms of the area, which have achieved the capacity to self-finance such
plantings (the latter two items not to be considered as direct benefits
of the project proposed for Bank financing). The reduction of post-harvest
losses would mostly affect the rice crop and is expected to amount to about
10% of actual production. The production increases of project beneficiaries
would be mainly due to (a) moderate increases in tree crop yields with some
expansion of tree crop areas; (b) an expansion of small animal production;
(c) a modest increase in average yields of annual crops due to improved techniques
(timing, plant spacing, weeding) and inputs (seeds, fertilizers, insecticides)
promoted under the technical assistance component; and (d) a reduction in rice
crop losses from an average of 30% to an average of 20%, due to improved on-farm



- 39 -
storage and drying, improved transportation and off-farm storage and drying
facilities. Yields assumed at full development are below levels already
attained by the most progressive farmers in the project area. They reflect
the mission's best estimates of what could be achieved on average, given the
level of project farmers' resources, managerial capacity and the availability
of improved Government services.
7.04      A summary of expected production increases in the Settlement Con-
solidation subproject area, derived from the four representative farm models
(discussed in Chapter VIII) is given in Table 5. These figures represent a
conservative estimate of the development to be achieved in the project area
under the project. The assumed expansion in tree crops under the project
is thought to be the minimum that moderately successful direct participants
would undertake. The more ambitious and resourceful beneficiaries (as in the
case of the already well established settlers who would not be the focus of
this project) would, in any case, continue to expand their stands of tree
crops. (Corresponding income was not considered in the economic analysis of
the project since it would not have been generated by the project.) The
estimated incremental production of annual crops is also conservative given
the fact that the rural population will probably continue to grow rapidly,
with new arrivals continuing to clear plots for cultivation of subsistence
crops while working on the tree crops of an established settler. Annual crops
would initially be intercropped under perennials, with a gradual shift towards
continuous cropping with adequate rotations, possibly including fallow periods.
Farmers are likely to prefer continuous cultivation to shifting cultivation
since the former can give higher returns per manday, require less total labor
and result in lower seasonal labor demand peaks. The adoption of continuous
cultivation would require, however, that adequate extension services, credit
and inputs 'especia'lly of improved seeds and essential fertilizers) be available.
Since the shift to continuous cultivation would be done over a five to six
years period, the project would have reasonable time to establish the necessary
conditions for its implementation (see Annex 4).
7.05      At estimated January 1981 farmgate prices, adjusted to take into
consideration improvements resulting from parallel investments in roads and
from market information services, directly project-generated incremental annual
production at full development (beyond year 15) is expected to amount to
US$143.5 million. Approximately 31% of this value would come from incremental
production of coffee, 25% from cocoa and 21% from rubber, with the remainder
being generated from various animal products (12%) and annual crops (11%).
B. Demand, Markets and Prices
7.06      Brazil produces 25% of the world's coffee.  High prices in 1979 have
been followed by lower price levels which are expected to persist in the medium
term in the light of world economic conditions and large stocks which resulted
from declines in consumption while world production was rising. The influence
of the severe frost of July 1981 in southern Brazil on world coffee supply and
prices has not yet been fully appraised. Some 26,800 ha are currently planted
in coffee in the Rondonia subproject area, about half of it planted in the
past three years, producing about 8,100 tons of green beans in 1980. Without
the project, the area planted in coffee might be expected to increase



- 40 -
Table 5:    Present and Estimated Incremental Crop Production
Incremental Production by Year 1995 5
Crops            Present Production             Direct Beneficiaries
      1980                   Incrementa-L_/   Farm-gate
Area    Production         Area      Product'      Value
'000ha    '000t            '000ha      '000t     US$million
Rice (paddy)    65.6         98.4           11.8        33.6         8.4
Corn             37.0        59.2           10.6        20.6         4.2
Beans             6.8         2.7            6.3         3.7         1.9
Manioc            6.9       103.5            2.2        22.2         1.2
CoffeeW1         26.8         8.1           17.4        24.2        45.8
Cocoa            32.8         3.3           15.0        22.5        35.5
Rubber            0.8         -             10.0         9.9        29.6
Banana           18.8        37.6             -           -           -
Beef               -          1.1             -          1.0         1.5
Eggs               -          -               -         21.6 1!      1.1
Chickens           -          -               -          1.2 1       2.2
Pork               -          -               -          8.5 1/    11.3
Milk               -          5.5             -          2.5 2/        .8
TOTAL           195.5                                              143.5 3t
1/   Million units
2/   Million liters
3/   Of which US$13.5 million on-farm consumption (half of rice, eggs, chicken
and milk production and totality of corn, beans and manioc production)
and US$130 million marketed.
4/   Incremental with respect to the assumed "without-project" growth.
5/   With slight variations depending on crop.
6/   Production in terms of green  beans (as exported).



- 41 -
to about 74,600 ha by 1986/87. The annual production from these plantings
would amount to about 78,700 tons by around 1995. With the project, the total
area planted in coffee would reach some 92,000 ha in the next five to seven
years, or about 17,400 ha more than without the project. The total increase
(i.e. that which would occur even without the project, together with the
increase directly facilitated by the project) in coffee plantings in the
subproject area, where climate and soil conditions are favorable to coffee,
represents only 8% of the 750,000 ha which would be planted nationwide within
the next five years, assuming a continuation of Brazil's general efforts to
replant 5% of the country's 3 million ha in coffee each year, gradually taking
coffee out of the frost-prone areas in southern Brazil states. Incremental
coffee production directly generated by the project (i.e. the difference
between "with" and "without project" production) by 1995, is expected to be of
the order of 24,200 tons of dry beans. This represents less than 2% of the
average Brazilian production during the last five years or less than 0.5% of
recent world production. The International Coffee Organization (ICO) foresees
a possible world oversupply of coffee by the end of the decade a possibility.
ICO reintroduced quotas on exports of coffee in October 1980 and has cautioned
against investment in projects designed to increase production significantly,
unless such increased production is due to a diversified pattern of agriculture
as part of an integrated rural development program. Production from such
programs should be offset by reduced production from marginal areas taken out
of coffee. The proposed project meets these criteria as the production of
coffee in the project area is part of rural development efforts oriented
towards relatively low-income farmers. Moreover, it is expected that the new
production will replace coffee from less suitable areas such as the "frost
belt" areas of Parana, where coffee production in declining. In the Northwest,
on the other hand, ecological considerations make tree crops particularly
suitable to protect soil resources, while other crop alternatives are limited.
Brazil is a major member of the ICO and has demonstrated its interest in an
orderly world coffee market and its support for the International Coffee
Agreement. To achieve this, coffee development is monitored, and the Govern-
ment makes use principally of price and credit mechanisms to contain or expand
coffee production as appropriate. Project returns are computed on the assump-
tion that the price of coffee would remain at current relatively low levels
for the next 10 years, as projected by the Bank. 1/
7.07      The Territory of Rondonia planting targets for cocoa and rubber were
established by the respective commodity institutions, based on studies of
international markets and national production levels. These targets, envisage
the establishment in Rondonia of 100,000 ha of cocoa and 35,000 ha of rubber
between 1981 and 1985. Expansion envisaged in the subproject area is well
within these limits (see Table 5), representing only 30% of the territorial
cocoa program and 57% of the rubber to be planted, including estimates of
spontaneous plantings by farmers who are not direct beneficiaries of the
project, whereas the subproject area contains half of Rondonia's rural popula-
tion and an even higher percentage of the soils adequate for these crops.
World cocoa production fluctuates widely; demand for cocoa is inelastic
and prices are very sensitive to changes in world production. Production is
increasing very rapidly in Brazil, Cameroon, Ivory Coast and Malaysia but has
declined in recent years in Ghana and Nigeria. The high world prices that
1/   See E.P.D.C.E. Memorandum:  Commodity Price Forecasts Updating, June 22,
1981, page 4.



42 
prevailed in 1977-1978 have declined to their lowest level since early 1976.
They are expected to remain at current low levels, in real terms, through the
1980's, while world production is expected to continue to increase. 1/ Brazil
has some 640,000 ha planted in cocoa, of which some 480,000 ha are in production.
With yields around 720 kg/ha of beans9 the 1981 production is estimated at
about 3409000 tons, (i.e., about one-fifth of world production and close to
that of the world's largest producer, Ivory Coast). Annual cocoa production
has been forecast to further rise to 450,000 t by 1985 and to 500,000 t by the
end of the decade, confirming Brazil as the world's largest cocoa producer.
Targets for expansion between 1976 and 1985 were 300,000 ha for planting and
150,000 ha for replanting. Of the 450,000 ha total, 245,000 ha would be
established between 1981 and 1985. Incremental cocoa production in the sub-
project area (22,500 tons by about 1995) would represent about 1.3% of present
world production and less than 5% of Brazil's planned production for the 1990s.
7.08      World demand for elastomers is increasing at a rate that cannot be
met by existing areas planted with rubber, nor by increased output from
existing synthetic rubber factories, which are furthermore affected by increas-
ing oil prices. Three major producers -- Malaysia, Indonesia and Thailand --
dominate the world natural rubber market, producing among them 80% of the
total. Of the three, only Thailand's exports show a rapidly rising trend.
About two-thirds of Brazil's 65,000 t natural rubber and one-fifth of its
180,000 t synthetic rubber requirements are imported. Yet, Brazil is consid-
ered to have a long term potential to become a net rubber exporter. Plans
embodied in the rubber development program (PROBOR I and II) aim at increasing
the area planted to rubber in Brazil by 120,000 ha within the next five years.
While current price incentives to local farmers will probably decrease as
imports are reduced, and thus the present difference (of the order of two to
one) between Brazilian and world natural rubber prices would narrow, inter-
national prices are expected to increase by about 10% over the next ten years,
which should permit the maintenance of an attractive price to the domestic
producer for the foreseeable future.
7.09      The Rondonia urban and rural population is expected to grow at a
faster rate than the area's production of most annual crops and animal pro-
ducts. Incremental production of these commodities would therefore be mainly
absorbed by local demand. Corn is consumed mostly by local livestock and
poultry. Beans and manioc (as flour) would be consumed on-farm or in the
neighboring urban centers and villages. Rice production is expected to reach
a surplus (net of on-farm consumption) of about 38,000 tons of paddy, which
would be consumed in urban centers in the territory and neighboring states.
It can be noted that incremental project production shown in Table 5 repre-
sents less than 1% of Brazilian output for annual crops (about 9% for coffee
and 13% for cocoa) shown in Table 3.  World prices for food crops in general
are expected to at least remain stable and possibly increase up to 30% for
rice and beans and 60% for corn over the next decade in real terms (see update
to Bank Report 814-80: Price Projections for Major Primary Commodities). This
is especially true for Brazil, where competition for suitable soils between
fooderops, commercial export crops and cultivation of sugarcane, manioc and
other products for fuel production is expected to move prices in an upward
trend. The main prices used in the financial and economic analyses of the
1/   See E.P.D.C.E. Memorandum:  Commodity Price Forecasts Updating, June 22,
1981, page 4.



- 43 -
Settlement Consolidation subproject are given in Annex 5, Table 4. Prices used
in the forestry and environmental protection sub-projects are shown in various
tables appended to Annex 7. Further cost data are available in various Staff
Working Papers.
C. Marketing Channels
7.10      Possibly the major constraint to agricultural development in the
region has been the difficulty of farmers' access to markets. Tremendous
premiums are paid, especially during the rainy season (November-May) when
rice is harvested, for transporting produce to the BR-364, where most of
the purchasing points are to be found. Losses due to spoilage and rotting
are very high (estimated, on the average, at 30% for rice). Purchasers
of produce are usually (a) trucker/intermediaries operating along BR-364;
(b) owners of intermediate processing facilities for rice, coffee and cocoa;
or (c) the Government, under its minimum price purchasing program for grains
and beans (which have to be delivered by the producer to stores located
in the main towns). Due to high transportation costs, lack of medium term
financing and inadequate on- or near-farm storage and drying facilities,
monopsonistic power is great, and farmers obliged to sell to intermediaries
at the farm gate receive a much lower price than they potentially could.
7.11      A number of actions considered under or in parallel with the
project should help reduce losses and substantially improve and then stabilize
farmgate prices: (a) access roads would be built or upgraded and maintained
to all-weather standards; (b) warehouses and grain drying facilities would be
built, inland from the main highway, at strategic locations within the project
area; (c) the Government minimum price purchase and loan schemes would be
expanded and simplified, to service a larger number of small farmers; 1/
(d) credit access would be broadened, increasing the small farmer's range of
marketing options and improving his bargaining position; (e) farmers would be
encouraged to build simple on-farm stores; and (f) the agricultural extension
service would provide price and other market information to farmers.
VIII. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A. Illustrative Farm Types
8.01      Analysis of probable on-farm development in the subproject area
was based on four illustrative models structured to reflect the impact on
farmer income of the planned development of the major crops sponsored under
the project. Since it is a fundamental project objective to concentrate
agricultural services and credit on the less developed segment of the area
population, whether owner or sharecropper, each model assumes a "without-project"
scenario which develops from the present situation -- as measured in surveys and
studies conducted by INCRA, CEPA-RO, ASTER-RO, EMBRAPA, FAO and the Brazilian
1/   Government authorities are aware of the further need to simplify admin-
istrative procedures in order to give small farmers full access to the
minimum price scheme and are considering measures to that effect.



- 44 -
Institute of Geography and Statistics (IBGE) -- of farmers who have been Iivirng
on their standard 100 ha plots in the settlement areas an average of two years
before project sponsored activities begin to affect them, and who would,
without the project, expand their cropped area at a slower rhythm and with
less productive methods than if the project were to reach them.  Assistance
under the subproject would provide the farmer with the resources and know-how
to plant a minimum area of perennial crops (3 ha of coffee, 5 ha of cocoa or
5 ha of rubber), which should allow him to "get off the ground." The estimatted
financial rate of return for the farmer would range from 22% to over 50%. It
is to be expected, however, that these farmers would eventually expand their
cultivated area beyond this minimum, financing it with their retaineL earnings
or further credit and would thus further enhance the overall economic impact
of the subproject. A description of the four farm types, including the
agro-technical assumptions, operating results, cash flows and monthly labor
use, is provided in Annex 4.
Table 6
Cultivated Area Per Farm
and Financial Rate of Return
(unit: ha)
Coffee Share-
Crop         Coffee owner        cropper         Cocoa Owner    Rubber Owner
Pre-    Full      Pre-    Full      Pre-   Full    pre-    Fu:ll
Proj.   Devt.    Proj.  Devt.       Proj.  Devt.   Proj.   Devt.
Coffee             1.0      8.0       -   (4.0) 2/    1.0    1.0        1.0      3.0
Cocoa/Rubber            -         -          -           -      5.0      -
Annual Crops       3.5      4.5       3.0   3.5         3.5    4.5      305      4.5
Pasture             -       5.0        -     -           -      5.0      -       5.0
Fallow/Regrowth   2.5    12.5         1.0   3.0         2.5   14.5      2.5    13.5
Forest            89.0 1/ 63.5 1/    -       -         93.0   70.0    93.0    69.0
Financial rate
of return          > 50%             > 50%               34%             21%
1/   Takes into account area cleared for annual crops by sharecropper operating
on same plot (see next column).
2/   Part of the 8 ha of the owner's coffee plot.
8.02      An analysis of the sensitivity of financial rates of return and
farmer income to variations in price and/or yield in the major crops, to
evaluate the attractiveness of the proposed investments in light of possible
attacks 1/ of coffee rust, witches broom disease (cocoa) or South American
leaf blight (rubber) shows the results given in Table 7.
1/   Not likely in the degree tested here, given the availability of known
protection means (see para 3.10).



- 45 -
8.03      An analysis of changes in fertilizer expenditures shows that a three-
fold increase in fertilizer expenditures would leave all land-owner farmers with
annual incomes above USs13,500, and financial rates of return of about 45% for
coffee farmers, 26%0 for cocoa farmers and 13% for rubber farmers, who are working
on poorer quality soils. With the same increase in fertilizer expenditures,
returns on rice, which is the main annual crop in the region, would still be
above the normal renumeration of the labor involved i-n its production.
Table 7
Financial Sensitivity Analysis
Normal Yields         Main Perennial Yield
and Projected       or Projected Price Cut by
Prices        25%           50%           75%
Rates of Return (%)
Coffee farmer                 >50            >50            47.3          38.6
Cocoa farmer                   33.6           23.2          <0            <0
Rubber farmer                  20             15.9           5.4          <0
Sharecropper 1/
Family Income
(US$/year) 2/
Coffee farmer                 14,900         11,900         8,900        5,900
Cocoa farmer                  15,400         12,500         9,500        6,600
Rubber farmer                 16,900         13,700        10,300        6,900
Sharecropper                   5,850          4,800         3,800        2,800
I/   Above 100% in all cases.
2/   At full development.
8.04      The proposed farm types envision a minimum level of development,
sufficient to ensure the small farmer's success and stability. As such,
the incremental manpower will be provided mainly by the farm family and the
sharecropper on the coffee farm, with an additional 150 worker-days per year
to be hired on the cocoa farm at full development, and 390 worker-days at
the rubber farm. Details of monthly labor requirements based on FAO field
surveys in the subproject area are given in various tables of Annex 4.
(Volunteer farmer labor contributions to community works envisaged under
the project would be required mainly during the project investment period,
when tree crops would not yet be producing, and on-farm labor needs would be
relatively low. By the time the project reaches full development, community
labor would be needed only for limited maintenance activities.) Global
subproject employment generation is described in para 9.09. Development,
over and above the minimum levels postulated here, will generate a strong
demand for hired (or sharecropper) labor in quantities depending on the
type of crop chosen for expansion. Rubber would generate by far the heaviest
incremental labor requirements per hectare. Although sharecropping arrange-
ments have evolved only for coffee and cocoa so far, they would probably
develop for rubber as plantations grow. Sharecropper terms are very lucrative
at present, but will probably decrease as more labor becomes available through



- 46 -
continuing immigration. These trends would be monitored through the life of
the project, so that measures can be sought to ensure fair returns to share-
croppers, should such measures become necessary.
8.05      The representative farm budgets reflect on-farm investments (includ-
ing land clearing and preparation, establishment of pasture and permanent tree
crops, purchase of livestock, pigs and poultry, minor tools and equipment) and
expected operating and maintenance costs, including fertilizers, soil con-
servation and disease control. Prices for inputs, labor and production were
assumed to be at the average level prevailing over the last three years, in
real terms, modified to take into account year-round access, improved market-
ing conditions and reduced transportation costs resulting from access roads
construction. Transportation cost savings resulting from the pavement of
BR-364 and construction of feeder roads, not taken into account in this
analysis, were taken into account in the evaluation of the overall Northwest
program (see para 2.08).
B. Producer Income
8.06      The present income of the targeted beneficiary families of the
project is estimated to be equivalent to about US$850 in 1981 terms. This is
below the rural relative poverty level for Brazil which is about US$330 per
capita or US$1,580 for the average 4.8 member family of the subproject area
(where, furthermore, the cost-of-living is higher than in most other rural
areas of Brazil). With the project, target farmers, most of whom are strug-
gling today, are expected to increase their family income to the equivalent of
a weighted average of about US$11,900 in 1981 terms. Without the project
(a) development is .xpected to occur at a much slower rate; (b) the average
income generated at "full development" would be considerably lower; and
(c) there would be a large disparity of income between owners and sharecroppers
on one hand and, on the other hand, between farmers located near already exist-
ing services and infrastructure and those further away from BR-364. Many of
the less advantaged farmers would probably gradually leave the area, transfer-
ring their land to their more successful neighbors or outside land speculators,
as has been observed in areas of earlier and less organized settlement.
8.07      Estimated income levels for the four illustrative farm types, including
the value of on-farm consumption of subsistence products are given below:



- 47 -
Table 8: Estimated Farm Family Income from On-Farm
Agricultural Activities
Expected Participants
Farm Type         Pre-Project 1/  At Full Development       Number  % of Total
------------  uss-$-
Coffee Owner             1,000              14,860                 6,600        36
Coffee Sharecropper        690               5,850 2/              6,600        36
Cocoa Owner              1,000              15,440                 3,000        16
Rubber Owner               710              16,890                 2,000        12
Weighted Average/
All Farmers              850               11,910               18,200       100
1/   These incomes may be understated to the extent that they are sometimes
supplemented with off-farm work as day-laborers, especially in the case
of sharecroppers.
2/   While the disparity between sharecropper and landowner incomes increases
with respect to the "pre-project" situation, the final disparity is much
smaller than could be expected to occur in a "without project" development
situation.
C. Fiscal Impact
8.08      Very substantial fiscal benefits would be obtained from the project
mainly through the taxation of all Settlement Consolidation subproject
production marketed inside or outside the Territory of Rondonia. It is
estimated at present that, because of institutional weaknesses of the Terri-
tory, only about 30% of merchandise circulating within the Territory is
subjected to taxation. New collection measures are in the process of imple-
mentation, however, and in the future, up to 70% of the marketed incremental
sub-project production (i.e., 70% of US$130 million) would be subject to
taxation. At an average rate of 12.5%, the expected marketing taxation would
produce, at full project development, Territory Government revenues of the
order of US$11.4 million per annum. This would be considerably in excess of
the some US$5.3 million per year of recurrent costs of Territory Government
services generated by the sub-project. The Federal Government would, even at
the recently reduced export tax level of US$50 per 60 kg bag of green coffee,
generate revenue in excess of US$20 million from incremental coffee production
alone at full project development. Rural Social Security (FUNRURAL) revenues
are expected to increase by some US$2.5 million per year by full development.
IX. ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATIONS
A. Economic Rate of Return
9.01      The economic rate of return for the directly productive aspects
of the Rondonia Settlement Consolidation subproject (representing about 89%
of subproject costs or 63% of total project costs) has been estimated at
about 22%. For various other aspects of the project, such as the environmental



- 48 -
protection and education components, which have significant but not readily
quantifiable benefits, no economic rate of return was calculated. The details
of the cost and benefit streams assumed in the economic analysis are given in
Annex 5. Other details of the economic analysis are available in the Project
File.
9.02      The cost stream used in the economic evaluation of productive
activities included (a) all on-farm incremental investment and operating
costs (based on the phased aggregation of the different farm types);
(b) off-farm investments and incremental operating costs directly related to
agricultural development during the project period; and (c) recurrent costs
of services and maintenance of infrastructure after the 5 years of project
implementation, necessary to sustain projected development. The cost stream
thus includes 100% of project costs for agricultural extension, research,
farmer organization, storage and drying facilities, agricultural service
centers, access roads, and subproject coordination, management and monitoring
at the Rondonia level. The cost stream excludes the costs of the education,
environmental protection and program-wide coordination components.
9.03      It should be noted that most of the off-farm investments and
services would have significant benefits over and above the incremental
production of the 18,200 participants receiving direct and intensive assis-
tance. The 39 service centers would provide extension, storage, drying,
marketing, input supply and other services to all of the farmers, including
sharecroppers who live within their area of influence. Group extension
techniques would eventually reach many more than the direct farmer benefi-
ciaries enumerated above. Project access roads are expected to have a sub-
stantial beneficial impact on all who live in the project area, increasing
access to services, facilitating the outflow of production and hence improving
the likelihood of adoption of more productive farming techniques.
9.04      The benefit stream used in the economic rate of return analysis
includes all of the incremental production (and reduced losses) above the
"without project" development of the 18,200 farmers expected to received
direct technical assistance and credit, phased according to the incorporation
of these participants into the project. It does not attempt to quantify
benefits derived from potential yield improvements and diminished post harvest
losses of other area farmers benefitting from project infrastructure alone.
The phasing of incremental direct beneficiary farmers, by farm type, by year,
is as follows:
Table 9: Phasing of Incremental Direct Beneficiary Farmers
Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   Year 5   Total
Coffee owner                160       730    1,380    2,430    1,900    6,600
Coffee sharecropper         160       730    1,380    2,430    1,900    6,600
Cocoa owner                  60       300       600    1,140       900    3,000
Rubber owner                  50      220       420      740       570    2,000
Total                        430    1,980    3,780    6,740    5,270   18,200



- 49 -
9.05      The prices used in the economic analysis for those goods traded on
the international market are border prices adjusted to take into account
transport, handling and insurance costs. Of the products produced under the
project, Brazil is a net exporter of cocoa and coffee, and a net importer of
rice, corn, meat, rubber and, now, beans. Brazil is also a net importer of
fertilizer, for which a border price, similarly adjusted, was calculated.
Non-traded goods such as manioc are valued at local farmgate prices. Most
of these prices would remain stable or increase over the next decade. Labor
was priced at 75% of the market wage, to reflect the substantial unemployment
and underemployment in the rest of the country. Foreign exchange costs and
benefits were adjusted upward by 15% to reflect trade-distorting tariffs,
subsidies, advance import deposits, export taxes and quantitative restrictions.
9.06      To measure the impact of possible changes in the economic environment
on the project's stream of costs and benefits, several sensitivity tests were
made. The results of the most significant are as follows:
Table 10: Sensitivity Test Results on Internal Economic Rate of Return (%)
Best Estimate           22       Benefits down 50%:       14
Costs up by 20%         20       Benefits lag 3 years:  16
Benefits down by 20%:  19        Costs up 20% and-
benefits down 20%:   17
9.07      The estimated return of the project is fairly insensitive to likely
variations in costs and benefits.   This is due in part to the diversification
in cropping pattern which the project induces, since a large segment of the
areas to be planted in cocoa and rubber would otherwise be gradually planted
in coffee. An analysis of the impact of major declines in the prices of the
main perennial crops shows that declines of up to 75% in the price of any one
of the main crops would not bring the economic rate of return of the project
below 15% (see Table 11). A five-fold increase in fertilizer expenditures
would bring the economic rate of return of the project down to about 17%. The
rate of return is enhanced by the project's contribution to agricultural
exports and the reduction of agricultural imports, and by the relatively low
foreign exchange content of project costs.
Table 11
Sensitivity of Economic Returns to Changes in World Commodity Prices
Prices drop by
Rate of Return (%)               25%         50%         75%
Drop in coffee prices            20          17          15
Drop in cocoa prices             20          18          17
Drop in rubber prices            21          21          21
B. Project Beneficiaries
9.08      Access roads, NUAR infrastructure and overall institutional strength-
ening would benefit most of the 75,000 families expected to live in the



- 50 -
Settlement Consolidation subproject area by 1985, and the education component
would attend some 67,000 students. Direct benefits would accrue from agricul-
tural services to the 18,200 target families (or some 87,000 beneficiaries),
with spill-over effects on most of the remaining area population. The environ-
mental protection components would benefit in the long term practically all
the population of the Northwest region. The parallel Amerindian protection
program is expected to reach most of the 4,600 Amerindians living in official
reserves of the program region. Sharing the cost of direct benefit sources
among their 18,200 immediate beneficiaries, and the rest of all other consoli-
dation subproject components among 75,000 families, results in a composite
indicator of a subproject base cost of about US$2,000 per family in January
1981 prices, including physical contingencies but excluding credit provided
parallel to the project.
C. Employment
9.09      The project area is absorbing labor at an extremely rapid rate.
It is estimated that about 70,000 people a year have been arriving in Rondonia
since 1976. It is expected that about 60,000 people a year (12,000 families)
will continue to seek to establish themselves in the rural areas of Rondonia
during the project investment period. While these numbers are large, the
development of perennial crops envisioned under the various Government programs
for coffee, cocoa and rubber will require the availability of large quantities
of semi-skilled agricultural labor. Seasonal shortages. of labor are already
being felt, and salaries in Rondonia are 50% above rates earned in the North-
east of Brazil, and well above the minimum wage. The agricultural development
to be directly sponsored under the project alone requires an additional 20,700
laborer-years annually at full development. Of this, some 16,100 laborer-years
would be met by family labor. The economic activity generated by the incre-
mental agricultural production would furthermore create numerous jobs in the
intermediation, milling and processing industries. The additional agricultural
labor will be absorbed on a sharecropping basis (as demonstrated in the farm
type analysis undertaken for the project) or on a day-laborer basis.
9.10      The project aims to improve farm family income and considers the
whole family as a productive unit. Additional work opportunities are provided
on the farm for women and children. Without their decisive participation it
is unlikely that the pioneer family could make it through the precarious few
years after arrival, when the family can only rely on its own resources to
meet its requirements and make sufficient cash for necessary purchases (kero-
sene, clothing, salt, sugar). The extension service and farmer organization
programs focus on the needs of the whole family, with the social agent dealing
with the non-agricultural aspects of pioneer life. Women participated at all
levels of project preparation, and would be actively included in the implemen-
tation team, ensuring continued attention to the role of women.



- 51 -
D. Environmental Impact
Rondonia Settlement Consolidation Subproject
9.11      The subproject would improve techniques of tree crop development
and soil conservation. It would provide research aimed in part to reduce
shifting cultivation and to stabilize annual cropping. Technical advice would
focus on the need to confine forest clearing to areas of appropriate agricul-
tural potential, using appropriate methods of land clearing. The subproject
would include studies for the improved utilization of the timber being removed.
The technical advice and zoni-ng developed by various subproject related activ-
ities would contribute significantly to the preservation of (non-encroachment
on) areas of low agricultural potential.
Other Project Components
9.12      Practically all other components included in the project are aimed
at enhancing the knowledge of the natural environment of the project area
and of its ecosystems and at devising and implementing methods for their
protection and/or more rational and sustained use. Detailed environmental
protection objectives of these components have been discussed in various
chapters of the report. Finally, parallel Government action would permit the
native Amerindian population to continue their traditional lifestyle, adapting
at their own pace to encroaching modern development, while probably improving
their physical well-being.
E. Project Risks
9.13      Results achieved to date in the Settlement Consolidation subproject
area provide an objective indication of the development potential of the area.
Nevertheless, the project is located in an environmentally sensitive frontier
area -- a situation which leaves room for genuine differences of opinion on
the gravity of the possible environmental consequences of such development.
Furthermore, the administrative set-up of the project is, by necessity, quite
complex, making the monitoring, feed back and decision process needed to
detect and minimize eventual risks more difficult to implement and subject
to occasional failures. While such risks can not be totally avoided, it is
believed that the measures incorporated into the project would result in a far
lower level of damage than would occur if the settlement consolidation and
environmental protection project were not implemented or were implemented
without Bank participation, and the potential of the area to contribute
significantly to the development of Brazil clearly outweighs such controlled
risks. The following paragraphs summarize the major identified project risks
and some measures built into the project to reduce such risks as far as possible.
Institutional Risks
9.14      The project involves a large number of federal and local institu-
tions, some recently created (such as CODARON) and others, such as ASTER-RO,
IBDF and SUDECO, requiring considerable strengthening to accomplish their



- 52 -
respective functions within the project. The project is believed to provide
adequate inputs for institution build-up, but, considering the frontier
conditions in which these institutions will be operating, occasional fallures
have to be expected, and the capacity and operations of all institutions
involved will have to be carefully monitored throughout the project life to
reduce such failures to a minimum. Major institutional improvements and
commitment of project related staff observed since the early stages in the
preparation of this project are seen as favorable indicators for the future.
Production Risks
9.15      Considering the patchy nature of the region's soils, even where
they are of an overall good quality, and the requirements for appropriate
cultivation techniques to maintain soil fertility, extension agents will be
trained to pay particular attention to proper land use and agricultural
practices. The extension service, ASTER-RO, is staffed with relatively
inexperienced personnel, and detailed knowledge of the local circumstances is,
by nature in a frontier area, still in development. The project provides for
intensive training of new staff and a relatively heavy research program to
provide the basic information for continuous retraining and upgrading of
staff. While the dry season in Rondonia is considered to be very favorable
for rubber trees, none of the areas already planted in rubber have yet reached
maturity. However, risks due to various potential crop infirmities are
considered to be manageable, and eventual disease outbreaks could be controlled
with known techniques and within the financial resources of farmers who have
gone beyond the initial development period. Before they achieve such resources,
there is a risk that less successful farmers sell their plots to better off
neighbors and move on to new development areas.
Amerindian Risks
9.16      While the Government has committed itself to implement the Amerin-
dian protection program and has already taken a number of measures in that
direction, the adequate protection of Amerindians living in the program area
would require (a) continuity of this Government commitment; (b) timeliness of
Amerindian health care and land protection with respect to the regional devel-
opment process; and (c) further improvements in the administrative capacity of
FUNAI to carry out effectively its increased responsibilities in the region.
The Special Project for the protection of Amerindians in the region was
designed especially to remedy the uneven past performance of FUNAI on these
issues, and the project provides for future action to be c'losely monitored.
Environmental Risks
9.17      Since the project is located within the Amazon basin, i.e. in a
frontier area where the environment has not yet been fully studied, and where
the ecology is believed to be particularly fragile, various environmental
risks have been noted throughout this report, and a number of actions proposed
to monitor the impact of the project on its immediate and larger environment
for the timely detection of potentially dangerous trends and the elaboration
and implementation of remedial measures.



- 53 -
X. SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
10.01     Assurances were received from the Federal Government that:
(a)  UEPAT would publicize each year, the results of research
activities performed under the project (para 4.10);
(b)  warehouses constructed under the project would be adequately
staffed and maintained by CIBRAZEM (para 4.11);
(c)  adequate working capital and investment credit would be made
available to project beneficiaries (para 4.15);
(d)  the plan to improve seed supply would be fully executed in
Rondonia before December 31, 1985, and UEPAT would supply suffi-
cient basic seeds for the production of improved seeds in the
project area (para 4.16);
(e)  salvage logging studies would be completed by IBDF and their
conclusions and recommendations presented to the Bank before
December 31, 1982 (para 4.17);
(f)  INCRA would have provided all land-owners within the extended
areas of the five subproject settlements with definitive titles
by March 31, 1982 (para 4.18);
(g)  INCRA would carry out, or cause to be carried out, on the basis
of terms of reference and a schedule satisfactory to the Bank,
a study on the land tenure and use conditions and regulations in
the Settlement Consolidation subproject area (para 4.18);
(h)  it would take all necessary measures to discourage the agricultural
exploitation of areas not recognized as suitable for agricultural
development and prevent the occupation of legal reserves (para 4.19);
(i)  it would, by March 31, 1982, assign to various agencies specific
responsibilities for the planning and implementation of national
forest projects (para. 4.20);
(j)  IBDF would (i) provide to the Bank adequate detailed terms of
reference for the forest development planning studies prior to
June 30, 1982; and (ii) complete those studies prior to June 30,
1983; and all the necessary steps would subsequently be taken to
implement appropriate controlled forestry development plans
(para 4.20);



- 54 -
(k) all seven IBDF forestry control posts in the Northwest region would
be fully operational by December 31, 1982 (para 4.21);
(1) IBDF and FUNAI would enter into an agreement spelling out their
collaboration for the protection of the Pacaas Novos Park and
adjoining interdicted areas and outlining plans and procedures
for IBDF works in areas of interest to FUNAI (para 4.22);
(m) the Guapore Biological Reserve would be defined and legally
established no later than March 31, 1982 (para 4.22);
(n) the boundaries of the Cunia ecological station would be delimited
by March 31, 1982; the station would be established promptly
thereafter; and SEMA would present detailed engineering designs
and plans for the four ecological stations, satisfactory to the
Bank, before respective works are initiated (para 4.23);
(o) CNPq would have prepared, by March 31, 1982, a detailed ecological
research program comprising terms of reference and execution arrange-
ments satisfactory to the Bank and would promptly thereafter, assign
implementation responsibilities, including arrangements for CNPq to
publish by June 30 of each year the findings and recommendations of
research carried out during the preceding POLONOROESTE fiscal year
(para 4.24);
(p) INCRA would (i) establish its Vila Bela Land Tenure project and
various field units before March 31, 1982; and (ii) initiate
immediately titling procedures in the Mato Grosso Rural Develop-
ment project area (para 4.25);
(q) the terms of reference for special studies contracted by SUDECO
under project funding would be satisfactory to the Bank, and their
results promptly furnished to the Bank (para 4.27);
(r) adequate funds, staff and materials would be provided in a timely
manner to appropriately maintain and operate all project-developed
infrastructure and services (para 5.02);
(s) SUDECO would (i) appoint the two Section Chiefs of the POLONOROESTE
program coordination unit and establish the full unit by March 31,
1982; (ii) maintain this unit fully staffed at all times with
adequate personnel; and (iii) provide to the Bank the proposed
budget for the POLONOROESTE program by component, for the following
year, by October 31 of each year, and finalized budgetary allo-
cations for the program each year as soon as that budget is formally
approved (para 6.02);
(t) the Federal Government would take all necessary steps to promptly
implement the special project for protecting the interests of the
Amerindian communities located in the program area (para 6.03);



- 55 -
(u) SUDECO would enter into contractual arrangements by March 31,
1982 with independent consultants to assist its Program Coordination
Unit in the on-going evaluation of the entire POLONOROESTE program
(para 6.15);
(v) each executing agency involved in POLONOROESTE activities would
establish and provide to the Bank through SUDECO, prior to
March 31, 1982, detailed monitoring plans and procedures satis-
factory to the Bank (para 6.16);
(w) SUDECO would (i) compile all quarterly monitoring reports for trans-
mittal to the Bank promptly upon their completion; and (ii) provide
to the Bank, promptly upon their completion, research and evaluation
studies carried out during project execution, an evaluation of the
execution of the POLONOROESTE program as of March 31, 1984 to be
completed by June 30, 1984 and, within six months of project completion,
a completion report evaluating the project's impact (para 6.16); and
(x) each of the participating agencies would maintain separate accounts
of its project expenditures, which would be appropriately audited,
with copies of the audited statements provided to the Bank through
SUDECO within six months of the end of the calendar year (para 6.17).
10.02     Assurances were received from the Territorial Government of Rondonia
that:
(a)  all access roads in the Settlement Consolidation subproject area
would be adequately maintained (para 4.07);
(b) agricultural extension activities would be consolidated in ASTER-RO,
and necessary measures would be taken to complete, by June 30, 1984,
recruitment (or transfer) and training of project-financed staff
required by ASTER-RO (para 4.09);
(c) adequate funding would be provided for teacher salaries (para 4.13);
(d) the Territorial Government would, before March 31, 1982, enter into
agreements with each municipality in the Settlement Consolidation
subproject area defining their respective responsibilities in the
implementation of the education component of the subproject
(para 4.13);
(e) ASTER-RO and UEPAT would take such steps as may be necessary to
assure that prior to September 30, each year, they agree on basic
seeds requirements for the following crop year (para 4.16);
(f) it would take all necessary measures to discourage the agricultural
exploitation of areas not recognized as suitable for agricultural
development and to prevent the occupation of legal reserves
(para 4.19); and
(g) CODARON would recruit before March 31, 1982 key staff and consul-
tants satisfactory to the Bank (para 6.07).



- 56 -
10.03     A condition of disbursement for the Rondonia Settlement Consolida-
tion subproject would be that agreements had been signed between CODARON,
DER-RO, SOSP and the subproject area municipalities (i) defining their
collaboration on access road construction and maintenance; and (ii) estab-
lishing an appropriate schedule for the construction of feeder roads
(para 4.07).
10.04     A condition of disbursement for the storage component of the Rondonia
Settlement Consolidation subproject would be that an agreement had been
signed between CODARON and CIBRAZEM defining (i) an appropriate plan and
schedule for the construction of warehouses; and (ii) modes of coordination
of construction operations (para 4.11).
10.05     With the above assurances and conditions, the project is suitable
for a Bank loan of US$67 million. The term would be 15 years, including a
grace period of three years.



- 57 -
BRAZIL                                    ANNEX 1
NORTHWEST REGION DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Year        1       2        3       4        5           Total
Rondonia Settlement Consolidation
Rural Service Centers (NUAR)                   3       11      12       13                     39
Access Roads - new (km)                      300      600     650      650     618          2819
Access Roads - improvement (km)                       350     350      396                  1096
Feeder Roads (km)                            200      300     300      350     380          1530
CIBRAZEM Warehouses                                     6       6        7                     19
Multigrade (one-class) Schools                30      110     120      130                    390
NUAR Schools                                   3       11      12       13                     39
Environmental Protection
National    1) Est. Working Group                (1) (2)   (3)
Forests   2) Studies & Surveys
3) Demarcation, Inventory
& Feasibility Studies
Parks & Reserves                        Pacaas Novos
Jaru & Guapore
Taiama
Ecological Stations
Ique/Serra das Araras
Cunia
Control Posts
Ecological Research
Mato Grosso Land Regularization
Discrimination ('000 ha)                     1220    2020   2010                            5250
Demarcation and Titling ('000 ha)                       70    330      390                   790
New Settlement Soil Surveys
OTHER PROJECTS OF THE NORTHWEST PROGRAM
Construction of BR-364                        '                       1       i 1
NW I Health Project                                                            -      _  _
Mato Grosso Rural Development                        I        l       l        l
Project (NW II)                                    i         L     1           1
New Settlements Project (NW III)






- 59 -
ANNEX 2
BRAZIL
NORTHWEST REGION DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
FIRST PHASE
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PROJECT
LIST OF EXECUTING AND COLLABORATING AGENCIES
Activity/Component                        Executing     Main Collaborating
Agencies             Agencies
1. Program Coordination and Management
at Federal level                 SUDECO         SEPLAN-PR
at Territory of Rondonia level  SEPLAN-RO
2. Rondonia Settlement Consolidation
Construction of access roads    CODARON         DER-RO/Municipalities
Construction of NUARs/schools/
health posts   CODARON        Secr. of Education
Agricultural Extension           ASTER-RO/      IBC/SUDHEVEA
CEPLAC
Agricultural and Forestry
Research       EMBRAPA        IBDF/INPA
Storage and Drying               CIBRAZEM
Farmer Organization              Secr. of
Social Action    CODARON
Education (operations)           Municipali-
ties       Secr. of Education
Credit                           BB/BASA        ASTER/RO
Seed Supply                      Private
Farmers       Min. of Agriculture/
EMBRAPA
Rubber Nurseries                 CODARON        SUDHEVEA
Salvage Logging Studies          IBDF           FAO
Monitoring and Evaluation        SEPLAN-RO      CEPA-RO



- 60 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2
3. Environmental Protection
National Forests                    IBDF             INCRA
Deforestation Control               IBDF             CODARON
Natural Reserves                    IBDF
Ecological Stations                 SEMA             Universities
Coordination of Ecological          CNPq
Research
Implementation of Ecological        INPA             Universities/ UNDPI
Research                        Museo Goeldi
Protection of Amerindians           FUNAI
4. Future Project Preparation
Land Tenure Regularization          INCRA
Soil Surveys for new settlements   INCRA             CETEC/EMBRAPA



- 61 -
BRAZIL
NORTHWEST REGION DEVELOPMENT PHASE I
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PROJECT
Project Coo.rinatian and Management Chart
ANNEX O 
F- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~T
rFT               -     -   -   -   -    -   -   -   -   -  -T                                          -   - | -     -   -L  T- -_ _ _ _ . F (lPR/ I   a 5 n, _
r~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n, ,, a,                              So       FUO           an      050     PSI'S00
TI, ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~     ~     ~    ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  
I                               PoocOc      j      -   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- 1 4    . - _ _   -    -  -   - -     - -   - -     - -
r---  _  --=1;----X=t,; 0;__    L---S   S --u                 0           -           }           :~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~------------------------
,      ,                I   I [X-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~------------- --H --Xt1I[S X
fActivitesextendmqasotoMatoGroro~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~M,,.,e         Ilrl MaOn.,                                      2zSOS a
Ev~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ca,a,              -1~e,,n   ~lhIO,n                        I,n
L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
j~~~~~~~~~~Pd
. nn. . r.. . . n.. .      o....n.,?       p,,,'05 5 -                                                 nrrU     IU,
IAan,cnne  ain,5 SLana,  I-,oO  P,an,  ~ o,n,  JEPT  co  cn,raser  ,,,,,  rune  O,hn5  n~,,,,,Tn,,, acre
Ont.n,tn,~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9 ....                                  ---a  - - - - -n                   -lod a - - -O






- 63 -                        AiIsEA 4
BRAZIL
NORTHWEST REGION DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
FIRST PHASE
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PROJECT
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT, TECHNICAL COEFFICIENTS
AND ILLUSTRATIVE FARM TYPES
General Environmental Conditions, Land Use and Farming System
1.        The warm, humid tropical climate of the Settlement Consolidation
subproject area permits the cultivation of most tropical crops. A three to
four month dry period limits annual cropping, but has only transient influence
on tree crops. The soils are very variable, even over short distances. The
principal soils of agricultural significance are eutrophic red-yellow podsols.
These are well-drained loamy soils, often of considerable depth, with variable
susceptibility to erosion, moderate to high cation exchange capacity and
base saturation, with a pH around 5.5 and moderate to high natural fertility
when first cleared from forest. They are judged capable of supporting annual
or perennial crops at moderate to good yields over several years with simple
fertilizer corrections and without conservation measures requiring major
investments and maintenance. They cover around 50% of the municipalities of
Ji-Parana and Cacoal, and an estimated 30% of Ariquemes, according to data
based on land satellite surveys of the area at 1:1,000,000. Much of the
remaining area consists of latosols, cambisols and dystrophic red-yellow
podsols. Some of the latter are totally unsuitable for cultivation. On
others, cropping is possible for one to several years after forest clearance,
but all require good soil management and additional fertilizer based on
site-specific analyses if they are to be kept in crop production for longer.
2.        Unlike the traditional Amazon land use system of shifting culti-
vation or extensive pasture, occupation of the subproject area has been
adjusted to take into account the limited size of land available to each
settler and the favorable climate and soils, which permit the establishment
of perennial crops (coffee, cocoa, rubber) which will form the basis of
future farm income. The first step of would-be settlers is to establish
occupancy and claim ownership to land allocated by INCRA (or squatted on)
by clearing two to four hectares of forest initially used for growing sub-
sistence crops. Cash for other necessities is obtained by taking off-farm
jobs, usually with perennial crops, on more developed farms. In the absence
of credit or technical assistance, some settler families never progress
beyond this stage. The transition from subsistence to commercial farming
is made through the establishment of a perennial crop, usually coffee.
Once a farmer has a perennial crop bearing, he is less dependent on outside
earnings and can devote himself to the further development of the farm
(see para 3.10 of main text). Since a family can only handle up to about
10 ha, the farmer may also start to employ outside labor, usually a share-
cropper family which works full time on the farm and cultivates a small area
of the employer's property for the sharecropper family's own subsistence



ANNEX 4
-64 -                         Page 2
needs. The prospects for development of the sharecropper are limited, but
today his position is usually transitional, until the family can obtain a plot
and title of its own. The sharecropper's position is then usually taken by a
newly arrived immigrant family. As new land for settlement becomes more
scarce, sharecropping arrangements wouid become more permanent.
3.        This system of land use has led to a pattern whereby plots are now
divided in areas of undisturbed forest (still the major part); some tree crops
(mostly coffee and cocoa); annual subsistence crops (pure stand and inter-
cropped); pasture; and areas under scrub regrowth. Following the development
cycle of the farmer's plot, annual subsistence crops are initially planted in
areas freshly cleared from forest, later on as an intercrop of coffee, and
finally single crops are rotated with a two to three years regrowth.
Production Practices
4.        Annual Crops.  Principal annual crops of the subproject area are
currently rice (66,000 ha), corn (37,000 ha), beans (7,000 ha), and manioc
(7,000 ha), while various vegetables are grown for household use. Annual
cropping has been a low-input, risk-avoiding activity. Earliest plantings are
of rice or corn, with beans as a successor crop to either. Seeds are of
unimproved varieties, and almost all operations are manual. No purchased
inputs are used. Time of planting is often inappropriate, especially for
newcomers unfamiliar with the area. Yields are low and vary from year to
year, especially for beans. Post-harvest losses on the farm are high, parti-
cularly for rice (30 to 45%). With poor access to markets and storage, there
is little incentive to produce an excess above the needs for family subsis-
tence. Yield and input levels are shown in Table 1 to this Annex.
5.        Coffee.  The present coffee area of 27,000 ha is divided about
equally between C.  arabica (Catuai and Mundo Novo varieties) and C. robusta
(Conilon). IBC credit was initially provided only for robusta, considered as
more suitable to the area. The arabica varieties were introduced by migrants
from their places of origin in the south, and the Mundo Novo variety seems to
be rather successful in the cooler parts of Rondonia. Production practices
follow those in older coffee growing areas of Brazil. Practically all farmers
establish their own nurseries and offset the establishment cost of coffee by
intercropping with annuals for the first two or three years. Coffee leaf rust
and leaf miners are the main plagues, which can be fully controlled by proper
spraying techniques. Few migrants apply such treatments, and the losses can
amount to 10 to 30%. Under poor management, long, dry periods can also cause
similar losses. On the better soils, coffee grows vigorously and comes into
bearing in its second year. Bushes are not pruned, and this results in heavy
yields by year four or five and a sharp drop after year eight; but by then
the crop has fulfilled the farmer's need for a quick-maturing source of
income. Bushes may be cut to the ground at this stage and permitted to grow a
new canopy over the succeeding years. Pruning techniques, however, are now
being introduced by the extension service, The economic life of the first
planted coffee in Rondonia under this management system is not yet known.



65 -                       ANNEX 4
Page 3
6.        Cocoa.  The present cocoa area of 33,000 ha is divided between
1,550 producers and comprises some 5% of the national total. CEPLAC, respon-
sible for cocoa development, restricts its provision of planting material and
extension and credit services to the areas considered most suitable for cocoa
growing. Cocoa is planted with bananas as shade, which are progressively cut
out over the first three years. Experiments with long term shade have been
initiated. The principal risk is from the witches broom disease, against
which the Secretariat of Agriculture maintains a quarantine service. In the
event of an outbreak, control by a combination of pruning and spraying appears
effective. Under proper management, cocoa establishes itself quickly and
starts yielding in year 3.
7.        Rubber.  The area so far planted to rubber in Rondonia is small
and none has yet reached maturity. However, encouraged by substantial
credit available under the PROBOR program, it is anticipated that about
5,000 ha will be added in the 1980/81 season. The principal risk affecting
rubber is its possible susceptibility to South American Leaf Blight. In
plantings of clones which winter during the dry season, when night tempera-
tures are low, and are maintained with proper spraying techniques, there is
no evidence of more than light damage by the disease at present. The longer
term risks associated with this disease are considered acceptable, since
rubber cultivation is expected to generate sufficient income to cover addi-
tional phytosanitary costs.
8.        Livestock.  Livestock plays a lesser but still important part
in the production schemes of small farmers. Nearly all families keep some
chickens and breeding pigs to provide eggs and meat for their diet. The
corn grown is nearly all fed to these animals, very little being used for
human consumption. Most farmers start planting pasture with a view to raising
some cattle once they become better established. Animal productivity is low,
and few small farmers as yet specialize in their commercial production.
Subproject Objective and Impact
9.        The subproject objective would be to give priority assistance to
(a) settlers who have recently received title to their 50 or 100 ha lots,
but who have not yet received technical assistance and investment credit
and lack resources to develop fully on their own; and (b) sharecroppers
who at the moment produce annual crops mainly for subsistence. Already
established cash-crop farmers would not receive priority assistance, although
they would, in common with the other farming population, benefit from improved
farm access roads, crop drying services and storage, which are expected to
reduce crop losses and increase farmgate prices. Farm families would also
have improved access to public health and education services. The settlers
with title to their land would be offered first-time loans, mainly to estab-
lish tree crops in an area no larger than could be managed by the borrower's
own family. Additional expansion could then be financed from family savings.
The sharecroppers would initially receive extension services tailored to their
needs for low-cost, low-risk improvements in output. The aim of this assis-
tance would be to generate a regular marketable surplus, at which stage
sharecroppers would be justified in using seasonal credit, which could in turn
be used to finance more advanced cultivation practices.



ANNEX 4
66                       Page 4
10.       Project impact would be to promote and accelerate the development
of those farmers who (a) due to lack of funds, inputs or know-how would
otherwise be unable to expand beyond subsistence cultivation; or (b) are
working on someone else's farm. At best, without the project, these poorest
of the settlers would be able to plant one hectare of coffee every other year,
from their own resources, until, many years down the line, they were able to
generate sufficient cash to permit more rapid and sustained growth and an
adequate level of income from on-farm activities. Accelerated development
would promote a higher stability in land ownership, required for rational land
use. In addition, the project would improve the productivity and profitability
of existing agricultural practices for annual and perennial crops, reduce
on-farm losses from an average of 30% to 20%, and promote optimal land use.
These effects would be achieved through the use of two main instruments:
credit and technical assistance.
Credit
11.       In parallel to the project, it is expected that the following
on-farm investment loans would be provided for first-time borrowers.
Number    Maximum Value   Total Value   Average Area   Total
of Loans      per Loan       of Loans      per Loan (ha)   Area
(US$3     (US$ million)
Coffee planting    6,600          3,500            14.3              3         19,800
Cocoa planting      3,000        11,000            11.7              5         15,000
Rubber planting    2,000          9,600            12.0              5         10,000
The loans would be administered by BB and BASA under existing arrangements,
and technically supervised either by CEPLAC (cocoa) or by the integrated
extension service of ASTER-RO, using the original staff from SEAC. The
credit package would allocate about 60% of the territorial program for
coffee planting to small farmers, with whom coffee is the most popular
tree crop. The cocoa allocation represents about 30% and the rubber allocation
less than 60% of the respective incremental areas planned to be planted in
Rondonia between 1981 and 1985.
Research and Technical Assistance
12.       Adaptive agricultural research would be intensified to provide
the necessary information on optimal land use and better cultivation techniques.
As long term research on perennial crops is already being conducted in the area
under national research programs, project research would concentrate exclu-
sively on annual and forage crops under local conditions. Research would
focus on (a) the identification of crops and varieties better adapted to acid
and allic soils; (b) crop rotation systems; and (c) the introduction of
suitable legume crops for pasture or for single cover. The research institute
would also provide soil analyses and farm mapping services and would study, on
several test farms, the potential for animal traction and the labor require-
ments of different farming systems with a view to reducing labor constraints.
Agricultural extension would be expanded under the project. Activities would
include assistance to existing and new credit recipients and a program geared to



ARLx'i,X 4
Page 5
67
the particular needs of sharecroppers. Extension methodology would make use
of group techniques, with training based on meetings of farmer groups, usnlg
demonstration plots or individual farms to transfer new technologies. In
addition to group sessions which would bring together most of the small
farmers in the region, individual assistance would be provided to those
farmers receiving working capital or investment credit, with priority given to
first time recipients.
13.       Priority assistance would be given to small farmer owners or
sharecroppers who were first time recipients of credit. The extension ser-
vice would first assist farmers in selecting areas (a) most suitable for
continuous cultivation of annual crops; (b) to be maintained under forest
cover; and (c) suitable for perennial crops. The promotion of measures for
erosion control and crop rotation would start in this early phase. In helping
this category of producer make the gradual transition from subsistence to
partially commercialized production of annual crops, priority would be given
to (a) gradually extend the adoption of improved seeds and reduce seed-borne
diseases; (b) improve the timing and spacing of planting; (c) expand the
practice of improved sun-drying in the field for rice, and reduce post
harvest losses; (d) promote the construction of rustic on-farm stores from
local materials; and (e) diffusion of marketing informat-ion including prices
and the availability and location of purchasing points to be established
at NUARs for the Government minimum price scheme. In the transition from
intercropping to continuous cropping of annuals, extension priorities would
be (a) proper crop rotation techniques; (b) the use of legumes for pastures;
and (c) the introduction of the use of fertilizers (in particular, phosphorous
and lime), based on individual soil analyses. In addition to these actions,
which would benefit all farmers, the extension service would expand its
technical assistance services to improve cultivation techniques of tree crops.
Furthermore, ASTER-RO would organize routine farmer courses in pruning,
nursery practices, disease and pest control techniques and, as the need
develops, tapping.
Illustrative Farm Models
14.       The assumptions and conditions described above were incorporated
into four farm development models in order to better evaluate the potential
impact of the proposed program on the beneficiary farmer. Each of the models
has two development scenarios: that which could occur without the interven-
tion of the project in the area, and a probable development sequence with
the project. Tne models represent owner farmers who have already resided two
years in a colonization scheme and who develop after an investment in:
(1) 3 ha of coffee, later expanded by 4 ha; (2) 5 ha of cocoa; or (3) 5 ha
of rubber; and aLso sharecroppers, who establish and maintain the 4 ha
mentioned above for the coffee farmer.
15.       In the "without project" situation, the various farms are projected
to grow on the basis of self-financed investments in coffee. Establishment
of the crop is slow, 1 ha at a time, with a year's interval between the
first and second hectare. Chickens, cattle and pigs are bought, pasture
is established, but all at a much slower rate than would occur with the
project.



_ 68                         ANNEX 4
Page 6
16.       In the "with project" situation, the models show, through a phased
analysis of the expected on-farm development process, how the investment
funds, technical assistance and services provided under the project would
enable farmers to emerge from the quasi-subsistence level in which they
are a couple of years after having been settled in an INCRA colonization
scheme, to become commercial farmers, able to finance their own development or
take additional loans, with little further assistance. The initial loans
are such that the proposed area of perennial crops being financed can be
established and maintained with available family labor, complemented by a
minimum of hired labor in critical periods (especially for the cocoa farmer).
The development scenarios projected can be considered the minimum level
successful project beneficiaries would attain. Many, with managerial talent,
will develop much further, and attain income levels much higer than those
projected.
17.       In addition to the main crops, the project would support the
purchase of some chickens, pigs and cattle. The small animals would be
fed from the corn grown on the farm, supplement the family diet and provide
additional income. The establishment of pasture and the raising of cattle
is occurring spontaneously at present. Investment in cattle yields an
easy and assured return without too high a labor input. The simple herd
development and production ratios for the various animals are discussed
in the working papers.
18.       The expected final land use, income and financial rate of return for
each farm type are shown in Table 1.   Land use is fairly similar for the
three farm types analysed: 30 ha of forest are cleared (of the 100 ha available).
In this, some 10 to 13 ha of annuals and perennials are cultivated at any one
time, with the remainder in pasture (5 ha) and fallow or regrowth (12 to 15 ha).
Labor intensity, per hectare cropped, almost doubles over pre-project levels,
due to the introduction of perennials.
19.       Family income levels for priority project beneficiaries, estimated
from an IBGE on-farm survey, are currently at or below the relative poverty
level (US$1,580/annum per family). Under the project, family incomes would
increase substantially from current levels, reaching around twice the level
that could be considered likely after a longer development period without the
project. Returns to on-farm family labor go up five times (to around US$25/day)
from current levels, 50% above what could be attained without the project (see
Table 1).
20.       Rates of return are high, reflecting the good agricultural conditions
prevailing in the project. The lowest rate of return, for the rubber farmer
(22%), is due to the relatively long investment period before his investment
in rubber starts to produce and to the poorer quality of soils in rubber areas,
where annuals and coffee also yield less. In the financial analysis of the
models, family labor was valued at market wages, to show the cash loss which
results from bringing the family to work on the farm rather than leaving them
off-farm as daily laborers. This is equivalent to including the off-farm
earnings in the "without project" situation.



- 69 -
ANNEX 4
Page 7
21.       The sensitivity of the farm models to variations in yields and
prices of the main crops (coffee, cocoa and rubber) was tested, with yields
(or prices) reduced 25, 50 and 75%. Results are available in Table 7 of the
main text.
22.       The farm models are based on moderate yield assumptions and corres-
pondingly moderate fertilizer inputs. The resulting profit margins on
annual crops, even on the lesser quality soils, would allow the farmers
to increase considerably their fertilizer consumption if this were to prove
necessary. The economics of increasing fertilizer consumption beyond the farm
model assumptions to achieve higher yields will be the subject of future
research. Research in other Amazon areas of similar or poorer soils indicates
that such fertilizer increments can be profitable within the prevailing price
structure. On the poorer soils, however, extension services would promote
adequate crop rotations with legume fallows, which are expected to ensure
equivalent or better results than those which can be obtained with modest
incremental fertilizer consumption.



R0blDONIA SETILEMENT S00 SGLIllATIaOI OSIPRO SECT
Summsary of LandUsc. l abor Usoe. Icome and Rate of Retura of Illustrative Farm Piodels
-----------------------Ful1 Develop-t Yea  2000------------------------
---oon---y-----------B-e Year 1980---------------------                                                      Coffee wfth         Coffee with
Sharecropper/    Average from        Coffee/Cocoa            Rubber           Sharecropper        hired labor         Coroa             Rubber          Sharecropper
Lend Uee (ho)                                Coffee/Cocoa  Ru bber         Laborer                         2/  (without Proj.) (without proi.)             (with proj.) (with proi.)              teth proj.)                       (with proj.)
Farm Area                                       100.0        100.0            -                -                 100.0                  100.0             100.0              100.0              100.0             100.0               -
Aoo-al Crops (purestand)                          3.5          3.5          3.0                                    4.0                    3.5               4.5 4O5                               4.5               4.5              3.5
Perennial Crops:
4/           4/
Coffee                                         1.0          1.0           -                 -                  4.0                    3.0                8.0                8.0                1.0               3.0             4.0
Cacao                                           _            -                                                 _                      _                  _                  _                  5.0               -
RPbber                                          -            -            -                 -                  -                      -                  -                  _                  -                 5,0              -
Area Cropped  4/5                                                .5          3.0                                   8.0                    6.5               12.5               12.5             1.5               12.5              7.5
Pasture                                                   -            -               -                           5S0 5.8                                   5.0                5,0                5.0              5,0
Fallow or Regrouth                                2.5          2.5          1.0                                   17.0                   18.5              12.5               12.5               14.5              13.5              3.0
Total Area Cleared                                7.0          7.0          4.0                6.2                30.0                   30.0              30.0               30.0               30.0              31.0             10.5
FPrent                                           93.0         93.0           -                 -                  70.0                  70.0               70.0               70.0               70.0              69.0              -
Labor Use (maodayoAynor)
Total Requirements                              212          212           132                 -                511                    403                  563               984                 799             1.04           489
Fonily                                          212          212           132                 -                495                    395                  557               726                 640               714           489
Hired                                           -             -             -                                     16                      8                   6               188                 159               390             -
Per ha                                           47.1         47.1          44.0               -                 64                     62                   45                71                  76                88            65.2
Groon Farm Inctme 1/  (U8$) 5/
6/            7/            -
Per family                                      1,000.       710.           690.              1,270.            8,870.                 5,900.            14,8d0            17,820               15,500           16,890          5,850
Per capita 3/                                     200.       140.           138.                250.            1,775.                 1,180.             2,970             3,560                3,090            3,380          1,170
Per family labor day                                4.7        3,3           .5.2              -                 179.                    14.9              26.7              24.6                 24.1             23.7           12.2
Cash balance                                      680.       390.           370.               890.             8,480.                 5,510.            14;470            17,430               15,050           16,500          5.500
Consumptton of sobsiat..ce prod-ction             320.       320.           320.               380.                390.                   390.              390               390                  390.              390.           350
Financial Rate of Returo (.)                         _          _                                 _                                                           > 50              550                   34                21        over 10i
1/  cross farm incsoe includes the value of subsiatance production cmoo-med on-farm, and net cash flew te the family after production loosen and C-sh costs.
2/  S-rvey conducted by IBGE in August/September 1980, of recent (I or 2 yearn) settlers in the Ji- Pars, Ours-Preto INCRA settlement schemes.  Income levels (oah and os-farm comsumption of
subsinta.ce production) are considered a minimom lor-I, below which survival would be endangered and the family would be forced to leave.
3/  o4ah family has 5 mmbers, fPer of whom co-trtbute to the labor requirements (from  SICAN survey).
4/ Intercropped with rice So first year, c-rs in second.
5/  US$1.00 = cr$68.1 (.January 1981).
6/  Yields for thIs m-del are lower, due to poorer soils.  ibis farmer would be forced to work off his farm to survice, AS indeed occurs.
7/ This farmer has to work off his farm, as indeed occurs. His income per labor day is higher,as he is not puttitg in investment labor in the e.tablihbment of coffee, which the other owner/farmers are doing ot thin stage.
c/ cropped area includes only annuol and perennial. crops, met pasture.



RONDONIA SETTLEMENT CONSOLIDATION SUBPROJECT
Input-Output Coefficients per hectare
UNIT            Rice               Corn             Beans            Manioc           Pasture
Pre     Full    Pre       Full    Pre       Full    Pre       Full    Pre       Full
INPUTS                                Proj.   Dev.    Proj.   Dev.    Pro.   Dev.    Proj.   Dev.    Proj.   Dev.
Labor 2/                 mandays        30       32       23       26       25      27       19       21        2        2
Seeds                      kg           50       60       20       25      30       30      300      350        0        2
Proportion of
improved seeds             %             0       25        0       25        0      30        5       10        0      100
Pesticides               kg/ltr.         0      0.3        0      0.3      0.1     0.6        -        -        0      0.5
Treatments per year 3/   nr.             0        1        0      0.5        0        2       -        -        -       -
Fertilizer (nutrients)
better soils            kg            0       40        0        0       0       40        -        -
moderate soils          kg            0       60        0      20        0       60        -        -        -       -
YIELDS 4/
Post harvest loss          %            30       20       10       10       10      10         -       -        -       -
Yields (better soils)   ton           2.14    2.88    1.78    2.22    0.44    0.67          6.0      8.0      0.6      0.8
Yields (moderate soils) ton           1.70    2.30    1.40    1.80    0.35    0.54          6.0      8.0      0.4      0.6
NOTE:  Annual crops partially cultivated in rotation with fallow/regrowth; beans cultivated as follow-up crop
after rice or corn; manioc mostly as intercrop with perennials during first years.
1/ As of year
2/ Relatively small increase reflects increase in labor effeciency.
3/  In rice and corn infrequent treatments are given preproject; in corn at full development one treatment every                t H >
two years; in pastures at full development incidental treatment as required.
4/  Yields under pasture give A.U./ha.
5/  Rice yields are given in paddy; paddy-rice ratio is 0.67.                                                                     M



Annex 4
Table 2
Page 2 of 2
RONDONIA SETTLEkENT CONSOLIDATION SUBPROJECT
Input-Output Coefficients per hectare
-----------------------------------------YEAR--------
UNIT        1      2       3      4       5       6      7          8         9       10       11      12       13
Coffee _wjthoutproject)
Labor                          mandays    36       52     65      78      84     84      84
Pesticides                     kg/ltr       -      0.8    0.8    0.8
Treatments per year            nr.          -      1      1       1
Yields (better soils) 2/       kg.          -    64        301    645      903    903       903      3/
Yields (moderate soils) 2/   kg.            -    52       258    516       731    731      731
Coffee (with project)
Labor                          mandays    36        55     68        82      88      88    88
Pesticides                     kg/Itr      0.8    1.6      1.6    1.6
Treatments per year 1/         nr.         1       2       2       2
Fertilizer (nutrients)         kg          -       -       -         60      60     60
Yields (better soils) 2/       kg          -       73      344      817  1,075  1,075  1,075
Yields (moderate soils) 2/   kg            -       60      258      645    860    860    860
Cocoa (with project)
Labor                          mandays    47         80    70        45      65     75    100       100      100
Pesticides                     kg/ltr.     20       4.0   4.0       6.4    6.4    6.4
Treatments per year 4/         nr.         2        4     4         6       6      6       8        8       8
Fertilizer (nutrients)         kg.         -        -     -         75      75     75
Yields cocoa 5/                kg.         -        -     150       400    600   900   1,200        1,500   1,500   1,500
Yields banana 6/               ton.        -       2.3    1.7        -       -      -
Rubber (with projeco
Labor                          mandays    46       18     26      20      18     14      14         77       131     131      131
Pesticides                     kg/ltr.      4       4      4       4      4       4       5          6        6        6
Treatments per year 7/         nu.          4       4      4       4       4      4       5          6         6       6
Fertilizer (naurtrients)       kg.         67    108    108    120    150    150    150
Groundcover:  seeds            kg.          -       -     10      -      -
Fertilizer for grolndcover   kg.            -       -     94      37     37      0       -           -         -       -
Yields 8/                      kg           -       -       -      -       -     -       -         280       480     640      800      900     1,000
Planting Density:  Coffee, 2 plants per planthole; 900-1,000 planting points per ha; 1,800 plants year one; 180 in year two; planting system
3x2 (arabica) and 4x2.5(conilon) cocoa about 900 trees/ha, 1,500 plants supplied year 1 and 225 year 2; Rubber, 45t:-500
trees/ha; 500-550 stumps supplied in year 1 and 75 in year 2.
1/ Ir case of Heavy "rust" up to 4 sprayings.
2/ Ih coffee beans (as exported).
3! If coffee is not pruned production drops after year 8 and replanting may be considered.
4/ Ircluding pruning of shoots affected by witches broom.
5/ As sun-dried beans.
5/ After 75% harvest loss
7/ Against insects once a year.
8/ Production in DRC (dry rubber content) Yield drops after year 16.



Annex 4
Table 3
Page 1 of 6
2ONDONIA SETTLEMENT CONSOLIDATION SUBPROJECT
Proposed Coffee Farmer Development Scheme
Cropping Pattern, Financial Analysis and Cash Flow Projections
Cropping Pattern (.a')
Land Use                  Base                     Development Years
Year   1        2      3       4      5       6      7       8
Purestand Rice            2.0    2.0    2.0    2.0    2.0    2.0    2.0    2.0    2.0
Purestand Beans-/         1.0    1.0    1.0    1.0    1.0    1.0    1.0    1.0    1.0
Purestand Corn            1.0    1.0    1.0    1.0    1.5    2.C    2.C    2.0    2.,
Purestand Manioc           .5      .5     .5      .5     .5      .5     .5      .5     .5
Coffee (pre project)l/   1.0    1.0    1.0    1.0    1.0    1.02/  1.0    1.0    1.0
Coffee (with project)1/   -        -     3.0    3.0    3.0    7.0-  7.0    7.0    7.0
Chickens -J                15     30      30     30      50     50      50     50      50
5/
Pigs-                      -       -      -        3      3       3      3       3      3
Cattle-'                   -      -       -      -        2      3       3      3       3
Area Cropped±/            4.5    4.5    7.5    7.5    8.0   12.5   12.5   12.5   12.5
artificial Pasture         -      -      1.0    3.0    5.0    5.0    5.0    5.0    5.0
Fallow end yr.  7/        2.5    5.5    4.5    5.5    6.0    4.5    6.5    3.5   10.5
Area cleared during yr._/3.5    3.0    3.0    3.0    3.0    3.0    2.0    2.0    2.0
Area cleared end yr.      7.0   10.0   13.0   16.0   19.0   22.0   24.0   26.0   28.0
1/  Intercropped with rice and beans in the first year of development, and with corn
in the second year.
2/ Planted under sharecropping arrangements, whereby sharecroppers get all of first
three years production of intercrops and coffee, and then 50% of subsequent coffee
production, while providing all labor necessary for cultivation; all other invest-
ment and maintenance inputs are provided by the owner of the farm.
3/ Extensive surveys in the subproject area show that settlers fell, on the average,
3 ha of forest per year, with a labor input of 10 mandays per hectare using chain-
saws (or 20 mandays using axes). Tree trunks wnicn are not sold are not removed
from the field but partly burned and left to rot. Labor becomes more scarce as
some tree crops reach maturity, and only 2 ha are assumed to be cleared each year
beyond year 3 of the project. On most coffee plots, clearing is performed partly
by the sharecropper who develops most of the coffee area (see Table 4). Clearing
continued at a rate of 2 ha per year after year 8 until 30 ha have been cleared (of
the 100 ha plot).
4/ Excluding artificial pasture.
5/ UTnits are animals, not ha.
6/ Beans planted after rice, in same land.
7/ Includes .5 ha of living premises, with house, vegetable garden and fruit trees.



RONDONIA SETTLEMENT CONSOLIDATION SUBPROJECT
FINANCIAL , ANNUAL FARM BUDGET
MODEL COFFEE
(IN CR)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------- CALENDAR YEAR ---------------------------------
1980     t981     1982     1983     1984      1985     1988     1994     2000
(BASE YR)
WITHOUT PROJECT
___ ROSS____ VALUE __8                                1
GROSS VALUE                              126,108  123,364  172,370  235,809  357,116  432.380  685,995  687,733  687,733
=TOTAL INFLOW                               126,108  t23,364  172,370  235,809  357,116  432,380  685,995  687,733  687,733
-  WASTE AND LOSS                             25,384   21.283   26,956   28.389   29,442   26,409   30,993   32,337   32,337
-  ON-FARM CONSUMPTION                        21,816   22,036   22,257   22,477   22,697   25,182   25.843   26,283   26,283
= NET INFLOW                                  78.908   80,045  123.158  184,943  304.976  380.790  629.159  629,112  629,112
DIRECT PRODUCTION COST                     9,236    9,875   10,598   12,690   33,494   35,298   40,359   42,681   42,681
HIRED LABOR COST                               0        0        0        0    3.752    2.386    6,351    6,351    6,351
INVESTMENTS                               23,180    7.530   16,410   17,780   83.940    9,730   42.470          0        0
- TOTAL OUTFLOW                               32,416   17.405   27,008   30,470  121,186   47,414   89,180   49,032   49,032
NET FARM CASH FLOW                          46,492   62,641   96,150  154,473  183,791  333,375  539,979  580,080  580,080
ON-FARM CONSUMPTION                       21,816   22,036   22,257   22,477   22.697   25.182   25,843   26,283   26,283
+ NON-PRODUCTION OUTFLOW                      21,816   22,036   22,257   22,477   22.697   25,182   25,843   26,283   26,283
- LESS IMPUTED FAMILY LABOR COST              86,895   86,690  113,955  143,885  175.747  191,273  211,310  203,110  203,110
NET FARM BENEFIT                           -18,588   -2,013    4,451   33,064   30,742  167,284  354.512  403.254  403,254
e H (
(D X
O > 
- - - - _- _   _   _ _ - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -_ _- - _ _-- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -



RONDONIA SETTLEMENT CONSOLIDATION SUBPROJECT
FINANCIAL , ANNUAL FARM BUDGET
MODEL COFFEE
(IN CR)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------   CALENDAR YEAR -----------------
1980     1981      1982      1983      1984      1985      1988      1994      2000
(BASE YR)
WITH PROJECT
GROSS VALUE                             T    126.1    132.9    214.9    339.9    521.0    748.3  1,118.0  1,190.6  1,190.6
= TOTAL INFLOW                              T    126.1    132.9    214.9    339.9    521.0    748.3  1,118.0  1,190.6  1,190.6
-   WASTE AND LOSS                               25,384   20,283   29,420   21,844   27,815   32,607   34,732   36,149   36,149
-   ON-FARM CONSUMPTION                          21,816   22,036   22,257   22.477   24,961   25,182   25,843   26,283   26,283
= NET INFLOW                                T      78.9      90.6    163.2    295.6    468.2    690.5  1,057.4  1,128.2  1,128.2
DIRECT PRODUCTION COST                        9,236   16,326   23,929   57,854   71.400   94,179  131.006  135,717  135,717
HIRED LABOR COST                                  0         0    7,672    3,198    5,707    3,588    2,358    2,358    2,358
INVESTMENTS                                 23,180   26,430  107,600   70,620  123,970  142,230    4,110    4,110    4,110
- TOTAL OUTFLOW                                  32,416   42,756  139,201  i31,672  201.077  239,996  137,473  142,185  142,185
NET FARM CASH FLOW 1/                          46,492   47,822   24,004  163,891  267,106  450,473  919,976  986,012  986,012
ON-FARM CONSUMPTION                          21,816   22,036   22,257   22,477   24,961   25.182   25,843   26,283   26,283
+ NON-PRODUCTION OUTFLOW                         21.816   22,036   22,257   22,477   24,961   25,182   25,843   26,283   26,283
- LESS IMPUTED FAMILY LABOR COST                 86,895   89,418  145,575  179.498  206.997  231,958  236.468  228,268  228.268
= NET FARM BENEFIT                              -18,588  -19,560  -99,314    6,870   85,070  243,698  709,352  784,028  784,028
1/ Before outside financing or debt repayment.
Lo)
0
-----



RONDONTA SETTLEMENT CONSOLIDATION  SUBPROJECT
FINANCIAL , ANNUAL FARM BUDGET
MODEL COFFEE
(IN CR)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------- CALENDAR YEAR ---------------------------------
1980     1981     1982     1983      1984     1985      1988     1994     2000
(BASE YR)
INCREMENTAL
GROSS VALUE                                    0    9,532   42,511  104.075  163,843  315.879  432,030  502.896  502,896
= TOTAL INFLOW                                      0    9,532   42.511  104,075  163,843  315,879  432.030  502,896  502.896
-  WASTE AND LOSS                                  0   -1,000    2,464   -6.546   -1,627    6,199    3,739    3,812    3,812
-   ON-FARM CONSUMPTION                            0         0        0        0    2,264         0         0        0         0
= NET INFLOW                                       0   10,532   40,047  110,620  163,206  309,680  428.291  499,085  499,085
DIRECT PRODUCTION COST                         0    6,451   13,331   45.164   37,906   58.881   90,647   93,036   93,036
HIRED LABOR COST                               0         0    7,672    3,198    1,956    1,201   -3,993   -3,993   -3,993
INVESTMENTS                                    0   18,900   91.190   52,840   40,030  132,500  -38.360    4.110    4,110
- TOTAL OUTFLOW                                    0   25,351  112.193  101,202   79.891  192,582   48.294   93,153   93,153
NET FARM CASH FLOW                               0  -14,819  -72,146    9,418   83.315  117,098  379.997  405,932  405,932                 C'
ON-FARM CONSUMPTION                            0         0        0        0    2,264         0         0        0         0
+ NON-PRODUCTION OUTFLOW                            0        0        0        0    2,264         0         0        0         0
- LESS IMPUTED FAMILY LABOR COST                   0    2,727   31,619   35,613   31.250   40,684   25,158   25,158   25.158
= NET FARM BENEFIT                                 0  -17,546 -103,765  -26,194   54,329   76.414  354,840  380.774  380,774
INTERNAL RATE OF RETURN 60.00 %
Pl> 
m   I- 
O X 
0
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -    7 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -



RONDONIA SETTLEMENT CONSOLIDATION SUBPROJECT
COFFEE FARM
DEPT SERVICES AND CASH FLOW PROJECTION
(IN CR$'000)
YEAR         W-O PROJ          1981         1982          1983         1984          1985         1986          1987          1988
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ -- --- _- - - - - _- _- - - - - - _- - _- - - _- - - _- - _- - - _- - - - - - - - - - - - - --- - - - - - - _- - - - _ _-- - - - _-- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
(I) CASH INFlOW
________________
VALUF OF PRODUCTION                78.9          90.6        163.2        295.6         468.2        690.5         812.9        841.6        1057.4
INV'FSTMENT LOAN                    0.0         26.4         107.6         70.6         124.0        142,2           4.1           8.2          4.1
SHORT TERM LOAN                     0.0         79.3         132.9        180.5         213.1        247.4         259.7        259.8         277.4
TOTAC. INFLOW                      78.9         196.3        403,7        546.7         805.3       1080.1        1076.7       1109.6        1338.9
(IT) CASH OUTFIOW
____________________
INVFSTMENT COSTS                   23,2         26.4         107.6         70.6         124.0        142.2           4.1           8.2          4.1
OPERATING COSTS                     9.2          16.3         31.6         61.1          77.1         97.8         109.7         109-9        133.4
TOTAt OUJFLOW                      32.4         42.7         139.2        131.7         201.1        240.0         113.8        118.1         137.5
(TTI) NFT CASH FlOW 
NET CASH FLOW                      46.5         153.6        264.5        415.0         604.2        840.1         962.9        991.5        1201.41
(IV) TIEbT SER(TCFS
____________________
INV,LOAN FRINCIFAL PMT.             0.0          0.0           0.0          0.0           3.8         19.1          29.2         46.9          67.3
INVESTMENT LOAN INTFREST            0.0           2.6         13.4         20.5          32.9         46.7          45.2         43.1          38.8
SH.T.LOAN PRINCIFAL PMT.            0.0          79.3        132.9        180,5         213.1        247.4         259.7        259.8         277.4
SHORF TERM LOAN INTEREST            0-0           4.0          6.6          9.0          10.7          12.4         13.0          13.0         13.9
TOTAl DEBT SERVICES                 0.0          85.9        152.9        209.9         260,4        325.6         347.1        362.8         397.4
(V) CASH BALANCE
________________
CASH BALANCE                       46.5          67.7        111.6        205.0         343.8        514.5         615.8        628.7         804.1
ANNUAL INDEBTEDNESS                 0.0         105.7        266.9        385-1         541.7        714.4         711.6        690.8         665.5
INTEREST RATE nN SHORT TERM IOAN 10% FA FOR 6 MONTHS
INTFREST RATE ON INVESTMENT LOAN 10% PA
SHORT TERM lOAN REPAID AT END OF SEASrN
INVESTMENT LOAN REPAID OVER 10 YEARS WITH 3 YEARS GRACE
(D  M
0



RONDONIA SETTLEMEN4T CONSOL[DATION SUBPROJECT
Coffee Farmer
Ulouithly Labor Reguirelm2ut by FarmT
(IN MANDAY)
---- -------------  ----------------------CAL-ENDAR YEAR ------------------
1980      1981       1982       l983      1984       1985       1988       1994      2000
(BASE YR)
WITHi PROJECT
,JAN. REQUIRED I-AB UNSKILLED                           11.0     '11.5       30.4      34.3       30.6       28.8       28.8       28.8      28.8
AVL FAM LAB  UJNSKILLED                          45.0       45.0       45.0       45.0      45.0       45.0       45.0       45.0      45.0
VE8. REQUIRED LAB UNSKILLED                            27.0       25.7       48.1      47.8       53.9       48.8       45.8       45.8      45.8
AVL FAM LAB  UNSKILLED                            40.0      40.0       40.0       40.0      40.0       40.0       40.0       40.0       40.0
HIRED  LABOR UNSKILLED                              .0         .0       8.1        7.8       13.9       8.8        5.8        5.8        5.8
MAR. REQUJIRED L-AB UJNSKILLED                         32.0       29.6       50.8      52.1       50.5       59.8       59.8       59.8       59.8
AVL FAN L-AB  UNSKILLED                          64.0       64.0.      64.0      64.0       64.0       64.0       64.0       64.0      64.0
APR.  REQUIRED LAB UNSKILLED                            16.0      17.2       34.1      39.3       53.9       60.3       60.3       60.3       60.3
AVI- FAM LAB  UJNSKILIED                         81.0       Bl' 81.0        81. 0      81.0       81.0      81.0       81. 0      81.0 81.
MAY. REQUIRED LAB UNSKIL-LED                           26.0       24.0       40.4      43.8       65.i       74.3       76.3       68.3      68.3
AVI- FANA LAB  UNSKILLED                         88.0       88.0       88.0      88.0       88.0       88.0       88.0       88.0       88.0
,JUN. REQUIRED LAB UNSKILLED                            15.5      15.1       19.3      28.6       41.5       60.3       64.3       60.3      60.3
AVL FANi LAB  UNSKILLED                          80.0       80.0       80.0      80.0       80.0       80.0       80.0       80.0       80.0
JUL.. REQUIRED LAB UJNSKILLED                            7.0       7.5       10.9      20.3       35.1       55.8       60.8       58.8       58.8
AVE FAM LAB  UNSKILLED                           67.0       67.0       67.0       67.0      67.0       67.0       67.0       67.0       67.0
AUG. REQUJIRED LAB UNSKILL-ED                           12.5      11.5       13.4       18.3      28.1       40'.8      43.8       37.8      37.8
AVL- FAM LAB  UNSKILLED                          61.0       6i.0       61.0      61.0.      61.0       61.0       61.0       61.0       61.0
SEP. REQUIRED LAB UNSKILLED                             11.5      18.0       20.1      38.2       38.6       32.8       29.8       29.8      29.8
AVL FAM LAB  UNSKItlLED                           56.0      56.0       56.0       56.0      56.0       56.0       56.0       56.0       56.0
OCT. REQUIRED LAB UNSKILLED                             12.5      19.0       24.1      48.2       44.6       39.8       39.8       39.8       39.8
AVL FAN LAB  UNSKILLED                           59.0       59.0       59.0      59.0       59.0       59.0       59.0       59.0       59.0
NJOV. REQUIRED LAB UNSKILLED                            13.5      18.3       23.7      38.1       38.8       36.3       36.3       36.3       36.3
AVL FAN LAB  UNSKILLED                           56.0       56.0       56.0       56.0      56.0       56.0       56.0       56.0       56.0
DEC. REQUIRED LAB UNSKILLED                            27.5       21.0       58.6      36.8       38.1       37.3       37.3       37.3       37.3           P
AVE- FAN IAB  IUNSKf-ILED                        48.0      48.0       48.0       48.0      48.0       48.0       48.0       48.0       48.0             I H.D
HIlRED  LABOR UNSKILLED                             .0         .0      10.6         .0         .0         .          .0        .0         .0
-- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - - -  - - - - - --   - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
YEAR REQU IRED LAB UJNSKILLED)                        211.9      218.1      373.8     445.6      518.8      574.5s    582.5       562.5     562.5
AVI. FAM LAB  UNSKILLED                         745.0      74S.0      745.0     745.0      745.0      745.0      745.0      745.0      745.0
HIRED  LABOR UNSKIL.LED                             .0         .0      18.7        7.8       13.9       8.8        3.8        5.8        5.8



Annex 4
- 79                 ~             Table 4
Page 1 of 6
RONDONIA SETTLEMENT CONSOLIDATION SUBPROJECT
Proposed Sharecropper Coffee Farmer Development Scheme
Cropping Pattern, Financial Analysis and Cash Flow Projections
Cropping Pattern (ha)
Development Years
Land Use                       1       2      3       4      5       6       7     8
Rice Purestand                 -       -     2.0    2.0    2.0    2.0    2.0   2.0
Beans Purestand                -       -     1.0    1.0    1.0    1.0    1.0   1.0
Corn Purestand                 -      -      1.0    1.0    1.0    1.0    1.0   1.0
Manioc                         .5      .5      .5     .5      .5     .5      .5    .5
Coffee-1                      4.0    4.0    4.0    4.0    4.0    4.0    4.0   4.0
Chickens                       15      30     30      30     30      30      30    30
Cropped Area                  4.5    4.5    7.5    7.5    7.5    7.5    7.5   7.5
Fallow end year3/              -     2.0      -      1.0    2.0    3.0    3.0   3.0
Clearing during year2/         -     2.0    1.0    1.0    1.0    1.0        -      -
Cleared end year              4.5    6.5    7.5    8.5    9.5   10.5   10.5  10.5
1/   Under the customary coffee sharecropping agreements in the region, the
landlord clears the land for the coffee, pays for all the cash investment
and maintenance costs, and provides the sharecropper family with US$450
to get started with. The sharecropper retains all the production of the
intercrops (rice, beans, corn) as well as any coffee, up to the third year
of development. From the fourth year on, intercropping stops, and the
sharecropper receives 50% of the coffee production for maintaining the stand.
2/   Sharecropper is allowed to clear a small area for his annual subsistence
crops.
3/   Fallow area ends up more or less equivalent to area planted to annuals.



RONDONIA SETTLEMENT CONSOLIDATION SUBPROJECT
FINANCIAL , ANNUAL FARM BUDGET
MODEL SHARECROPPER
(IN CR)
---------------------------- I--------------------------------------------- CALENDAR YEAR ---------------------------------
1980    1981      1982     1983     1984     1985     1988     1994     2000
(BASE YR)
WITHOUT PROJECT
GROSS VALUE                              87,067   94.617   96,871   99,125  101,379  103.633  110,394  114.902  114,902
=     TOTAL INFLOW                           87,067   94,617   96,871   99,125  101,379  103,633  110,394  114,902  114,902
-  WASTE AND LOSS                            15,665   16.392   16,885   17,377   17,870   18,362   19,840   20,825   20,825
-  ON-FARM CONSUMPTION                       21,816   22,036   22,257   22,477   22,697   22,918   23,579   24,019   24,019
= NET INFLOW                                 49,586   56,188   57,729   59,271   60,812   62,353   66,976   70,058   70,058
DIRECT PRODUCTION COST                    3,386    8,256    8,519    8,782    9,045    9,308   10,098   10,624   10,624
INVESTMENTS                              13,010    9.990    3,430    2,050    1,370        0    1,370    1,370    1,370
- TOTAL OUTFLOW                              16,396   18,246   11,949   10,832   10.415    9,308   11,468   11,994   11,994
NET FARM CASH FLOW                         33.190   37,943   45,781   48,439   50,396   53,044   55,508   58.064   58,064              X
ON-FARM CONSUMPTION                      21,816   22,036   22,257   22,477   22,697   22,918   23,579   24,019   24,019              1
+ NON-PRODUCTION OUTFLOW                     21,816   22,036   22,257   22,477   22,697   22,918   23,579   24,019   24,019
- LESS IMPUTED FAMILY LABOR COST             54,325   48,560   48,560   48,560   44,460   44,460   44,460   44,460   44,460
NET FARM BENEFIT                             ,681   11,419   19,477   22,355   28,633   31,502   34,626   37,623   37,623
Q O X
(D  M-  C
0
h
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - --_ _- --_ _- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - --_  0 i



RONDONIA SETTLEMENT CONSOLIDATION SUBPROJECT
FINANCIAL , ANNUAL FARM BUDGET
MODEL SHARECROPPER
(IN CR)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------- CALENDAR YEAR ---------------------------------
1980     1981      1982      1983     1984      1985      1988      1994     2000
(BASE YR)
WITH PROJECT
GROSS   VALUE_________   _8
GROSS VALUE                                 96,182  118,239  313,500  366.969  443,968  450,988  459,033  464,397  464,397
=TOTAL INFLOW                                  96,i82  118,239  313,500  366,969  443,968  450,988  459,033  464,397  464,397
-   WASTE AND LOSS                              17,920   11,857   19.765   20,298   21,719   22,888   24,670   25,857   25,857
-   ON-FARM CONSUMPTION                         21,816   22,036   22,257   22,477   22,697   22,918   23,579   24,019   24,019
= NET INFLOW                                    56,446   84,345  271,478  324,195  399,552  405,182  410,785  414,520  414.520
DIRECT PRODUCTION COST                       8,458   21,409   25,629   27,485   30,767   32,997   34,901   36,171   36,171
HIRED LABOR COST                             2,663         0    1,683         0         0         0         0         0         0            1
INVESTMENTS                                 20,260   17,520    8,220    2,050    6,160            0    4,11O    4,110    4,110              X
- TOTAL OUTFLOW                                 31,381   38,929   35,533   29,535   36,927   32,997   39,011   40,281   40.281
= NET FARM CASH FLOW                            25,066   45.416  235,945  294,659  362,626  372,185  371,774  374,239  374,239                   1
ON-FARM CONSUMPTION                         21,816   22.036   22,257   22,477   22,697   22,918   23,579   24,019   24,019
+ NON-PRODUCTION OUTFLOW                        21,816   22,036   22,257   22,477   22,697   22,918   23,579   24,019   24,019
- LESS IMPUTED FAMILY LABOR COST                92,227  125,539  172,104  189,715  199,993  200,285  200,285  200,285  200,285
NET FARM BENEFIT                             -45,346  -58,087   86,098  127,421  185,330  194,818  195,067  197,974  197,974
DtDa
J., 41
0
---



RONDONIA SETTLEMENT CONSOLIDATION SUBPROJECT
FINANCIAL , ANNUAL FARM BUDGET
MODEL SHARECROPPER
(IN CR)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------   CALENDAR YEAR --------------------------------
1980     1981      1982     1983      1984      1985      t988      1994     2000
(BASE YR)
INCREMENTAL
GROSS VALUE                                  9,115   23,622  216,629  267,845  342.590  347,356  348,639  349,49S  349,495
= TOTAL INFLOW                                   9,115   23,622  216,629  267,845  342.590  347,356  348,639  349,495  349,495
-   WASTE AND LOSS                               2,255   -4,535    2,881    2,920    3,849    4,526    4,830    5,033    5,033
NET INFLOW                                     6,861   28,157  213,749  264,924  338,741  342,829  343,809  344,462  344,462
DIRECT PRODUCTION COST                       5,072   13,154   17,111   18,703   21,722   23,689   24,803   25,546   25,546
HIRED LABOR COST                             2,663         0    1,683         0         0         0         0        0         O
INVESTMENTS                                  7,250    7,530    4,790          0    4,790         0    2,740    2,740    2,740
- TOTAL OUTFLOW                                 14.985   20,684   23,584   18,703   26,512   23,689   27,543   28,286   28,286                  1
= NET FARM CASH FLOW                            -8.124    7,473  190,165  246,221  312,229  319,141  316,266  316,176  316,176                  m
- LESS IMPUTED FAMILY LABOR COST                37,902   76,978  123,544  141,155  155,533  155,825  1S5,825  155,825  155,825
NET FARM BENEFIT                             -46,027  -69,505   66,621  105,066  156,697  163,316  160,441  160,35i  160,351
NO IRR. FOUND BETWEEN 0.0% AND . 100.0%.
Fd H :E
tD FJ (D
m x
ht
4'



RONDONIA SETLEMENT CONSOLTDATION SU_PROJECT
SHARECROPPER FARMER
DEEBT SERVICES AND' CASH Fl OW PROJECTION
(IN CR$'000)
YEAR               1981           1982           1983           1984          1985           1986           1987           1988           1989
(I) CASH TNFlt(OW
VAL..UE OF PF:ODUCTION                 56.4           84.3         2719F          324.2          399.5          40S ?          407.0          408.9          410.8
INVFSTMENT LOAN                        20.3           17.5           8.2            2.0            6.2            0.0            4.1            0.0            4.1
SHORT TERM I nAN                       73.6           69.0          98.R          130 4          183.6          190.7          186.2          188.9          217.6
IOTAI INFL OW                         150n3         170.8          378.5          456.6          589.3          595.9          597.3         597.8           632.5
(TT) CASH OIITFI OW
INVFSTMENT COSTS                       20.3           17.S           8.?            2.0            6.2            0.0            4.1            0.0            4.1
OPERATING COSTS                        11.2           21.4          27.3           27,9           30.8           33.0           33.6           34.3           34,9
TOTAI OUTFLOW                          31.9           38.9          35.,           29.5           37,0           33.0           37.7           34.3           39.0
(TIT) NFT CASH Filnw
---------------------
NET CASH FLOW                         118.8         131.9          343.0          427.1          99?23          562.9          559.6          563.5          593.5
(TVl) DEBT SFRV)TCFS
INV.LOAN  PRINCIFAl FMT                 0.0            0.0            0.0           2.9            5.4            6.6            6,9            7.7            7,7
INVESTMENT l OAN TNTEREST               2.0            3.8            4.6           4.8            5.1            4.6            4.3            3.7            3.3
SH,T,LOAN FRINCIPAI FMT                73.6           69.0          98 8          130.4          183 6          190.7          186.2          188,9          217.6
SHORT TFRM IOAN INTERFST                3,7            3.F            4.9           6.S            9.2            9.5            9.3            9.4           10,9
TOTAI tlFTT qFRVTCFS                   7971           76,?         108.3          144,6          203.3          211.4          206.7          209.8          239.S
(V) CASH BAI ANCE
CASH BALANEF                           39*5           55.7         234.7          28?.S          349,0          351. 9         352.9          353.8          354.0
ANNllAL INDFBTFINFSS                  93,9          106 8         144.8          178R4          234,9          236.6          229,7          225.5          250.5
..______- - - - - - - -........__ ___ __-   - - - - - - -   - _- - . - - - -   -.- _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ - _ - - - - - - - - - - -   __       _ - - --- _ _ _ _____ -   - - - - - - - -   - - - - -- - - -   __ ______.- _ __
INTFRFST RATF ON SHORT TFRM L.OAN  10% FA FOR 6 MONTHS
INTFREST RATF ON TNVESTMENT l OAN 10% FA
SHORT TFRM L.OAN RFPATD AT FND OF SEASON                                                                                                                           >
INVESTMENT LOAN REFAID OVER 10 YFARS WTTH 3 YEARS GRACE
0'



RONDONIA SETTLEMENT CONSOLIDATION SUBPROJECT
Coffee Sharecropper
MONTHLY LABOR REOUIREMENT BY FARM
(IN MANDAY)
_--______--------------__--------------------------------------------- CALENDAR YEAR ---------------------------------
1980     1981      1982      1983      1984      1985     1988      1994      2000
(BASE YR)
WITH PROJECT
JAN: REQUIRED LAB UNSKILLED                        28.0      33.5      28.4     24.3      24.3      24.3      24.3      24.3      24.3
AVL FAM LAB  UNSKILLED                       45.0      45.0      45.0      45.0      45.0      45.0     45.0      45.0      45.0
FEB. REOUIRED LAB UNSKILLED                        32.0      32.5      44.1     36.8      33.1      33.3      33.3      33.3      33.3
AVL FAM LAB  UNSKILLED                        40.0     40.0      40.0      40.0      40.0      40.0     40.0      40.0      40.0
HIRED  LABOR UNSKILLED                          .0        .0      4.1        .0        .0        .0        .0        .0        .0
MAR. REQUIRED LAB UNSKILLED                        38.0      38.5      47.8     56.1      56.2      56.3      56.3      56.3      56.3
AVL FAM LAB  UNSKILLED                       64.0      64.0      64.0      64.0      64.0     64.0      64.0      64.0      64.0               1
APR. REQUIRED LAB UNSKILLED                        24.5      22.0      47.6     52.3      52.6      52.8      52.8      52.8      52.8
AVL FAM LAB  UNSKILLED                       81.0      81.0      81.0      81.0      81.0     81.0      81.0      81.0      81.0
MAY. REOUIRED LAB UNSKILLED                        19.5      28.0      51.9     51.8      59.8      59.8      59.8      59.8      59.8
AVL FAM LAB  UNSKILLED                       88.0      88.0      88.0      88.0      88.0     88.0      88.0      88.0      88.0
JUN. REQUIRED LAB UNSKILLED                         7.5      16.0      28.3     48.6      56.7      56.8      56.8      56.8      56.8
AVL FAM LAB  UNSKILLED                       80.0      80.0      80.0      80.0      80.0     80.0      80.0      80.0      80.0
JUL. REQUIRED LAB UNSKILLED                         5.0       8.5      21.4     43.3      51.3      51.3      51.3      51.3      51.3
AVL FAM LAB  UNSKILLED                       67.0      67.0      67.0      67.0      67.0     67.0      67.0      67.0      67.0
AUG. REQUIRED LAB UNSKILLED                         2.0       8.5      16.4     26.3      34.3      34.3      34.3      34.3      34.3
AVL FAM LAB  UNSKILLED                       61.0      61.0      61.0      61.0     61.0      61.0      61.0      61.0      61.0
SEP. REQUIRED LAB UNSKILLED                         4.5      30.0     35.1      27.2      23.2      23.3      23.3      23.3      23.3
AVL FAM LAB  UNSKILLED                       56.0      56.0      56.0      56.0      56.0     56.0      56.0      56.0      56.0
OCT. REQUIRED LAB UNSKILLED                         7.5      37.0     35.1      35.2      35.2      35.3      35.3      35.3      35.3
AVL FAM LAB  UNSKILLED                       59.0      59.0      59.0      59.0      59.0     59.0      59.0      59.0      59.0
NOV. REQUIRED LAB UNSKILLED                         8.5      26.0     33.0      30.1      30.5      30.8      30.8      30.8      30.8
AVL FAM LAB  UNSKILLED                       56.0      56.0      56.0      56.0      56.0     56.0      56.0      56.0      56.0          N I o
tD 1 (D
DEC. REQUIRED LAB UNSKILLED                        54.5      26.0     34.9      30.8      30.8      30.8      30.8      30.8      30.8          a  X
AVL FAM LAB  UNSKILLED                       48.0      48.0      48.0      48.0      48.0     48.0      48.0      48.0      48.0          o   4 -
HIRED  LABOR UNSKILLED                        6.5        .0        .0        .0        .0        .0        .0        .0        .0
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -_ - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
YEAR REQUIRED LAB UNSKILLED                       231.4    306.2    423.9    462.7    487.8    488.5    488.5    488.5    488.5
AVL FAM LAB  UNSKILLED                      745.0    745.0    745.0    745.0    745.0    745.0    745.0    745.0    745.0
HIRED  LABOR UNSKILLED                        6.5        .0       4.1        .0        .0        .0        .0        .0        .0



85 _                               Annex 4
Table 5
Page 1 of 6
RONDONIA SETTLEMENT CONSOLIDATION SUBPROJECT
Proposed Cocoa Farmer Development Scheme
Cropping Pattern, Financial Analysis and Cash Flow Projections
Cropping Pattern (ha)
Base                       Development Years
Land Use                   Year     1       2       3      4       5      6       7     8-20
Purestand Rice             2.0     2.0    2.0    2.0    2.0    2.0    2.0    2.0    2.0
Purestand Beans6/          1.0     1.0    1.0    1.0    1.0    1.0    1.0    1.0    1.0
Purestand Corn             1.0     1.0    1.0    1.0    1.0    1.0    1.5    2.0    2.0
Purestand Manioc            .5       .5     .5      .5     .5      .5      .5     .5      .5
Coffee (Pre Project)       1.01'   1.0    1.0    1.0    1.0    1.0    1.0    1.0    1.0
Cocoa2/                     -       -      5.0    5.0    5.0    5.0    5.0    5.0    5.0
Chickens-/                  15      30      30      30     50      50     50      50     50
Pigs5/                      -       -       -        3      3       3      3       3       3
Cattle_5/                   -       -       -        2      3       3      3       3      3
Area -Cropped 4/           4.5     4.5    9.5    9.5    9.5    9.5   10.0  1o.5   10.5
Artificial Pasture        --               1.      3.0    5.0    5.0    5.0    5.0    5.0
Fallow end year  7/        2.5     5.5    2.5    3.5    4.5    7.5   9.0    10.5   12.5
Area cleared during yr.!/3.5       3.0    3.0    3.0    3.0    3.0    2.0    2.0    2.0
Area cleared end yr.       7.0    10.0   13.0   16.0   19.0   22.0   24.0   26.0   28.0
1/   Intercropped with rice and beans in the first year of development, and with
corn in the second year.
2/   Bananas are planted for shade in the first 3 years of cocoa development, and
cut down thereafter. Rice, beans and corn are also intercropped with the
cocoa in the first two years of development.
3/ Extensive surveys in the subproject area show that settlers fell, on the average,
3 ha of forest per year, with a labor input of 10 mandays per hectare using chain-
saws (or 20 mandays using axes). Tree trunks which are not sold are not removed
from the field but partly burned and left to rot. Labor becomes more scarce as
some tree crops reach maturity, and only 2 ha are assumed to be cleared each year
beyond year 3 of the project. Clearing continues until 31 ha have been cleared.
4/ Excludes artificial pasture.
5/ Units are animals, not ha.
6/ Beans planted after rice in same land.
7/ Includes .5 ha of living premises, with house, vegetable garden and fruit trees.



RONDONIA SETTLEMENT CONSOLIDATION  SUBPROJECT
FINANCIAL , ANNUAL FARM BUDGET
MODEL COCOA
(IN CR)
__-- _--   ____-- _--------------------------------------------------------- CALENDAR YEAR ---------------------------------
1980     1981      1982      1983     1984      1985      1988      1994      2000
(BASE YR)
WITHOUT PROJECT
GROSS VALUE                                  126_8  12 4 _
GT OSL  VALUE                              126,108  123,364  172.370  235,809  357,116  432.380  685,995  687,733  687,733
=TOTAL INFLOW                                  126,i08  123,364  172,370  235,809  357,116  432,380  685,995  687,733  687,733
-   WASTE AND LOSS                              25.384   21,283   26.956   28,389   29,442   26,409   30,993   32,337   32,337
-   ON-FARM CONSUMPTION                         21,816   22,036   22,257   22,477   22,697   25,182   25,843   26,283   26,283
= NET INFLOW                                    78,908   80,045  123,158  184 943  304,976  380,790  629,159  629,112  629,112
DIRECT PRODUCTION COST                       9,236    9,875   10,598   12,C90   33,494   35,298   40,359   42,681   42,681
HIRED LABOR COST                                 0         0         0         0    3.752    2.386    6,351    6,351    6,351
INVESTMENTS                                 23,180    7,530   16.410   17,780   83.940    9,730   42,470              0         0
- TOTAL OUTFLOW                                 32,416   17,405   27,008   30.470  121.186   47,414   89,180   49,032   49,032                   1
0o
= NET FARM CASH FLOW                            46.492   62,641   96,150  154,473  183.791  333,375  539,979  580,080  580,080
ON-FARM CONSUMPTION                         21,816   22,036   22,257   22.477   22,697   25,182   25,843   26,283   26,283
+ NON-PRODUCTION OUTFLOW                        21,816   22,036   22,257   2" 477   22,697   25,182   25.843   26,283   26,283
- LESS IMPUTED FAMILY LABOR COST                86.895   86,690  113.955  1,0  z35  175,747  191.273  211,310  203,110  203.110
= NET FARM BENEFIT                             -18,588   -2,013    4.451   '3,  C4   30,742  167.284  354.512  403,254  403,254
0Q Q P
O x
Ot-n 41-
a'
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



RONDONIA SETTLEMENT CONSOLIDATION SUBPROJECT
FINANCIAL , ANNUAL FARM BUDGET
MODEL COCOA
(IN CR)
------------------------------------------------------------------------- CALENDAR YEAR ---------------------------------
1980     1981      1982      1983      1984      1985      1988      1994      2000
(BASE YR)
WITH PROJECT
GROSS VALUE                             T    126.1      138.8    234.1    528.9    618.5    754.3  1,139.1  1,303.0  1,303.0
-     TOTAL INFLOW                          T    126.1    138.8    234.1    528.9    618.5    754.3  1,139.1  1,303.0  1.303.0
-   WASTE AND LOSS                               25,384   22,865   31,341  166,635  131,326   43,522   34,732   36,149   36,149
-   ON-FARM CONSUMPTION                          21,816   22,036   22,257   22,477   24,961   25,182   25,843   26,283   26,283
- NET INFLOW                                T      78.9      93.9    180.5    339.8    462.2    685.6  1,078.5  1,240.6  1,240.6
DIRECT PRODUCTION COST                        9,236   16,660   24,491   55,402   82.686   97.530  141,422  145,853  145,853
HIRED LABOR COST                                  0         0   51.852   50,041   24.067    6,150   56.888   65,088   65.088
INVESTMENTS                                 23,180   20,950  230,300  116,030  151,370   80,419    4,110    4,110    4.110
- TOTAL OUTFLOW                                  32,416   37,610  306,643  221.473  258.123  184,099  202,419  215,051  215,051
= NET FARM CASH FLOW 1/                     T      46.5      56.3   -126.2    118.3    204.1    501.5    876.1  1,025.5  1,025.5
ON-FARM CONSUMPTION                          21.816   22.036   22,257   22,477   24,961   25,182   25,843   26,283   26,283
+ NON-PRODUCTION OUTFLOW                         21,816   22,036   22,257   22,477   24,961   25,182   25.843   26,283   26,283
- LESS IMPUTED FAMILY LABOR COST                 86,895   90,238  161,132  236,591  243,228  230,830  258,198  262,298  262,298
- NET FARM BENEFIT                              -18,588  -11,878 -265,025  -95,768  -14,176  295,889  643,724  789,507  789,507
1/ Before outside financing or debt repayment.
0 D
0Q %V:
P P 
D  H (
L4D 
o. vl 
0



RONDONIA SETTLEMENT CONSOLIDATION SUBPROJECT
FINANCIAL , ANNUAL FARM BUDGET
MODEL COCOA
(IN CR)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------- CALENDAR YEAR ---------------------------------
1980     1981      1982      1983     1984      1985      1988      1994     2000
(BASE YR)
INCREMENTAL
GROSS_________ VU0                                         51         7     232 2
GROSS VALUE                                      0   15,471   61.719  293.121  261.385  321,960  453.079  615.271  615,271
=TOTAL INFLOW                                       O   15,471   61,719  293.121  261,385  321,9fiO  453.079  615,271  615,271
-   WASTE AND LOSS                                   0    1.582    4.385  138.245  101.884   17,113    3.739    3.812    3,812
-   ON-FARM CONSUMPTION                              0         0         0        0    2.264          0         0         0        0
NET INFLOW                                         0   13.889   57.335  154.876  157.238  304,847  449.34(   611,460  611.460
DIRECT PRODUCTION COST                           0    6,786   13.892   42.712   49,192   62.232  101.063  103.172  103.172
HIRED LABOR COST                                 0         0   51.852   50.041   2%i316    3,764   50,537   58.737   58.737
INVESTMENTS                                      0   13.420  213.890   98.250   67.430   70.689  -36,360    4.110    4.110
- TOTAL OUTFLOW                                      0   20,206  279,634  191,003  136.937  136,685  113,240  166.019  166.019                   1
= NET FARM CASH FLOW                                 0   -6.317 -222.300  -36.127   20.300  168.162  336.100  445.441  445,441
ON-FARM CONSUMPrtYN--                            0         0         0        0    2,264          0         0         0        0
+ NON-PRODUCTION OUTFLOW                             0         0         0        0    2,264          0         0         0         0
- LESS IMPUTED FAMILY LABOR COST                     0    3.547   47.176   92.705   67.482   39,557   46,888   59.188   59.188
= NET FARM BENEFIT                                   0   -9.864 -269.476 --28.832  -44.917  128,605  289,213  386.253  386.253
INTERNAL RATE OF RETURN 33.65 %
p3 l 4n
0
' X -



RONDONIA SETTL~EIIENT CONSOLIDATION SUJBPROJECT
COCOA FARM!rP
DEBT SEPVICES ANoi CASH Fl-OW FPROjECT Io
'IN CR$-'000,
y EAF'         w-O P ROJ           1981           1982          1983           1984            1985           1 986          1 98 7         1 9(8
'I) CARH T NF( flW
VALUfE OF PR'ODUCTION.                126,1          1 38,          234,1          5 28 ,9       I613 ,5         7 5,4 , -388a. 0             1 039 .5        1 139 .1
INVESTMENT LOAN                         0.0           20 Q          2 53.,3        150,8          151,4           80.4            31.5            8.2            4.1.
SHORT TERM LOAN                          (0,08.                     178_,1         256,5          262,5.         250.8          305.,6          317.2          342.4
TOTAL INFLOW                          126,1          239.9          665. 6         9 36, 2       1032'4         1085.5         1225.1         1 364 ,9        1485 .6
(IT) I CASH OUTFI OW
TNYFSTMENT COISTS                      23,2           20,9          230 .3         11 6,0         1 51 4          80, 4           31 .5           8.21           4 ,1
OFPERATING COSTS                         9.2          16.,7          76.4          105 .4         106,8          103.6           1 4 3.8        162,?          198.3
TOTAL OUTFLOW                          32.4           37.6          30...7         221-'I4        253.2-         184.0          175.3           170,9          202.4
( I TT) NEJT CASH Fl OW
NET CASH FLOW                          93,7          202.3          358,9          71 4.8         774 -2         9 0 1,5       1049,8         1194.0         12083,2
(IV) DEBT S,FRY01: Fc
INVILOAN PRINCIPAL F'MT,                0,0            0.0            0,0            0.0            3.0           39.2           60.7            8 2 .3         9 3.38
INt1FSTME-NT LOAN INTEREST              0 .0           2,'1          27-4           42.3           57,6           65,4           6 4.6          59,4            51.5
SH ,T xLOAN FRIMC IF'AL F'MT ,          0.0           80.7          170 1          256.5          262.,5        2-50,3          305.6          3-17.2          342.4
SHORT TERM LOAN INTEREST                 00             4,0           8.9           12.8           13.1.          1-2.5           15.3           1 5,.9         17.1
IOTAI DEBT SERVICES                     0.0           8663          2 14 5         3118R          336,3          36-7.9         446,2          474.7          504.9
(V) C'ASH BALANCE
r'ASHI BALANCE                         937           1 16. 0        1 4 44         4 03. 0        4 3 79         5 33.6         603.6          719,2           7.78,3
ANNIJAL INDEHITEDNESS                    0,0         1041  1        4 52.4         6Ll1 .         83 8.9         9 04.6          151 79 10,8                  85i7 .8
INTFRfIST RATP nN SHORT TFRHl 1AN 107~ PA FP03 ! MONTHS,
IN. FREST RATF OiN INVESTMENT  LOAN 1.0% PA
SHORT TIFRm LOAN R'EPATID AT ENDi OF SEASON
INVFSTMENT LF IAN REPAI10 OVER 10 YEARS N(TH :3 YEOF'S uRAil 
(D(



IRONDO)N IA SETTLF.1lENT CONSOLIDATION S UBPROJECT
Coeoa Farmer
FMonthly
(IN  MANDAY)
------------------------------------------- I ------------------- -----------  CALENDAR   YEAR   ---------------------------------
1980     1981      1982      1983     1984      1985      1988      1994     2000
(BASE YR)
WITH PROJECT
JAN. REQUIRED LAB UNSKILLED                        11.0     t1.5      32.4      40.3     37.1      19.8      13.8      13.8      13.8
AVL FAM LAB  UNSKILLED                       45.0      45.0     45.0      45.0      45.0      45.0      450     45.0      45.0
FEB. REQUIRED LAB UNSKILLED                       27.0      26.7      62.i      63.8     58.9      47.8      36.8      36.8      36.8
AVL FAM LAB  UNSKILLED                       40.0      40.0     40.0      40.0      40.0      40.0      40.0     40.0      40.0
HIRED  LABOR UNSKILLED                          .0       .0      22.1     23.8      18.9       7.B        .0        .0        .0
MAR. REQUIRED LAB UNSKILLED                        32.0     30.6      64.8      84.0     65.0      61.8      50.8      50.8      50.8
AVL FAM LAB  UNSKILLED                       64.0      64.0     64.0      64.0      64.0      64.0      64.0     64.0      64.0
HIRED  LABOR UJNSKILLED                         .0       .0        .8     20.0       1.0        .0        .0        .0        .0
APR. REQUIRED LAB UNSKILLED                        16.0     16.2      51.1      54.3     44.4      41.8      70.3      80.3      80.3
AVL FAM LAB  UNSKILLED                       81.0      81.0     81.0      81.0      81.0      81.0      81.0     81.0      81.0
MAY. REQUIRED LAB UNSKILLED                        26.0     24.0      43.4      57.3     62.6      75.8    112.3    114.3    114.3                 0
AVL FAM LAB  UJNSKILLED                      88.0      88.0      88.0     88.0      88.0      88.0      88.0      88.0     88.0              0
HIRED  LABOR UNSKILLED                          .0       .0        .0        .0       .0        .0      24.3      26.3      26.3             I
JUN. REQUIRED LAB UNSKILLED                        15.5      15.1     19.3      41.6     49.5      56.3    113.3    119.3    119.3
AVL FAM LAB  UNSKILLED                       80.0      80.0      80.0     80.0      80.0      80.0      80.0      80.0     80.0
HIRED  LABOR UNSKILLED                          .0       .0        .0       .0        .0        .0      33.3      39.3      39.3
JUt . REQUIRED LAB UNSKILLED                        7.0      7.5      10.9      32.3     43.1      51.3    109.8    117.8    117.8
AVL FAM LAB  UNSKILLED                       67.0      67.0     67.0      67.0      67.0      67.0      67.0      67.0      67.0
lIRED  LABOR UNSKILLED                         .0       .0        .0       .0        .0        .0      42.8      50.8      50.8
AUJG. REQUIRED LAB UNSKILLED                       12.5     11.5      13.4      28.3     37.1      37.8      94.8      98.8      98.8
AVL FAM LAB  lJNSKILLED                      61.0      61.0      61.0     61.0      61.0      61.0      61.0      61.0      61.0
HIlRED  LABOR UNSKILLED                         .0       .0        .0       .0 *                .0      33.8      37.8      37.8
SEP. REOUIRED LAB UNSKILLED                        11.5      18.0     20.1      62.2     59.1      49.8      60.8      60.8      60.8
AVL FAM LAB  UNSKILLED                       56.0      56.0     56.0      56.0      56.0      56.0      56.0      56.0      56.0
HIRED  LABOR UNSKILLED.                         .0       .0        .0      6.2       3.1        .0       4.8       4.8       4.8
OCT. REQUIRED LAB UNSKILLED                        12.5     20.0      24.1      96.2      el.i     39.8      36.8      36.8      36,a
AVL FAM LAB  UNSKILLED                       59.0      59.0     59.0      59.0      59.0      59.0      59.0      59.0      59.0
HIRED  LABOR UNSKILLED                          .0       .0        .0     37.2      22.1        .0        .0        .0        .0
NOV. REQUIRED LAB UNSKILLED                        13.5      18.3     26.4      65.0     52.3      41.3      29.3      29.3      29.3
AVL FAM LAB  UNSKILLED                       56.0      56.0      56.0     56.0      56 0      56.0      56.0      56.0      56.0
HIRED  LABOR UINSKILLED                         .0       .0        .0      9.0        .0        .0        .0        .0        .0            ti
DEC. REQUIRED LAB UNSKILLED                        27.5     21.0    151.6       73.8     61.6      55.3      40.3      40.3      40.3         fm l- X
AVL FAM LAB  UNSKILLED                       48.0      48 0      4a.0     48.0      48.0      48 0      48.0      48.0      48.0           m 
HIRED  LABOR UNSKILLED                          .0       .0    103.6      25.8      13.6       7.3        .0        .0        .0         0 u' >
- -   - -  - - - - -   - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
YEAR REQUIRED LAB UNSKILLED                      211.9    220.1    519.5    699.1    651.9    578.0    768.5    798.5    798.5
AVL FAMl LAD  UNSKILLED                     745.0    745.0    745.0    745.0    745.0    745.0    745.0    745.0    745.0
HIRED  LABOR UNSKILLED                          .0       .O    126.5    122.0       58.7      15.0    138.8    158.8    158.8



Annex 4
Table 6
Page 1 of 6
91-
RONDONIA SETTLEMENT CONSOLIDATION SUBPROJECT
Proposed Rubber Farmer Development Scheme 5/
Cropping Pattern, Financial Analysis and Cash Flow Projections
Cropping Pattern (ha)
Base                     Development Years
Land Use                  Year      1      2       3      4       5      6       7     8-20
Rice Purestand            2.0       -4/    -      2.0    2.0    2.0    2.0    2.0    2.0
6/
Beans Puiestand-!         1.0      1.0    1.0    1.0    1.0    1.0    1.0    1.0    1.0
Corn Purestand            1.0      1.0    1.0    1.0    1.5    1.5    2.0    2.0    2.0
Manioc                      .5      .5      .5     .5     .5      .5     .5      .5     .5
Coffeel!                  1.0      1.0    2.0    3.0    3.0    3.0    3.0    3.0    3.0
Rubbe 2/                   -       5.0    5.0    5.0    5.0    5.0    5.0    5.0    5.0
Pigs                       -        -      -        3      3       3      3       3      3
Chicken                    15       30     30      30     50      50     50      50     50
Cows                       -        -      -       -       2       3      3       3      3
Area cropped 7/           4.5      7.5    8.5   11.5   12.0   12.0   12.5   12.5   12.5
Artificial Pasture                  -     1.0    3.0    5.0    5.0    5.0    5.0    5.0
Fallow end year  8/       2.5      3.0    4.5    2.5    3.0    6.0    7.5    9.5   11.5
Cleared  during year-/  3.5        3.5    3.5    3.0    3.0    3.0    2.0    2.0    2.0
Cleared end year          7.0    10.5   14.0   17.0   20.0   23.0   25.0   27.0   29.0
1/  Intercropped with rice and beans in first year of development, and corn in second year.
2/  Intercropped with rice and beans in first year of development, rice in second year;
area between trees then planted to a cover crop (Legume).
3/  Extensive surveys in the  subproject area show that settlers fell, on the average, 3
ha of forest per year, with a labor input of 10 mandays per hectare using chainsaws
(or 20 mandays using axes). Tree trunks which are not sold are not removed from the
field but partly burned and left to rot. Labor becomes more scarce as some tree crops
reach maturity, and only 2 ha are assumed to be cleared each year beyond year 3 of the
project. Clearing continued in year 9, and stopped once 31 ha cleared (assuming a
standard 100 ha plot). (See note 3 on Table 3, page 1 of same Annex.)
4/  Rice not planted, as it is intercropped with rubber.
5/  Yields on annual crops and coffee are 25% below yields obtained with similar crops
in the cocoa and coffee areas, under the assumption that rubber will be planted on
the poorer soils, suitable for agriculture, in the region.
6/  Beans planted after rice, in same land.
7/  Does not include artificial pasture.
8/  Includes .5 ha of living premises, with house, vegetable garden and fruit trees.



RONDONIA SETTLEMENT CONSOLIDATION SUBPROJECT
FINANCIAL , ANNUAL FARM BUDGET
MODEL RUBBER
(IN CR)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------- CALENDAR YEAR -----------
t980     1981      1982      1983      1984     1985      1988      1994      2000
(BASE YR)
WITHOUT PROJECT
GROSS VALUE                                100,966   99,170  140,186  188,672  280,843  348,137  474,011  475,564  475,564
= TOTAL INFLOW                                 100,966   99,170  140,186  188,672  280,843  348,137  474,011  475,564  475,564
-   WASTE AND LOSS                              20,132   16,951   21,374   22,518   18.752   20,960   25,621   26,686   26,686
ON-FARM CONSUMPTION                         21,816   22,036   22,257   22,477   22,697   25,182   25,843   26,283   26,283
= NET INFLOW                                    59,019   60,183   96,554  143,676  239,393  301,995  422,548  422,594  422,594
DIRECT PRODUCTION COST                       9,031    9,685   10,353   12,385   32,331   33,700   38,628   40,950   40,950
HIRED LABOR COST                                 0         0         0         0      472         0    3,071    3,071    3,071
INVESTMENTS                                 23,180    7,530   16,410   17,780   75,880    9,730   42,470    1,370    1.370             1
- TOTAL OUTFLOW                                 32,211   17,215   26,763   30,165  108,683   43,430   84,169   45,391   45,391
NET FARM CASH FLOW                            26,808   42,968   69,791  113,511  130,711  258,565  338,379  377,203  377,203
ON-FARM CONSUMPTION                         21,816   22,036   22,257   22,477   22,697   25,182   25,843   26,283   26.283
+ NON-PRODUCTION OUTFLOW                        21,816   22,036   22,257   22,477   22,697   25,182   25,843   26,283   26,283
- LESS IMPUTED FAMILY LABOR COST                86,895   86,690  113,955  140,605  153,812  163,319  170,310  162,110  162.110
= NET FARM BENEFIT                             -38,272  -21,686  -21,908   -4,617        -404  120,428  193,912  241,377  241,377
OQP  z
Ow a- tri
tD FJ tM
0
O N 
Fht



RONDONIA SETTLEMENT CONSOLIDATION SUBPROJECT
FINANCIAL , ANNUAL FARM BUDGET
MODEL RUBBER
(IN CR)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------- CALENDAR YEAR ----------------------------------
1980     1981      1982      1983      1984      1985      1988      1994      2000
(BASE YR)
WITH PROJECT
GROSS-------- V E0.3                                                 .       834.4                                  6.2
GROSS VALUE                             T    101.0    105.3    139.3    287.0    379.5    487.4    934.9  1,674.3  1,572.6
=TOTAL INFLOW                               T    101.0    105.3    139.3    287.0    379.5    487.4    934.9  1,674.3  1,572.6
-   WASTE AND LOSS                               20,132   15,052   14,953   20,997   24,010   27,683   29,388   30,525   30,525
-   ON-FARM CONSUMPTION                          21,816   22,036   22,257   22,477   24,961   25,182   25,843   26,283   26,283
- NET INFLOW                                 T     59.0      68.2    102.1    243.5    330.5    434.6    879.7  1,617.5  1,515.8
DIRECT PRODUCTION COST                        9,031    16,790   21,945   61,023   74,255   88,341  217,020  275,256  230,936
HIRED LABOR COST                                  0   14,958          0    8,005    5,707    4,818   94,710  159,798  159,798              1
INVESTMENTS                                  23,180  119,380   87,930  165,630  188,360  157,140   73,950           1,370    1,370        '.
- TOTAL OUTFLOW                                  32,211   151,127  109,875  234,658  268,322  250,298  385,680  436,424  392,104
- NET FARM CASH FLOW                         T     26.8    -83.0       -7.8       8.8      62.2     184.3    494.0  1,181.1  1,123.7
ON-FARM CONSUMPTION                          21,816   22,036   22,257   22,477.  24,961   25,182   25,843   26,283   26,283
+ NON-PRODUCTION OUTFLOW                         21,816   22,036   22,257   22,477   24,961   25,182   25.843   26,283   26,283
- LESS IMPUTED FAMILY LABOR COST                 86,895  164,947  141,316  199,701  213,967  221,298  255,225  292,638  292,638
- NET FARM BENEFIT                              -38,272 -225.869 -126,836 -168,377 -126,808  -11.831  264,588  914,739  857.309
1/ Before outside financing or debt repayment.
e D3 >>
Lo
0



RONDONIA SETTLEMENT CONSOLIDATION SUBPROJECT
FINANCIAL , ANNUAL FARM 8UDGET
MODEL RUBBER
(IN CR)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------- CALENDAR YEAR ---------------------------------
1980     1981      1982      1983      1984      1985      1988      1994      2000
(BASE YR)
INCREMENTAL
GROSS VALUE                             T        .0       6.1       -.9     98.3      98.6    i39.3    460.9  .198.8  1,097.0
= TOTAL INFLOW                               T       .0       6.1       -.9      98.3      98.6    139.3    460.9  1,198.8  1,097.0
-   WASTE AND LOSS                                    0   -1,898   -6,422   -1,521    5,258    6,723    3,767    3,839    3,839
-   ON-FARM CONSUMPTION                               0         0         0         0    2,264          0         0         0         0
= NET INFLOW                                T        .0       8.0       5.5      99.8      91.1     132.6    457.1  1,194.9  1,093.2
DIRECT PRODUCTION COST                            0    7,105   11,591   48,638   41,924   54,641  178,392  234,306  189,986
HIRED LABOR COST                                  0   14,958          0    8,005    5,236    4,818   91,639  156,727  156,727
INVESTMENTS                                       0  111,850   71,520  147,850  112,480  147,410   31,480              0          0
- TOTAL OUTFLOW                                       0  133,913   83,111  204,493  159,639  206,869  301,511  391,033  346,713                   1
NET FARM CASH FLOW                                  0 -125,926  -77,568 -104,664  -68,513  -74,281  155,591  803,890  746,460
ON-FARM CONSUMPTION                               0         0         0         0    2,264          0         0         0         0
+ NON-PRODUCTION OUTFLOW                              0         0         0         0    2,264          0         0         0         0
- LESS IMPUTED FAMILY LABOR COST                      0   78,257   27,360   59,095   60,155   57,978   84,915  130,528  130,528
NET FARM BENEFIT                                    0 -204,182 -104,928 -163,760 -126,404 -132,259   70,676  673,363  615,933
INTERNAL RATE OF RETURN 21.16 %.
0"
F-h



RONDONIA SETTLEMENT CONSOLIDATION SUBPROJECT
RUBBF.R F'ARM
DEBT SERVICES ANDi CASH FLOW PROJECTION
(IN CR$'000)
(EAR          W-0 F'ROJ           1981           1982           1983           1984           1985            1 9 86         1987           19688
(I) C'ASH INFI.OW
VALUE OF P'ROrDUCTION                  59.0           68.2          102.1          243,5          330,5          4 34 .6        53 4 .5        591.1           879.7
INYESTMENT LOAN                         0 .0         2 13 ,7        1 2 4 8        21 8 6         168.4          1 57 .1          82.2         1 18a,9          73.9
SHORT TERM LOAN                          0.0          76,4           93.5          158.0          217,1          230.3          231.8          236.1           417.8
TOTAL INFLOW                           59.0          358,4          320,4          620.1          736.0          822.0          848.5          946.1         1371.4
(IT.) CASH OUTF1.OW
INYFSTMENT COSTS                       23.2          119.4           87.9          165.6          188.4          157.1            82.2         118.9            73.9
OP'ERATING COSTS                         9 .0         31,3           20.2           6 4.,3         75 .5          85.8            94.4           97.2          301.9
T'OTAL OUTFLOW                         32 .2         150,7          108.1          229.9          263,9          242.9           176.6         216.1           375. 8
(I TT) NET CASH Fl OW
NET CASH FLOW                          26.8          207,7          212.3          390.2          472.1          579,1          67 1 .9        730.0           995.6
(TY) DEFBT SERVICES
INYV,LOAN F'RINCIP'AL F'MT.              0 .0          0.0            0 .0           0.0           30.5           48.4            79.6         106.5           129.0
INVESTMENT LOAN INTEREST                 0,.0         21.4           33.9           55.7           74,6           87.2            90,6           94.5           91.3
SH,T,LOAN F'RINCIF'AL FPMT.              0.I0         76,4           93.5          158,0          217.1          230.3          231.8           236,1          4 17 .8
SHORL' TERM LOAN INTEREST               0.0            3.8             4,7            7 .9         1 0 .9          1 1 .5         1 1 .6         1 1 .8         20.9
TOTAL DEBT SERVICES                      0.I0        10 1 .6        1 3 20         221.6          3 33 . 1       377.4          413.6           448.9          658.9
(V) CASH BALANCE
CASH BALANCE                           26 .8         106.0           80. 3         168,6          13 9 .1        20 1 .7        258.3           281 .1         336.7
ANNUAL INDEBTEDNESS                      0.0         29 0 .2        4 3 2,0        7 1 5 2        962.7         1 1 02,.4      1 137 .8       11I8 1 .3       1 330. 5
INTEREST RATE ON SHORT TERM LOAN 1.0% PA FOR 6 MONTHS
INTEREST RATE ON INVESTMENT LOAN 107 F'A
SHORT TERM lO0AN REPAID AT END] OF SEASON
TNVESTMENT LOAN REFPAID OVER 10 YEARS WITH 3 YEARS GRACE
m i-  r
0b~



RONDONIA SETTLEMENT CONSOLIDATION SUBPROJECT
Rubber Farmer
Monthly Labor Requirement by Farm
(IN MANDAY)
----------------------------------------------------------------------------  CALENDAR YEAR ---------------------------------
1980      1981      1982      1983      1984      1985       1988      1994      2000
(BASE YR)
WITH PROJECT
TOTAL CROPPED AREA ; IN HA                          100.0    100.0      100.0      100.0    100.0      100.0     100.0      100.0     100.0
JAN. REQUIRED LAB UNSKILLED                          11.0      32.5      25.4      40.3      41.6       34.8      98.8      83.8       83.8
AVL FAM LAB  UNSKILLED                         45.0      45.0      45.0       45.0      45.0      45.0      45.0       45.0      45.0
HIRED  LABOR UNSKILLED                            ° .0   -°           -°                  .          .0     53.8       38.8      38.8
FEB. REQUIRED LAB UNSKILLED                          27.0      42.5      33.4      52.8      53.9       51.8     102.8      107.8     107.8
AVL FAM LAB  UNSKILLED                         40.0      40.0      40.0       40.0      40.0      40.0      40.0       40.0      40.0
HIRED  LABOR UNSKILLED                            .0       2.5        .0      12.8      13.9      11.8      62.8       67.8      67.8
MAR. REQUIRED LAB UNSKILLED                          32.0      42.6      36.8      58.1       55.5      59.8     111.8      116.8     116.8
AVL FAM LAB  UNSKILLED                         64.0      64.0      64.0       64.0      64.0      64.0      64.0       64.0      64.0
HIRED  LABOR UNSKILLEO                            .0        .0        .0        .0        .0         .0     47.8       52.8      52.8
APR. REQUIRED LAB UNSKILLED                          16.0      33.7      28.1      51.8       54.9      50.3      99.3      109.3     109.3
AVL FAM LAB  UNSKILLED                         81.0      81.0      81.0       81.0      81.0      81.0      81.0       81.0      81.0
HIRED  LABOR UNSKILLED                            .0        .0        .0        .0        .0         .0      18.3      28.3      28.3
MAY. REQUIRED LAB UNSKILLED                          26.0      41.5      44.4      48.3       54.1      61.3     115.3      107.3     107.3
AVL FAM LAB  UNSKILLED                         88.0      88.0      88.0       88.0      88.0      88.0      88.0       88.0      88.0
HIRED  LABOR UNSKILLED                            .0        .0        .0        .0        .0         .0     27.3       19.3      19.3
JUN. REQUIRED LAB UNSKILLED                          15.5      27.1      25.3      25.6       37.5      45.3     101.3      97.3       97.3
AVL FAM LAB  UNSKILLED                         80.0      80.0      80.0       80.0      80.0      80.0      80.0       80.0      80.0
HIRED  LABOR UNSKILLED                            .0        .0        .0        .0        .0         .0     21.3       17.3      17.3
JUL. REQUIRED LAB UNSKILLED                           7.0       8.5      11.4       16.8     26.1       35.8      47.8      85.8       85.8
AVL FAM LAB  UNSKILLED                         67.0      67.0      67.0       67.0      67.0      67.0      67.0       67.0      67.0
HIRED  LABOR UNSKILLED                            .0        .0        .0        .0        .0         .0        .0      18.8      18.8
AUG. REQUIRED LAB UNSKILLED                          12.5      13.0      14.9       18.3      24.1      30.8      35.8       29.8      29.8
AVL FAM LAB  UNSKILLED                         61.0      61.0      61.0       61.0      61.0      61.0      61.0       61.0      61.0
SEP. REQUIRED LAB UNSKILLED                          11.5      90.0      26.1      36.2      43.6       40.8      31.8      61.8       61.8
AVL FAM LAB  UNSKILLED                         56.0      56.0      56.0       56.0      56.0      56.0      56.0       56.0      56.0
HIRED  LABOR UNSKILLED                            .0     34.0         .0        .0        .0         .0        .0       5.8       5.8
OCT. REQUIRED LAB UNSKILLED                          12.5      27.0      32.1      59.2       55.6      48.8      38.8      113.8     113.8
AVL FAM LAB  UNSKILLED                         59.0      59.0      59.0       59.0      59.0      59.0      59.0       59.0      59.0
HIRED  LABOR UNSKILLED                            .0        .0        .0        .2        .0         .0        .0      54.8      54.8
NOV. REQUIRED LAB UNSKILLED                          13.5      46.4      35.6      44.8      44.8       48.3      37.3       92.3      92.3
AVL FAM LAB  UNSKILLED                         56.0      56.0      56.0       56.0      56.0      56.0      56.0       56.0      56.0
HIRED  LABOR UNSKILLED                            .0        .0        .0        .0        .0         .0        .0      36.3      36.3
DEC. REQUIRED LAB UNSKILLED                          27.5      34.3     '31.3      54.6      44.1       44.3      33.3       98.3      98.3
AVL FAM LAB  UNSKILLED                         48.0      48.0      48.0       48.0      48.0      48.0      48.0       48.0      48.0            H  .
HIRED  LABOR UNSKILLED                            .0        .0        .0       6.6        .0         .0        .0      50.3      50.3         mQ C 0
YEAR REQUIRED LAB UNSKILLED                         211.9    438.8    344.7    506.6    535.8    551.5           853.5  1,103.5  1,103.5            o
AVL FAM LAB  UNSKILLED                        745.0    745.0    745.0    745.0    745.0    745.0           745.0    745.0       745.0
HIRED  LABOR UNSKILLED                            .0     36.5         .0      19.5      13.9      11.8    231.0       389.8    389.8          0



RONDONIA SETTLEMENT CONSOLIDATION SUBPROJECI
Cost and Benefit Streams for Economic Analysis
(in US$000 - border prices)
1/
incremental Benefit Stream            Yr. 1    Yr. 2    Yr. 3    Yr. 4    Yr. 5    Yr. 6    Yr. 7    Yr. 8    Yr. 9    Yr. 10   Yr. 11   Yr. 12   Yr. 13   Yr.14    Yr.15                   Yr. 16   Yr.17-25
Net Farm Benefits                     -175   -1,263   -3,938   -7,764  -10,868   -6,396    6,153   20,095    37,395   59,432   82.529  101.924  111,131  113,565   114,000 115,918    116,357
1/
Cost Strems
Agricultural Extension                178       820    1,536    2,209    2,195    1,756    1,405         1,124       899       719       719       719       719       719      719       719       719
Agrieultural Research                 769    1,213        981       919      919       735       588        471      376       301        -         -         -         -        -         -         -
Far,-r Organization                     74      254       465      655       592       474       379        303      242       194        -         -         -         -        -         -         -
Storage and Drying                     -      5,107    5,722    7,174    1,950    1,950    1,950         1,950    1,950    1,950    1,950    1,950    1,950    1J950    1,950    1,950    1,950
Service Centers (NUARs)              2,746  19,281   12,338   12,493    4,217    3,374    2,699          2,159    1,727    1,382    1,382    1,382    1,382    1,382    1,382    1,382    1,382
Access Roads                         2,818   8,579    9,228    9,991    6,161          864       864        864      864       864       864       864       864      864       864       864       864
Coordination and
Management                              493     417       455       455      455       364       273        182        91      -          -         -         -        -          -        -        -
TOTAL COSTS                         7,078   26,671   30,725   33,796   16,489    9,517    8,158          7,053    6,149   5,410        4,915    4,915    4,915    4,915       4,915    4,915    4,915
Net Benefit Stream                 -7,253  -27,934  -34,663  -41,560  -27,357  -15,913   -2,005    13,042   31,246  54,022    77,614   97,009  105,216  108,650  110,085  111,003  111,442
I/teral Rate of  IReCoi:   21.6
1/ Net of taxes. 



_ 98 -
ANNEX 5
NORTHWEST REGIDN DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM                                               Table2
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PROJECT
PROJECT COSTS AND ANNUAL PHASING
(US$ '000)
PROJECT ACTIVITY                             1               2                3               4                5          TOTALS
A.  SETTLEMENT CONSOLIDATION
Access roads                          2336             /053            7418             7783            4500          29090
Service centers                       2425           10676            12689            12926            3722          42438
Extension                              163              752            1410             2027            2015           6367
Research                               708             1117             903              846              846          4420
Storage and drying                       0             3971            3971             4616                0         12558
Farmer organization                     67              233             427              601              543          1871
Education                              349             1154            1409             1705              571          5188
Rondonia coordination                  442              372             407              407             407           2035
Baseline cost                       6490           2532e            28634           30911            12604        103967
Physical contingencies               750            2820             3150             3371            1380         11471
Price contingencies                  652            5140             8620           12566             6558          33536
Settlement  Subtotal                  7892           33288            40404           46848            20542        148974
B.  ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AND ECOLOGICAL RESEARCH
National forests                        48             259              513              382             140          1342
Porestry control                       250             873              415              415             415          2368
Natural reserves                       195            1004             1147              774             454          3574
Ecological stations                    141             921              555               _               -           1617
Ecological research                    760            1335             1585            1645             1645          6970
Baseline cost                      1394             4392            4215             3216             2654         15871
Physical contingencies              279              878              843             643              531          3174
Price contingencies                 151              962             1371            1415             1494          5393
Environmental Subtotal                1824            6232             6429            5274             4679         24438
r.  STUDIES AND PROGRAM COORDINATION
an.  tenure services                 1398             3496            3722                                            8616
Soil surveys                           465                0               0                0                0           465
Program coordination                  2884             1795            1795             1795            1795          10064
Baseline cost                       4747            5291             5517             1795            1795         19145
Physical contingencies               428              529             552              180             180           1869
Price contingencies                  466             1063            1646              724            1019           4918
Coordination Subtotal                 5641            6883             7715             2699            2994         25932
D.  TOTAL PROJECT
Baseline cost                      12631           35011            38366           35922            17053        138983
Physical contingencies              1457            4227             4545            4194             2091         16514
Price contingencies                 1269            7165            11637            14705            9071         43847
Total  Troject costs                 15357            46403            54548           54821            28215        199344



- 99 -
ANNEX 5
Table 3
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(US$ Million)
Bank Fiscal            Quarter                   Disbursements                    Balance
Year                 Endin                In Quarter   Cumulative               of Loan
1982                Dec.  31, 1981          --            --                    67.0
Mar.  31, 1982          3.0  1        3.0                  64.0
June  30, 1982          1.0          4.0                   63.0
1983                Sept. 30, 1982          2.0           6.0                   61.0
Dec.  31, 1982         2.0            8.0                  59.0
March 31, 1983          4.1          12.1                  54.9
June  30, 1983         4.3          16.4                   50.6
1984                Sept. 30, 1983          4.4          20.8                   46.2
Dec.  31, 1983         4.4           25.2                  41.8
March 31, 1984         4.4           29.6                  37.4
June  30, 1984         4.4          34.0                   33.0
1985                Sept. 30, 1984          4.5          38.5                   28.5
Dec.  31, 1984         4.5          43.0                   24.0
March 31, 1985         4.6          47.6                   19.4
June  30, 1985         5.0          52.6                   14.4
1986                Sept. 30, 1985          3.0          55.6                   11.4
Dec.  31, 1985          3.0         58.6                    8.4
March 31, 1986          3.0         61.6                    5.4
June  30, 1986         2.4          64.C                    3.0
1987                Sept. 30, 1986          2.0          66.C                    1.0
Dec.  31, 1986          1.0          67.C.                     0
1/ Mainly retroactive financing



- 100 -
ANNEX 5
RONDONIA SETTLEMENT CONSOLIDATION SUBPROJECT             Table 4
Main Prices Used in Economic and Financial Analyses
(Cr$'000/ton)
(in constant January 1981 prices)
Product                           Financial                 Border -/ 2/
Rice               1981               13.00                    16.71
1985                                       2112
1990              17.16                    22.12
Corn               1981                8.9                      8.9
1985
1990              14.06                    14.06
Coffee             1981              57.2                     67.03
1985                                       69.19
1990              55.48                    74.83
Cocoa              1981             162.8                    129.16            129.16 4/
1985                                      129.87 3
1990             107.45                   142.55 -"        116.56!/
Rubber             1981             203.5                    104.81
1985                                      113.43
1990             203.5                    120.47
Beef               1981               78.0                   147.88
1985                                       89.15
1990             102.2                    167.45
Fertilizer         1981               82                      73.50
76.17
Nutrient           1985               82                       77.11
1990
1/  The prices used in the financial analysis of the farm models for the
other inputs and outputs were also used in the economic analysis.
2/  In deriving these prices, a shadow exchange rate 15% above the official
rate of Cr$ 68.1 per US$ was used.
3/  The 1990 projected cocoa price is based on an equivalent constant 1-978
price of 71¢/lb; based on 6/22/81 EDPCE memorandum.
4/  Sensitivity analysis with cocoa at 60¢/lb in constant 1978 prices.



- 101 -
ANNEX 6
BRAZIL
NORTHWEST REGION DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
FIRST PHASE
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROJECTION PROJECT
SALVAGE LOGGING STUDIES
I. THE SUBPROJECT AREA
Geography
1.        The Rondonia Settlement Consolidation subproject area consists
of the colonization schemes of Burareiro, Marechal Dutra, Adolpho Rohl,
Ouro Preto and Gy-Parana, and surrounding areas of spontaneous occupation,
where land tenure is now being legalized. The schemes are located mainly
in the municipalities of Ariquemes, Ji-Parana and Cacoal in central Rondonia.
Following expansion of the five schemes in 1980, they now total 3.0 million ha,
equivalent to 45% of the total area of the three municipalities. The area has
a humid, tropical climate with mean monthly temperatures of 21 to 26 C. Annual
rainfall averages 1,800 to 2,200 mm depending on location and there are three
or four months when rainfall averages less than 50 mm. The terrain of the
subproject area is gently undulating, but often dissected by streams or
rivers. Slope limitations on land development are localized, usually occurring
only on stream banks or occasional rock outcrops.
The Forest Resource
2.        The original five colonization schemes include areas of four phyto-
ecological regions as defined by RADAMBRASIL 1/: savannah, dense tropical
forest, open tropical forest and areas of "ecological tension" (i.e., essen-
tially areas of contact between forest and savannah). The original settlement
area falls almost entirely within the dense and open tropical forest types in
an approximate proportion of one to two. Over 50% of the Gy-Parana project
and the colonization expansion area, however, are covered by the savannah/
forest contact zone. The timber resources of these three principal vegetation
types are summarized in Table 1.
1/   The description of the forest resources of the subproject area follows
that of RADAMBRASIL. There are no detailed inventories available for the
five colonization scheme areas.



-102 -                         ANNEX 6
Page 2
Government Activities in Forestry Development
3.         Despite its enormous forestry potential, the corresponding insti-
tutional infrastructure of the Northwest region is weak. IBDF, in agreement
with the Rondonia Secretariat of Agriculture, has boosted its staff in Rondonia
to four forest engineers. All, however, are located in the capital city,
Porto Velho. Transport is difficult and limited by budgetary problems. The
National Forestry Research Program of EMBRAPA/IBDF has just recently agreed to
put at least one researcher into Rondonia as part of the proposed Bank-financed
Second Agricultural Research Project with EMBRAPA. The local control, moni-
toring, extension, development and research efforts of IBDF, EMBRAPA and state
institutions still need to be strongly reinforced for a serious forestry
sector development program to be carried out in the region. Priority should
be given to the establishment and improvement of IBDF inspection posts and the
proposed IBDF forest products concentration warehouses for grading of forest
products for export. This is essential if the fragmented forest industry is
to meet large orders for international markets, provide quality products with
dependability and receive concommitantly higher prices for them. A first
warehouse is already envisaged in Santarem (Para) and will be a way-station
for forest products from Rondonia and the Northwest.
4.         The forest policy paper prepared for the Amazon Region by an Inter-
ministerial Work Group headed by IBDF in 1979 1/, which awaits final approval
and publication, would help guide proper utilization of the forest resources
of the region, including those forests affected by colonization projects. It
would strengthen IBDF's hand in dealing with the area's forest sector develop-
ment.
II. EVALUATION OF FOREST RESOURCE UTILIZATION
A. Forest Clearing
5.       Forest removals in the five settlement schemes have been significant
in recent years as a result of the influx of new settlers and the cumulative
effect of their land clearing activities. The Forest Cover Monitoring Program
of IBDF's Remote Sensing Laboratory has estimated deforestation in the original
2.2 million ha subproject area at only 15,650 ha through 1975 but another
135,000 ha may have been cleared between 1976 and 1978 for a total of some
150,000 ha, or 6.8% of the original settlement area. Further but probably
more limited clearings have occured in spontaneous settlements which have
1/   Relatorio, Grupo de Trabalho, Politica Florestal para a Amazonia Brasi-
leira, Brasilia, 1979.



_ 103                      ANNEX 6
Page 3
brought the total settlement area (as of January 1981) to 3.0 million ha 1/.
Using INCRA statistics on settlement and forest clearing rates, it is projected
that the legally removable 50% of the forest could be felled by as early as
1991 (Table 2). If the Government allows clearing and cultivation of the
remaining 1.5 million ha, establishing off-setting agglomerated reserves
nearby, it would take less than 13 years beyond 1991 to eliminate individual
reserves, assuming each land-owner family clears five hectares per year
on the average. More precise deforestation figures will be known when updated
landsat images are analysed. This will be the priority activity for IBDF's
Remote Sensing Laboratory in 1981. Assuming the deforestation figures are
correct, and further assuming that the removals are occurring proportionally
within the four phytoecological regions discussed above, 70 million m3 of
commercial class wood could be felled over the next ten years in the settle-
ment consolidation areas (Table 3).
B. Present Utilization of the Timber Resource
Felling
6.       With the exception of mahogany (Swietenia macrophylla) and
cerejeira (Torrezia acreana) virtually none of the timber felled on the
colonized areas is being used. In most cases it lays where it falls to
decay or to be burned. This has the benefit of returning minerals (ash)
and organic material to the soil, but, in terms of opportunity costs (as
expressed by the alternative value of the wood), it is a rather expensive
way to maintain soil fertility. The practice also creates obstacles to
crop cultivation in the form of fallen logs and stumps. Even mahogany and
cerejeira are lost on those plots which have no access by road. If the
total volume of these two species were fully utilized, it would still only
account for 0.92 m3 per hectare, which is 6% of the Class I (export) volume
of timber and less than two percent of all commercial timber being cleared
(Classes I, II and III). The reasons for this low level of utilization
include (a) insufficient and inefficient harvesting, transport and manufac-
turing facilities in the region; and (b) concommitantly high production costs.
This limits utilization to high valued species, such as mahogany, which will
guarantee sufficient profit margins. Also, there is a general lack of aware-
ness on the part of both settlers and the Government of the potential value
of the timber resource and its role as a capital base or "timber mine" for
financing rural development. In most cases the forest is erroneously viewed
as an obstacle rather than a means to land development. This is ironically
manifest in INCRA's acceptance of the removal of the forest as an "improve-
ment" of the land, meeting the criteria for granting title to the settler.
1/   Further expansion of settlement areas can be expected as new settlers
continue to push spontaneous settlements beyond existing boundaries.
This annex, however, deals only with the forest utilization potential
within the present 3.0 million ha.



ANNEX 6
- 104 -                       Page 4
Harvesting and Processing
7.       There is also a lack of efficient, high-productivity harvesting
equipment 1/. With the exception of only one known mechanized logging opera-
tion in the Territory, using skidders and a front-end loader, all harvesting
is done by hand. Chainsaws are used to fell the trees, and winches (mostly
hand-ratchet type) are used to pull the logs onto trucks. The trucks are
generally unspecialized vehicles of eight to ten tons capacity. The total
capacity of harvesting equipment in the region is far below the volume of wood
being made available through land clearing activities. This is a problem
which affects all of Brazil, where despite possession of 30% of the world's
tropical forest reserves, the national forest industries sector has not
developed or adopted mechanized harvesting systems, as cheap supplies of high
valued species have been available from manual logging operations, leaving
high profit margins for the sawmilling operation. As the supply of easily
accessible high value timber diminishes, however, the industry will be forced
to develop new logging systems. This is already beginning to happen in
the lower Amazon region.  In Rondonia, the easy access areas with high volumes
of mahogany and cerejeira are expected to be logged over within five years.
This will be a strong factor in encouraging the use of other valuable spe-
cies.
8.       The forest industry infrastructure is also inefficient and under-
developed. This is exacerbated by a lack of investment capital and/or
credits and incentives from the %-overnment to encourage investments in
more efficient plants. IBDF statistics conservatively indicate a total
of 160 sawmills in the municipalities containing the five colonization
schemes, out of less than 250 sawmills registered in all of the Territory.
Most 3of these mills are very small horizontal reciprociting saws of under
10 m /day capacity or vertical band saws of 15 to 30 m /day capacity. Global
sawmilling capacity in the Settlement Consolidation subp5oject area is 3not
known, but is probably very low, in a range of 250,000 m to 500,000 m
of sawn wood per year.
9.       There is presently considerable excess capacity in existent mills
in the region due to (a) scarcity of skilled labor to man extra shifts;
(b) lack of working capital to purchase adequate log supplies, especially
during the rainy season; and (c) insufficient harvesting equipment to feed
the mills. In the rainy season, poor roads, the related prohibition to use
feeder and access roads for log transport and a lack of working capital to
build up a five to six months stock of logs, causes most smaller mills to
close down.
1/   Accessibility, however, is not a serious problem.  The RADAMBRASIL
survey classifies the open tropical forests in the subproject area
as being of easy (86%) to moderately easy (14%) access. The savannah/
forest contact areas are of easy (93%) to moderately easy (6%) accessi-
bility. The dense forest areas, however, are classified as difficult
(50%) to very difficult (50%) for harvesting, but it should be kept
in mind that the open forest and savannah/forest contact areas account
for over 73% of the Settlement Consolidation subproject area.



- 105 -                     ANNEX 6
Page 5
10.       There are ample national and international markets for Rondonia's
wood. World demand for tropical hardwoods continues to expand at about
3 or 4% per year. Brazil's overall share of this market in 1977 was less
than one percent (logs, sawn wood, plywood, veneer), mainly sawn wood
(5% of world market). Brazil should, therefore, have no difficulty in
exporting any incremental amount of quality forest products it could pro-
duce in the next few years. In terms of domestic demand the situation is
even more striking. Total sawn wood production (of which hardwoods have
comprised about 50% in the last decade and are expected to account for
a growing share in the medium term) is projected at gust over 7.2 million m3
in 1985, while demand is estimated at 14.5 million m , a deficit of over
7.3 million m3. This is equal to 50% of the total potential supply of sawn
wood from Rondonia in that year, assuming (a) an optimistic conversion rate of
50% from log to sawn wood; and (b) that all of its three classes of commercial
timbers would be utilized.
11.       The high profit margins earned in the sawings and slicing of
abundant mahogany and cerejeira logs allow many mills to operate at a
profit, even if only working six to seven months per year and one shift per day.
It also appears to contribute to keeping other fine, but lesser-valued
timber off the market. Specifically, logs of these two species cost about
US$20 per m3 felled in the forest and US$70 per m3 at the mill. A cubic
meter of sawn mahogany on the other hand, sells for US$200 per m3 at the
mill, and a cubic meter of sliced mahogany veneer is priced at US$1,000
per m3 at the factory. Therefore, virtually none of the timber's value
remains with the landowner. If some of these profits were shifted back
to the settler in the form of higher stumpage prices, he would improve
his cash flow during initial settlement years. Assuming a conservative
stumpage value of US$5.00 per cubic meter for Class I and II woods other
than mahogany and cerejeira, which get US$15 to 20 in the forest, and other
valuable timbers, which get over US$10, the settler would obtain approxi-
mately US$300 per hectare for the timber it contains.
12.       Woods other than mahogany and cerejeira are generally grouped
as "white timbers" and are used largely for local construction needs. They
presently account for about 10% of local sawn wood production but a few
peeler mills are making high value core stock from them. This latter product
is a very promising and profitable end use for these "white woods," and the
expansion of its production should be strongly encouraged.
13.      According to local mill owners, high transport costs to the southern
markets via the unpaved BR-364 make all but mahogany and cerejeira uncompeti-
tive with wood coming from southern Para. Transport north to Manaus is
shorter and cheaper and gives access to export markets which pay higher prices
in foreign exchange. Much of the wood which goes to Sao Paulo and Parana
however, goes to affiliates of Rondonia sawmills and veneer mills and is



- 106 -                       ANNEX 6
Page 6
eventually exported as plywood, panelling and planed lumber.  In this case,
the lirm earns the extra value added, but the local economy (in Rondonia) does
not benefit fromn it. In addition to encouraging an increase in sawmill and
neer iliL1 capacity in the Territory, therefore, plywood, resawing, planing
c'- molding milis and even furniture plants should be developed in Rondonia to
ake adnantage of the considerable value-added these operations generate and
a,cid the costs of transporting residues in the form of rough lumber. Coopera-
tion among industry leaders, especially in the export market, should improve
sales opportunities through more adequate supplies of quality sawtimber
achieved by pooling the production of individual mills and practicing strict
quality control. This is a problem common to all of the Amazon region. The
BODF induistries and Marketing Department is attempting to ensure such coopera-
tion by proposing the building of lumber concentration yards and warehouses
wvhere forest products would be graded and classified. The first such ware-
nouse would be in Santarem and one is under consideration for Porto Velho.
_-ZF  s at the same time developing a general marketing and tropical timbers
promotion strategy for Brazil.
C. Potential Utilization of the Timber Resources
Mechanical -Wood Industries 1/
14.       There is considerable potential for increasing the utilization
of the timber available from Rondonia settlements clearing. It would in-
volve the establishment of numerous small sawmills near the forest clear-
ing operations to produce rough-squared logs and veneer flitches for fur-
ther processing by larger, integrated forest products complexes to be located
i.n the urban certers 2/. Simple but effective all-weather logging methods,
al-neady ini use in Malaysia and other tropical forest areas, should be developed
to make logs available year round and reduce costs per cubic meter delivered.
Recent legislation prohibits the installation of diesel or gasoline powered
sawmills to reduce dependence on imported oil. Gasogens as power sources for
the smaller mills would have ready energy supplies in the form of wood resi-
dues. The Ministry of Mines and Energy (MMl4E) has a program to promote gasogen
development and use in Ceara in the Northeast of Brazil. A similar program is
suggested for the Northwest region's rural areas. The proposed mills are
inexpensive to purchase (US$3,500 exclusive of power plant) and to operate
(they need only two men and no highly skilled labor), and they are easily
moved to new sites.
A,/ Sawmills, veneer and plywood mills, planing mills, etc., which mechani-
cally (as opposed to chemically or thermically) break down the wood
Into products.
2/   The productivity of the small mills would thus be improved and the
quality of lumber produced in the region would increase considerably
since the larger bandsaw mills can cut with a great deal more precision
and efficiency than the horizontal reciprocating mills.



- 107 -                    ANNEX 6
Page 7
Wood as an Energy Source
15.       The Territory of Rondonia presently derives all of its energy
needs from petroleum fuels with the exception of a few small scale wood
fired steam generators in a number of the larger forest industries and at two
mining sites. Concerned over the rising consumption and costs of diesel fuel
for electric power generation, the Rondonia Electric Company (CERON) has had
feasibility studies carried out for the construction and operation of wood-
fueled generating plants for the cities of Ariquemes and Vilhena, at a cost
considerably below that of equivalent diesel-generated power. The proposed
3,000 kw plants would consume some 10,000 m3 per month of firewood at full
capacity. Further studies are needed, however, to determine (a) the maximum
distance from which it is feasible to bring in logging residues; and (b) the
availability of this type of wood over the next ten years. A survey of local
saw and veneer mills would be necessary to determine net supply and unit costs
of these residues, including projections for at least five years.
16.       The Ariquemes unit is expected to be amply supplied by the clearing
of the area to be flooded by the Samuel Hydroelectric Project (approximately
80,000 ha of open tropical forest along BR-364 1/. The Vilhena plant is near
a considerable forest industry park which could supply cheap fuel as wood
residues for some time. CERON expects to also move the Ariquemes plant to
Vilhena as soon as the Samuel dam begins generating. CERON has suggested that
these plants could eventually be supplied with wood from plantations of fast
growing species established in the nearby cerrado (savannah) lands. IBDF
should further investigate the energy potential of the natural forest in the
settlement con-solidation area and the feasibility of using large wood-fired
steam generators for those urban centers which will not be served by the
Samuel dam. Wood demand for these centers, assuming all energy is produced
from wood-burning generators, would be about 90,000 m3, 160,000 m3 and
425,000 m3 in 1983, 1988, and 1993 respectively 2/. Possible application
of the MME gasogen program 3/ in the Northwest Region have already been
mentioned. Investigation of the feasibility of small scale charcoal manu-
facturing operations in the area would also be appropriate.
1/   A significant volume of fine timbers will have to be removed from the
Samuel Hydroelectric Project area prior to flooding. Since it is near
the paved road between Ariquemes and Porto Velho, the wood has easy
access to overseas markets through Manaus and Santarem. IBDF should
inventory the area as soon as possible and develop a harvesting,
industrialization and marketing strategy to assure its maximum utili-
zat ion.
2/   The factor of conversion used is 5 m3 per megawatt hour of energy
produced.
3/   Ministry of Mines and Energy, Projeto Gasogenio, Rio de Janeiro, R.J.,
April, 1980.



- 108 -                       ANNEX 6
Page 8
III. FOLLOW-UP ACTION
A. Proposed Studies
17.          On the basis of the foregoing analysis, a number of studies
would be undertaken by IBDF to develop a more precise data base for the
Settlement Consolidation subproject area, the Territory of Rondonia and the
Northwest region in that order and to determine the technical and economic
feasibility of developing integrated harvesting/industry operations for
utilizing timber from areas being cleared for agriculture. Proposed studies
are detailed in the following paragraphs.
Deforestation Measurement
18.          The Remote Sensing Laboratory of IBDF in Brasilia would use
landsat imagery for July 1/ 1979 and July 1980 to update existing information
on deforestation in (a) the Settlement Consolidation subproject area; (b)
the Territory of Rondonia; and (c) the Northwest region. This study would
yield time series of deforestation statistics through 1975, 1978, 1979 and
1980, for each study area and by forest type. The total cost of the deforesta-
tion study of the Northwest region is estimated at Cr$4.6 million (US$65,700
in prices of 1/81). It would take three, six and eight months respectively to
evaluate forest removals in the three areas to be studied. The project has top
priority in the laboratory's 1981 program and was begun in March. It is being
financed through IBDF's regular budget.
Strategic Level Forest Inventory
19.          A Strategic Level Forest Inventory of the Consolidation sub-
project area would be carried out by the IBDF Forest Economics Department
on its regular budget once the results of the deforestation analysis are
available. Included in the inventory will be the 50% forest reserve areas.
The inventory would pay special attention to forest "creaming" operations
in the area to determine if selective cutting of the more valuable species
such as mahogany and cerejeira has seriously reduced the value of the
forest resource. The inventory would be designed to provide information
suitable for determining appropriate harvesting systems and the appropri-
ate number and scale of manufacturing operations. It would cost approxi-
mately Cr$13.5 million (US$193,000 in prices of 1/81) and would require
nine months for completion.
Forestry Zoning
20.       The IBDF Department of Forest Economics is equipped to locate
areas of the Northwest region appropriate for future forestry reserves for
I/   July is in the middle of the dry season and offers optimal interpretation
conditions due to the reduced cloud cover.



_ 109                        ANNEX 6
Page 9
preservation or development. Regular IBDF budget (Cr$1.5 million or US$21,500)
has been set aside to finance this study, which is essential for identifying
alternative forestry zones to substitute for existing reserves in coloni-
zation areas if they were to be released for agricultural development.
A working group of IBDF and INCRA professionals, with participation of
personnel from SUDECO, CODARON and other interested institutions would be
set up to (a) discuss and resolve the various issues related to proposed
forest development schemes for colonization areas; and (b) decide how to
handle the mandatory 50% forest reserve in INCRA settlement areas.
B. Technical Assistance to IBDF
21.       IBDF has expressed its intention to request FAO Technical Coopera-
tion Program assistance to help establish a forestry and forest industry
development plan in Rondonia, with particular attention to salvaging the
timber felled in existing and future settlement areas. The technical assis-
tance would be directed toward the following areas:
(a) tropical forest salvage logging operations: to determine
the most economical way of removing the timber being felled
on the colonized areas;
(b) forest industries: to evaluate alternative industrial
development schemes for improving utilization of the timber
being felled;
(c) tropical forest products marketing: to evaluate existing
marketing channels and prepare a strategy for developing
national and overseas markets for timbers and wood products
of the Northwest region as part of the Amazon wood products
marketing program of IBDF;
(d) forest energy systems: to assess the feasibility of using
gasogens to power small scale mills in the colonization
areas and to use wood-fired electric generators to supply
small urban communities' energy needs using forest and
industrial residues and/or energy plantations;
(e) forestry extension: to conceptualize a forestry extension
scheme adequate for the needs of the project area and the
Northwest region;
(f) forest revenue systems: to evaluate IBDF's systems of
taxing transported forest products and suggest modifications
of that system and/or alternative revenue systems (the
latter would include evaluation of stumpage levies or cut-
ting fees designed to maximize utilization of the timber
being felled in the colonization area);



-llu _                        ANNEX 6
Page 10
(g) agro-forestry: to work with IBDF/EMBRAPA research personnel
to establish a series of practical agro-forestry research
experiments, suggest agro-forestry practices which could be
implemented immediately and assist in the training of ex-
tension personnel in these techniques; and
(h) forest economics: to assist in the financial and economic
evaluation of the proposed industrial development projects
with special emphasis on the potential contribution of the
forestry sector to the sustained development of the region's
economy (income and employment generation, foreign exchange
earnings, etc.).
C. Cost Estimates
22.          The estimated cost of the FAO input to the project would be
16 months of consultancy services at approximately $6,000 per month, or
US$96,000. The deforestation and forestry zoning studies and the forest
inventories would be paid by IBDF's regular budget and cos-t Cr$4.6 million,
Cr$1.5 million and Cr$13.5 million respectively for a total of Cr$19.6 million
(US$279,500 at 1/81 prices).



BRAZTL
NORTHWEST I
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT AND  ENVIRONMEIITAL PROTECTION PROJECT
Estimated Timber Resources in the Rondonia Settlement Area
Dense Tropical Forest                               Open Tropical Forest                            Forest/Savanna Contact Zone
Marketing            On-stump              Total Iog volume              On-stump            Total log volume              On-stump            Total log volume                    Total Log Volume
Clasg               Volumes                                            Volumes                                            Volumes                                                In the Settlement
_pehe                                               per ha                                             p ser ha                           ___                Consolidation Area
Before         Estimated            3             Before         Eetimated                     _ efore            Estimated             Before    [   Estimated
i               o j   m  1/  deforestationsofo1/81 2/ --                               a m        deforestation   s of 1/81 2/         deforestation as  of 1/81 2 
-(Epo,t)                          millto________                                    a illiono of a3                                  mnillions of m3                       milo;oi
24.1              13.0              10.3            20.7            25.4              20.2            15.0            6.4                5.1              4                 35.6
ILII  (National)        35.9               19.5             15.5             30.8            37.6              29.9            27.5          11.8                9.4               68.9              54.8
III  (Local)           34.3               18.5             14.1             29.8            36.4              29.0            27.0          11.6                9.2               66.5              52.9
IV    (No present      24.0               13.3             10.6             25.4            31.1              24.8            22.8           9.8                7.8               54.2              43.2
market)  _                                                 _                          _    _  _                                                __   _  _____4
Total                 118.3               64.3             51.1            105.7           130.5             103.9            92.3          39.6               31.5    |         234.4             186.5
Soulrce:  EADAiIBRASI L and Mission estimates_                                           -        ___ __ _
1/ Without bark
2/ Assumes 20.47. of the total area had been deforested as of 1/81.
41m



ANNEX 6
Table 2
- 112 -
BRAZIL
NORTHWEST I
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PROJECT
Estimated Forest Removals in the Settlement Subproject
Area. _/
Number of Families        Area of Forest Cleared3/
Year           Settled2/
During             Cumulative
year
1972               522                  1,566                 1,566
1973              2766                  9,864                11,430
1974              1615                 14,709                26,139
1975              2073                 20,928                47,067
1976              1870                 26,538                73,605
1977              1101                 29,841               103,446
1978              3121                 39,204               142,650
1979              1608                 73,380               216,030
1980              3525                 91,005               307,035
1981              3500                108,505               415,540
1982              2049                118,750               534,290
1983               -                  118,750               653,040
1984                                  118,750               771,790
1985                                  118,750               890,540
1986                                  118,750             1,009,290
1987               -                  118,750             1,128,040
1988               -                  118,750             1,246,790
1989               -                  118,750             1,365,540
1990               -                  118,750             1,484,290
1991               -                   15,710             1,500,000
1/  Assumes the original area of 2.2 million hectares plus the area of
extension as of 1/81 of 800,000 ha. for a total of 3.0 million ha.
2/  Source INCRA, Porto Velho, Rondonia, for years 1972-80.  Years 1981
and 1982 projected by the mission. The number of families actually
residing in the area including "agregados" without land title will be
at least twice the total of owner-settlers.
3/  Assumes a rate of 3 ha per family settled per year through 1978 and 5 ha
per family settled per year thereafter (see text).



- 113 -                    ANNEX 6
Table 3
BRAZIL
NORTHWEST I
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PROJECT
Estimated Timber Volumes Generated in the Settlement
Consolidation Subproject Area.
Area cleared      Weighted volume of wood removed by marketing class
Year    during year                         (1,000 m3)
(ha.)           I        II         III         Subtota3    IV    Total
I-II1
1972      1,566             24.9      38.2     37.0         100.1        29.9    130.0
1973      9,864            156.8    240.7    232.8          630.3       188.4    818.7
1974     14,709            233.9    358.9    347.1          939.9       280.9  1,220.8
1975     20,928            332.8    510.6    493.9        1,337.3       399.7  1,737.0
1976     26,538            422.0    647.5    626.3        1,695.8       506.9  2,202.7
1977     29,841            474.5    728.1    704.2        1,906.8       570.0  2,476.8
1978     39,204            623.3    956.6    925.2        2,505.1       748.8  3,253.9
1979     73,380         1,166.7  1,790.5  1,731.8         4,689.0    1,401.6  6,090.6
1980     91,005         1,447.0  2,220.5  2,147.7         5,815.2    1,738.2  7,553.4
1981    108,505         1,725.2  2,647.5  2,560.7         6,933.4    2,072.4  9,005.8
1982
throgh 118,750          1,888.1  2,897.5  2,802.5         7,588.1    2,268.1  9,856.2
1991-
Total                                       (millions of m3)
1982-
1991 1,084,460             17.2      26.5     25.6          69.3        20.7      90.0
1/  Presently marketable wood.
2/ Year in which all forest land outside of the 50% reserve would have been
felled.






- 115                          ANNEX 7
BRAZIL
NORTHWEST REGION DEVELOPMENT PEOGRAM
FIRST PHASE
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PROJECT
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AND RESEARCH
1.        Development of the Northwest region will, unavoidably, increase
pressures on a tropical forest environment which, notwithstanding large areas
of soils of better quality than those found elsewhere in the Amazon basin,
is generally considered to be fragile and has not yet been fully studied.
Concern has been expressed on the possible negative side effects of rapid land
clearing, such as the destruction of possibly unique genetic resources and
ecosystems, the erosion and degradation of fragile soils, the poor utilization
of timber resources and the development of ecologically inappropriate activ-
ities. In an attempt to monitor and minimize such risks and increase the
knowledge of the region, a number of activities are being considered for
implementation within the Agricultural Development and Environmental Protection
Project, with respect to forestry development; establishment of natural parks
and biological reserves; construction of ecological stations; and financing of
various lines of ecological monitoring and research.
A. Forestry Development
2.        Forestry development in the Northwest region would be enhanced by
(a) identifying and reserving large tracts of areas as National Forests for the
subsequent establishment of commercial forestry activities; and (b) strengthen-
ing the forest products marketing control and warehousing infrastructure of
the region.
3.        Responsibility for the forestry development, marketing control,
warehousing and forest protection components would be with the Brazilian
Forestry Development Institute (IBDF), an autonomous organ of the Ministry of
Agriculture, created in 1967 and charged with the formulation of forest policy
and directing the national use and conservation of renewable natural resources
within the rules established by the Forestry Code of 1965 and the Fauna
Protection Law of 1967. IBDF headquarters are in Brasilia. It has five
executive departments (Research; Reforestation; Forest Economics; National
Parks and Reserves; and Industry and Commerce) and a delegation in each state.
Each Park or Reserve has its own director, who, however, usually does not live
within the Park limits. Within the Department of Forest Economics, there is
a Division of Remote Sensing and Monitoring, coordinated from Brasilia, with
laboratories in Belem and Brasilia and a technical assistance group in Manaus.



- llfi -                   ANNEX 7
Page 2
4.        IBDF is a relatively weak organization, which has yet had little
lnfluence on Amazon development and has failed to exert adequate control
over deforestation. Nevertheless, IBDF activities have grown consistently
in recent years and its reforestation (435,000 ha planted 4n 1980 mainly
for charcoal supply) and conservation programs are strong. The conservation
program has 23 National Parks (8.3 million ha) and 11 Biological Reserves
(1.2 million ha).  Ten of these units, totalling 7 million ha, were created
only in the past two years, putting the limited resources of IBDF under severe
stress. In 1980, IBDF had a budget of Cr$ 1.6 billion (US$32 million) and a
staff of some 3,400 (of which some 2,900 are in the state delegations and
500 at headquarters) including some 450 professionals. IBDF has only 15 staff
in Rondonia (of which four are professional level) and 53 in Mato Grosso
(of which three are professional level). This compares with an average of
113 total and 12 professional in other states. The IBDF control point in
Vilhena is paid from territory funds and no control is provided in Rondonia of
existing conservation units and of the rule which provides that 50% of any
property must be left in its natural forest state.
National Forests
5.        There are millions of hectares of virgin forests in the Northwest
region, mostly to be preserved as national parks and biological reserves,
and some of which could be developed into productive national forests. The
creation of such forest estates is necessary to maintain the ecological
integrity of the region and to guarantee an adequate supply of forest products
for domestic and international markets. The establishment of national forests
would be achieved in a number of phases. A working group within IBDF's
Economics Department has identified, in collaboration with INCRA, areas
suitable for commercial forestry operations. The next phase woud be to
delineate those areas and establish small teams of rangers to protect them
from invasion with assistance from aerial patrols. Subsequent phases of
National Forest development would involve the detailed inventorying of the
potential areas, the development of management plans (including the possibility
of forest colonization in which settlers derive most of their income from
sustained selective harvesting or the leasing of larger tracts of state-owned
forest to private operators) and the construction of basic access and admin-
istration infrastructure.
6.        The first phase could be initiated immediately.  The IBDF working
group would use information from satellite images, aerial photographs, fly-
overs and field visits to confirm the potential of a 300,000 ha area of prime
forest land which has already been identified for forestry development purposes
and which would not be of priority use for agricultural settlement. Selection
studies would include forest type, commercial volumes of timber available,
topography and accessibility. The area would be mapped and declared a legal
reserve. It would then be protected by ranger patrols wnile IBDF studies it
in detail to identify those areas within the reserve most appropriate for
timber production. Remaining areas could be considered for later development
or kept as areas of permanent preservation. Areas selected for production
would be the subject of detailed technical, administrative, financial and
economic feasibility studies. The Envirornmental Protection subproject would



- 117 -                         ANNEX 7
Page 3
finance the costs of identification, delimitation, patrolling, inventory
and feasibility studies for the commercial development of the specific area
selected. Corresponding costs are shown in January 1981 terms in US dollars
in Table 1 of this Annex.
Forest Product Control
7.        IBDF has the responsibility of monitoring forest products movements
within Brazil and charges a tax on the products being shipped. The system
has, however, always suffered from shortages of human and financial resources
and poor administration, resulting in under-estimated production statistics
and substantial losses in revenues. There are today two control posts in
Rondonia, one at Vilhena and the other on the road from Porto Velho to Manaus.
The project would construct two new posts in Rondonia (Pimenta Bueno and
Ji-Parana) and improve the Vilhena post. In Mato Grosso, two new posts would
be built (Vila Bela and Aripuana) and two would be improved (Barra do Bugres
and Caceres). Corresponding costs are detailed in Table 2 of this Annex. The
costs of two nurseries to be established in Cuiaba and Porto Velho are shown
in Table 3 of this Annex.
B. Natural Reserves
8.        Elements of justification for the establishment of natural reserves
in the Northwest region are provided in para. 4.05 of the main text of this
report. IBDF's proposed conservation units in the Northwest region are listed
below.
Name                 Type              Area (ha)               Status
Pacaas Novos       National Park            764,800       Created, undemarcated
Guapore            Biological Reserve       500,000       Awaits decree
Jaru               Biological Reserve       268,150       Created, undemarcated
Cara-Cara          Biological Reserve        70,000       Created
The Cara-Cara Biological Reserve, located in the Pantanal area, is intended to
be absorbed within a larger (250,000 ha) Pantanal National Park, for which no
proposal has yet been formulated by IBDF. The project would, therefore,
assist in the establishment of the other three natural reserves.
The Pacaas Novos National Park
9.        While the Park exists officially, everything to secure its integrity
still remains to be done. The Pacaas Novos Park lies in the general area
where uru-eu-wau-wau Indians are known to dwell. Access to a large part of
the area allocated by a Presidential decree to the Park has been interdicted
by a FUNAI decree (portaria), until the on-going process of contacting uru-eu-
wau-wau tribes is completed. Once the tribes contacted, FUNAI may wish to
establish a permanent Amerindian reserve in part of the interdicted area. It
is, however, in the common interest of both institutions that the general area
of the Park be immediately protected. Once an agreement is reached between
IBDF and FUNAI on the location, implementation procedures and future ownership
of the proposed investments. the project would finance the establishment of



- 118 -
ANNEX 7
Page 4
all the infrastructure, housing, roads and airstrips, as well as equipment for
the Park Headquarters and operating costs. The Park is long and narrow, lying
on the watershed of the Guapore and Ji-Parana/Madeira drainage, at between 400
and 500 m elevation. It is the dominant feature of the Rondonia landscape
and, with its high plateau surrounded by cliffs or steep slopes, is physically
rather isolated from the plain below. It is extremely significant in conserva-
tion, since three areas (totalling some 42,000 ha) of fertile soil bearing
open forest of the type being largely taken away by colonization are found
within its boundaries, giving them a critical role in supporting the fauna and
flora endemic to Rondonia. These areas are on the northern or eastern margin
of the National Park, and consequently in urgent need of demarcation and the
establishment of guard posts to avoid penetration from nearby colonization
projects. The cost of establishing the Pacaas Novos park is detailed in
Table 4 of this Annex.
The Guapore Biological Reserve
10.       The Guapore Biological Reserve, originally envisaged in the south-
eastern corner of Rondonia, has since been relocated further west, in lieu of
the Pedras Negras forest reserve. Its size, in the latest context, would be
of the order of 500,000 ha. Creation and demarcation of this reserve await
agreement with the Territorial Government and INCRA on the status of pockets
of agricultural activity along the Guapore River, and with FUNAI, which is now
in the process of delimiting the Rio Branco reserve, immediately to the North.
The reserve is highly varied, including areas of seasonally inundated grassland
in the south, some forest of poor quality on Quaternary deposits and, along
its northern margin, some forest associated with the fertile soils on the
southern flank of the Serra dos Parecis. Information on the reserve is minimal,
since access is extremely difficult other than near the Guapore River, but the
northern forest is expected to perform a useful conservation role for the
flora and fauna endemic to the Guapore, which are clearly distinguished from
those elsewhere in Rondonia, to the north and west. Actual development of the
Guapore Reserve would start on Year 2 of the project to give time to IBDF to
complete an agreement with INCRA and FUNAI.
The Jaru Biological Reserve.
11.       The Jaru Biological Reserve lies between the Rondonia/Mato Grosso
border and the Ji-Parana River. The reserve was redesigned in 1979 in place
of a larger area in which various invasions had occurred. It is at present
under no pressure from the agricultural frontier, but since it has already
once been reduced in area, there is some urgency for demarcation and the
establishment of permanent IBDF headquarters in the reserve. Jaru is varied
because of its strong physiognomic features in the east and has a significant
role in conservation. The forest is, in general, a moist tropical open form-
ation, the only breaks occurring on the crests of hills in the east. The
soils are not particularly suitable to agriculture, but the demarcation prob-
lem may prove difficult. The eventual threat of invasion from agricultural
developments in the Aripuana region of Mato Grosso is probably more serious
than that from the Rondonia settlements. Investments in the Jaru Reserve
would be initiated immediately. The cost of providing the Guapore and Jaru
Reserves with basic infrastructure is detailed in Tables 5 and 6 of this
Annex.



- 119 -                         ANNEX 7
Page 5
C. Ecological Stations
12.       There are at present nine ecological stations in Brazil, two of
which are in the Northwest region, consisting of laboratories, living quarters
and, where required, a landing strip, built by the Special Secretariat for
the Environment of the Ministry of Interior (SEMA) on land which it also owns.
Fourteen universities have current research programs in these stations, dealing
mainly with comparative studies in developed environments. The stations also
serve as bases for a variety of practical ecological work and descriptive
research. Up to 10% of the area of each station is permitted to be modified
for experimental purposes, thus allowing the study of biomass regrowth and
succession. The remainder of the area has to be fully protected in its
present state. SEMA itself does not conduct research, but research programs
have to be agreed with SEMA before a university may use the station. The two
existing and two proposed stations for the Northwest region are listed below:
Name            Area (ha)                     Status
Taiama                 12,000        Established, extension of infrastructure sought
Serra das Araras       24,800        Acquired, no development yet
Ique                  200,000        Established, extension of equipment sought
Cunia             to be negotiated  To be created
(100,000)
13.       Taiama is a heavily used station in the northern Pantanal; the
proposals are for the extension of the facilities to avoid overcrowding. The
station is used by the Federal Universities of Sao Paulo, Minas Gerais and
Mato Grosso, the early work being of a descriptive nature. It is the only
base in the Pantanal providing facilities for field studies.
14.       Serra das Araras lies on the southern fringe of the Barra do Bugres
forest zone, and has a highly varied vegetation because of its transitional
status. Its acquisition is extremely recent. It has been demarcated, and
INCRA is in the process of transferring the property to the Union. The project
would finance all the works attendant on establishing a station. Intimate
mixtures of "cerrado" and forest environments are very diverse, in terms of
both flora and fauna, and this station, lying at the conjunction of two great
vegetation formations, is expected to provide very varied research opportun-
ities, particularly on the limiting factors in these systems.
15.       Ique, in northern Mato Grosso, lies outside the Northwest region,
but is on its eastern margin. By general concensus, it has been included in
the Environmental Protection subproject. This station lies in the Amazon
forest, close to savannah areas, and, as far as is known, is covered in 'dry
forest', a transitional form which is widespread in the Xingu-Araguaia transi-
tion zone, but which is not a feature further west than Vilhena. This station
is under-used, but, again because of the transitional features of the vegeta-
tion, is likely to be a particularly useful site for study of limiting
factors. Financing would cover mainly equipment and the construction of
guard posts.



- 120 -                          ANNEX 7
Page 6
16.       The proposed site for the Cunia station lies on the Madeira River,
north of Porto Velho. The exact area is still the subject of negotiations
between INCRA, Territorial authorities and SEMA, but a positive outcome is
assured. Only the size of the station is still in question. The general
area of the Cunia Station, some 200,000 ha where sandy soils prevail, was
originally intended to be auctioned by INCRA in 2,000 to 3,000 ha plots for
livestock breeding purposes. SEMA now expects to reach an agreement with
INCRA by which half of the original auction area would be set aside for the
establishment of the ecological station. The station gives access to purely
Amazonian landscapes, which include some inundated land as well as forest on
"terra firme." Within the Northwest region, it would make a unique and
specialized contribution to the conservation efforts. The cost components
of establishing or expanding these stations are detailed in Table 7 of this
Annex.
17.       The implementing agency for the Ecological Stations component
of the Environmental Protection subproject will be SEMA, an autonomous
agency of the Ministry of Interior. SEMA has a limited budget of Cr$ 266
million (less than US$3 million) 1/ for 1981 and a staff of about 170,
two thirds of which are employed as consultants. The ecological stations
are run by about four people, none of them scientists or technicians. The
Director usually lives in some nearby town. The project would considerably
strengthen SEMA's capacity to develop and manage ecological stations.
D. Ecological Research
Background
18.       Tropical forests show high variability in soils, water distribution
and climatic patterns. Scientific understanding of the interrelationships
between soil, water, climate and forest interactions in humid forests have
been severely limited by the small number of trained scientists and the
smaller number of research institutions in the tropics in general, and the
Amazon basin in particular. The lack of scientific studies is especially
significant in the POLONOROESTE program area. Research on tropical ecosystems
in Brazil has centered around two locations in Amazonia: Belem and Manaus.
The largely unsettled Northwest did not provide reasonable access for scientific
expeditions until the construction of the unpaved Cuiaba-Porto Velho highway
(BR-364) in the 1960s. Access remained difficult even following completion
of BR-364 and, besides, the institutional emphasis of Amazonian research had
already been focused elsewhere. As a result, there is still much to be
learned about the plant and animal species or ecosystem functions of the
region. The provision of baseline ecological studies as soon as possible for
Rondonia is especially important in order to ensure that any possible negative
impact as program development accelerates is quickly recognized and, as
1/   Another Cr$127 million (US$1.3 million) were received from the Ministry
of Interior budget and various special programs. A further Cr$68 million
are being negotiated with FINEP, the Government agency which finances
development project preparation.



ANNEX 7
- 121 -                          Page 7
feasible, remedied. The results of hydrometeorological and nutrient cycling
studies, for example, would complement on-going soil surveys in determining
which areas are most suitable for future agricultural settlement and would
Research subproject is designed to detect changes in ecosystem behavior, so
that remedial actions can take place at the earliest and least costly stage.
The research would also contribute to a better understanding of the complex
biological and non-biological relationships of the moist tropical forest.
19.       It is generally believed that about half of the water falling
in the Amazon basin as rain originates not in the ocean -- as is true in
most parts of the world -- but from within the basin itself. This implies
that any major change in evapo-transpiration, such as would be produced
by widespread forest clearing, might have major climatic effects. The
climate of the Amazon basin is also believed to have been much drier than at
present during the recent geologic past. During that period, the Amazon
forests receded into isolated patches, each of which developed a distinctive
and very diverse ecology. When the climate reverted to its present wet state,
the forest patches (known as refuges) remerged, but the ecological distribu-
tions retained their patchy pattern, centered on the former refuges. Several
of these refuges were in Rondonia. For this reason, Rondonia is expected to
have many species of plants and animals that live nowhere else. Finally, the
Amazon basin is one of the major stands of uncut timber in the world, and
hence stores much of the world's supply of carbon. Released into the -atmos-
phere as carbon dioxide by burning or by decomposition, this carbon could have
a deleterious effect on the world's climate. On the other hand, a careful
study of the effects of future forest clearing may indicate that this effect
will be less serious than is now feared.
20.       Three main lines of activities are considered to be financed under
the Ecological Research subproject:
(a) hydrometeorology and biogeochemical balances;
(b) biological inventories and minimum ecosystem size studies; and
(c) small scale alternative technology studies.
Hydrometeorology and Biogeochemical Budgets
21.       This component of the Ecological Research subproject would estab-
lish permanent hydrometeorology and biogeochemistry stations in Rondonia for
measurement of the temperature, relative humidity, insolation, evaporation,
precipitation, erosion, streamflow, sedimentation and water chemistry.
There would be at least 19 river stations measuring precipitation and stream-
flow at each station and sedimentation and water quality at selected stations.
There would also be ten standard meteorological stations at off-river locations.
In addition, 18 special stations would be established to collect water samples
for physico-chemical analysis. The stations would conform to standards
established by the National Department of Water and Electrical Energy (DNAEE)
and System of Hydrometeorological Information (SIH). The stations would be
located and operated in cooperation with DNAEE. Physico-chemical analyses
would be performed by CENA and INPA. Groundwater studies would be initiated
by the Federal University of Mato Grosso through a system of monitor wells



- 122 -                          ANNEX 7
Page 8
in each colonization zone, with periodic analyses of water table level
and water quality. The system would be supplemented by periodic monitor-
ing of soil and sediment samples. Finally, as a background to the study
of the biogeochemistry of watersheds, water samples would be taken
throughout the Amazon system to be analyzed for their organic content to
help to understand the flow of organic material from tributaries to the main
channel of the Amazon and thus to provide a global comparative perspective
witnin which to interpret the more detailed results obtained. The five year
base cost in July 1981 prices of this component would be of the order of
US$2,000,000.
Minimum Ecosystem Size and Dynamics of Diversity
22.       This type of research could complement similar existing INPA studies
near Manaus. Support of the projects on these topics would carry a cost of
about US$200,000 per year during five years for a total cost of US$1,000,000.
Biological Inventory and Collection
23.       This component would finance rapid flora and fauna surveys in the
areas of most fertile soils which will be quickly exploited by the agricultural
settlements. Zoological expeditions would collect mammals, birds, reptiles,
fish and insects and study potential disease vectors and reservoirs. Collections
would be made during wet and dry seasons in four major sampling areas, including
the Chapada dos Guimaraes, a famous 19th Century collection site. Each expedition
team would consist of two professional scientists and six to eight assistant-
trainees and would cost about US$500,000 for a four year collection period.
One botanical expedition of three months would be carried out each year over
a four year period with different months of collection to cover each month of
the year. Equipment and personnel costs for the five year period (allowing
one additional year for herbarium work) would cost about US$400,000. Training
costs for assistant-trainees are included in this program.
Appropriate Technology
24.       This component could fund research on appropriate technology.  For
example, an ethno-biological survey of the project area would be made to deter-
mine uses by the local population of biological materials for fuel, fiber,
medicine or food. A few of the species with the most promising commercial
potential might be selected for additional genetic, biochemical and propagation
studies by such agencies as INPA and the University of Mato Grosso (UFMT).
Species which can be propagated successfully will be improved genetically
through standard breeding programs for reintroduction into the project area
for commercial exploitation by small producers. The cost of this program over
the five year period is roughly estimated at about US$750,000. In addition,
research could be conducted on such topics as the use of solar energy for the
control of humidity and temperature, both major restraints on crop growth
and storage, using local material and technology. The cost of such programs
over the five year period would be about US$500,000. Since appropriate
technology research can be initiated quickly by smaller research institutions,
such as the University of Rondonia and the University of Acre, CNPq needs the



- 123 -                          ANNEX 7
Page 9
flexibility to encourage inexpensive, short-term research projects. As
a part of this component, CNPq will have US$50,000 for each of the first
two years and US$100,000 for the remaining three years in uncommitted
funds to support short-term research projects in appropriate technology,
for a total of US$400,000 over the five year period.
Implementation of the Ecological Research Subproject
25.       A major purpose of the research to be supported by the subproject
is to affect decisions regarding the settlement of the region and the con-
servation effort that must accompany it. This fact imposes urgent deadlines
on some features of the work. For this reason, and allowing for some degree
of flexibility because research of the kind envisaged here cannot be put on a
rigid schedule, the hydrometeorological and biogeochemical monitoring system
would be planned so as to generate baseline data and a degree of fundamental
understanding of the hydrology of the region within two years and usable data
on changes due to settlement within another two years. The quick biological
inventories would be completed within four years, although research and follow-
up collections are expected to continue long after this project. First results
of the minimum ecosystem study near Manaus are now becoming available, and
should begin to affect the planning of ecological reserves within a year.
26.       Scientific and technologic research in Brazil is coordinated by
CNPq, with headquarters in Brasilia. This is a relatively new function for
CNPq, which until 1979, functioned basically as a research funding agency,
primarily for university-based researchers. CNPq has already convened a
general meeting of scientists concerned with Amazonian research to define the
problems and priorities of humid tropics research. Responsibility for each of
the researcb subcomponents to be financed as part of the POLONOROESTE program
would be assigned by CNPq in accordance with its coordinating responsibility
after it evaluates proposals it receives from researchers wishing to partici-
pate, for their scientific merit, their cost-effectiveness, their feasibility
under prevailing constraints of manpower and managerial and institutional
capability, and their likely contribution to the POLONOROESTE program and the
overall development of Rondonia. For those research projects which are to
contribute to the monitoring of the effects of settlement, an important
additional criterion would be whether results are likely to be available in
time to influence decisions regarding agricultural land use within the project
area.
27.       Research in hydrometeorology and biogeochemical budgets is part of
the work program of the Center for Nuclear Research in Agriculture (CENA) and
INPA, which receive ancillary support from the National Institute of Space (INPE),
the National Meteorological Institute, DNAEE, and EMBRAPA. INPE, DNAEE and
SUDAM have considerable experience with hydrometeorology stations in Amazonia.
In addition, INPA maintains a model basin near Manaus and has expressed a willing-
ness to establish a comparable basin in Rondonia. INPA is also already involved
in a major experiment on minimum ecosystem size in cooperation with the World
Wildlife Fund. The ecology department of the University of Brasilia is
interested in pursuing research of ecological diversity indicators, and the



124 -
ANNEX 7
Page 10
subject will be of interest to researchers in other parts of Brazil as well.
Taxonomic survey and collection techniques have been developed by INPA and
Museo Goeldi in Belem. Taxonomic expertise of specific plant and animal
groups is found in other Brazilian universities, but INPA and Museo Goeldi
have focused on Amazonian collections. The botanic survey could usefully be
integrated with Project Flora, conducted jointly by the Museo Goeldi and the
New York Botanical Garden. The zoological survey could be integrated into the
newly announced Project Fauna and help get that program underway.
Subproject Cost
28.       Preliminary indications of the order of magnitude of the cost of
various components of the Ecological Research subproject have been given
in various preceding paragraphs. The overall base cost of the subproject
is estimated to be about US$7.0 million including overall coordination and a
reserve for possible new research proposals to be agreed. This figure may
be further ascertained during negotiations, when CNPq will present to the
Bank costed research proposals.



COST OF IDENTIFYING AND DEMARCATING FIONAS NATIONAL FOREST (300,000 Ha)
(US$)
ITEM                                                       1981       1982      1983       1984      1985       TOTAL
Identification
Purchase of Landsat Imagery                            1,500
Photointerpretation and classification                           7,000
Fly-overs                                              4,000
Mapping                                                           3,000
Ground survey                                         43,000    43,000
Complementary studies                                             8,000
Inventorying
Planning                                                          7,000
Data collection                                                  67,000
Data processing                                                   4,000    10,000
Final report                                                                6,000
Feasibility Study
Planning                                                         18,000    10,000
Data collection                                                  45,000    50,000
Marketing analysis                                                         76,000
Data evaluation                                                            19,000
Study of alternatives                                                      24,000      24,000
Final report                                                                            6,000
Infrastructure & Equipment                                                                                                    U
Offices (70 m2)                                                            17,000
Residences (2U-200 m2)                                                     36,000      14,000
Lodging area (180 m2)                                                      30,000      13,000
Store (200 m2)                                                             15,000      14,000
Fences (20,000 m)                                                                      38,000
Control roads                                                               1,000
Guard post/Residences (5U)                                                             72,000
Hydraulic system (well and pump)                                                       24,000
Front wheel drive (2U)                                                                 34,000
Landing strip (2U)                                                         96,000
Radio equipment                                                             8,000
Motor boat (3U)                                                             5,000       2,500
Revolvers and ammunition                                          5,000      5,000
Cenerating equipment                                                        7,000
°ersonnel &  h M cost
Personnel                                                                  32,000      68,000   68,000                 H>
Aerial patrolling                                                52,000    52,000      52,000   52,000                 c 
Materials                                                                  14,000      20,000   20,000
TOTAL                                 48,500   259,000   513,000    381,500  140,000   1,342,000



COST OF ESTABLISHING IBDF CONTROL POSTS (POCOFS)
(US$)
LOCATION             ITEMS                           1981      1982       1983      1984       1985      TOTAL
Pimenta Bueno (RO)
- Office headquarters (100 m2) 14,000    14,000
- Residence (80 m2)                       22,000
- Office equipment                         4,000
- Furniture                                3,000
- Radio                          1,000
- Guns (Service revolvers)         500
- Four-wheel-drive vehicles    15,000    15,000
- Installations                            2,000
- Personnel                      6,000    40,000   40,000    40,000    40,000
- Materials                      1,000     3,000    3,000      3,000      3,000
SUBTOTAL                37,500   103,000   43,000    43,000    43,000        269,500
Ji-Parana (RO)                                      37,500   103,000   43,000    43,000    43,000       269,500 ~
Vilhena (RO)                                        37,500   103,000   43,000    43,000    43,000       269,500 o
Vila Bela (MT)                                      32,000   103,000   43,000    43,000    43,000       264,000
Barra do Bugres(MT)                                37,500   103,000   43,000    43,000    43,000        269,500
Caceres (MT)                                       37,500   103,000   43,000    43,000    43,000        269,500
Aripuana (MT)                                       30,000    95,500   43,000    43,000    43,000       254,500
TOTAL                   249,500   713,500  301,000   301,000   301,000   1,866,000
P 3 Z
C7 M



COST OF ESTABLISHING IBDF NURSERIES
(POFOM) IN THE NORTHWEST REGION
(US$)
LOCATION AND ITEMS                               1981      1982      1983       1984      1985      TOTAL
Cuiaba
- Offices/lodging area (100 m2)                        24,000
- Storage Unit                                         10,000
- irrigation and related equipment                      9,000
- Small car                                             8,000
- Personnel                                            24,000    48,000   48,000    48,000
- Materials                                             5,000     9,000    9,000      9,000
SUBTOTAL                                    80,000    57,000   57,000    57,000      251,000
Porto Velho                                               80,000    57,000   57,000    57,000      251,000 ~
TOTAL                                      160,000   114,000  114,000   114,000      502,000
z
=== === == === == === == === == === == === == === == ===: z
t. 4



COST OF ESTABLISHING THE PACAAS NOVOS PARKl/
(US$)
ITEM                                                      1981        1982       1983      1984       1985     TOTAL
Aerial photography                                                  72,000
Development of Management Plan                                      24,000
Infrastructure
- Landing strip (4U)                                                      96,000    96,000
- Buildings (First phase)!/                                               78,000
- Buildings (Second phase)3/                                                        132,000
- Installations                                                           29,000    21,000
- Office equipment and furniture                                          20,000    32,000
Equipment
- Airplane (1 Cessna 172)                           67,000
- Four-wheel-drive vehicles (2U)                    15,000                15,000
- Tractor (1U)                                                            27,000
- Topographic and survey equipment                                        76,000
- Radio equipment                                                         29,000    19,000
Personnel
- Pilots (2)                                        15,000    58,000      58,000    58,000    58,000
- Technicians and forest guardians-'                10,000    38,000      88,000   108,000   108,000
Equipment, Operation and Maintenance
- Airplane                                           7,000    28,000      28,000    28,000    28,000
- Vehicles                                           1,000      6,000     12,000    12,000    12,000
TOTAL                           115,000   226,000    556,000   506,000   206,000   1,609,000
1/ Source: IBDF - Project profile..
2/  Central Office (100 m2), lodging area (100 m2), chief residence (120 m2) and 3 central posts.
3/  Local office and lodging area (200 m2), five residences (400 m2) and three central posts.
m _4



COST OF ESTABLISHING THE JARU BIOLOGICAL RESERVE                     ANNEX 7
(US$)                                            Table 5
ITEM                                                  1981      1982       1983        1984      1985        TOTAL
Infrastructure
- Control post (6)                                        17,000    18,000
- Residences  (7U)                                        54,000    63,000
- Headquarters office and lodging (200 m2)                38,000
- Installations                                           24,000    14,000
- Landing strips (2)                           33,000    62,000
- Furniture & Office equipment                            28,000    24,000
Equipment
- Four-wheel-drive vehicles (2U)                15,000               15,000                                         H
- Boats (2U)                                              13,000
- Tractor (1U)                                            27,000
- Radio equipment                                         29,000    19,000
Development Management Plan                          14,000    10,000
Personnel training                                                         9,000      3,000
Provisional installations                             8,000
Personnel
- Technicians and forest guardians               8,000    65,000    74,000   111,000   111,000
Equipment Operation  and Maintenance                  2,000      6,000    13,000    13,000    13,000
TOTAL                                80,000   373,000   249,000   127,000   124,000    953,000



COST OF ESTABLISHING THE GUAPORE BIOLOGICAL RESERVE                        ANNEX 7
(US$)                                           Table 6
ITEM                                                 1981      1982      1983        1984      1985      TOTAL
Infrastructure
- Guard Post (6)                                        17,000     18,000
- Residences (7U)                                       54,000     63,000
Headquarters Offices & lodging (200 m2)               38,000
- Installations                                         24,000
- Landing strips (4)                                    81,000     96,000      14,000
- Furniture and office equipment                        28,000     24,000
Equipment
- Four-wheel-drive vehicles (2U)                        15,000     15,000
- Boats  (2U)                                                      13,000
- Tractor (1U)                                          27,000
- Radio equipment                                       29,000
Development Management Plan                                  24,000
Personnel training                                                       9,000       3,000
Provisional installations                                     8,000
Personnel
- Technicians and forest guardians                      54,000     94,000    111,000   111,000
Equipment 0 & M                                               6,000     10,000      13,000    13,000
TOTAL                             405,000    342,000    141,000   124,000   1,012,000
======== =====================_
m x
(D P



- 131 -
ANNEX 7
COST OF ESTABLISHING/EXPANDING SEMA ECOLOGICAL STATIONS                           Table 7
(US$)
NAME                                                   1981       1982       1983        1984      1985       TOTAL
TAIAMA  Completion of headquarters offices            17,000    16,000
(Expansion) Research centersl/ (210 m2)               32,000    31,000
Equipment
- Outboard aluminum boats (4)
- Radio for patrols
- Small tractor                       )  35,000    35,000
- Ship for guard control
- Office equipment
SUBTOTAL                       84,000    82,000                                       166,000
SERRA DAS ARARAS
(Establishment)
- Access roads                        /   6,000      4,000
- Headquarters office & residences2                140,000   50,000
- Research center (110 m2)                          25,000    5,000
- Indemnities                                       40,000   10,000
Equipment
- Four wheel drive vehicle (1U)
- Radio for patrols
- Motorcycle  (2U)                   )    8,000    52,000   15,000
- Metereological station
- Office equipment
SUBTOTAL                       14,000   261,000   80,000                              355,000
IQUE
(Expansion)
- Access trails and fencing              28,000    33,000    4,000
- Landscaping                             8,000      8,000
- Research centerl/                                 47,000   15,000
- Landing strip (1)                                 90,000
Equipment
- Four wheel drive vehicle
- Aluminum boat (1)
- Motorcycles   (2U)
- Office equipment                  )     7,000    30,000    6,000
- Meteorological stations
- Generator
- Turniture
SUBTOTAL                         43,000   208,000   25,000                              276,000
CUNIA
(Establishment)
- Access trails and fencing                         60,000   20,000
- Headquarters buildings 4/                        240,000   80,000
- Research centers 5/                                        170,000
- Installation                                                50,000
Equipment
- Aluminum  boats(4U)
- Four-wheel-drive vehicle
- Radio                             )               70,000   80,000
- Meteorological station
- Office equipment and furniture
- Fiber glass  boat (lU-26')
Indemnities                                                        50,000
SUBTOTAL                                   370,000  450,000                             820,000
TOTAL                        141,000   921,000  555,000                            1,617,000



- 132 -
ANNEX 7
Table 8
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION SUBPROJECT
Total Estimated Costs
(US$)
ITEM                           1981       1982         1983         1984        1985      TOTAL
National forests              48,500      259,000     513,000      381,500     140,000  1,342,000
Control posts & nurseries   249,500      873,500      415,000      415,000     415,000  2,368,000
Pacaas Novos Park            115,000      226,000     556,000      506,000      206,000  1,609,000
Jaru Biological Reserve       80,000      373,000     249,000      127,000      124,000    953,000
Guapore Biological Reserve                405,000     342,000      141,000      124,000  1,012,000
Ecological stations          141,000      921,000     555,000         -            -     1,617,000
TOTAL             634,000   3,057,500   2,630,000   1,570,500   1,009,000  8,901,000



ANNEX 8
- 133 -
BRAZIL
NORTHWEST REGION DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
FIRST PHASE
AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PROJECT
PROTECTION OF AMERINDIAN COMMUNITIES IN THE NORTHWEST REGION
A. The Present Situation
Amerindians in the Northwest Region
1.        Since the colonial period, Brazil's Amerindian population has
fallen from an estimated two to five million to a present-day population of
less than 200,000. This dramatic decline (which is similar to that of other
lowland South American Indians) has been the result of a combination of
factors, including early slave raiding expeditions, intermarriage and, more
recently, with the gradual occupation and development of the Amazon region,
diseases transmitted by new settlers, which have decimated some tribes, and
a reduction of the area available for hunting, fishing and agricultural
activities.
2.        Knowledge of the Northwest Amerindians is still scarce, and infor-
mation from different sources is sometimes contradictory. It is estimated
that some 4,600 Amerindians live in offically designated areas. The total
indigenous population of the area is, however, probably close to 8,000,
including yet uncontacted tribes and groups or individuals living outside the
designated areas. There are more than 20 different tribal groups, some of
which may be interrelated. There are 58 known villages distributed over the
entire program area (26 in Rondonia and 32 in Mato Grosso). Tribal groups
vary considerably with regard to culture, language, economic activities, size
and contact history. The smallest known group has only 10 members, the
largest 1,750. Some groups have been in continuous contact with the Brazilian
population since the rubber boom at the end of the last century, and others,
mainly in the Northeast of Rondonia, have been contacted only since the
construction of the Cuiaba-Porto Velho highway in the 1960s. Still other
groups do not maintain regular contacts. An area of some 880,000 ha has been
interdicted 1/ in central Rondonia where the uru-eu-wau-wau tribe is thought
to be located.  A pacification mission made first contact with this tribe in
March 1981. Another area of some 200,000 ha has been interdicted for the yet
isolated Tubaroes-Massaca Indians in the southeast of Rondonia.
1/   Interdiction is an administrative measure prohibiting the entrance of
anyone, except FUNAI staff, into an area believed to be inhabited by
Amerindians. Then, the area can be delimited, i.e. mapped and legally
recognized as an Amerindian reserve. Demarcation follows delimitation.



- 134 -
ANNEX 8
Page 2
3.        Overall some 5.2 million hectares have been designated official
Amerindian areas (i.e., demarcated, delimited or simply interdicted) in the
Northwest region (2.4 million ha in Rondonia and 2.8 million ha in Mato
Grosso). However, not all lands in which Amerindian communities are present
have been declared Amerindian lands, and of those that have been so designated, at
best a third (1.7 million hectares) would appear to have actually been demarca-
ted, a step essential for their protection. The presence of squatters and
other intruders (miners, hunters, rubber-tappers) within Amerindian reserves
has been a recurrent problem. In some cases, designated Amerindian lands are
inadequate to sustain their assigned population and/or are not the traditional
lands used by the groups in question. In some past instances, the National
Indian Foundation (FUNAI) has improperly turned Amerindian areas over to
ranchers, and the interdicted uru-eu-wau-wau area appears on maps to be
juxtaposed in large part with the area reserved for the Pacaas Novos National
Park. Table 1, attached, shows the approximate populations of known Amerindian
groups in the Northwest region. Table 2 provides data on official Amerindian
areas in the region.
4.        Most of the Amerindians of the Mato Grosso portion of the region
are at relatively advanced stages of acculturation with the exception of some
Nambikwara groups and the recently contacted Saluma and Menku Indians. Some
groups engage in partially mechanized agriculture and maintain commercial
relations with the outside society. As elsewhere in the Northwest, the most
important issues in Mato Grosso are related to land rights. The best known
case in point involves the Nambikwara bands of the Guapore Valley. These
bands, which once controlled almost one million hectares, are today in pos-
session of six small reserves totalling less than 200,000 hectares (of which
less than 60,000 hectares have been demarcated) interspersed among a number of
extensive cattle ranches established in the region within the last ten years.
Since a new stretch of the Cuiaba-Porto Velho road is expected to cut through
the Guapore Valley in the near future, the adequate protection of Nambikwara
Indians in the new environmental context has become an international issue. A
special Bank mission visited Brazil and the Guapore Valley in September/October
1980 and reviewed with the Government its findings and specific recommendations
concerning FUNAI activities in Nambikwara areas. The Guapore Valley Nambikwara
consist of some 10 bands, one not yet contacted, totalling some 300 people.
FUNAI has in the past unsuccessfully attempted to move some of these bands
away from their traditional territories to different areas. Sooner or later,
these bands walked back to their areas of origin, but their population mean-
while decreased to less than a third of what it is estimated to have been in
1960. Today, their land, health, economic and social situation is still
tenuous. Even though their number has recently been on the increase as a
result of improved health treatment, 300 0/oo of babies born over the last
five years did not survive their first year. 1/
1/   Infant mortality during the first year averages 82 0/oo in Brazil, between
110 and 120°/oo in Mato Grosso and 138 /oo in the Territory of Rondonia.



- 135 -                        ANNEX 8
Page 3
Amerindian Policies and Legislation
5.        Brazilian policies with respect to Amerindians aim at ensuring
their cultural and physical survival through adequate protection and assistance
while their culture undergoes gradual modifications, with the long term goal
of their eventual emancipation, individually or as communities, from the
present Government tutelage. It is part of the policy that the protection
provided duly recognize the cultural distinctness of the Amerindians and their
need, given their existing economic system, for large areas of land.
6.        The indigenous population of Brazil has its status and rights
defined in a body of legislation comprised of Article 198 of the Constitution
of 1969, the Indian Statute of 1973 (Law No. 6,001), and a series of laws
and decrees enacted between 1967 and 1980 which established and now govern
FUNAI. This legislation was designed to ensure the survival of the Amerindian
population, regulate their contacts and interaction with the larger national
community, and provide adequate time for the acculturation of the Amerindian
society the modern world. The most important parts of the legislation are the
guarantees regarding Amerindian land rights. Prior to the 1969 Constitution,
Amerindians were considered to own the lands they inhabited. Article 198 of
the 1969 Constitution modified this precept. It guarantees to Amerindians the
inalienable right to the use of the lands they inhabit, but grants ownership
to the Union. The Indian Statute calls for protection of native lands from
illegal trespass and gives FUNAI the right to call on the armed forces and on
the federal police for enforcement of this law. It also states that squatters
rights do not apply to Amerindian lands. According to the Indian Statute,
intervention within native lands is permitted through presidential decrees,
but only in special situations, such as fighting between tribal groups,
serious outbreaks of epidemics, national security requirements (including
public works or subsoil deposits of outstanding national interest) or to
repress encroachments upon Amerindian lands. If, for any of the above
reasons, a tribal group must be removed to another area, the native community
is to be assigned an area equivalent to the former one. However, these
qualifications can reduce (and in some cases have reduced) the force of the
legal guarantees provided in the Amerindian legislation.
The National Indian Foundation (FUNAI)
7.        FUNAI was established in 1967, to replace the Indian Protection
Service (SPI), which had been discredited by the existence of widespread
irregularities in the activities of the organization.  FUNAI is administra-
tively linked to the Ministry of the Interior and maintains administrative
headquarters in Brasilia, responsible for coordinating and overseeing the work
of 13 regional delegations, including those of Cuiaba and Porto Velho in the
Northwest. Direct contacts with the indigenous population takes place mainly
at local Indian Posts. The area, population, and number of villages attended
by these posts varies considerably, sometimes encompassing a large area with
a dispersed population. In principle, each post is to be equipped with
a medical dispensary and staffed by a Post Chief, a health attendant, a
teaching aid, a radio operator, and workmen as needed.



- 136 -                          ANNEX 8
Page 4
8.        At present, there are 13 Indian Posts in Mato Grosso and 13 in
Rondonia. However, in 1980, only 12 of the existing posts were staffed,
and a number of Amerindian villages had no post at all. Few of the posts
were equipped or staffed according to FUNAI standards. There was furthermore
a noticeable difference between the quality of FUNAI operations in Rondonia
and Mato Grosso. The 5th Delegation (Mato Grosso) has been poorly managed in
recent years, and its chief has been replaced; FUNAI is now giving special
attention to upgrading the performance of this Delegation. A total of three
mobile health units operate in the Northwest region (one also attending areas
outside the region), each staffed by a doctor, a dentist, a nurse and a
laboratory technician. These teams carry out routine preventive care missions
and emergency missions (e.g., for the control of epidemics). Additional sup-
port for the health posts in the Guapore Valley would be provided from Vilhena.
9.        FUNAI depends on a number of revenue sources for financing its
activities. The most important source is the annual allocation from the
national budget. This source is followed in importance by allocations from
the Social Assistance Fund and PIN/PROTERRA. Funds generated by FUNAI itself
are relatively insignificant. In 1979, FUNAI was budgeted at slightly less
than US$17.5 million equivalent, of which over half was used for administra-
tion. A serious problem in the history of FUNAI has been the chronic shortage
of funds which has forced the postponement or cancellation of important
programs, including the demarcation of Amerindian lands and the training
provided to Indian Post managers.
10.       Various missionary groups, such as the Brazilian Christian Mission,
universities or institutions such as the Summer Institute of Linguistics,
have provided more or less regular health and education services to Amer-
indians in Brazil, in varying degrees of cooperation with FUNAI. There are
also a number of pro-Amerindian pressure groups (Comissoes pro-Indio) organi-
zed in various locations of Brazil, usually around a core of university
anthropologists.
B. Issues Arising from the Implementation of the Northwest Program
11.       The rapid regional development that will ensue from the POLONOROESTE
Program is bound to place increasing pressures on the Amerindian communities
in the Program area. Without adequate protection, such communities are
likely to be increasingly in competition with settlers for land traditionally
used by the Amerindians, and subject to diseases resulting from increased
contacts with non-indigenous people and from the ecological changes associated
with settlement and deforestation. This question has, from the onset, been
identified among the critical issues to be addressed and satisfactorily
resolved prior to the further implementation of the proposed Northwest
Program.



- 137 -
ANNEX 8
Page 5
12.       As a result, there have been extensive reviews by the Bank and
the Brazilian Government authorities of measures which would be required to
minimize the possible negative effects of POLONOROESTE activities on the
Northwest's indigenous population. It has been agreed that FUNAI would give
two areas priority treatment: (a) the protection of Amerindian lands, parti-
cularly those near areas of settlement, through their demarcation and regulari-
zation, and the removal of illegal squatters from such land; and (b) health
care, through stepped up preventive campaigns and increased capacity for
providing effective assistance in instances of infectious diseases. Economic
development measures taking into account the felt needs and conditions of
individual groups would be progressively implemented. It was further agreed
that measures for protecting and assisting the indigenous population must
be synchronized with the implementation of development activities envisaged
under POLONOROESTE and, where appropriate, precede the latter.
C. Proposed FUNAI Activities
13.       In order to mitigate the adverse effects of current and future
development on the Amerindian population in the area, FUNAI is carrying
out, in the context of the POLONOROESTE program, a special project speci-
fically addressed to the needs of these indigenous communities. To this end,
the POLONOROESTE Program provides for additional human and financial resources
to supplement FUNAI's present staff and budget to carry out land demarcation,
health, administration, education, and economic development activities in the
Northwest Region. The description that follows summarizes FUNAI's "Project to
Assist Indigenous Communities in the Area of Influence of the Cuiaba-Porto
Velho Highway, 1980-1985" (hereafter called the "Special Project") as amended
following review and comment by various Bank missions.
Land Demarcation and Regularization
14.       Recent migration into frontier areas of the Northwest and the
consequent patterns of land settlement make the effective protection of
Amerindian lands crucial to the preservation of the welfare of Amerindian
communities. Such protection is essential to ensure the continued subsistence
of these communities while they adapt to the modern world, as well as to
shield them from the initial shocks of contact. The first step to effectively
protect Amerindian lands is to demarcate the borders of reservations.   It is
felt that this would discourage a good deal of the illegal trespassing taking
place in the region, much of which occurs out of ignorance. Demarcation
involves the clearing and marking of a six-meter swath of land around the
reservation. The FUNAI Special Project calls for an estimated 3,941 km of
perimetral demarcation by 1982, which would affect approximately 2.5 million
hectares of Amerindian lands. These areas, as well as all areas previously
demarcated, are to be regularized through inscription in the "Servico do
Patrimonio da Uniao," also by 1982. However, funding delays slowed initiation



138 -                         ANNEX 8
Page 6
of the 1,321 km of demarcation that were programmed for 1980, and the meeting
of overall targets of the Special Project will now require exceptional efforts
if they are to be achieved on time. The total estimated cost in May 1980
prices for the demarcation and regularization component amounts to Cr$165.6
million (US$3.2 million).  This estimate could be revised upwards if new
demarcation requirements were to be identified. Corresponding costs would be
met by the FUNAI budget.
15.       Effective monitoring is also necessary to protect designated tribal
lands from encroachment. To monitor Amerindian lands, FUNAI requires adequate
means (manpower, vehicles, airplanes) to survey these areas regularly.
To evict trespassers, FUNAI must depend on the state and federal police forces
to effect their removal, and on INCRA, to resettle squatters elsewhere. In
the past, both means and support have been inadequate. Under the Special
Project, once the remaining reserve areas are delimited, a preventive early
detection strategy is to be enforced via (a) periodic surveillance on the part
of FUNAI; (b) control on the part of the Amerindians themselves, who are to
report all irregularities to FUNAI; (c) an improved FUNAI internal reporting
mechanism from the Indian Posts to the Delegations, and from the Delegations
to Brasilia; and (d) forceful and swift response on the part of FUNAI with the
backing of the state government, the police, and/or the military.
Health
16.       The health component is intended to upgrade FUNAI's existing health
services with the objective of extending full coverage to all indigenous
groups in the program area. At present, coverage is spread thinly because
of a lack of funds, personnel, equipment and physical infrastructure. The
component emphasizes the strengthening of health services; the strengthening
of health infrastructure is to be carried out only once service oriented
goals have been met. FUNAI has established the following areas of priority:
(a) immunization of all Amerindians in the Program area, as well as non-Indian
groups in the vicinity of Amerindian areas; (b) strengthening FUNAI's capacity
to quickly and effectively respond to epidemics; (c) control of tuberculosis
and malaria; (d) maintenance of adequate supplies and storage of medicine in
infirmaries; and (e) training of Post Chiefs and Indian Health Monitors to
dispense medicine and provide first aid. Specific measures. to be imple-
mented under the health component to address these areas of priority include
(a) upgrading the existing mobile units; (b) the addition of a new agreement
with a hospital in Vilhena; (c) upgrading the FUNAI clinic in Cuiaba; and (d)
training seminars for Post Chiefs and Indian Health Monitors. Once these
priority measures are achieved, the component provides for measures to
strengthen FUNAI's health infrastructure. The estimated cost of the health
component in May 1980 prices is Cr$ 312.3 million (US$ 6.2 million).
Administration
17.       The viability of the Special Project as a whole depends on a sub-
stantial strengthening and improvement of FUNAI's regional and local admi-
nistration. A personal assistant to the President of FUNAI has been appointed



ANNEX 8
-J139 -                       Page 7
Special Coordinator of FUNAI activities within the Northwest program at
Brasilia headquarters to help expedite related activities and improve co-
ordination between FUNAI and other key institutions involved in the program's
implementation and administration. At the field level, the special FUNAI
project will (a) establish Indian Posts for groups that have so far not been
attended on a continuous basis; (b) increase the efficiency of existing
services through improvements in staffing, communications, transport,
maintenance, and equipment of the Indian Posts and Delegations; (c) upgrade
basic infrastructure at the Indian Posts in order to attract and maintain
field staff; and (d) step-up assistance to Amerindians in the project area
through the establishment of a new support base in Vilhena in 1981. The cost
of the administration component in May 1980 prices is estimated to be Cr$298.8
million (US$ 5.97 million). A decision taken by the Minister of the Interior
to advance FUNAI Cr$50 million should facilitate FUNAI activities under its
special project. Finally, special attention and supervision are already being
given by FUNAI to upgrade the performance of their Cuiaba delegation.
Education
18.       Bilingual education is part of the assistance to which Amerindians
are entitled by law. FUNAI's capacity to fulfill this function has been
constrained by the requirement that a given tribe's language be studied prior
to introduction of schooling, and by the termination of the contract with the
Summer Institute of Linguistics under which the Institute was preparing
educational materials for various indigenous groups. Improvements are likely
to require a build-up of capacity over several years. The education component
is to provide start-up salaries for newly recruited teachers, as well as for
maintenance, equipment, and school construction and upgrading costs. It also
foresees the distribution of school lunches in collaboration with the National
School Lunch Campaign. In March 1981, FUNAI held a course for "bilingual
monitors," i.e., native speakers who will learn how to teach their own com-
munities. FUNAT has agreed that (a) teacher training, rather than school
construction, must be given priority; (b) teachers could move among different
Amerindian groups, given that the latter would be unlikely to attend school
on a year-round basis; (c) simple school facilities would be adequate; and
(d) teacher training, which is not part of the Special Project, would be
adequately covered by existing FUNAI programs. The cost of the education
component in May 1980 prices is estimated to be Cr$37.5 million (US$ 750,000).
Economic Development
19.       Economic development projects for Amerindian communities would be
possible, with the objective of gradually replacing traditional subsistence
activities, should the communities so wish. The objective in expanding the
subsistence base would be, first, to enable Amerindians to satisfy their
increasing demand for commercial goods and, second, to prevent regional
development from having a negative impact on tribal subsistence either because
of reductions in game and fish reserves or because of related changes in
trading patterns with surrounding populations. Economic development projects
would vary with the respective degree of acculturation and the specific
resource base of each group. Activities could include measures to increase



- 140 -
ANNEX 8
Page 8
agricultural production and productivity, forest management, the introduction
of livestock, the expansion of extractive activities, the fostering of non-farm
activities, crop processing and marketing. Marketing would be facilitated by
the organization of 18 pre-cooperatives with trading posts (Cantina Reembolsavel).
These Cantinas would provide credit facilities and basic goods for purchase or
trade. The objective of these arrangements is to reduce the need for outside
contacts to a minimum by providing the Amerindians with options for procurement
of goods and marketing services within their communities. A further measure
will be to contract a natural resources manager or agricultural expert for
each Delegation (to train and supervise Indian Post Chiefs) and 20 agricultural
technicians. The cost of the economic development component in May 1980
prices is estimated at Cr$257.2 million (US$ 5.1 million).
D. Future Monitoring Requirements
20.       Implementation of FUNAI's project is fully under way.  The first
tranche of POLONOROESTE funds has been released and the agency was exempted
from the governmental hiring freeze in August 1981. The Government has
offered to provide the Bank with semi-annual reports on the progress of FUNAI
activities in the POLONOROESTE area, including any related information the
Bank may require. Bank staff would be authorized to visit areas under FUNAI
jurisdiction accompanied by FUNAI staff. The efficiency of protection measures
and the impact of the Special Project and of regular FUNAI activities in the
context of regional development will be evaluated directly by FUNAI, and by
SUDECO in the context of the overall POLONOROESTE program. For this purpose,
FUNAI is to develop a strong monitoring and evaluation capacity, by reviewing
its monitoring and reporting arrangements, by strengthening its evaluation staff
and by contracting Brazilian institutions or experts to assist it in this task.
By March 31, 1982, the Federal Government will furnish the Bank with information
on the financing arrangements for such strengthening activities and on the
qualifications, experience and terms of reference of the Brazilian institutions
or experts who shall assist FUNAI in the carrying out of such strengthening
activities. FUNAI would enter into contracts with such Brazilian institutions
or experts by May 31, 1982.



- 141 -
ANNEX 8
Attachment
Table 1:  Northwest Brazil - Approximate Populations of Indian Groups
Northeast Rondonia                           2,703
Arara                                          105
Gaviao                                         100
Digint                                          95
Karipuna                                       150
Monde                                           60
Surui                                          314
Cinta Larga                                  1,750
Kaxarari                                       129
uru-eu-wau-wau                                  ?
Tubaroes-Massaca                                ?
Northwest Rondonia                           1,450
Makurap                                         50
Jaboti                                          10
Tupari                                          56
Kanoe                                          150
Pacaas Novas                                 1,100
Karitiana                                       84
Mato Grosso                                  1,549
Nambikwara                                     500
Irantse                                        143
Pareci                                         500
Umutina                                        132
Saluma                                         124
Menku                                          150
5,702
Source:   FUNAI



-1l42 -                         ANNEX 8
Attachment
Table 2: Northwest Brazil: Population, Size, and
Status of Official Indian Areas
Population    Size ('000 ha)       Status
8th Delegation   RONDONIA             2,424           2,972.1
Roosevelt 1/          109             233.1           Demarcated
Ribeirao               96              47.9           Demarcated
Lage                  162             107.3           Demarcated
Lourdes               379             185.5           Demarcated
Rio Guapore           170              69.8           Demarcated
Rio Negro Ocaia       193             104.1           Demarcated
Pacaas Novos          621             279.9           Demarcated
Sete de Setembro      109             247.9           Demarcated
Karitiana              77              89.7           Demarcated
Rio Branco            186             240.0           Identified
Karipuna               20             202.0           Identified
Tubaroes-Massaca      103              63.0           Identified
Kaxarari              109 (?)          83.0           Identified
uru-eu-wau-wau        n.a.            878.0           Interdicted
Serra Morena 2/        89             141'.0         Demarcated
Zoros 2/               ?                ?             Interdicted
5th Delegation   MATO GROSSO          1,822           2,527.3
Negarote 3/            31              12.2           Demarcated
Santana               128               6.3           Demarcated
Bakairi               237              50.0           Demarcated
Thmutina              137              24.6           Demarcated
Sarare 3/-   23                        69.3           Identified
Nambikwara 3/         184             912.0           Delimited
Wasusu 3/              43              13.5           Demarcated
Alantesu 3/            31              10.8           Demarcated
Hahaintesu 3/          56              28.3           Demarcated
Mamainde 3/            59              63.4           Identified
Saluma                126             640.0           Identified
Irantxe               149              62.0           Delimited
Pareci                416             556.0           Delimited
Brito                  19               2.0           Identified
Figueira               12              10.0           Identified
Formoso                58              19.7           Identified
Waikisu 3/             23                             Being restudied
Menku                 100(?)           47.1
Tirecatinga            ?
TOTAL               4,246           5,499.4
1/   Partly in Mato Grosso.
2/   In Mato Grosso .
3/   Nambikwara tribes.
Source:   FUNAI, Projeto de Apoio as Communidades Indigenas da Area de Influencia
da Rodovia Cuiaba/Porto Velho, 1980-85 (Brasilia, September 1980);
FUNAI (July 28, 1981 updating).



Table 3: NATIONAL INDIAN FOUNDATION (FUNAI)
Total Special Project Cost
(Cr$ millions May 1980)
Year 0      Year 1      Year 2      Year 3       Year 4      Year 5
SOURCE           COMPONENTS                   (1980)       (1981)      (1982)      (1983)       (1984)      (1985)      TOTAL
Administration               16.765      24.870      24.870      24.870       24.870      33.267      149.512
Health                        7.771      10.522      10.522      10.522       10.522      10.522       60.381
FUNAI            Education                     1.595        2.294       2.294       2.294        2.294       4.455      15.226
Economic Development        32.800       46.500      39.000      39.000       39.000      39.000    235.300
Demarcation                  12.600      92.000      61.000          -           -            -       165.600
Subtotal                     71.531    176.186    137.686        76.686       76.686      87.244    626.079
Administration              10.770          -           -            -           -           -         10.770
Health                        4.565         -           -            -           -           -          4.565
POLOAMAZONIA    Education                      4.565          -           -           -            -           -          4.565
Economic Development          5.100         -           -            -           -           -          5.100
Demarcation                     -           -           -            -           -           --
Subtotal                     25.000                     -                                     -        25.000
Administration                  -        52.717      26.427      33.127       26.247          -       138.518
Health                          -        49.603      44.455      50.277       47.723      55.249    247.307
POLONOROESTE    Education                        -          4.961       3.179       2.863        6.747         -        17.750
Economic Development            -         3.600       4.600        5.600       3.000          -        16.800
Demarcation                     -           -           -            -           -           --
Subtotal                                1 110.881    78.661       91.867      83.717      55.249      420.375   rt
Total Base Cost             96.531    287.067    216.347        168.553    160.403    142.493  1,071.394    0 X
Total in Cr$ million at Jan. 81 prices:                    1,810.656
Total in Cr$ million at Jan. 81 prices:                    1,810.656
~~~~~ ~~~Total in US$ million at Jan. 81 prices:                                      26.6






- 145 -                        ANNEX 9
BRAZIL
NORTHWEST DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
FIRST PHASE
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PROJECT
LIST OF WORKING PAPERS AND KEY DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE IN PROJECT FILE
Working Papers
1. Rondonia Consolidation Subproject Area
2. Civil Works: Access Roads, Rural Service Centers and Warehouses
3. Education
4. CODARON Organization
5. Salvage Logging Operations
6. Environmental Protection Subproject
7.  Research on Technology for Sustainable Development in the Northwest Region
8. Project to Assist Indigenous Communities
9. Land Tenure Regularization in Mato Grosso
10. Seed and Sapling Supply
11. Economic Analysis of Rondonia Settlement Consolidation Subproject
Other Key Documents Available
1.  "Sistema Agricola de Rondonia para o Pequeno Produtor"- 5 volumes - Rondonia
Secretariat of Agriculture - 1980
2. Report of the FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program
Rondonia Rural Development Project Preparation Mission - 2 volumes -
Nov. 21, 1980
including annexes on:
Present Agricultural Situation and Constraints
Population and Migration



- 146                              ANNEX 9
Page 2
Agro-ecological zoning
Prospects for Tree Crop Production
Long-term Objectives for Annual Production
3.  POLONOROESTE Program proposal including Decree establishing the program
and its budget (updated to January 1981)
4.   World Bank Report No. 3042a-BR: "The Integrated Development of Brazil's
Northwest Frontier;" December 23, 1980
5.   Decree No. 83436 of May 10, 1979 on Special Programs and Interministerial
"Portarias" 90 and 91 of May 28, 1980 defining application of the
decree
6.   Law 6805 of July 7, 1980 establishing the Rondonia Agricultural
Development Company (CODARON)
7.   SUDECO - Internal Organization (Portaria/GM/487 of Dec. 4, 1979)
8.   SUDECO - 1981 Program
9.   CODARON - Drafts of Basic Administrative Documents
10. Rondonia - Soil Management Implications for Annual Crop Production -
J.J. Nicholaides III - June 1981
11. Land Titling Program in Mato Grosso - Paper by Santiago Rueda, FAO
Consultant - June 1980
12. 1980 Population Statistics for the Brazilian Northwest - David Brinkley -
April 1981
13. Analysis of Rural Credit Requirements under the Rondonia Settlement
Consolidation Subproject - Government of Rondonia - CEPA staff



,_~~~~                 ~           ~           ~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 5/C 1''CT05 8                                     l                                      CCT18  15CC
#'                                         _Xx, ;;4sx~---.    BCa(T-O                                                                                   1             
AMA   ZONA                                                                                                      iv                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~F   A   P   A
A M  A  Z O N                       A//C,                                                                                                                   A                             L
. XK \ F,6 r I.s. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-'' ''>
c-N x/-J             :     -, I.48-D                                              ''                                                                 .               -               '
F.P_ ,Am ,-<   S,.,$                        m                  I4.F.CMA               {^ A   '  I        A       -                      B    R  A        Z   I L A;
t ;'\ MvtFumn<\s524/C) ''U' v>z  Wir j4> t%                                  !;             sNORTHWEST   REGION
i  0 : ;~~~~~~~~~5                                                        4                                           0                                              CC/  /Pg ;  ,<
AA                                                                                                           U
I A J A               P. 1                     ,        o.r                 NOIT
P 2 0   ;  \ U   J   ;   \i   y  (  2  (   \/;                      P/AISA         \r .'                                       AC-/CC'C_CC
;\ ; \ 2_ L LElij ~~~~~~~~~~~AreCliaa -J 1,sR. INCA                                                                                                                           A'JUU,;lCKS< t /9 
; < $M A rL 0 - -) L_ gqs b8.~~~~~~w  Dev,peffoAr  V, v L-s,,[r,                    T         ¢ R-  A-I; t
C///CXC/Cr/C' /                        ./y N  -.P                /,,,,                             , V' ',                         Q 1   /     a-./
[~~~~~4 1               7 *                                                         OW    t,*Hu _szAk\           
5 * _ + -50 > ~~~~~~~~~~~~1 v.H1h4-  A,t    --Wret
[C                                                                                         'p           '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-j'  
(, iS.__'AC)Lt <-RU                                                                                          1.IF  Sos8dorr  C      
.~~~~~~~~~~1CC  WCC                                                                   K<                                  >""AAt' tironnlsodlT .  . . J  
\ ~ ~~~           ~~~ _                                                              LCK AtR                  //L  .                                     '2_  s" .\ '
4-'                                                              1   )~~~~~CCr  C  /a  C          '/C/
("C   /CTCCC C  7)GRSSODOSU






___IBRD 15492R
4   -    \                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~B RA ZI L
+.    y  f ~~~~--~~  X                                     AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT AND
/tNN   /             \ >                               ~~~~~ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PROJECT
5       *d      n                                    \~~~~~~~~nt ? ~~~RONDONIA  SETTLEMENT  CONSOLIDATION  COMPONEN-f
,  >     ) J       .     . ':                               ',-0t                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Agricultural Aptitude aend  Razinfall
CZ                                                  ' 2\>_, PORTO unre;Ae
i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- F., ,, 't_
j   ~ ~     '' ''-   .                                                   ._               . >          /                                                         '-_.,_ \Ab-  "-                         / ,./
f  A                                                         ' 's '   ,!et''>   ' '  ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~''        ~  ~  ~  ~ ~  ~      V     /  f > '~~~~~~~~~~~~~,   
\g nv rjr.'!sA B R A  Z  I L  i... -'   _<
.   1   !                        /      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4%i;_  ,^                                                                       Vllo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~W Colp-do D'q-ey,
* e   1)   s                                                  /4                                      /2no.rv '\                                         !~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
_ f <  J s /,,, aar hw CeRs wnsg  5e W f i An> ! o;h PXSusrC1F I h c-o  * . 
r  _  [              r  t                                                                           )  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~<,                   L~~~~~~~~~e






IB D 15483R
- A              :%                                                     BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT AND
7              /                           ... 2 .>.fENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PROJECT
5                        , 11  e                   -                         t                 RONDONIA  SETTLEMENT CONSOLIDATION  COMPONENT
(    P,                           lj                                              ;t.                           Existing and  Planned Infrastructure
0~~~ PORTOQ 99  n Ca ro ;slAc
f >/  [  ;Q                                                                                                                  \*       ' )c eee or.>
*  , r   ??/t         \                                                                    D ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-, R,tM b(ue--  -d,
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r~c
|   Cl   '  ~~~  '\ f \-, ;_ t 2 C * /                                                                  / /  4     //7a //    JAWiplBesdoc
/   \,JJ}   X     /               ''i                               {} X>Z7/t    7//f            '____  _                                       ____sso dud>w
<                                g                      X                  ~~~~~~~~~~~        ~~/ *lcUoeR  M   A    T    D
tp t *-. xio oecAf~flQ .A                                            r/17 .  /1///,/,   i2/yk/                        a?          errddodo.' 
)^    ?/0   ,  /   -__                       y       .? ~~~~/+   /                                 Mfd A ?fC7.|   n,./  ..      
f- r                  /                                                                                                     .-                                 -      v-en-&-
ON t_B 's[       B RA  ZI L                              [\ ,,  ,i.                                                                          i          1FOre-t'^~~~                      L      .
Nt                                                          eBoi / ,,VwClrdDqt9 
-                                                                                   /                                                                                   > >navlsooentwdnovo w ww t sac~S~ wz wwtwure \  ~  / * I . - ,7J
!$WW                                                                                                       -'O'A4*, P'       0 ,      _



