Document of
The World Bank   FILE CU0
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3i.37--BR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR A
NORTHWEST REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT
AND
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PROJECT
November 9, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1980       November 2, 1981
Currency Unit           Cruzeiro (Cr$)         Cr$
US$1            =       Cr$53.25               Cr$114.46
Cr$1                   US$0.14                US$0.0087
GOVERNMENT OF BRAZIL FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
POLONOROESTE PROGRAM FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
The exchange rate used in the Staff Appraisal Report (US$1 = Cr$68.10)
corresponds to the cruzeiro average January 1981 exchange rate.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
ASTER-RO       Associacao de Assistencia Tecnica e Extensao Rural-Rondonia
(Technical Assistance and Rural Extension Association-Rondonia)
CIBRAZEM       Companhia Brasileira de Armazenagem
(Brazilian Storage Company)
CODARON        Companhia de Desenvolvimento Agricola de Rondonia
(Rondonia Agricultural Development Company)
CNPq           Conselho Nacional de Desenvolvimento Cientifico e Tecnologico
(National Research Council)
DER-RO         Departamento de Estradas de Rodagem de Rondonia
(Rondonia Roads Department)
EMBRAPA        Empresa Brasileira de Pesquisa Agropecuaria
(Brazilian Agricultural Research Company)
FUNAI          Fundacao Nacional do Indio
(National Indian Foundation)
IBDF           Instituto Brasileiro de Desenvolvimento Florestal
(Brazilian Forestry Development Institute)
INCRA          Instituto Nacional de Colonizacao e Reforma Agraria
(National Institute of Colonization and Agrarian Reform)
NUAR           Nucleo Urbano de Apoio Rural
(Rural Service Center)
POLONOROESTE   Programa Integrado de Desenvolvimento do Noroeste do Brasil
(Northwest Region Integrated Development Program)
SEMA           Secretaria Especial do Meio Ambiente
(Special Secretariat for the Environment)
SEPLAN-PR      Secretaria de Planejamento da Presidencia da Republica
(Federal Secretariat of Planning)
SEPLAN-RO      Secretaria de Planejamento de Rondonia
(Rondonia Planning Secretariat)
SEPLAN-RO/PCU  POLONOROESTE Program Coordination Unit within Rondonia
Planning Secretariat
SOSP           Secretaria de Obras e Servicos Publicos
(Secretariat of Public Works and Services)
SUDECO         Superintendencia do Desenvolvimerito da Regiao Centro-Oeste
(Superintendency for the Development of Center-West Region)
UEPAT          Unidade de Execucao de Pesquisa de Ambito Territorial
(Agricultural Research Unit at Territorial Level)
This document has a restricted disttibution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






BRAZIL
NORTHWEST REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT AND
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:       Federative Republic of Brazil
Amount:         US$67 million equivalent
Terms:          Interest at 11.6% per annum.  Repayment in 15 years, including
3 years of grace.
Project        The loan is one of three being presented simultaneously,
Description:  which together form the first phase of the Bank's proposed
participation in an integrated development program for northwest
Brazil (POLONOROESTE program). This program is designed to
help bring order to 2the spontaneous settlement of a region
of about 410,000 km covering the federal territory of Rondonia
and 14 municipalities in the central and western part of the
state of Mato Grosso. The program aims at increasing the
productivity, income, and social welfare of the region's
present and future population, and is expected to benefit
directly some 120,000 small-scale farm families. At the core of
the program is the paving of the heavily traveled and badly
deteriorated 1,500 km Cuiaba-Porto Velho road, and the invest-
ments required to achieve the balanced socio-economic develop-
ment of the road's area of influence and to protect the
region's Amerindian population and natural environment.
The proposed project consists of the following main components:
(a) a settlement consolidation subproject in existing settle-
ment areas of the territory of Rondonia; (b) an environmental
protection subproject to (i) establish natural reserves and
ecological stations; (ii) strengthen the institution charged
with the control of forest areas and forestry activities; and
(iii) study sustainable forestry opportunities in suitable
areas; (c) an ecological research subproject; (d) land tenure
regularization in settled rural areas of western Mato Grosso;
(e) soil surveys in future settlement areas; and (f) overall
program coordination and monitoring. Concurrently, the govern-
ment would carry out a program to reinforce efforts to protect
the Amerindian population of the region (paragraph 35). The
infrastructure provided by the settlement consolidation sub-
project should benefit most of the 75,000 families expected
to be living in the subproject area by 1985. Agricultural
services would be more directly oriented to some 18,200 of the
less developed farm families within that area. The bulk of
the project would be implemented over a five-year period
starting July 1981. The other two associated projects are: a
health project (Report No. P-3139-BR) and a highway project
(Report No. P-3138-BR).



- i, -
Risks:          The Northwest Development Program is to be implemented in a
frontier area by a large number of federal and local institu-
tions. The lack of some detailed regional information gives
rise to uncertainties regarding the environmental risks of the
program. The federal and local executing agencies would
receive substantial inputs through the projects to improve
their uneven institutional capacities. Several proposed
actions would protect the most fragile areas of the region and
monitor the impact of the project on its immediate and larger
environment. The proposed program would entail increased risks
to the region's Amerindian communities, some of which are still
in an early stage of contact with the national society. The
government is taking steps to improve the organization, opera-
tion and funding of the National Indian Foundation (FUNAI)
and has prepared a special project for the protection of
these communities. These measures are indicative of the
government's commitment to protecting the interests of the
region's Amerindian population, and have been initiated. The
continuity and timeliness of these actions would be closely
monitored.
Extension agents would be trained in land-use and agricul-
tural practices suitable to the uneven nature of the region's
soils which require appropriate cultivation techniques to
remain fertile. While the dry season in Rondonia is considered
to be very favorable for rubber trees, none of the areas
already planted in rubber have yet reached maturity. However,
risks due to various potential disease outbreaks are considered
to be manageable, and eventual disease outbreaks could be
controlled with techniques already being applied elsewhere in
the Amazon basin and within the financial resources of farmers
who have gone beyond the initial development period.



- iii -
Estimated Costs:                                       --------US$ Thousands-----
Local    Foreign     Total
A.   Rondonia Settlement Consolidation
Access Roads                      19,490     9,600      29,090
Service Centers                   33,950     8,488      42,438
Agricultural Extension             5,603       764       6,367
Agricultural Research              3,757        663      4,420
Storage and Drying                10,046     2,512      12,558
Farmer Organization                1,590       281       1,871
Education                          4,669       519       5,188
Rondonia Coordination Unit         1,831       204       2,035
Subtotal                      80,936    23,031    103,967
B.   Environmental Protection and
Ecological Research
National Forests                     872        470      1,342
Forestry Control                   2,013       355       2,368
Natural Reserves                   2,681       893       3,574
Ecological Stations                1,294       323       1,617
Ecological Research                4,530     2,440       6,970
Subtotal                      11,390     4,481     15,871
C.   Studies and Program Coordination
Land Regularization in
Mato Grosso                      7,754       862       8,616
Soil Surveys for New Settlements    419         46         465
Program Coordination               9,058     1,006      10,064
Subtotal                      17,231     1,914      19,145
PROJECT BASELINE COST                109,557    29,426    138,983
Physical Contingencies            12,699     3,815      16,514
Price Contingencies               34,394     9,453     43,847
Subtotal                      47,093    13,268     60,361
TOTAL PROJECT COST 1/                156,650    42,694    199,344
1/   Including local taxes equivalent to about US$10 million.



- iv -
Financing Plan:                                          -------US$ Millions------
Local     Foreign      Total
Government                               132.3         -         132.3
IBRD                                      24.3       42.7         67.0
TOTAL                              156.6       42.7        199.3
Estimated                         ---------------US$ Millions -------------------
Disbursements:  Bank-FY          FY82      FY83      FY84     FY85      FY86      FY87
Annual           4.0      12.4      17.6     18.6      11.4       3.0
Cumulative       4.0      16.4      34.0     52.6      64.0      67.0
Rate of Return:  The economic rate of return has been estimated at about 22% for
the directly productive components of the project.
Staff Appraisal
Report:          No. 3512b-BR of  November 9, 1981.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR A NORTHWEST REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPYMENT
AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PROJECT -
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Federative Republic of Brazil for the equivalent of US$67 million
to help finance the Northwest region agricultural development and environmental
protection project. This project is associated with a highway project and a
health project which together form the first phase of Bank participation in a
Northwest Region Integrated Development Program. Documents concerning the
Northwest region highway project and the Northwest region health project are
being distributed at the same time as this report. The proposed loan would
have a term of 15 years including 3 years of grace, with interest at 11.6%
per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 2/
2.        The most recent economic report entitled "Economic Memorandum on
Brazil" (Report No. 3275a-BR dated May 29, 1981) was distributed to the
Executive Directors on June 26, 1981. A mission to prepare a new country
economic memorandum is scheduled for the second half of FY82. Country data
are provided in Annex I.
3.        The present government, headed by President Joao Baptista de Oliveira
Figueiredo, took office on March 15, 1979, for a six-year term. Much of its
attention has had to be devoted to grappling with inflation and a
difficult balance-of-payments situation. Major economic priorities of the
government include the accelerated growth of agriculture, reduced dependence on
imported petroleum, and continued expansion of manufactured exports. Success
on these fronts is crucial to the solution of the inflation and balance-of-
payments problems, as well as to the sustained improvement of living standards
and better income distribution.
Economic Performance
4.        Over the past 13 years Brazil has enjoyed remarkable economic
growth, with GDP and income per capita rising at average real rates of
about 9% and 6% per annum, respectively. During the 1967-73 period, growth
1/   Parts I, II and III of this Report are identical to the corresponding
sections of the President's Report for the Northwest Region Health
Project (Report No. P-3139-BR) and the Northwest Region Highway Project
(Report No. P-3138-BR), being distributed at the same time as this
report.
2/   This section is reproduced with only minor changes from the economic
section of the President's Report on the Piaui Rural Development Project
(Report No. P-3078-BR, dated May 28, 1981).



- 2-
was achieved with no significant deterioration of the external resource balance,
despite considerable trade liberalization, and there also occurred a gradual
decline in the rate of domestic inflation. However, given the heavy dependence
of Brazil's industry and transport system on petroleum, over 80% of which was
imported, the quadrupling of oil prices at the end of 1973 resulted in a sharp
deterioration in the nation's terms of trade. Excess aggregate demand and a
succession of bad harvests have, along with increased energy costs, resulted
in increasing balance-of-payments.difficulties and the reacceleration of
inflation.
5.        Coping with these short-term constraints, while responding to
continuing pressures to maintain high growth rates of output and employment
and simultaneously establishing the basis for long-term structural adjustment,
has been the central problem of Brazilian economic management during the
past seven years. Considerable success has been achieved in maintaining
rapid growth, and an aggressive and innovative effort has been launched to
reduce energy consumption and substitute domestic energy resources for im-
ported petroleum. Through 1978, the balance-of-payments pressures were
successfully contained through the continued rapid expansion of exports
(particularly of manufactures), increased import barriers, accelerated import
substitution, and heavy external borrowing, including large additions to
international reserves.
6.        Any significant reduction in Brazil-s dependence on imported petroleum,
however, would necessarily involve a long gestation period. Meanwhile, the
rapid accumulation of external debt, compression of imports, and intensifica-
tion of domestic inflationary pressures increased the economy's vulnerability
to further external shock. That vulnerability has been severely tested by
the additional sharp increases in petroleum prices and international interest
rates that occurred in 1979 and 1980.
7.        Aggregate demand continued to grow in 1979, fueled by rapid monetary
expansion, a large public sector deficit, large wage settlements in the
unionized sectors, and the continued expansion of manufactured exports.
Industrial production was up about 7% over the previous year. Agricultural
output suffered a second consecutive year of droughts, floods, and frost
but showed some recovery from the depressed levels of 1978. Overall, GDP
growth was 6.4%. High demand, the poor harvest, and increased fuel costs
resulted in a rapid acceleration of inflation which reached 78% by the
end of the year, the highest rate since 1964.
8.        Increased petroleum prices, consecutive bad harvests, and a sharp
rise in external borrowing costs also contributed to a progressive deteriora-
tion of Brazil½s balance of payments. Despite the continued rapid growth of
manufactured exports, the merchandise trade balance fell from a small surplus
in 1977 to a US$1 billion deficit in 1978 and a US$2.9 billion deficit in
1979. The cost of fuel imports alone increased from 1978 to 1979 by 53%,
or US$2.2 billion. Increases in the London interbank offered rate (LIBOR), to
which more than 65% of Brazil's external debt is tied, contributed to raising
gross interest payments abroad from US$3.3 billion in 1978 to US$5.3 billion
in 1979. Consequently, the deficit on current account grew from US$6 billion
to US$10 billion, or from 3.1% to 4.7% of GDP.



- 3 -
9.        With amortization payments totaling US$6.6 billion, gross external
capital requirements in 1979 amounted to US$16.3 billion. Of this amount,
US$3.2 billion was covered by reserve drawdowns, and another US$1.5 billion
was provided by net direct foreign investment. Gross and net foreign borrow-
ings in 1979, including bond issues, totaled US$11.9 billion and US$5.4 billion,
respectively. Few difficulties were encountered in attracting the necessary
credits, and an improvement noted in 1978 in spreads and maturities available
to Brazil was sustained in 1979. The drawdown brought international reserves
to US$9.7 billion at the end of 1979, or equivalent to about six months of
goods and nonfactor service imports. Gross medium- and long-term debt had
risen to US$49.9 billion, or 24% of GDP.
10.       Measures introduced in April 1979 to slow the inflation and reduce
balance-of-payments pressures met with only temporary success and were fol-
lowed by new packages of measures in December 1979 and in January and April
1980. The most important of the December measures were a 30% devaluation of
the cruzeiro, accompanied by the elimination of some export subsidies and the
prior deposit requirement on imports; increased restrictions on public enter-
prise investments, imports and borrowing; selected tax increases; the intro-
duction of a programmed phase-out of most tax earmarkings; a modification of
administered credit programs intended to reduce subsidies; the imposition of
direct controls on credit expansion by the private banking system; and the
establishment of ceilings on monetary correction and exchange rate adjustments
during 1980 in an effort to dampen inflationary expectations.
11.       Nevertheless, the economic momentum continued in 1980, with overall
economic growth exceeding 8%, including an excellent agricultural harvest and
continued rapid industrial expansion. Aggregate demand remained strong,
despite improved fiscal and monetary restraint, and inflation rose to over
110%, as measured by the General Price Index.
12.       On the external side, merchandise exports grew by 32% in 1980 as a
consequence of the excellent harvest and continued expansion of manufactured
exports despite the slow growth of the world economy. Imports expanded
almost as fast, however, in response to the continued strong growth of the
economy, higher petroleum prices, and some private sector inventory accumula-
tion early in the year in anticipation of possible tighter import controls.
Despite the rapid growth of industrial output and GDP, the volume of
petroleum imports fell from just over one million b/d in 1979 to 929,000 b/d
in 1980 as a result of conservation efforts and domestic energy substitution.
Nevertheless, the trade deficit for the year totaled US$2.8 billion. External
borrowing totaled about US$15 billion (including an estimated US$2-3 billion
of short-term borrowing), and reserves were drawn down by an additional US$3.5
billion falling to about US$6.9 billion 1/ by the end of the year. Although
Brazil was able to obtain the required US$5-6 billion net external financing,
loan terms were tighter. Total medium- and long-term external debt outstanding
at the end of 1980 was about US$56 billion.
1/   After gold and dollar valuation adjustments.



- 4 -
13.       A number of important policy measures have been introduced in 1981.
Controls on public expenditures have been tightened further, and monetary
expansion was targeted at 50-60%. In an effort to encourage private savings
and maintain adequate export incentives, monetary correction is being brought
into line with actual inflation, and the exchange rate is again being adjusted
for the differential between domestic and international inflation (measured
in dollars). Commercial banks have been freed from interest rate controls,
interest rates on official credits have been raised, and price controls are
being progressively relaxed. An increase in the foreign exchange transactions
tax on imports from 15-25% has served to further discourage imports, while
some tax incentives to exports have been restored. Although the net impact of
these measures may have been a short-term increase in inflation, there is now
evidence of greater restraint of aggregate demand, a slowdown of economic
activity and reduced pressure on the balance of payments.
Poverty Programs
14.       Although Brazil continues to be characterized by severe income
inequality, the government has in recent years made serious efforts to relieve
poverty. In addition to general efforts to maintain the growth of employment
and prevent the erosion of real wages, special programs for the northeast
region have been continued notwithstanding the present tight fiscal and
monetary restraints. Coverage of the social security program has been expanded
and extended to the rural population. More than 70% of the urban population
is now covered by the social security health care system, and a cash transfer
program has been established for the rural elderly poor. Under this latter
system, rural households headed by persons over 65 years of age are eligible
to receive a monthly income supplement equivalent to US$30, an amount which
is almost twice the average per capita expenditure in the rural northeast.
The urban population over age 70 is covered by a similar program. Almost
two million loans have been made for housing by the National Housing Bank
(BNH) since 1964. Improvement and extension of the primary health services
to rural areas is a government priority in the health sector. A program for
grassroots health and sanitation actions for northeast Brazil was initiated
in 1976. Plans are underway for expanding this program into a comprehensive
national primary health care program. A sites and services program was
established in 1975 to benefit the urban poor more directly, and this was
complemented in 1977 by a program to finance home improvement and building
materials. High priority has also been given to the extension and improvement
of urban water supply. Consequently, some six million households comprising
about 30 million people have been connected to public water supply systems
since 1971, increasing the proportion of urban dwellers who receive such
services to 75%. Efforts have also been made to attack the poverty-related
problems of adult illiteracy and malnutrition. 1/
1/   For a more detailed account of these efforts see "The Distribution of
Income in Brazil" (Staff Working Paper No. 356, dated September 1979)
and "Brazil - Human Resources Special Report" (Report No. 2604-BR, dated
July 13, 1979).



-5-
Future Prospects
15.       Since 1973, Brazil has made major efforts to reduce the drain on the
economy of petroleum imports. Investments in exploration have been accelerated,
and foreign oil companies have been invited to drill under risk contracts with
PETROBRAS, the state oil company. Investments have also been undertaken to
develop the nation's extensive hydroelectric potential, to initiate nuclear
power production, to substitute alcohol for gasoline, and to expand domestic
coal production. Efforts are also being made to induce energy conservation.
While results thus far are encouraging, dependence on imported energy remains
a formidable problem. With oil imports constituting an estimated US$10.2
billion (nearly 45% of Brazil's merchandise imports) in 1980, as compared to
US$700 million (11% of imports) in 1973, the trade-off between growth and
balance-of-payments viability will continue to be a principal preoccupation
of economic decision-makers.
16.       In view of the balance-of-payments constraint, Brazil must undergo
a period of careful demand management. In addition to the measures already
noted, a number of important institutional reforms are being carried out
to improve fiscal and monetary policy design and implementation. Among these
are the marked improvement of information flows and budgetary control in the
public sector, including the expenditures of the many semi-autonomous agencies
and public enterprises; incorporation into the fiscal budget of several of the
subsidy programs formerly handled outside the budget through the Central Bank;
and reduced earmarking of public revenues. Accelerated devaluations of
the cruzeiro, the removal of import deposit requirements, and the gradual
freeing of prices and interest rates should help to promote more efficient
resource allocation favorable to both export growth and efficient import sub-
stitution. Public investments may be constrained by reduced resource avail-
abilities over the next several years and foreign lenders, including the Bank,
should be prepared to finance a significant proportion of project costs
including, when necessary, a part of local costs. Furthermore, priority
attention will continue to be given to the development of domestic energy
sources, agriculture and major import-substitution projects.
17.       Growth is expected to average about 5-5.5% per annum in 1981-85 as
compared to 11% in 1967-73 and 7.2% in 1973-80. Such a growth rate should be
compatible with a stable current account deficit through 1983, falling there-
after. The debt service ratio would decline slowly. These projections are
highly sensitive, however, to petroleum prices, international interest rates,
and the rate of growth of manufactured exports. The combination of high debt
service and a high share of petroleum in total imports leaves the economy
more vulnerable to external events than it has been for many years, and this
situation may be expected to persist for the next several years.
External Assistance and Creditworthiness
18.       With the forecast upward trend of real petroleum prices, Brazil's
resource balance is expected to remain negative until 1984. Interest
payments on the growing external debt will increase throughout the 1981-85
period even if international interest rates should decline. Thus large



- 6 -
service account deficits will contribute to continuing current account de-
ficits on the order of US$10-12 billion through 1983. As a proportion of GDP,
the current account deficit is projected to fall steadily from its peak of
5.6% in 1980. This projection assumes that imports grow at a moderate
pace through 1985, reflecting continued import substitution, as well as a
strengthening of the overall domestic savings effort. A trade surplus would
appear beginning in 1982.
19.       Net medium- and long-term borrowing requirements are expected to be
around US$11-12 billion in 1981 and 1982, and to decline progressively there-
after to about US$5 billion by 1985. Annual gross borrowing would be about
US$19 billion this year and remain in the US$18-20 billion range over the five-
year period, with 75-85% obtained as financial credits from private lenders.
Consequently, the net debt service ratio 1/ would decline from about 61% in
1980 to about 43% in 1985.
20.       In summary, after a period of very rapid growth in the late 1960s
and early 1970s, the sharply increased cost of petroleum imports has forced
the nation to moderate its growth expectations and to adapt its economic
structure to the changed terms of trade. This adjustment process was initially
eased by a strong reserve position, a solid image of national creditworthiness,
the aggressive expansion of manufactured exports, and the ample opportunities
for efficient import substitution offered by the large domestic market. Never-
theless, continued heavy dependence on petroleum imports, the resurgence of
domestic inflation, and the rapid accumulation of external debt have left the
economy increasingly vulnerable to further external shocks. The government
recognizes the need for careful demand management and for selectivity in
its investment policies emphasizing efficiency in export expansion, import
substitution, employment creation, and poverty alleviation.
21.       The great sensitivity of Brazil's balance of payments to petroleum
prices and international interest rates will continue to make projections
subject to a wide margin of error. The present scenario also depends heavily
on Brazil's ability to curtail inflation, expand manufactured exports despite
the slower anticipated growth of the world economy, and on its continued
access to international capital. A major effort is underway to reduce depen-
dence on foreign petroleum, but significant results will not be apparent for
several years. On the other hand, the Brazilian economy remains dynamic,
highly diversified, and resilient. The task of economic management will not
be easy, but policymakers have demonstrated their ability to adjust to
changing circumstances, and recent policy measures should greatly strengthen
their management capacity. Thus, despite the deterioration noted in 1979 and
1980, Brazil remains creditworthy for new borrowing on conventional terms.
1/   Including both public and private debt.  The figure for public debt
service alone would be substantially lower. For example, in 1979 the
public sector accounted for only 53% of total debt service payments.



PART II - BANK OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
22.       By September 30, 1981 the Bank had made 106 loans to Brazil, amounting
to US$5,995.6 million (net of cancellations), of which 54 were not yet fully
disbursed. During FY70-75, disbursements averaged US$150 million per year,
reaching US$202 million in FY76, US$267 million in FY77, US$252 million in
FY78, US$295 million in FY79, US$318 million in FY80 and US$378 million
in FY81. They are expected to increase further during the next few years.
The total undisbursed amount as of September 30, 1981 was US$2,950.2 million.
Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans as of September 30, 1981
and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
23.       Over the FY76-80 period, Bank lending to Brazil ranged from US$425
million to over US$700 million per year. In FY76, ten loans were made totaling
US$498 million; in FY77, seven loans totaling US$425 million; in FY78, nine
loans totaling US$705 million; in FY79, nine loans totaling US$674 million;
and in FY80, seven loans totaling US$695 million were made. In FY81,
eight loans totaling US$844 million were approved -- US$125 million for
a second power transmission project to ELETROSUL, US$56 million for a second
Ceara rural development project, US$54 million for an electric power system
coordination project, US$90 million for a third urban transport project,
US$180 million for a multi-state water supply and sewerage project, US$250
million for a fuel alcohol and biomass energy development project, US$60
million for a second agricultural research and US$29 million for a rural
development project in the state of Piaui. Work is relatively advanced on the
second and third phase projects of the northwest region development program,
an agricultural development project in the state of Amazonas, a rural develop-
ment project in the state of Maranhao, a third loan for secondary and feeder
roads, an urban development project in the city of Recife, and a large iron
ore mining project in the Serra dos Carajas.
24.       Brazil's external public and private debt outstanding and disbursed
at the end of 1979 amounted to US$51 billion, and is estimated to have been
US$56 billion at the end of 1980. At the end of 1979, the Bank held 3.6% of
the debt, and its share of the service on this debt in 1979 was 2%. In
1980, the Bank's share in total outstanding debt is estimated to have risen
slightly to 3.8% while its share in total debt service fell to about 1.9%.
These percentages are not expected to rise significantly in the next five
years.
25.       As of September 30, 1981, IFC commitments to Brazil totaled US$774.5
million, of which US$519.6 million had been sold, repaid or cancelled. Of
the balance of US$254.9 million, US$193.8 million represent loans and US$61.1
million equity. A summary of IFC's investments as of September 30, 1981 is given
in Annex II.
Lending Strategy
26.       In its lending to Brazil, the Bank has sought to help the government
achieve a number of important development objectives which are interdependent
and complementary. One important lending objective in Brazil is to help to



- 8 -
intensify the efforts of the government to identify and develop projects that
will increase the productivity and incomes of the lowest income segments of
the population, to broaden the economic opportunities open to those groups,
and to improve their living conditions. Consistent with this objective, the
proposed northwest region agricultural development and environmental protection
project and the associated health and highway projects would help improve the
productivity, incomes, and health and social welfare of the northwest region's
present and future populations. Previous loans for nutrition research and
development, primary education, vocational training, agricultural research,
agricultural extension, polder construction in the lower Sao Francisco river
basin, and integrated rural development were designed to assist low-income
groups in rural areas especially in the northeast. Further projects to assist
the rural poor are in preparation including several additional integrated rural
development projects.  Loans for water supply and sewerage projects in the
state of Minas Gerais, in greater Sao Paulo, in the northeast and in the
south, loans for urban transport in several major cities, a loan for sites and
services and low-cost housing, and a loan for urban development in medium-sized
cities are assisting the improvement of the living conditions of the urban
population, particularly of the urban poor.
27.       Another of the Bank's lending objectives in Brazil is to support
institutional development and policy reform designed to develop rational
policies and procedures, establish adequate coordination and control within
the public sector, and help maximize public savings and ensure that they are
used economically through rational selection of investment projects. This
institution-building objective is particularly important in the proposed
associated projects which seek to build up the planning and administration
capabilities required to promote the orderly human occupation and development
of Brazil's fast growing northwest frontier. The associated proposed projects
would help upgrade the Brazilian institutions charged with the protection of
the region's fragile ecosystem and would help the territory of Rondonia, which
is scheduled to become a full-fledged state in early 1982, develop its capabili-
ties for planning, implementing and coordinating rural development, health and
road activities. Loans for urban development, electric power, railways,
industrial finance, highways, agricultural research and extension, rural develop-
ment, water supply and sewerage, and the recently approved loan for alcohol and
biomass energy development also have important institution-building objectives.
28.       Another lending objective is to ease the foreign exchange constraint
on development, a constraint that has become more critical since the increase
in petroleum prices in 1974, by supporting projects designed to increase
Brazil's export capacity and, where economical, to substitute domestic produc-
tion for imports. As a result of the deterioration in Brazil's terms of trade
and balance of payments which took place at the time of the 1974 energy
crisis, this objective was placed in the forefront of the government's economic
policy. The proposed associated projects would also directly contribute to
this objective by helping develop a region that has a considerable potential
for agricultural production and by facilitating a rapid and fuel efficient
flow of goods over the 1,500 km Cuiaba-Porto Velho highway. Lending for the



- 9 -
electric power sector supports this objective, since it is based primarily on
hydroele.;Lic energy, aLid its development lessens the need for petroleum
imports. Bank support of fertilizer and petrochemical projects is assisting
Brazil to substitute large-scale efficient domestic production for imports and
thus aid its balance-of-payments position. The alcohol and biomass energy
development project directly addresses the need to restrict growth of petroleum
imports. Much of the Bank-assisted investment in the transport sector --
railways, ports and highways -- is designed to facilitate the smooth and
economical flow of exports. Support of the steel expansion program is helping
Brazil to expand domestic output of a traditional import commodity which can
be produced efficiently in Brazil due to the country's ample supply of high-
grade iron ore and the scale of its internal markets. A similar objective is
being achieved through the VALESUL aluminum project which will use Brazil's
abundant hydroelectric resources and ample bauxite reserves.
29.       A final objective which applies to all Bank lending to Brazil is to
provide part of the large volume of medium- and long-term capital inflows that
Brazil has needed and will continue to need for many years in order to sustain
satisfactory growth and achieve its employment creation and regional development
objectives. Continued active lending by the Bank in Brazil is regarded by the
international financial community as an important sign of confidence in Brazil
and encourages others to continue contributing to the country's development.
In some sectors, especially in electric power and industry, Bank participation
has helped Brazil obtain additional resources in greater amounts and on more
favorable terms from bilateral credit agencies and private financial institutions
than may otherwise have been provided. Eleven co-financing operations, for
more than US$425 million, have been concluded since 1976 with private financial
institutions and several others are in preparation, including about US$110 mil-
lion in private co-financing for the CEEE Power Distribution Project (Loan
No. 1824-BR), US$50 million in private co-financing for the Second Minas
Gerais Rural Development Project (Loan No. 1877-BR) about US$65 million in
private co-financing for the ELETROSUL Second Power Transmission Project (Loan
No. 1895-BR), and US$250 million for the Alcohol and Biomass Energy Development
Project (Loan No. 1989-BR).
PART III - THE NORTHWEST REGION DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM I/
30.       General Presentation.  The northwest region of Brazil is officially
defined as the area of influence of the 1,500 km Cuiaba-Porto Velho road
(BR-364). This area encompasses all of the federal territory of Rondonia
(scheduled to gain statehood in early 1982) and 14 municipalities located in
the central and western parts of the state of Mato Grosso. In total the
1/   For a more detailed assessment of the northwest region development
potential and constraints and of the Northwest Region Development Program
see "The Integrated Development of Brazil's Northwest Frontier" (Report
No. 3042a-BR, dated December 23, 1980).



- 10 -
2
northwest region covers approximately 410,000 km -- about three quarters the
size of France (IBRD Map No. 14865 R2). The region was practically uninhabited,
except for scattered indian communities and itinerant rubber-tappers and
prospectors, until completion in the mid-1960s of a 1,500 km earth road linking
the two major cities of the region, Cuiaba and Porto Velho, started a massive
influx of migrants in search of land and employment. The 1980 regional
population was estimated at 1,060,000, having grown at a rate of about 10.8%
per annum over the last decade (7.8% per annum in Mato Grosso and 15.8% per
annum in Rondonia); it is expected to continue to grow by about 10% per annum
during the 1978-88 period.  T e average population density is still less          2
than three inhabitants per km (the national average is 14 inhabitants per km ),
mostly concentrated in towns and settlements built along BR-364. One of the
main attractions of the northwest region and one of its distinctive character-
istics, shared by few other parts of the Amazon, is the relatively widespread
existence of climatic conditions and soils suitable for agriculture. However,
soils are quite heterogeneous and, as development in many areas is recent,
systematic research2and evaluation will be needed. The region is estimated to
have some 29,000 km of good eutrophic podsols, mainly in Rondonia. A further
half of the remaining soils are estimated to be capable of sustaining agricul-
ture, mainly the cultivation of tree crops, with appropriate agricultural
practices and inputs. In 1978, about 1% of the region was planted in either
annual or tree crops and about 80% remained in its natural state; natural and
seeded pasture and forestry operations accounted for the remainder.
31.       Constraints on the Region's Development.  The large and uncontrolled
influx of migrants into the northwest region that has followed the opening of
the Cuiaba-Porto Velho highway has brought into prominence a number of key
areas of concern in the development of the region. One such area of concern
is the potential threat to the Amerindian groups located in the region. They
are estimated to number about 8,000 people distributed among 22 different
tribal groups, some of which have yet to be contacted. About 4,600 Amerindians
live in designated official Amerindian areas totaling 5.6 million ha, of which
some 1.6 million ha have been demarcated. The recent swell of migration to
the region has increased the transmission of diseases, such as tuberculosis,
measles and influenza, to which the Amerindians have little or no immunity,
and has intensified pressures on their lands. Squatters have, in some cases,
invaded officially designated Amerindian areas.
32.       Increased threats to the fragile and little-known northwest region's
natural environment from the rapid human occupation of the area constitute
another area of concern. To date, spontaneous migrants and existing settlement
schemes have, by and large, occupied areas of good soils, and the pace of
deforestation, though increasing, remains much lower than commonly thought
(less than 5% of the forest area had been cleared as of 1980). However, if
adequate policies and institutional capabilities are not developed to help
direct the increasing human occupation of the region, there will be an
increasing risk that occupation of poorer soils with ill-adapted agricultural
practices and uncontrolled deforestation could result in leaching and erosion
of the soil, and possibly changes in the climatic and hydrological conditions.



- 11 -
Finally, the failure of some past attempts at settling small-scale farmers
elsewhere in the Amazon region has demonstrated the need to provide migrants
with a range of productive and social infrastructure and services in order to
fix them productively and permanently to the land and create a sense of community
and security in otherwise unstable and harsh frontier conditions. Malaria and
precarious health conditions are special threats to the new settler in Rondonia.
33.       Program Formulation and Concept.  The orderly occupation and develop-
ment of the northwest region is currently of high priority to the Brazilian
government. The region is perceived as an important future source of agri-
cultural production for export and domestic markets, and as a location where
migrants from other parts of Brazil can be productively and permanently
settled. In August 1979, an interministerial working group was established
for defining a strategy for the harmonious development of the region. The
recommendations of this working group served as the basis for a federal
special program called the northwest region integrated development program
(POLONOROESTE). The POLONOROESTE program, establishvd by a Presidential
decree of May 27, 1981, is the latest of several regional development programs
currently underway in Brazil. At the core of the program is the paving of the
heavily traveled and badly deteriorated Cuiaba-Porto Velho earth road, and the
investments required to achieve the balanced socio-economic development of the
road's area of influence and to protect the region's Amerindian population and
natural environment.
34.       Program Components.  The POLONOROESTE program calls for the execution
of integrated measures in the following areas: (a) improvement of the transport
system through the paving of the Cuiaba-Porto Velho highway and the improvement
of the feeder road network (53% of estimated program costs); (b) establishing
new settlement schemes expected to accommodate up to 30,000 migrant families
(24%); (c) consolidation of existing settlement schemes in Rondonia and Mato
Grosso (15%); (d) land tenure services to provide settlers with definitive title
to their land (1%); (e) environmental protection including establishment
of natural reserves, institutional upgrading and ecological research (2%);
(f) health activities for the territory of Rondonia and health research (2%);
(g) protection of the Amerindian population (2%); and (h) program administra-
tion and coordination (1%). Further details on program components are provided
in Annex IV. The program is expected to be implemented over a six-year
period. Bank participation in the program's financing is currently envisaged
in three overlapping phases. The first and most extensive phase includes the
proposed associated highway, agricultural development and environmental protec-
tion, and health projects. The second phase would encompass the recently
appraised rural development project in Mato Grosso designed to assist some
17,500 farm families. The third phase would cover new planned settlement
schemes in suitable areas of Rondonia and Mato Grosso. Though this new settle-
ment phase of the program was initially expected to help place some 30,000
families on 3 million ha, availability of accessible suitable lands, execution
capacity constraints, and delays or complications in the development of appropri-
ate production recommendations where cultivable soils of relatively lower quality
are to be used, may well limit the number of farmers and the total new area
settled, or may also extend the execution period for these new settlements.



- 12 -
35.       Measures for Protecting and Assisting the Program Area's Amerindian
Population. Measures envisaged under the POLONOROESTE program for reinforcing
the protection of the northwest region's Amerindian population have already
been initiated and would continue to be carried out with funds entirely
provided by the government. Under a special project prepared by the federal
government authorities, the National Indian Foundation (FUNAI) is upgrading
its organization and operation in the region and has already initiated a series
of measures giving priority treatment to (a) the protection and demarcation of
Amerindian lands, and the removal of illegal settlers; and (b) health care,
through stepped-up preventive campaigns and more effective assistance to fight
infectious diseases. New health posts would be established and existing
mobile health units expanded to attend to the needs of the Amerindian groups
located in the Guapore Valley where the only new section of the Cuiaba-Porto
Velho highway is to be built. Further lines of action would seek to promote
education and economic development activites. To achieve these objectives,
FUNAI's regional infrastructure and administrative set-up would be upgraded by
establishing and equipping new Amerindian posts, purchasing vehicles and
recruiting and training new staff. Planning would be decentralized for more
efficient field-level involvement. Central coordination and synchroni-
zation with POLONOROESTE activities would be provided by a special coordinator
who has already been appointed. Key protection measures such as these pertain-
ing to the Amerindians' health and lands would precede the initiation of the
development activities where necessary. The federal government has agreed to
take all necessary measures to put into effect promptly the above special
project and to provide in a timely fashion the funds, staff and other resources
required for the implementation of the protection measures. The federal govern-
ment has also confirmed that it would: (a) afford the Bank a reasonable oppor-
tunity to periodically review in the field the progress of the implementation
of these protection measures; (b) furnish to the Bank such information as
the Bank may require on the carrying out and impact of the special project;
and (c) strengthen the operation of FUNAI, particularly its monitoring and
evaluation capability in order to improve the efficiency of the protective
measures included in the special project. To this effect, FUNAI would, by
May 31, 1982, enter into contract with Brazilian institutions or experts whose
qualifications, experience, and terms of reference would be submitted to the
Bank by March 31, 1982 (Section 4.05 of the draft Loan Agreement for the
Agricultural Development and Environmental Protection Project and Supplemental
Letter No. I).
Program Administration and Coordination
36.       Overall Coordination.  The overall administration and coordination
of the POLONOROESTE program would be effected within the legal and organiza-
tional framework applicable to Brazil's other special regional development
programs. The Ministry of Interior through the Superintendency for the Devel-
opment of the Center-West Region (SUDECO) is thus responsible for planning,
coordinating, monitoring and evaluating the activities of the POLONOROESTE
program. The Federal Secretariat of Planning (SEPLAN-PR) retains, however,
a major role in the definition of financing levels and the funding of this
and other programs. At the federal level, SUDECO would be the key agency
responsible for ensuring that activities planned under the proposed project
are well synchronized with other segments of the POLONOROESTE program.



- 13 -
At the state or territorial level, a directing council chaired by the governor,
and comprising all secretariats and representatives of key federal and local
agencies involved in the implementation of the state or territorial segment of
the POLONOROESTE program, would establish policies and give overall guidance.
Daily coordination, administration, monitoring and evaluation of all local
POLONOROESTE activities would be the responsibility of a special program
coordination unit linked to the secretariat of planning.
37.       Program Costs and Financing.  The total cost of the POLONOROESTE
program, including physical and price contingencies, is estimated at about
US$1.5 billion. This excludes agricultural credit on the order of US$100
million. A breakdown of these costs is given in Annex IV to this report. The
preliminary government financing plan for the POLONOROESTE program assumes
that 43% of the program would be financed from the budgets of the various
executing agencies, and 23% from special development program funds. The
government has requested Bank financing for the remaining 34%. Agricultural
credit would be financed through existing credit programs outside the POLONOROESTE
program budget. Funding would be channelled through the various implementation
agencies after approval by SEPLAN-PR and under the supervision of SUDECO,
which would coordinate and monitor all program activities. Funds allocated to
agencies of the state of Mato Grosso and the territory of Rondonia would be
channelled through their respective planning secretariats.
38.       Program Benefits and Justification.  The northwest region has consid-
erable potential in agriculture and forestry, and response to public invest-
ments made through the POLONOROESTE program is expected to be both rapid and
extensive. The region's agricultural production is expected to grow at a 13%
average annual rate (compared to a historical growth rate of 5% for all
Brazilian agriculture), while more sustained cropping would be encouraged.
Transport cost savings associated with program investments in transport
infrastructure would result in improved price incentives to agricultural
producers and cost-efficient access to domestic and export markets. The
POLONOROESTE program would provide large numbers of poor migrants with enhanced
employment and income opportunities and would substantially improve living
conditions, especially access to education and health. An economic rate of
return computation for the program has been attempted, based on a comparison
of the "with-and-without" program situations. The "without" situation assumes
no investments in the main highway or feeder roads, no institutional strengthen-
ing and no additional technical support of agriculture. The "with program"
scenario incorporates all actions to be undertaken under the program. The
internal rate of return of the program, computed over a 20-year period, has
been estimated at over 50%, reflecting primarily the predicted substantial
increase in agricultural output as well as the impact of improving facilities
for transporting this output (see details in Annex IV). Major non-quantifiable
benefits include better protection of large ecologically sensitive areas,
intensification of efforts to protect the Amerindian population, improved
health and education services, strengthening of the capacity of regional
institutions, and improved knowledge of the Amazon basin environment. There
are also costs which are difficult to quantify attached to the development of
the region, such as those associated with possible invasions of unsuitable



- 14 -
soils, potential threats to native flora and fauna species and pressure on
previously isolated Amerindian populations. However, since the occupation and
development process of the region has already begun, such costs would be far
higher if development activities were not guided and coordinated through the
proposed program.
39.       Program Risks.  The POLONOROESTE program is to be implemented in a
frontier area of the Amazon region. The lack of some detailed regional
information gives rise to uncertainties regarding the environmental risks of
the program. The proposed associated projects include measures to help
protect the more fragile areas of the region. In the remaining areas, land
use would be closely monitored so that potentially dangerous trends could be
halted. The proposed program would entail increased risks to the region's
Amerindian communities, some of which are still in an early stage of contact
with the national society. The government is taking steps to improve the
organization, operation, and funding of FUNAI, and has prepared a detailed
special project for the protection of these communities. These measures are
indicative of the government's commitment to protect the interests of the
region's Amerindian population, and have been initiated. The continuity and
timeliness of these actions would be closely monitored. The federal and local
executing agencies would receive substantial inputs through the projects to
improve their uneven institutional capacities. Despite these mitigating
measures, the execution of the program would entail a high degree of risk.
However, this risk would be considerably lower than that which would exist
were no attempts made to control the negative effects of the ongoing spontaneous
and disorderly development of the northwest region.
PART IV - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Agricultural Sector Performance, Constraints and Policy
40.       Agriculture continues to be an important sector in the Brazilian
economy. It employs about 36% of the economically active population, and
contributes about 11% of the total GDP and half of total export earnings.
Brazil is the world's largest exporter of coffee and orange juice, the largest
producer of sugarcane, and the third largest producer of soybeans. Other
major agricultural exports include meat and fish products, cotton, corn,
peanuts, cocoa, castor oil, and sisal. Whereas coffee accounted for 45% of
total export earnings in the mid-1960s, its share had dropped to 11% by 1975.
About 80% of Brazil's natural rubber consumption is imported at present. In
most years Brazil has been self-sufficient in basic food production, except
for wheat. From 1970-79, the average annual agricultural growth rate was
about 5%.
41.       The great majority of farmers in the north, northeast and center-west
regions continue to employ traditional agricultural practices and rudimentary
technology. Constraints on increased agricultural production, particularly for
small farmers, include: limited access to institutional credit, extension
services and modern agricultural inputs; inadequate supporting services and
infrastructure for marketing, storage and transport; and uncertain land tenure
and highly uneven land distribution.



- 15 -
42.       About 36% of the national territory (some 306 million ha) is com-
prised of agricultural properties. About half of the agricultural area is
used for livestock production. A further 30% is devoted to extractive or
planted forestry, or is productive land not currently utilized. Brazil has
traditionally relied on an expansion of its development frontiers to increase
its agricultural production. This trend is likely to continue in the decades
to come, despite productivity gains expected from stepped-up investments in
agricultural research. During the 1981-85 period, in part due to the rapid
expansion of biomass energy programs, it is estimated that up to 2.8 million
ha of new land will be cultivated annually.
43.       Agricultural development has been assigned a high priority in
Brazil's Third National Development Plan (1980-85). Major policy objectives
include: (a) the increase of basic staple and export production, especially
by small- and medium-scale producers; (b) improvement of production, storage,
transport and marketing systems; (c) expansion of agricultural research and
extension activities; and (d) decentralization of agricultural policy execution
and the increased participation of the private sector, and state and local
governments. Government measures aimed at stimulating agricultural production
and raising rural incomes, particularly among small-scale producers, include:
(a) reorganization of federal extension services to provide better rural
extension services to a broader segment of the rural population; (b) support
of special programs such as POLONORDESTE in the northeast and POLONOROESTE in
the northwest; and (c) expansion of access to institutional credit.
44.       An important aspect of Brazil's agricultural policy has been the
provision of agricultural credit at subsidized interest rates which, with the
continuing high level of inflation, are negative in real terms. The subsidies
were introduced to induce an expansion in agricultural production by offsetting
the high cost of inputs and by giving special assistance to disadvantaged
groups. However, the drawbacks of the system -- economic distortions and
administrative complexity -- have become increasingly apparent. The government
recently announced increases in nominal interest rates for all agricultural
credits, as well as the reduced eligibility of larger scale farmers and
specific end-uses for subsidized funding, and has indicated that it intends to
continue reducing these subsidies over time.
Bank Involvement in Brazil's Agricultural Sector
45.       Bank-assisted operations in Brazil's agricultural sector combine an
area development approach, which focusses on poor rural areas in the northeast
and northwest, with a functional approach designed to bring about needed
policy changes. To date the Bank has made 21 loans totaling US$801.6 million
for agricultural and rural development in Brazil. Of these, ten were for rural
development, two each for irrigation, livestock development, agro-industries
and agricultural research, and one each for land settlement, agricultural
extension services, and grain storage. In addition, Bank loans for fertilizer
production, a nutrition research and development project, secondary and feeder
roads and a northeast basic education project are having a direct impact on
agricultural production and rural development. A rural development project in
the northeastern state of Maranhao is at a relatively advanced state of
preparation, and an additional project under consideration is the proposed
Amazonas state agricultural development project. Completion and Project
Performance Audit Reports have been issued for the grain storage and the two
livestock development projects. In each of these three projects, significant



- 16 -
differences developed between the government and the Bank regarding interest
rate policy, leading to some cancellation and/or early repayments of the
loans. Completion and Project Performance Audit Reports are currently under
preparation for an agro-industry credit project and the Alto Turi land settle-
ment project. Experience drawn from that project has been reflected in the
design of the proposed project. For instance, a broad consensus on project
design and objectives has been sought through the active participation of
executing agencies in project preparation, and a range of production systems
that are not new to the region are proposed. Expected community participation
in project activities is built around well-established traditions.
PART V - THE PROJECT
46.       The proposed project is part of the POLONOROESTE program which was
first reviewed by a Bank identification mission which visited Brazil in
October/November 1979. Project proposals were prepared by the federal, state
and territorial government authorities with the assistance of the Bank/FAO
Cooperative Program for the agricultural components. This project was appraised
in January/February 1981 and negotiated from September 23 to September 30, 1981
jointly with the associated northwest region health and highway projects. The
Brazilian delegation to the negotiations was led by Ambassador Raul Fernando
Leite Ribeiro of the Federal Secretariat of Planning and Mr. Roberto Cavalcanti
de Albuquerque, Deputy Secretary General of the Ministry of Interior. A Staff
Appraisal Report, entitled "Brazil Northwest Region Development Program:
First Phase - Agricultural Development and Environmental Protection Project"
(No. 3512b-BR, dated October 30, 1981) is being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately.
Project Concept and Objectives
47.       The proposed northwest region agricultural development and environ-
mental protection project consists of the following: (a) a settlement con-
solidation subproject in existing settlement areas of the territory of Rondonia;
(b) an environmental protection subproject to (i) establish natural reserves
and ecological stations; (ii) strengthen the institution charged with the
control of forest areas and forestry activities; and (iii) study forestry
opportunities; (c) an ecological research subproject; (d) land tenure regular-
ization in settled rural areas of western Mato Grosso; (e) soil surveys in
future settlement areas; and (f) overall program coordination and monitoring.
Concurrently, the government would (a) reinforce efforts to protect the Amerindian
population of the region (see paragraph 35); and (b) study the land tenure and
use conditions and regulations, and salvage logging in settlement areas.
The Rondonia Settlement Consolidation Subproject
48.       Conditions in the Subproject Area.  The Rondonia settlement consolid-
ation subproject would concentrate on five settlement schemes located in the
municipalities of Ariquemes, Ji-Parana, Cacoal, Presidente Medici, Ouro Preto do
Oeste, and Jaru, which straddle BR-364 over some 350 km (IBRD Map No. 15483R1).
The subproject area has a humid tropical climate. The average annual rainfall
is between 1,800 and 2,200 mm. Altogether, some two-thirds of the area are
well suited to long-cycle crops, half of that area also being suitable for annual
crops, given adequate cultivation techniques and inputs.



- 17 -
49.       Some 37,000 farm families (more than half of the farm population
of Rondonia) now live within the 3 million ha to be covered by the subproject.
The typical settler has a 100 ha plot, 50% of which is to be kept in a legal
forest reserve. All 33,500 farm owners in the area are expected to receive
definitive title to their land by the end of 1981 through an ongoing accelerated
titling program. There are some 3,500 non-owner families whose members are
either sharecroppers or laborers on the most successful farms, or squatters
located on the periphery of the settlements.
50.       Productive and social infrastructure and services in the subproject
area are poor. The access road network is incomplete and poorly maintained.
Existing primary schools accommodate only one-third of the relevant age group,
but under totally inadequate conditions. The majority of settler families
has virtually no access to health services. Agricultural practices and
technology in the area remain largely rudimentary; fertilizers are seldom used
and the input supply system is weak, in part because of difficult transport
conditions. The main government credit agencies operating in the area have
few outlets, which restricts farmers' access to credit. Rice, maize and beans
are the main food crops currently grown. The main cash crops are coffee and
cocoa, with rubber on the increase. High transport costs and lack of access
to adequate storage facilities often drive farmgate prices far below official
price levels and result in high post-harvest losses, especially for rice,
which matures during the rainy season. The present average family annual
income of settlers, estimated at US$1,000 equivalent for owners and US$700 for
non-owners, is low, especially in view of the exceptionally high cost of
living in Rondonia.
51.       The Subproject Concept.  The rationale of the Rondonia settlement
consolidation subproject is that the good agricultural aptitude and present
land tenure situation of the area allow the permanent settlement of relatively
small-scale farmers, whose production and incomes could be significantly
improved if appropriate infrastructure and services were provided. The aim of
the proposed subproject is therefore to assist the government of Rondonia in
its efforts to bring essential agricultural and associated social services to
the less-favored recent settlers in areas outside of existing settlements and
to non-owner farmers. The subproject would help those farmers make better
long-term use of their resources, increase regional production and move
towards environmentally more acceptable perennial cropping and continuous,
rather than shifting, cultivation of annual crops. It would help create
production and tenure conditions conducive to an increase of agricultural
population density in areas with good soils by providing: (a) a network of
strategically located rural service centers (NUARs); (b) restructured and
reinforced agricultural extension services; (c) farmer organization and
education, improved land transfer mechanisms and selective siting of major
rural services and infrastructure; (d) additional and improved transport and
storage infrastructure to reduce crop losses; (e) improved social services;
and (f) better planning and implementation capability of local institutions.
The main activities to be financed under the various components of the sub-
project are described below.
52.       Rural Service Centers (NUARs).  Thirty-nine NUARs would act as focal
points for production support infrastructure, social services (health and
education), community development and commercial activities. The NUARs would
thus provide the core for the future development of stable communities in



- 18 -
the now more remote areas. 2By 1985, each NUAR would serve some 1,900 rural
families spread over 600 km . The Rondonia Agricultural Development Company
(CODARON) would be responsible for the construction of basic NUAR infrastruc-
ture. The works would be carried out through a combination of community labor
and contracts.
53.       Farm Access Roads.  About 3,900 km of all-weather access roads would
be constructed or upgraded under the subproject. These access roads would
link farm areas to NUARs or to feeder roads linking NUARs to BR-364. The
feeder roads program would be carried out parallel to this subproject (Report
No. P-3138-BR, the Northwest Region Highway Project). CODARON would be
responsible for carrying out the farm access road component. The Roads
Department of the Territorial Secretariat of Public Works (DER-RO/SOSP)
would assist CODARON in the design, tendering, and supervision of construction.
CODARON, DER-RO/SOSP and the subproject area municipalities would enter into
agreements defining their collaboration on access road construction and
establishing an appropriate schedule for the construction of subproject area
feeder roads. Disbursements for the Rondonia Settlement subproject would
be conditional upon the execution of this agreement (paragraph 4(b) of Schedule 1
to the Loan Agreement). Maintenance of the subproject and access roads
would be provided by special units to be set up in each municipality with the
assistance of DER-RO.
54.       Agricultural and Forestry Extension.  Extension services would be
substantially expanded and upgraded. All agricultural extension activities,
except those related to cocoa, would be consolidated within ASTER-RO, the
executing agency for this component. Recruitment and training of project-
financed extension staff would be completed no later than June 30, 1984
(Section 2.04 of the draft Project Agreement). About 200 demonstration plots
on farmer land would be established under ASTER-RO supervision; extensionists
would work with farmers both individually and in groups, each extensionist
attending to a total of about 275 farmers at full development. The exten-
sionists would receive regular training from senior specialists and Brazilian
Agricultural Research Company (EMBRAPA) researchers. Specific items to be
financed under the component include vehicles, equipment, training activities,
salaries of incremental staff and other incremental operating costs.
55.       Agricultural Research.  The proposed agricultural research activi-
ties would complement ongoing research, included in two Bank-financed research
projects (Loans 1249-BR and 2016-BR). Emphasis would be placed on adapting
the production technology for main annual crops to conditions in the newly
opened region, on livestock as a part of mixed farming systems, and on farm
management. Items to be financed under this component include vehicles,
equipment, incremental staffing and operating costs, and consultancy services.
The executing agency would be EMBRAPA's Rondonia unit (UEPAT). UEPAT would
publicize each year, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, the results of the
proposed research activities (Section 3.05 of the draft Loan Agreement).
56.       Crop Drying and Storage.  Nineteen 2,500-ton crop drying and storage
units for selected NUARs would be financed under the subproject. They would
be constructed, equipped, and staffed by the Brazilian Storage Company
(CIBRAZEM). Operating costs would be met out of storage fees. CODARON
and CIBRAZEM would enter into an agreement defining a construction plan and
schedule for these storage facilities consistent with the NUAR and access



- 19 -
roads construction programs, as well as a means of coordinating the three
construction programs. Disbursements against this subproject component
would be conditional upon the execution of this agreement (Paragraph 4(c) of
Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement). The federal government would ensure that
subproject facilities would be adequately staffed and maintained by CIBRAZEM
(Section 3.17(c) of the draft Loan Agreement).
57.       Education and Farmer Organization.  CODARON would construct and
equip one school of four classrooms in each NUAR and 390 satellite single-
classroom schools along the network of access roads. One-third of the single-
classroom schools would replace existing inadequate facilities. These measures
would increase the number of school places by some 40,000, bringing the total
to about 67,000 by 1985, equivalent to 41% of the area's school age population.
Operational responsibility for these schools would remain with the municipali-
ties. Some 780 new teachers would be required in the satellite schools and
another 312 for the central NUAR schools. Teacher salaries and related expen-
ditures would be met from territorial funds, and the territorial government
would enter into agreements, before March 31, 1982, with each municipality in
the subproject area, defining their respective responsibilities in the
implementation of the education component of the subproject (Section 2.05 of
the draft Project Agreement). The territorial Secretariat of Social Action,
in collaboration with CODARON and ASTER-RO, would help organize self-help
groups and their participation in various community activities.
58.       Activities Parallel to the Rondonia Settlement Consolidation
Subproiect.  On-farm investment credit would be provided principally from the
existing special lines for rubber, coffee, cocoa, livestock and farm equipment.
Standard credit lines of the Bank of Brazil and the Bank of the Amazon
would be available for annual crops and maintenance of perennials at highly
negative real interest rates. Credit would not be included in Bank-financing
for the proposed project. However, the federal government would ensure that
adequate credit for working capital and investment was made available in a
timely manner to project beneficiaries, with priority given to small-scale
farmers borrowing for the first time in order to establish perennial crops
(Section 4.01 of the draft Loan Agreement). Incremental credit requirements
for the subproject have been estimated at US$38 million equivalent for on-farm
investment credit and about US$25 million equivalent for seasonal credit.
59.       A five-year seed production program for annual crops developed
by Rondonia's Secretariat of Agriculture and the Federal Ministry of
Agriculture has started in 1981. The aim is to produce about 3,000 tons
of certified seeds per annum, under the supervision of EMBRAPA and ASTER-RO
and with the participation of selected farmers. The federal government
would ensure that this seed production program would be in full execution
no later than December 31, 1985 (Section 4.02 of the draft Loan Agreement).
ASTER-RO and UEPAT would agree annually on basic seeds requirements for the
following cropping year by September 30 (Section 2.09 of the draft Project
Agreement).
60.       The ongoing titling program of the National Institute of Coloniza-
tion and Agrarian Reform (INCRA) in the subproject area is nearing completion
(see paragraph 49). The federal government would ensure that all land-owners
within the subproject area would have been provided with definitive titles no
later than March 31, 1982 (Section 4.04(a) of the draft Loan Agreement).



- 20 -
61.       The federal government has confirmed that it would commission,
on the basis of terms of reference and a schedule satisfactory to the Bank,
a study of the legal, technical and environmental feasibility of authorizing
utilization of the 50% individual forest reserves for small-scale farming
purposes where soils are proven to be suitable for crop production, and of
establishing compensatory agglomerated forest reserves elsewhere. This study
would be completed and submitted for Bank review no later than June 30, 1982,
and its recommendations put into effect according to a plan and schedule
acceptable to the Borrower and the Bank (Section 4.04 of the draft Loan Agree-
ment and Supplemental Letter No. 2). The federal government would also
commission feasibility studies on means for salvaging and utilizing the timber
felled in areas cleared for agricultural purposes. The FAO Technical Coopera-
tion Program is expected to provide a team of specialists to execute these
studies. The federal government would ensure the completion of these studies
by the Brazilian Institute for Forestry Development (IBDF), with their conclu-
sions and recommendations submitted to the Bank no later than December 31,
1982 (Section 4.03 of the draft Loan Agreement).
The Environmental Protection and Ecological Research Subprojects
62.       Environmental concerns in the Subproject Area.  Humid tropical
ecosystems are in general far more complex and less resilient than other
terrestrial ecosystems. High year-round temperatures and heavy rainfall can
result in nutrient losses. In the Amazon basin, a large number of native
plant and animal species confined to very small areas risk extinction as a
result of forest clearing. Knowledge of ecosystems specific to the northwest
region, and particularly to Rondonia, has remained very sparse because of
difficulties of access. Furthermore, it is possible that extensive dis-
appearance of the tree cover might affect the climate of the region through
changes in evapo-transpiration, and that the release of carbon dioxide by
extensive burning or decomposition of the forest could affect world climate.
63.       Components of the Environmental Protection Subprojects.  The
environmental protection subproject aims at: (a) assisting in the design and
implementation of appropriate zoning measures; (b) strengthening the organiza-
tion and operation in the northwest region of IBDF, which is responsible for
the protection of forest areas and forestry activities; (c) helping to improve
the protection of natural reserves; (d) helping to prepare plans for national
forests where sustained commercial forestry operations could be undertaken;
(e) helping to expand the program of ecological stations where baseline
ecological studies could be carried out; and (f) supporting monitoring-oriented
ecological research activities.
64.       Zoning.  The detailed land capability information on which future
land-use planning will be based is gradually being gathered. Soils and agri-
cultural aptitude surveys of Rondonia and Mato Grosso are underway, and INCRA
has undertaken more detailed soils studies for selected settlement areas. Land
capability knowledge requirements for on-farm planning would be met through
specific training activities for extension agents, supported by an EMBRAPA
soil analysis laboratory. The agricultural research component described in
paragraph 55 would include six months of consultancy services for initiating
land capability mapping. These operational zoning measures would be comple-
mented by project provisions regarding the identification, establishment



- 21 -
and protection of natural and Amerindian reserves. For areas outside such
specific projects, the federal and territorial government would take all neces-
sary measures, especially through their land titling, agricultural credit and
services, and infrastructure development policies, to discourage the agricul-
tural exploitation of areas determined to be unsuitable for agricultural
development, or of unproven suitability (Section 3.13 of the draft Loan
Agreement).  These measures would help build up local land-use planning and
implementation capabilities in the areas developed under this project. For
the longer term, a forestry policy legislation for the entire Amazon region
under discussion within the government would provide the coherent framework
for large-scale zoning policies. Finalization of this draft legislation has
been delayed by the ongoing intense discussions among the various groups
involved in the development and conservation of the Amazon regions. The
serious concern with environmental matters in this debate is indicative
of the audience the conservation groups have gained in Brazil in recent years,
and the weight their views are being given in the process.
65.       National Forests.  Proposals for setting up national forests where
commercial operations could be undertaken are still at an early stage of
preparation. Activities to be financed under this project would include the
provision of consultancy services, mapping costs, demarcation and protection
of potential national forest areas from encroachment. No later than March 31,
1982, the federal ministries of agriculture and interior would, in consultation
with the Bank, assign to their respective agencies specific responsibilities
for land-use planning and for the identification and development of national
forest projects in the program area. IBDF would set up, no later than March
31, 1982, a forestry development planning team to carry out these activities,
and would provide the Bank with detailed terms of reference for the planning
studies prior to June 30, 1982, and complete these studies prior to June 30,
1983. The federal government would subsequently take all steps necessary for
implementing appropriate forestry development plans (Section 3.06 of the draft
Loan Agreement).
66.       Strengthening of IBDF's Capability to Control Forest Lands and
Forestry Activities. IBDF regional offices in Porto Velho and Cuiaba would
be reinforced under the proposed project. The federal government would also
ensure that all seven IBDF forestry control posts (three existing, four to be
established) in the northwest region would be fully operational no later than
December 31, 1982 (Section 3.07 of the draft Loan Agreement).
67.       Natural Reserves.  One natural park would be established and two
reserves better protected under the proposed project. Official natural reserves
in the region (IBRD Map No. 14865R2) currently total some two million ha, or
5% of the region, and are managed by IBDF. The largest of these reserves, the
Pacaas Novos Park, contains fertile soils critical for the flora and fauna
native to the areas in Rondonia subject to settlement and forest clearing.
For this reserve, demarcation costs, office and residential buildings, control
posts and landing strips would be provided. FUNAI has interdicted access to
that part of the park occupied by a newly-contacted Amerindian group. Before
undertaking project-financed works, IBDF and FUNAI would enter into contractual
arrangements satisfactory to the Bank defining their collaboration on the
protection of the park and interdicted Amerindian areas, and the works to be
carried out by IBDF within the park. FUNAI staff would accompany IBDF staff



- 22 -
as needed (Section 3.08(b) of the draft Loan Agreement). The project would
finance similar surveillance infrastructure for the Guapore and Jaru biolo-
gical reserves, as well as a surveillance airplane, aerial photography of the
parks, and incremental staffing and operating costs associated with these
surveillance activities. The decree establishing the Guapore biological
reserve is still to be finalized. The federal government would take all
necessary steps for legally defining and establishing that reserve, no
later than March 31, 1982. Detailed engineering and plans for construction
works to be undertaken in each of these reserves would be submitted to the
Bank for approval prior to the initiation of these works (Section 3.08 of
the draft Loan Agreement).
68.       Ecological Stations.  The project would assist the Special Secre-
tariat for the Environment (SEMA) in the establishment or extension of four
ecological stations designed to protect and allow the study of typical envi-
ronmental units. The definite geographical limits of the proposed ecological
station of Cunia is still under negotiation between SEMA and INCRA, and the
territorial government of Rondonia. These limits would be defined no later
than March 31, 1982. SEMA would submit to the Bank for approval the detailed
engineering and plans for each of the four ecological stations prior to the
initiation of construction works (Section 3.09 of the draft Loan Agreement).
69.       Ecological Research.  The ecological research subproject would
provide for the establishment of (a) a hydrometeorology and biogeochemistry
monitoring system in Rondonia; (b) development of a system for the inven-
tory and collection of fauna and flora; and (c) small-scale research projects
on other selected topics as may be agreed, possibly including research on the
minimum size of eco-systems and research on technologies appropriate to the
region. Preparation of detailed research proposals by CNPq is underway. The
federal government would submit these proposals, including terms of reference,
budgets, execution arrangements and responsibilities, to the Bank for approval
no later than March 31, 1982 and would cause CNPq to publish by June 30 of
each year a progress report setting forth the findings and recommendations of
research carried out under this program during the preceding POLONOROESTE
fiscal year (Section 3.10 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Preparation and Studies for the Northwest Region Development Program
Follow-Up Projects
70.       Land Tenure Regularization in Mato Grosso.  More than half of the
farmers in the proposed Mato Grosso target area lack clear legal title to
their land. To expedite the planned rural development activities, a land
tenure regularization and titling program, covering some 5.3 million ha
encompassing all major settlement areas in western Mato Grosso and along the
Guapore Valley, would be financed under this project. An estimated 600,000 ha
of land belonging to farmers owning plots of between 2 and 100 ha would be
demarcated and titled. The full cost of these services would be recovered in
accordance with existing INCRA legislation. INCRA, the agency executing this
component, would contract out topographical and demarcation operations,
establish and operate the new field units required for this component no later
than March 31, 1982, and would ensure that owners of more than 2 ha plots
were promptly titled (Section 3.11 of the draft Loan Agreement).



- 23 -
71.       Surveys for Future Settlement Areas.  Detailed soil surveys of
170,000 ha, commissioned by INCRA in order to identify areas suitable for new
settlement, would be financed under the proposed project. These studies were
initiated in November 1980 and are being carried out under satisfactory terms
of reference.
Project Cost and Financing
72.       The total cost of the proposed five-year project is estimated at
US$199.3 million equivalent, of which about US$42.7 million would be foreign
exchange equivalent. The total includes about US$10.0 million equivalent
in local taxes. Physical contingencies were estimated at about 12% of base
costs for all items. Price contingencies equal to 31.5% of base costs
(January 1981 prices) were calculated in US dollars on the following basis:
9% in 1981, 8.5% in 1982, 7.5% for 1983-85. A breakdown of the estimated cost
is shown in the Loan and Project Summary on page ii.
73.       The proposed loan of US$67 million would finance 35% of the net-of-
tax project cost, covering the entire foreign exchange component and US$24.3
million equivalent (about 16%) of local costs. It seems reasonable for the
Bank to finance this portion of local costs in order to make a meaningful
contribution to a project designed to improve the income and living conditions
of poor migrant farmers. Retroactive financing of up to US$5.5 million equiv-
alent would be permitted to help cover eligible expenditures incurred by INCRA
for land regularization surveys initiated after May 31, 1981; land capability
surveys in areas of future INCRA settlement, initiated after June 30, 1980,
and for all Rondonia settlement consolidation subproject and environmental
protection subproject activities (except research) initiated after May 31,
1981. The federal government would contribute the balance of the project
cost from the budget of the POLONOROESTE program and through regular agency
and territorial allocations. The federal government would ensure that these
counterpart funds as well as all facilities, services, and other resources
required for the purposes of the project would be provided in a timely manner
(Section 3.01 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Procurement
74.       Most farm access roads and civil works for the rural services centers
and other project components would be built through relatively small contracts
which are unlikely to attract foreign bidders' interest. These contracts would
be awarded following local competitive bidding procedures which are satisfactory.
Force account work would be allowed for minor works in more isolated areas.
Contracts for vehicles, machinery and equipment to be acquired by a variety of
agencies over the project execution period would also be awarded following
local competitive bidding procedures.
Disbursement
75.       The proceeds of the proposed loan would be disbursed against 55% of
expenditures for each project component through March 31, 1983. Subsequently,
the disbursement percentage would be adjusted to result in an overall rate of 33%.
Higher initial disbursements are justified by Brazil's exceptionally tight
financial situation at present, and the anti-inflationary measures being
taken by the Government, including a serious effort to contain public invest-
ment expenditures. In order to reduce the interval during which the Government



- 24 -
would finance the Bank's share of project costs with its own resources, the
Government may request the Bank to make advance payments in dollars from the
loan account into a Special Account to be opened in the Central Bank (Section
2.02 of the draft Loan Agreement). The Government would be entitled to make
withdrawals in cruzeiros from the Special Account upon submission of withdrawal
applications to the Central Bank. Conversion from dollars into cruzeiros
would be made at the exchange rate that prevailed on the date the expenditures
on the project were made. The Central Bank would forward the withdrawal appli-
cations to the Bank, which would then replenish the Special Account. All
disbursement applications would be fully documented, except for operating
expenses relating to project activities and eligible expenditures for minor
civil works to be carried out under force account. In these cases, disburse-
ments would be made against statements of expenditures, the documentation for
which would not be submitted to the Bank, but retained by the executing
agencies and made available for inspection during project supervision missions.
The loan is expected to be fully disbursed by December 31, 1986.
Accounts and Audit
76.       Each of the participating agencies would maintain separate accounts
of its project expenditures which would be audited annually by independent
auditors satisfactory to the Bank. Copies of the participating agencies'
audited statements would be provided to the Bank through SUDECO within six
months of the end of the POLONOROESTE fiscal year. These reports would
include an opinion (and comments as necessary) on the method employed in the
compilaton of the statement of expenditures, their accuracy, the relevance of
supporting documents, eligibility for financing in terms of the project's
legal agreements and the standard of record keeping and internal controls
related to the foregoing. The Special Account would be audited by independent
auditors satisfactory to the Bank (Sections 5.03 and 5.04 of the draft Loan
Agreement).
Project Implementation
77.       Overall Coordination.  SUDECO has established a POLONOROESTE general
coordination unit under its Deputy Superintendency of Planning to monitor and
evaluate project progress and impact, initiate special studies, and harmonize
program activities, and has already appointed a program coordinator. SUDECO
would (a) appoint two section chiefs (respectively in charge of monitoring,
evaluation and special studies and of harmonization of program activities)
under terms of reference and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, no later
than March 31, 1982; (b) complete the establishment of the coordination unit
by March 31, 1982; (c) maintain this unit with personnel whose qualifications,
experience and conditions of employment are satisfactory to the Bank; and
(d) by October 31 of each year, provide the Bank with the proposed POLONOROESTE
program budget, by component, for the following year (Section 3.03 of the draft
Loan Agreement).
78.       CODARON.  Implementation of the Rondonia settlement consolidation
subproject would be the responsibility of CODARON. This new public corporation,
largely staffed by former members of the secretariat of agriculture, is
expected to simplify contracting, recruitment, and other operational procedures.
Its central staff would be relatively small, the actual implementation and
coordination of field activities being entrusted to regional units. No later
than March 31, 1982, CODARON would (a) appoint five coordinators to its



- 25 -
Operational Unit, and an officer within its advisory unit whose main responsi-
bility would be to advise CODARON's management on the planning and supervision
of the settlement consolidation subproject; and (b) enter into contractual
arrangements satisfactory to the Bank, with consultants who would assist it in
administrative and technical matters. These agreements would cover an initial
two-year period to be extended or redefined as appropriate on the basis of the
scheduled project mid-term evaluation (Section 2.02(b) of the draft Project
Agreement).
79.       Monitoring and Evaluation.  Simple but effective monitoring and
evaluation methods are essential for the POLONOROESTE program and projects.
Brazil has developed a computerized data system for monitoring the physical
and financial progress of the special programs' activities. Although this
monitoring system is basically sound, further indicators are being tailored
to the specific needs of each institution and activity with the assistance
of consultants. Each participating agency would prepare quarterly monitoring
reports. The Special POLONOROESTE Coordination Unit within SEPLAN-RO,
SEPLAN-RO/PCU, would then submit to SUDECO a consolidated quarterly monitoring
report for the territorial segment of the program. SUDECO would be responsible
for preparing consolidated quarterly reports for the entire program, including
the special project for the Ameriandian population. Evaluation activities,
including ad hoc, mid-project and completion studies,would be carried out
under the responsibility of the general program coordination unit within
SUDECO, with the assistance of independent consultants to be contracted by
March 31, 1982. Their qualifications and experience would be satisfactory to
the Bank, and their selection and employment would be in accordance with Bank
policies and procedures (Section 3.04 of the draft Loan Agreement). Detailed
monitoring and evaluation plans and procedures satisfactory to the Bank would
be submitted by SUDECO no later than March 31, 1982. Consolidated quarterly
monitoring reports on program and projects implementation progress would be
provided to the Bank promptly after their completion. The results of evaluation
and ad hoc studies financed under the program and projects would be sent to
the Bank for review promptly upon completion. An evaluation of the execution
of all program activities as of March 31, 1984 would be carried out and a
report on this evaluation would be provided to the Bank no later than June 30,
1984 (Sections 3.04 and 3.15 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Benefits and Justification
80.       The benefits and justification of the overall POLONOROESTE program
are discussed in paragraph 38. The section below deals exclusively with the
Rondonia settlement consolidation subproject which is the directly production-
oriented component of the proposed project.
81.       The area planted in coffee in Rondonia is expected to increase from
a current level of 27,000 ha to as much as 90,000 ha over the next five years.
Of this amount, farmers directly assisted by the project would plant 48,000
ha, roughly estimated to be about 17,500 ha more than the area which they
would have planted without the project. These new coffee plantings would
represent only 8% of the 750,000 ha to be planted nationwide within the next
five years in accordance with Brazil's policy of annually replanting 5% of the
country's 3 million ha in coffee, gradually taking coffee out of frost-prone
southern Brazil. Cocoa and rubber plantings in the subproject area would repre-
sent about 30% and 57%, respectively, of the 100,000 ha of cocoa and 35,000 ha



- 26 -
of rubber to be established in Rondonia during the 1981-85 period, and would
be in line with the recently scaled-down national development plans for these
commodities. The incremental expansion in planted area directly due to the
project, combined with yield improvement and loss reductions, would result in
an incremental annual production at full development of some 24,000 tons of
dried coffee beans, 22,500 tons of cocoa and 10,000 tons of latex. The
International Coffee Organization (ICO) considers world oversupply of coffee
by the end of the decade a possibility. ICO reintroduced quotas on exports
of coffee in October 1980 and has cautioned against investment in projects
designed to increase production significantly, unless such increased produc-
tion is due to a diversified pattern of agriculture as part of an integrated
rural development program. Production from such programs should be offset
by reduced production from marginal areas taken out of coffee. The proposed
project meets these criteria as the production of coffee in the project
area is part of rural development efforts oriented towards relatively low-
income farmers. Moreover, it is expected that the new production will replace
coffee from less suitable areas such as the "frost belt" areas of Parana, where
coffee production is already declining. In the northwest region, on the other
hand, ecological considerations make tree crops particularly suitable to
protect soil resources, while other crop alternatives are limited. Brazil's
interest in an orderly operation of the world market for coffee is evidenced
by Brazil's consistent support of the International Coffee Agreement. Coffee
development is monitored and the Government makes use principally of price and
credit mechanisms to attempt to adjust to the provisions of the Agreement.
Latex production due to the project would help reduce Brazil's natural rubber
imports. Project returns for coffee and cocoa have been computed on the
assumption that prices will remain at currently low levels for the next ten
years. International prices for rubber are expected to increase by about 10%
over the next ten years. Areas in annual crops would also increase by about
30,000 ha, often interplanted under immature perennial crops, resulting in an
incremental annual production by direct project beneficiaries of about 43,000
tons of rice paddy, 26,500 tons of corn, 4,000 tons of beans and 32,500 tons
of manioc. There would also be some increases in beef, eggs, chicken, pork
and milk production. In addition, it is expected that area farmers not
directly affected by this project would expand their area under tree crops by
about 40,000 ha and that yields of these and annual crops would benefit
indirectly from the project. At full development the value of the annual
incremental production attributable to the project would amount to US$143.5
million at January 1981 farmgate prices, adjusted for the effect of improved
road access.
82.       Farm family income of direct subproject beneficiaries (owner and
non-owner) is expected to increase from a current level of US$850 to almost
US$6,000 for some 6,600 coffee sharecroppers, about US$15,000 for some 6,600
coffee- and 3,000 cocoa-farm owners, and US$17,000 for 2,000 rubber-farm
owners at full development (by 1995). The government of Rondonia would then
derive tax revenues of some US$11.4 million per annum from the incremental
production of the subproject. The federal government would, at recently
reduced export tax rates, achieve gross revenues in excess of US$20 million
annually from incremental coffee production alone at full project development.
The subproject base cost excluding credit would be about US$2,000 per family,
taking into consideration the 75,000 families expected to live in the project
area in 1986.



- 27 -
83.       The economic rate of return for the directly productive components
of the Rondonia settlement consolidation subproject (representing about 89%
of total subproject costs) has been estimated at about 22%. The cost stream
used in estimating the rate of return includes the full costs of agricultural
extension, research, farmer organization, storage and drying facilities,
agricultural service centers, access roads, and subproject coordination,
management and monitoring at the territorial level. It excludes the costs of
the education, environmental protection, and program-wide coordination compo-
nents. The estimated rate of return is fairly insensitive to likely variations
in costs and benefits. A 50% decrease in benefits would bring the rate of
return down to 14%; a combined 20% increase in costs and 20% decrease in
benefits would reduce the rate of return to 17%.
84.       The proposed settlement consolidation subproject would create new
on-farm employment opportunities equivalent to some 20,700 jobs annually at
full development. About two-thirds of this additional manpower demand would
be filled by family labor. Further subproject-induced jobs would be created
in the intermediary milling and processing industries.
Risks and Uncertainties
85.       The major risks involved in implementing the project are those
affecting the overall Northwest Development Program (see paragraph 39). These
include increased risks to the region's Amerindian communities, as well as some
threats to the environment. FUNAI is being strengthened, and a government
program to better protect Amerindian communities has been initiated. Further,
a number of actions would be taken to protect the more fragile areas of the
region, and to monitor and correct for the project's impact on its environment.
Extension agents would be trained in agricultural practies required to main-
tain soil fertility. Risks to rubber trees in Rondonia from potential disease
outbreaks are considered manageable using techniques within the financial
resources of regional farmers. Because the region's soils are quite hetero-
geneous even where they are of an overall good quality, and require appropriate
cultivation techniques to maintain soil fertility, extension agents will be
trained in proper land use and agricultural practices. All project activities
would be closely monitored, and potentially dangerous trends identified, so
that remedial measures could be taken.
86.       While major institutional improvements, and an increased commitment
of project staff, have been observed since the preparatory stages of this proj-
ect and are seen as favorable indicators for the future, there is no guarantee
that project risks can be totally avoided. However, measures incorporated into
the project should result in a much lower level of risk than that which would
exist if there were no interventions in the region, and the potential of the
area is such that controlled risks are worth facing.



- 28 -
PART VI - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
87.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Federative Republic of Brazil
and the Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Federal Territory of
Rondonia and the Bank, and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article
III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
88.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. There is no special condition of effectiveness. Disbursements for
the Rondonia settlement consolidation subproject would be conditioned upon the
execution of the agreements between CODARON, DER-RO and SOSP referred to in
paragraph 53 of this report. Additionally, disbursements for the subproject's
storage and drying units construction component would be conditioned upon the
execution of the agreements between CODARON and CIBRAZEM referred to in para-
graph 56 of this report. Failure by the Borrower, Rondonia, or the Banco
Nacional de Desenvolvimento Economico (BNDE) to comply with any covenant agree-
ment or obligation under the Loan and Project Agreements for the northwest
region highway and health projects would also constitute an event of default
on the proposed project, pursuant to the Bank's General Conditions (draft
Supplemental Letter No. 3).
PART 7IT - RECOMMENDATIONS
89.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
90.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
November 9, 1981
Washington, D.C.



- 29 -                                       ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
BRAZIL - SOCIAL INDICATURS DATA SHEET
BRAZIL                         REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGITED AVgES
LANU AREA (THOUSAND SU. PM.)                                                         - MOST RECENT ESTIIATE)
TOIAL           8512.0                                  MOST RECENT             MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
AGIW,ULTIURAL    ZU77.2              1960   b    1970 /b ESTIKATE /b    LATIN AHERICA & CARIBBEAN            EUROPE
UIP PER LAPITA (U0S)                  320.0        570.0    1780.0                   1616.2                    2609.1
EhECGY CUlhUMPTION PER LAPIIA
(KILWGRAMS UF COAL EQUIVALENT)      392.1        565.0    1061.5                   1324.1                    2368.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTILS
POPULATUIO, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 71513.0       95322.0  116539.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT UF TuTAL) 46.1          55.9      64.1                     64.2                      53.2
POPULATIUN PRUJECTIONS
PUPULATIUN IN YEAR 200U (MILLIONS)                       176.5
SIAIIONARY PUPULATION (MILLIONS)                         281.0
YEAR bIAIIONARY POPULATOOh IS REACHED                   2075
PDPULATION DLNSITY
PEK Sq. KM.                         8.4         11.2      13.7                     34.3                      80.6
PER Sq. KtM. AGRICULTURAL LAND     44.1         50.5      55.1                     94.5                     133.9
PUPULAIION AGF STRULTIUE (PERCENT)
U-14 YKS.                          43.6         42.7      41.5                     40.7                      30.1
15-64 YhS.                          53.B        54.3       55.1                     55.3                      61.5
65 YFS. AND ABOVE                    2.6          3.0       3.4                      4.0                       8.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               3.0          2.9       2.2                      2.4                       1.5
UEDAN                               5.5          4.8       3.8                      3.7                       3.1
LFRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     42..5        37.0      29.4                     31.4                      22.9
LKUVE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      12.9         10.5       8.7                      8.4                       9.1
CROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.0          2.6       2.0                      2.3                       1.6
FAMILY PLANN ING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..        111.0     203.6
USLES (PERCENT OF MARRID WOttEN)    ..           1.6
F'OOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOL PRUDUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)           89.0        102.0     114.0                    108.3                     119.8
PER LAPITA SUPPLY UF
LALURlES (PERCENT UF
EEQOUIREMENIS)                  101.0        104.0     107.2                    107.6                     125.7
PROlTEINS (GRAttS PER DAY)         61.0         62.0      62.7                     65.8                      92.5
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        34.0         34.0      35.1                     34.0                      39.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) FtORTALITY RATE     17.3         12.0       8.3                      7.6                       3.4
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    54.7          59.1      62.7                     64.1                      68.9
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
TIBUSANU)                           128.0           ..      92.0                     70.9                      25.2
ACCESS To SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
PUPULATION)
TOIAL                                ..         56.3      77.1                     65.7
URBAN                                ..         77.7      88.8                     79.7
RURAL                                ..         29.0      56.8                     43.9
ACCESD 10 EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
u0 POPULATION)
IOTAL                                ..         59.9      64.8                     59.9
URBAN                                ..         96.1      83.7                     75.7
EURAL                                          26.5       31.7                     30.4
PUPULATIUN PER PHYSICIAN           2561.2      2123.8    1700.0                    1728.2                     973.3
POPULATIUN PER NURSING PERSON      2772.1       2992.3        ..                   1288.2                     896.6
POPULATIUN PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             307.0       269.0      247.7                    471.2                     262.3
URBAN                             325.6        322.6        ..                    558.0                     191.8
RURAL                                ..           ..
ADMIsSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..         18.0        ..                       ..                      18.2
HOUS ENI.
AVEKAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               5.1         4.8        4.9
UKBAN                                ..         4.6        4.7
RURAL                                ..          5.2       5.3
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                ..          1.1
URBAN                                ..          1.0
RURAL                                ..          1.2
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OU  DWELLINGS)
lIUAL                              38.7        47.6       63.0
UFRAN                                ..         75.6      84.9
RUKAL                                ..          8.4      19.2



- 30 -                                                ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
BRAZIL - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
BRAZIL                         REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAgES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
MOST RECENT              MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN             EUROPE
EDUCATIQN
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  95.0        125.0       88.0/c                  101.7                      105.9
MALE                  97.0        125.0       87.o7-                  103.0                      109.6
FEMALE                93.0        125.0       88.o77                  101.5                      102.2
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  11.0         26.0       24.0/c                   35.3                       66.3
MALE                  11.0         26.0       22.677                   34.9                       73.2
FEMALE                10.0         26.0       26.07o                    35.6                      59.5
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (I OF SECONDARY)  19.0           17.0       47.0/c,d                 30.1                       28.4
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             33.0         28.0      22.0/e                    29.6                       26.8
SECONDARY                           13.0         13.0       13.07a                   15.7                       23.6
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         61.0         66.2       75.7                     80.0                       75.4
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           7.0         24.4      53.6                      42.6                       83.9
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          66.4        123.8     155.0                     215.0                      181.6
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          16.8         64.0       97.9                     89.0                      131.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
TdOUSAND POPULATION                   54.0         37.0      45.2                      62.8                      123.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  5.0            1.9        1.9                      3.2                        5.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    22869.1        30078.5   36718.3
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    17.5         20.4      22.6                      22.6                       32.9
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               51.9         45.6      39.8                      35.0                       34.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  14.8         '8.3      21.s                      23.2                       28.7
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 32.0         31.6       31.5                     31.8                       42.3
MALE                                  52.7         50.3       48.9                     49.0                       56.5
FEMALE                                11.2         12.8       14.2                     14.6                       28.5
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.4          1.4        1.4                       1.4                       0.9
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..           ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  60.0           63.5      62.0
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    3.8            3.2       2.8
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   10.8            9.0       9.4
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..
RURAL                                 ..           ..     150.0                     187.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..     465.0                     513.9
RURAL                                 ..           ..     332.0                     362.2                      385.1
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..           ..        ..
RURAL                                 ..           ..
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   Beginning 1973 primary and secondary educations cover age groups 7-14 and 15-17 instead of 7-10 and 11-17
in earlier years; therefore most recent estimates are not coeparable with earlier data;  /d 1974;  /e 1975.
May, 1981



-31--                                                              AMNEX I
DEFINITIONSi OF SOCIAL !K11CATOO                                                 P gS3 o
fRog-.: JAIfto.gh the  aaa d    desI t fre  en.. esgenraly..dge  the ine   -htboriat inead  ,oabl_, Itshol  also he tot-ed.that thysctotItr
naioalycopralencaseo  te  akI         f            .tndrIze     e     Ioto.ad concets usdby dIfferet contisIccllcIg the dta. ha dy                     t   nte
thee., ...e..fo1 no descrbe ordero cf  egntde .di-cateteoda, sod                       -aeo -an    tiai  saj- dIfferece  b--encatra 
ofthe  ujc  ooatr  (ancet  -r          Seie   opu    i tpresgopneeMiddle unro-  .oth Aftt e  nod nlddla Fact' Jr chose  ha-a-- of etretfe
eooi-ru.torsffitltiae) .  In -.tr referenc  group data ihe a                -nge   r  PoPlalonenrd rtiioseenreuhe eaordtiuo.rin
i   rtc turs       et _ae  f  g icultua  area cead tamorall  or..aety.cia.eInph..nd  ret   aerladraeoindha Io   n   c
RI I    t                                                 -d~~~~~~~~~~~~yatiar   e  phys),~ ician.l Calhl lhrt   rndn,ptoclvot
igOl, end IbIS det.                                                          sed lou) nesisout , toter, eldait, err ( ohoch utia!l--hPcuntid acee,
It   -Id kilIh.. g.,d-. .1 1. Il!"d.ien  ed  rooda    llina   ragaof  edial  acueoled.Furniale
t   bciy)  tklgaw    fee  eonin   -ees1r;160  17, n  197                                     ceter - lpeeialnrr  luepeta    ac'ie- da  orl  od- r ptotal.j
daia -                                                oduttecor  ctr Onetitul ir   - Feinl nueber  f ndnleecene tee     -cueaut
date.        _ener l.ice1 of  o-to-  -cte-o                                                                                      Y pan  f~ hoabyli    toa,re  dcer)
OceI ccait(erre   ua)-toI   fuhrt   ee   ouair                                                    househo:d..ld cudlno        d-fa geu  of idedueneuar   le.   et
difeen  dfniioe  f  ranarasey  ffctcopcanltyofdtaan  oar  al  eal.0  eada  o   edarnc   o  oyro  o dcIccOi
emr   IIncla  0960. 197,adbO   aa                                                         h   cani   e   ttaua    erae
in   ieepettya   it  cc.cteefefng   niituey'te  enpita  oc19e60eacn     Plcolitc  (cerrant of-uollno                                         I  oo dac.yru  n   ua 
(add      adfntltif    precyatIlii97a07.9per.d Th1pr-9on7t9eu   Inef 1    hIng                                             itnub n -cie 0 yi  IIg  u cta
an   eoile   red   fo  p_jeeon                                                              Aynse  o sed CiHo'tnllarni tati-lddw
diffattoar dpfcnti..f  t.IRtinnt ta   en     Ifdaon tbIfre 'ie. negrunthiree                   Pria_ehold  J- nou    mel and fawt-rn    ua,mtadfel
thbichae   accolettdahcoe   sdiethaecnotnen-enelentfdlg_yti  yniubijaty -            .-I.                                  -lelar1 pI reenoIII b fteIcc
ti telcewtOolofat   e   epcoeo  rt,ee   oc   eea b                                         wc   e  ad60uatfnd  for d hfro   laoh   lFreraea  cu,I Our
ofanme  rylce     eal eCacolyb Th...ioar    dpisi                 Isoen                          co1rtetiuooca0wuate   or-nconyoned(1 yAc-go
co te yoc  001i an  th  rateo  delineft  fertiliy .tate icrpau-Octdrihai-ita,wl  and fee   - Ct oedo  aicead                                                      edr
tie   ashe  reauad..eus....                                                                               1) i   1  yran ofate  cttrcryedaceceenacttea
Pouato lassoer                                                  Ielu.......
64 peeeo.snreetrc   061  aereadoner)s perennasIdofIf-yaa_epc-                          ur _e__ndudgro1le
fattue; y 190   90   a  10   ae                                                                dlilrcct             (rret,-oa       -ttocca-i i   ccu.aeccr
yea  p_ulaiont fur197-0  190-0  and 1070-79.                    I
Ponlado             Idec :nn  (naee-       rbn- bae  graE saao   rbnpp-                     CFt-OtF
hauaio   9t.17.ed  Sndt.lPaeeaecarfritipreeen  of puandlatnlen   n
tlO Iy raes: uua Iy f na-yae anrage  atidigi   90   90   n   99                        ea     ere  abolihed j    Icaig
famioPamituucectta.atalfbaeara(aacaalo.itrf   eccton                             7  Oeeicre.nrtbo.scdacoaruI(  ' treinow(orrudcacf
ofbet-atcl  eieecde   ueir  e  sinelfslypanig  egem                                      enrh.uli   c  tbaueae  peolo-n  rolde  n  rnedFrneur
Peailrfaaniaaaeers      'h,rctrtfmetrodaneet(-ParccnIfsgeoftarai-fncuaisno    ecoetaioaont0                                                        wa
etme  ofchil-herin  awe11540 yars  ab  usebirh-coica  decceeto  ewacrarCirulalen  nec  houandceroatlc,)    lhuoalennrage'r
t. th. y-t 2000, Id II ,f-Iiliy  .t. 1: -PI.-cub I'll. dnce I                              ItnaIy  te ranrog  fen_al e-d            inIbc-    c ae
tearmcodd.uggat   pr-drniorof eohcoinny  aibasdfor(loOtFitC
Iutnaa9rg   prdt.          prc..gte   906,  9i  o  noon data.                              Focal Cabo -tfocfread( -..  ..od  -ceally a-in  panarne                        J.ldn
eaprns  an  ehenge  in aced.. ecnpltacc.oaimlsd,edsPrAla1 (o -rcnt(-  Pe -- eacOrnn  prero  e   oa   uhrtra
be 5thldl 6el  196-t,1970  and 19N70. dat.-90  ad-07-da
Pe4I.rccthRet   -   hanf ...o conIn  -aat per, dal b-h Pr ci   nrato  pet  sp....ariedttir  tote (pereat                    -"1  .   outal. -me da.ad febaIr-Pa   ipati-  end
ne   apl  o  ad  e  dy   ntnnpIoftn  Is defleddea9n9ed.tt-                                 acitiny rae   n   ah      ue   etoa,wl,an:eae(te   oct
Rcr I,s  o   l   outisesaiae  b   00pond   o  mnaaprrnen   f  oa,taeadftaeppltino   llagedapoiey
polse  rnnetn  of wich  0 gam  shadh  ana   raec    heesad                            ref dlacin  ageer  eunur  oflbi     th Ioflcee pe  long .nn.  ornd
Percaira crocain.. Ilnly  fromY.  a-iwal and nnlea-Preinuppl  of toa  de-
tIfbteh data-dnnd.fn  f~Ittble  1960  1070..       and no  data,                              ofiIdhle
Otbofli                                                                     roontr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'  "i'i. ru-cr orOiOPt .   -              i fft
I..    fP. d.cneooeaWae   Itcafe orlrpn.,nni ubn                   and  ura  -..I             C. not.ntrita Allyedaqun   dten Iun        Y-anna  no-ten..d  raqthiratee-If
her at peaplct feabri.uhe,  and  rural) act- rannn-l  aree    to nefe                         afodable.I-
pecetage of.dd ahAggetetln pPtdtIIInIf..hIn an utba arcaIpIIteRFOC
_tiI_l  __&. pt.d.I.t  tiI.   1961-65prautacrco197tb1cin9rn. Crhanaoele1Onr--dfnanrencna
reneenatb!(a coceet onoly  %faci  chat .    -l.l tie b..uolencta onit Iewiee ofthe  1ceeoIdIadrfnl-Peoann            fpnpeao...cranadru--)o car'                    lir.It
do cnny   A-ilnbcc  ayrode iaynoo_plnon  daretof ole day no nJceht ..a                       pear90.17    M1,9 -
frely ..e.ua"l,trItPll    -d. -1Ed                                                                              .-Ilb-frcye..                    ,I   1111,_-
Aooaaaoelacceoa loacorul(cercano uicoculaieen-tonul . urhue.andruraui-:,,
qluabercfra::ldoocau.cr Iao   deduralb.airoedinaore_n diaptaala
reesase  e  eet  aseeae  opltine    acna  daofl  a  icld
nbeealeecloandouspaal.mubocnttuuinaeetctnee.oaan.ct.a.fcnsedioaeblnin
and haeta-ae   yta..   r-bPAne bpated   or the' canofpitpn-le  ad rel                                                        tc9n0ofrunaoele  an          1r979nn  Or.tfn
Ponlain  perbi Pnio.te. -Iaof oa inddi  nc, beI           o  paileing         Itac                                                                do01iict,I--    dg.I     1.101 b.fI--190
enrtelatta   ner 1 2crr Poerson   Popuante dinida  by noebe  orfracie-lant-                                                             1~  .   f I~ Pt
melcaafeIflfradaatn_rd e.   prcccinoecadasitar                     Rre.- 



- 32 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 ci 5
ECKOMDIC INDICATORS
Population     :  122.9 million (mid-1979)
GNP Per Capita:  USS1,687 (1979)
Aroount                Average Annual Increase (.)                   Share of CDP at Market Prices (-  )
Indicator                   (Million US$ C-reent)           (at Constant 1970 Prices)                 __        (at Current Prices 
1979              1965-70   1970-75   1975-80   1980-85        1970      1975      1979      1980 /b      1985
Notional Accounts
Gross Do-eotic Prud-c  /a                  204,476                 7.7      10.6       6.9        5.4        100.0    1U0.      100.0      100.0      100.0
A9ricoltors                               19,314                 1.9       5.7       4.7        4.2          8.2       9.7      9.4        9.9        9.4
Industry                                  65 084                9.2       11.6       7.6        5.5         29.1     32.6      31.8       31.6       31.9
Services                                 186970                 9.0       18.7       6.9        5.5         43.0     41.3      42.5       42.6       42.5
Conssospnios                               163,334                 7.7       9.9       5.7        4.9         76.9      78.6     79.8       79.0       76.3
Cross Investment                            46,176                 9.4      14.6       5.2        5.4         23.5      25.4     22.6       22.b       22.9
Enpnrts of Goods and NF5                    16,714                 9.2       11.2      7.3       10.1          6.6       7.4      8.2         7.8       9.7
Imports of Goods and NFS                    21,748               14.5       17.2       0.9        4.9          7.0      11.4     10.6        9.4        8.9
Geosn D-umstic Sa-ings                      41,142                 7.9      12.9       6.1        6.2         23.1      21.4     20.2       21.0       23.7
Aasunt In                Average Annual Increase (S1                  Componition of Merchandise Trade (%)
(Millio.  US$ Current)     _   (at Costn t 1970 Prines)                _   _  _    (at Current Prices)
1980              1965-70         1970-75         1975-80      1966         1970         1975         1990/h
MHerchadise T-adn
Marchandise Exports                         20,132                 7.8           11.9             5.9        100.0        100.0        100.0         1o0.0
Primary                                    9,412                7.3            8.3              1.1         92.9         75.1         61.8          46.8
..ufsoactres                              10,720                7.9            28.2            18.2         17.1         24.9         38.2          53.2
M-rchandise Imports                         22,961                10.0           17.6            -1.4        100.0        100.0        100.0         100.0
Fond                                       1,239               -3.8           -6.7             17.5         01.5          4.5          3.0           5.4
Petrolesm                                 10,010                9.3             7.6             4.3         14.7         31.2         24.5          44.5
Hachinoery asd Equipuest                   4,392               22.1            1.2             -7.5         15.2         21.2         14.0          19.1
Other                                      7,120                9.3            28.4            -1.9         58.6         63.1         58.5          31.0
1975       1976         1977          1978         1979         198-/c
Prices nd Terms of Trade
GDP Deflator (1970-100)                     289.6       410.9        584.2         809.2       1,229.6       2,469.5
Esohange Rate (Cr$/US$)                       8.1        10.6         14.1          18.1          26.9          53.5
Export Price ladas (1970-100)               176.0       192.0        226.0         228.0         266.0         290.0
lmport Price Iadex (1970;100)               242.0       253.0        296.D         317.0         389.0         431.0
Ter-s of Trade Idem (1970-100)              72.0        75.0         79.0          72.0          68.0          67.0
At. Z of GDP
_- (at Correct Prices)
1970       1975         1979 /b
Phblic FiPance (Cestr-t Goverm-ent)
Coeraut Reves.e                              16.6        19.8         20.9
Current Expenditure                          14.4        15.9         17.6
Sorplun (+) or deficit 3-)                    2.2         4.0          3.0
Capital Empe2diture                           2.6         3.8          3.7
Financing (Net)                              -0.4         0.2         -0.5
1965-70    1970-75      1975-79
Other Isdicators
GNP Growth Rate (%)                           7.7        10.7          5.8
GlP per Capita Groath Rate (%)                4.6         7.7          3.0
Esergy ConsupPtion  oawt h Rate (3)           7.2         7.3          6.5
ICOR                                          2.9         3.0          3.9
Marginal Savings Rata                        20.5        25.7         22.7
laport Elasticity                             2.2         1.6          0.3
/0   Ac market prices; camp onets are net do e tic products -ep rss d at facto- cost aod will not add doe no esolus  of depreciatine and
indirect taxes less sub idiew.
/b   Estimate.
/c   Preliminary.
Onvoher 6, 1991



- 33 -
AEXP I
Page 5 of 5
ALANCE OP PAYWNVT. tlTFltAL CAPITAL A9D itF8
(Millie  Uss t cersOt price.)
Popelatiec        I12 9 milieo. (t-1979)
GNr Per Capita   US21,687 (1979)
ACTUAL                                                                        PROJECTED
i970         i975         1976         197U           97          1939        3960 I.               3981         1982         i983          3984
Balance of Payments
Net enporis of goEds  ead services                  -583       -6,702       -6,018       -4,03)        -5999       -9,774      -12,329              -11,789      -11,421       -9,974       - 7,155
Et Eocta of goeds                              (2,239)      ( 8,671)     (iO,1)I     (12.120)     112,659)    (15,244)    (20,132)                 24,620       29,431       35,195       43,244
Ispocte of good.                               (2,507)    (12,210)    (12,383)    (12,023)    (13,683)    (17,951)    (22,961)                      26,032       28,570       31,137       31,834
Met factor ie-ose                                -330        -1,733       -2,189       -2,558       -3,257       -4,740        -7,300              - 8,347      -10,031      -11,536      -12,802
(of ,Ihic  interest pymeeca)                 ( -284)    (-1,498)    (-1,809)    (-2,103)    (-2,694)    (-4.186)    (-6,311)                   (- 6,979)   1- 8,673)   (-10,192)   (-11,498)
Net ece-tacter services                           -685       -1,429       -1,574       -1,576       -1,718       -2,327        -2,200              - 2,030      - 2,251      - 2,495      - 2,762
Ne t rac.fere                                         21            2             1        -               72           17          150                   41            50           50           58
c-r_et .ccoe.t b.loece                             -562        -6,700       -6,017       -4.037       -5,927        -9,757      -12,179              -11,748      -11,371      - 9,923       - 7,104
Direct private letase/b                               92          892          959           81c          906        2.200        1.202                1,736        1,967         2,226        2,513
MALT lcaes net                                       767        2,760        5,023        4,631         8,819        4,995        5,451               11.991       11,585       10,370         3,910
T-odiltle1 t. eceI                                 833)    (1,408)    (2,032)    (2,648)    2 2,793)    (2,738)    )2,881)                        (3,794)   (3,948)   (4,173)   (4,060)
FZdieacoialOcr a g                             (1  566)    ( 4,524)    ( 5,980)    ( 6,119)        (1131)              8)    ( 9570)              ( 15,646)   ( 16,151)   ( 15,519)   ( 15,454)
Aeoriietioe                                    ( -632)      (-2,172)    (3,009)       (-4,135)    (-5,286)    (-6,551)    (-7,00u)                (- 7,449)   (- 8,514-    3- 9,321)   (-11,604)
caeiliae loots a.bo.d (oei                           -           -197         -248         -267          -356         -596          568              - 1,082      - 1,442      - 1,918       - 2,521
Other capital t.e1 i                                 248        1,295        2,627          -507          440         - 61        1,459                 -             -
Cheege in -eserves (-i-crease  /c                   -545          950       -2,344         -630        -3,880        3,219        3,499              -   897      -   739      -   755       -   799
lotseeaiioeal Reserves /d                         1,142         6,036        6,544        7,256        11,826        9,688        6,911                7,808        8,547         9,301       10,099
Reserv.es a. monhs of Leperts Le                     5.5          3.9          6.3           7.2         10,4          6.5          3.6                   3.0          3.6          3.6          3.6
ACTUAL
1974         1975       _1976           1977         1978         1979          1980
Kefec-al Debt
Toto1 debf  o.teceedieG  aed diobersed                         17,576       23,200       28,344        34,440       46,309       50,958       56,407/f
Public aed publicly geatoeeed                                 9,394       13,608       17,211       21,434        30,157       35,092
Official soocce                                            3,276         3,911        4,393        4,693         5,354        5,801
0889                                                    (  8713      (1.093)       (1.217)      (1,413)      (1,02)      (1,827)
Onhec                                                   (7,405)      (2,818)       (3,176)      (3,280)      (3,752)      (3,974)
source                                                6,118        9,697       12,818        16,741       24,803       29,291
Prlta-ee-8ueaet-ed                                            8,182        9,592       11,100       13,006        16,152       15,864         -
Cedisbur-ed debt (pablic ooly)                                  2,524        3,761        6,617         8,290       10,085       12,429         -
Geese Dtsb-r.e.e t
Teta1 groas diabhr.e-e-t of MiLT leass                          7,254        6,912        8,076         9,242       14,927       12,181          -
Pubilo and publicly gearooteed                                Z,937        3,717        4,837         5,380       10,133        8,760          -
Officit l expert credit.                                      408          396          393           100          466          399
13R0                                                          247          250          173          299           275          301         -
Other *ultiltrc-l                                            139          1LB           117           92          L36          207         _
Prtietesoorce                                              2,143         2,950        4,160        4,809         9,256        7,953
Privlte e--g-aresteed                                         4,317        3,195        3,239        3,862         4,794        3,421
Teto1 debt aervice payments                                     2,280        3,870        4,797         6,163        8,017       10,485        12,986
Leterast (et)                                                (1,370)      (1,498)      (1,809)       (2,103)      (2,694)      (4,104)      (6,004)
Papoe-e aa .     of ofpoets & NPS                                38.8         37.6         43,0          4642         57Z          62.7          61 .0
Paymts as   of I   NP                                             3.1          2.9           3.3          3.7          4.2          5.1           5 .7
deeral s , oiteest e-ts OD n.o  sase--teed loans (1) IL          10 6          8.7           7.6          8.3          9.9          11.2         -
Official ee_ce                                                  7.0          8.0           7 9          8.0          7.5          8.3         -
Alere-s etoris) ef 8ev gnoeact.ed ba.t                           10.9          9.0          11,2          9.9         10.0          11.5         -
OPfi0il coerce                                                14.8         18.4         16.3          16.4         14.4         1 .1
Private ...rce                                                  9.7          8.9          9.2           8.7          9.4         11.1
1FRO   DODtto1 DOD (Z)                                            5.0          4.7          4,3           4.1          3,5          3.6         -
00R0 di.  rsest./iotal gees  disboresmet  (U)                     3.6          3.6           2,1          3.2          1.0          2.5         -
1880 debt . er. ie/tetal bt t  eeriee (2)                         2.4          2.5           2,7          3 2          2.6          2.0         _
80 2 of tot-i debt eet-saeditg
st end ef Deceebet 1979
fobt Siruco-re
HStocity atroerere of debt est.ta-dieg
hatrLities doe vithic  5 Pest                                                            6 .3
atetios d        ie eithie 10 years                                                      92.6
/D   itimte.
/b   fatlodi8  -ic   -ted prefits.
/c   Becloding dollar Valotioe  dlestDt-  otd  -etlentiec ef do-stit geld.
fd   InloIdioeg gold ad dcllar  al-atei-a djat.eets.
/e   Goods only.
/f   Details o- vailable,
fj   Poblic debt etly.
Octob-r 6, 1981



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 14
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
A. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF LOANS
(As of September 30, 1981)
Amount less
Loan # Year                Borrower               Purpose      Cancellations  Undisbursed
(US$ Million)
Fifty-two loans fully disbursed                                   1,736.1
923   1973  Furnas Centrais Eletricas -        Power               125.0           9.0
Itumbiara
1008   1974  Cia. Hidro Eletrica do Sao         Power                81.0          19.6
Francisco-CHESF
1067   1974  Brazil                             Education            23.5          10.3
1074   1975  Rede Ferroviaria Federal           Railways            175.0           6.0
1075   1975  Brazil                             Roads               110.0          21.5
1151   1975  Companhia Siderurgica Nacional  Industry                95.0          22.6
1152   1975  Companhia Siderurgica Paulista  Industry                60.0          25.2
1153   1975  Brazil                             Agriculture          23.0           5.7
1171   1975  FEPASA - Ferrovia Paulista         Railways             75.0          16.2
1195   1976  Brazil                             Rural Development  12.0             8.4
1207   1976  Brazil                             Feeder Roads         55.0          33.9
1249   1976  Brazil                             Agriculture          40.0          16.6
1300   1976  Eletrobras                         Power                50.0           5.5
1302   1976  Brazil                             Nutrition            19.0           5.0
1309   1976  Banco Nacional da Habitacao        Water Supply         40.0           3.2
1317   1976  Brazil                             Agro-Industry        83.0          70.0
1343   1977  ELETROSUL                          Power                82.0          20.0
1362   1977  State of Minas Gerais              Rural Development  42.0            13.1
1406   1977  Petrobras Fertilizantes            Fertilizer           64.0          32.0
1411   1977  Fertilizantes Vale do              Fertilizer           55.0           2.2
Rio Grande S.A.-VALEFERTIL
1452   1977  Brazil                             Education            32.0          23.5
1488   1977  Brazil                             Rural Development  17.0            12.5
1525   1978  Banco Nacional da Habitacao        Sewerage            110.0          83.3
1537   1978  Brazil                             Rural Development  24.0            20.0
1538   1978  ELETROBRAS                         Power               130.0          86.8
1557   1978  Brazil                             Roads               114.0          94.5
1562   1978  COPESUL                            Petrochemicals       85.0          20.3
1563   1978  Brazil                             Urban Transport    88.0            49.4
1568   1978  Brazil                             Agric. Extension  100.0            80.3



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 14
A. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF LOANS (Continued)
(As of September 30, 1981)
Amount less
Loan #  Year               Borrower               Purpose      Cancellations  Undisbursed
(US$ Million)
1589    1978  Brazil                           Rural Development   37.0             30.3
1654    1979  Banco Nacional da Habitacao   Sites & Services    93.0                75.2
1656    1979  Banco Nacional da Habitacao   Water & Sewerage   100.0                95.5
1660    1979  Valesul Aluminio S.A.            Aluminum              98.0           42.5
1714    1979  Brazil                            Rural Development   26.0            24.5
1720    1979  Brazil                           Urban Development   70.0             67.0
1721    1979  COPEL                             Power                109.0          95.6
1728    1979  Brazil                            Rural Development   40.0            36.3
1729    1979  Brazil                            Irrigation           28.0           20.8
1730    1979  Brazil                            Roads               110.0          108.1
1822    1980  Brazil/BNDE                       Pollution Control   58.0            58.0
1823    1980  Banco Nacional
da Habitacao                  Water Supply         130.0          130.0
1824    1980  CEEE                             Power                114.0          114.0
1839    1980  Brazil                           Urban Transport    159.0            158.9
1850    1980  Banco Nacional da Habitacao   Water Supply            139.0          139.0
1867    1980  Brazil                           Education              32.0          31.8
1877    1980  State of Minas Gerais            Rural Development   63.0             62.5
1895    1980  ELETROSUL                        Power                125.0          125.0
1924    1981  Brazil                           Rural Development   56.0             55.6
1939    1981  ELETROBRAS                       Power                 54.0           54.0
1965 /1 1981  EBTU                             Urban Transport       90.0           90.0
1970 /1 1981  Banco Nacional da Habitacao   Water Supply            180.0          180.0
1989 /1 1981  Brazil                           Alcohol Devt.        250.0          250.0
2015 /1 1981  Brazil                           Agriculture           29.0           29.0
2016 /1 1981  Brazil                            Agriculture           60.0          60.0
Total                                               5,995.6 /2
Of which has been repaid to the Bank                  788.4
Total now outstanding                               5,207.2
Amount sold                            45.8
of which has been repaid             44.9             0.9
Total now held by Bank                              5,206.3
Total undisbursed                                                 2,950.2
/1   Not yet effective.
/2   No IDA credits have been made to Brazil.



'C  'C  'C  'C  'C                  'C         'C               -o    C         'C  'C  'C  'C  'C  'C                                'C  'C  'C
'C  'C  'C  'C   C'  'C  'C  'C  'C                             .                    ..   C'   C'                                               C'   C'   C'
-    -    -    'C   C'   C'   C'  'C   C'C''C'C                           C'   C'   '  'C   C'                                                'C   C'   C'  'C  'C  'C  'C  'C   CC   -                  CC
-V  C)    C'   -       -i   C'         'C  'C  'C  'C   C'  'C  'C   CV   C''C'C.-V                     C'  'C   C)  'C                            C'  'C   C'  'C  'C   C'  'C    C    CC   C'  'C  'C  'C  'C
C  C   C  C   C  C  C  0  C  C  'C  C'  V  C  C  C'C'jV                                                  C         C  C  C  C  C  C  C  C  C  C  V  ,-C0C'O'C                                                        -  -
-    'C   C'   C-   C   'C    C    C                       C    C'  'C    0    C    C    -             C'   C
C    C      C    C      C   'C    C    -.   C    C           'CCC       -    C    C    C           C    C'         C                               'C                     C    C    C    C    C    'C    -    C'   C
-    -           -      C    C    C'   C    C    -            C    C C C C 'C 'C                   C    -    C    C    C'   C    C    C    C    C    CV   C    C    C    0.   -                'C    C   'C
C)         'C  C  'C  C  C  -                    CCV   CC              C  C            C  C.  C  COC'CCC                                                     C   'C           C'  -  C  C                C   C
C'   V)    C    'C      C    C'  'C   C'           C    C'   CCC'             C-   C'   C          C    C'   C    C    C                            'C    C    C    C    C    C    C    I-'   C    C    I   'C    C
C    C      C    C           C'   C          'CCC             CCC       C-   C          C    C-          C                                                               .   C           C'   C    -                'C
CC   CC'CC'CC  C  'CO ''C CVaC                                                                                                                                        C)                                     a
CC-CC                                      C'C'C  CC'  C'C
C'    C'   C          'C        'V    C          C    CCC        'C    C    a    C    'C         C    C    C                                                      C    -    C    C    C    'C    C    -
C'   C'    C'                C          C    C    C)   C    CCC         C    C    C    -    C    'C    a    a    C'  CV  V   C'  CC   C'                                 C 'C C C 'C 'C '    C    'C  'C
C C  C C)                    C    CCC'CCCCCCCC   C    C C C C C' C C C-                                                                                                             - C C C C C    C
C    C      C    C           C          C    C'   C    -    C           C-   C'   C           C-         C    C    C    0                                                C'  'C    C    -    C'   C    C    C'
C  C   C' C                  C'         C  C  C  C  CC-C  CC'CC-C,C'C                                              C  C' -  C                 C  C' C               'C  C           C          C  C' a  C' 'C  C
C  C'  C  C                  C'    C'    C                   CCC' C               'C  C  C               C  C  C  C- C  C  'C C  C  CV'C'C'CCC                                                                 C
C' C  C C'    C   COCC''CC'CC'C'&C'                                                                                                                C 'C C   C 'C                              C C C- C   C'
CC   C  C'CV'CCOCCCZCCC   "                                                                                                            C C C-'CC - C'                                        C C CV
'C    -    C            C         C    C'   C    C-   CCI               C          C    C    C           'C    C    H    C    C    C    C'   C    C    C            -          C    'C         C-               C    C)
C           C           C          C    C          C       -       'C    C    'C    C         C'              C-   C    -    CCV)             C'CC                             C'   '    'C    C    'C   C-   C'   C'
C     CV   C                            -    'C    C    C-CC'   -    C             C'  'C   C'                C    C'         C    C    C           C'   C'   C'  'C           C                     C    C    C
C    C'          C-              C    '    C'   CCCC             C          C    C    C'   H    C'   C    C    'C    C   'C            'C    C    C    C    '    C'   C                  CV   C          C'
C           C               C          C       CC      'C    C    C'        C          C          C'   C    '    C    C    C-   C                  C-         C    C'         'C   C'   C    'C    C
a                                            'C  'C        C'C               '    'C   C    C)   C            C   'C          C    C    C    C    C-   C    C    'C   C-   C              '    C    C'   C    C    C-          'C
C'                     'C               C          C    CCC             C          '    'C    C    C'         C.   C    'C    C    C          C'   C           C          C    C               C    C'   C    C    C
C-    C                CV                          C'   CCC        I                    C    C'   C           C   -    '           C'   CV   C           C    C'          C    C               C          C                    'C
C                C                C               CCC            'C         'C    C    C    -          C               C-         C    C    CV          C          C'   C                C          'C    C    'C
'C     C'              'C               C          C    'CC'        C             '   'C    C                      'C         C    'C   C    C    C    C'   C'           C    C                C    C'              'C
-    C'   C.         C'   -                C    C    C'   C'   C    C            -.   -                     '    -    'C    C
C                C               C               '          C'   C                C    C    C          C'              'C    C    C          C    C                C                     'C              C    C          C'
C'    C                 C               C          'C                                                         C-  'C          C    C-   C'   C-   C'   C    C                                                  'C    C
'C    C                 C               C          C                                               'C         '    '                          C    C    C                                                       C    C'       'C
o     -                 C               C'         C'                                              C                                                C    C    VI                                                C'   C
'C    C    C'   C          n    a                                      -         C
'C               C'             'C         'C                                                                                          'C          C    C
C                C               C'         C                                          C-   C                                           C    C-         C                                                                C           CC
'C                               'C          C                                                                                          C    C          C                                                      C-
C                 I                         'C                                                                               C)         C               C                                                      C
'C                                                                                     'C   C                                'C              'C         C'
C                C)                         C'   C'                                         '                                'C              C          C
C                'C                         C'C                                                                                                                                                                                      CC
C                'C                         C                                                                                                                                                                                       'C
C                                                                                                                      C-                                                               CC
C                C                                                                          'C
C                                                                                                                                                                  'C                         C                                      9
C                                                                                                                      C'                                                                                                            0
'C                                                                                                          CV
'C  'C    C    -    C          H    CC  'C   C)  'I   C'  'C  CV  'C   C'  'C  'C  'C  'C  'C  'C  'C  'C   C)   CC  'C  'C   CC
'C    C    C    'C    C    C'  'C    C    C    C    C                           C    C    C    C                            C    C    C    C    C    C    C    C'                 C          C    1                      C
C C C C C C C                                              C C CCCC'CCCC   'C  C C - C' C'                                                                                                         C                     C
C    C-   C    C    C'   C    C    C    C    C-   C                             C C C 'C 'C 'C C '    C    C   'C    C    C    C    C'  'C    C   'C    C    C    C   'C    C
C'        'CC''CC'C'                                                            C'  C   C  C'                               C          C  C                                                        C                    'C
C    C          C    C'   C    C    C    'C    I           C   CC    C    C'          C    C    C'                          C          C    C                                                C    C          Cl          *
C'   C-   C    -    C    C'   -                                                 C    C    'C
C'   C    C            C                               C    C'         C                                     'C  'C                                                K                           C
C         C-  'V    C    C    C                                                       C                          'C                    C    C                                                      C         S
'C              C                                    'C    'C                   C-C                        C                     CC'                                                    'CC'
C    C    C)   C    C    C    C                                                       C    C                                           C    C                                                C               C          I
C    C    C    C           C    C                                                     C    C'                                          C    C
C-   C-  'C   C-           C'   C-   C'         C    C                                -               C-  'C    C                           -                                                
'C  'C   C'  'C           'C  'C                C                                                                                                                                                            C           w
C    C    C    C           C    C               C                                                                                                                                                 'C         C           'C
a
C    C    'C    C          C    C                                     C'                              C    'C    C                                                                                 C         S
C         S          'C
'C    C    C    'C        'C  'C                                                                                                                                                                             C           'C
C    C    C    C           C    C                                                                     C    C    C
C'  'C    'C  'C    'C                  C'   C'         -                    'C         -    C'   -           -          C'        'C         C'  'C                                                                               r
'CC'  C'   'CC'    C' 'C   'CC''CC''CC'C' 'C 'C 'C 'C 'C C C'C'C' C' 'C'C'CC'C''CC''CC',..C''C..'C                                                                                                                                 C
C'  'C   'C   C'    'C   C'             'C  'C         'C  'C   C'  'C   C'   CC   C'  'C   C'   C'  'C    -    'C  'C  'C  'C  'C   C'  'C   'CC'CC'C'    'C   'CC'C'    CC'   'C                                                 C
'C   C'    -    C'    'C   C'           'C  'C         'C  'C  'C  'C  'C  'C   C'  'C   C'   C'   C'  'C   C'   C'  'C  'C   C'   C'   C'  'C  'C  'C   C'   CV   Q    'C  'C  'C   C'  'C    C                                   C
C'
-         C' C'                      C'         C'             'C          C' 'C           C'C'CCC'C'                                                         'CC
, *II.'.'I......IVVIII  CC'  C'
C'  'C    C'            'C  'C   C'  'C  'C   C'  'C              'C         'C  'C                     'C         C'              C'         C'   C'          C'  'C  'C  'C   C'  'C
'C  'C      -    C'    'C  'C   C'   C'  'C  'C   C'               C'        'C  'C                     'C        'C               C'         C'  'C           C'  'C  'C   C'   -    C'                                          'CCC
C'   C'         -                    'C         -    C'   -           -         C'         'C        'C   C'                                                                              'C
C' 'C  C C'  'C 'C -  'C C' 'CC'C'C'C'C'0                                                    'C C'   'C  C'C'C'C'C''CC'C'  'C 'C 'C -C''CC-C'  'C -  C'   C
'C  'C  C' 'C  'C  C'  C' 'C  'C  C'  'C  'C  C'  'C 'C  C'  'C  C'C'C''CC''CC'C''C-   'C  'C  C'C'  C''C   'C  'C  CIC'C'C'  'C    C
C'   C      C'   -      C    C'  'C  CV   C'   C'  'C   C'  'C   C'  'C  'C   C'  'C  'C   C'  'C   C'  'C   C'   C'  'C  'C   C'   C    C'  'C  'C   C'  'C   C'   CI   C'   C'   C'  'C  'C                                      C'
t



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 14
C.   Status of Projects in Execution
As of September 30, 1981 1/
As of September 30, 1981, there were 49 effective Bank loans under
disbursement:
Loan No.
923       Itumbiara Hydroelectric Project:  US$125 million loan of August 1,
1973; Effective Date: October 30, 1973; Closing Date: December 31,
1982. The project is about 90% completed. Major procurement has
been completed. Four of the six generating units have been in
service since late 1980; the other two are expected to be com-
missioned by year-end 1981. A cost overrun of about 57% is forecast
due mainly to a substantial increase in the size of the transmission
works and to an increase in the cost of civil works.
1008      Paulo Afonso IV Hydroelectric Power Project:  US$81 million loan of
June 17, 1974; Effective Date: April 15, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982. Resettlement of the 9,700 families displaced by
the Sobradinho reservoir has been satisfactorily completed, and new
towns and villages to house the displaced population have been con-
structed. The construction of the underground power station and
Sobradinho Dam is proceeding on schedule. Construction of the
transmission lines and sub-stations is about 12 months behind
schedule. The Closing date was postponed to June 30, 1982 to
allow additional time for equipment deliveries extending into the
latter half of 1981, and thereafter to meet retention payments
on equipment contracts.
1067      Second Education Project:  US$23.5 million loan of December 27,
1974; Effective Date: April 17, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Project execution is about two years behind schedule mainly because
of delays during the early stages. Thirty-four of the 46 facilities
to be constructed are now operating. Proposals for some expansion
and minor modification of project components and a postponement of
the closing date are being processed.
1074      Second Railway Project:  US$175 million loan of January 17, 1975;
Effective Date: June 17, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Implementation of the project is proceeding satisfactorily. The
execution of the items financed by the Bank will be completed
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 14
by the end of 1981. RFFSA's financial and operating performance
has been good during the first five months of 1981, due to continued
tariff increases and a decrease of about 10% (in real terms) of
operating costs. The loan amount has been fully committed.
1075      Fifth Highway Project:  US$110 million loan of January 17, 1975;
Effective Date: May 15, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Roadworks, detailed engineering studies for road construction
and road rehabilitation have been completed. Implementation of
the maintenance program in the states of Minas Gerais and Rio Grande
do Sul is progressing well. Installation of the 73 weighing stations
(Phase I) has suffered delays because of financial constraints
imposed by the federal government. Additional counterpart funds
for 1981 have been provided recently and works are being reactivated.
The 73 stations are now expected to be completed by 1984. The Loan
Closing date will be postponed accordingly.
1151      CSN Steel Expansion Project - Stage III:  US$95.0 million loan of
June 9, 1975; Effective Date: April 30, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. Implementation of the Stage III project is
scheduled to be completed by December 1982. Achievement of this
objective, however, will require substantial resources in 1982 in
the form of new equity contributions from SIDERBRAS as well as the
raising of new external loans. In light of the shortfalls in the
level of SIDERBRAS' equity contributions in the past and the
company's already strained financial position (in terms of excessive
levels of long and short term debt), raising the necessary resources
may be difficult to achieve, with consequent further delays in the
Stage III project. This situation has been discussed with the
Government, SIDERBRAS, and COSIPA during meetings in Washington in
September 1981. At that time, it was agreed that a plan of action
would be submitted to the Bank in November 1981 which would specify
the steps to be taken to complete the Stage III project as scheduled
in 1982 as well as restoring the Company to a satisfactory financial
position.
1152      COSIPA Steel Expansion Project - Stage III:  US$60.0 million loan
of August 4, 1975; Effective Date: March 4, 1976; Closing Date:
December 30, 1983. COSIPA is facing severe financial difficulties
due to inadequate equity contributions from SIDERBRAS, excessive
reliance on short term borrowings, heavy debt repayment commitments
and high interest rates.  This situation has been exacerbated in
1981 by operating problems with one of the company's blast furnaces
which has reduced production below 1980 levels and led to a loss for
the first half of the year.  As a result of funds constraints, imple-
mentation of the Stage III project has been slowed down considerably
and further substantial delays in completion are likely. This
situation has been discussed with the Government, SIDERBRAS and
COSIPA during meetings in Washington in September 1981. At that



- 39 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 14
time it was agreed that a plan of action would be submitted
to the Bank in November 1981 which would specify the steps to
be taken to restore the Company to a satisfactory financial
situation and at the same time ensure the timely completion of
the Stage III project.
1153      Lower Sao Francisco Polders Project:  US$23.0 million loan of
August 4, 1975; Effective Date: November 25, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. The Bank agreed to a CODEVASF proposal to
replace works previously planned for certain areas with the
rehabilitation of works in several flood plain areas which
suffered heavily from floods in 1979. With respect to the
project works, construction of the irrigation and drainage
system and settlement in the Betume flood plain has been
delayed by the unexpected need to construct a new small dam
to control floods in a tributary river. Roads recently
constructed by the Government in the area of Brejo Grande flood
plain are acting as control dikes for irrigation purposes, so
previously planned project works may be excluded from the project.
1171      Third Railway Project (FEPASA):  US$75.0 million loan of November 12,
1975; Effective Date: March 24, 1976; Closing Date: September 30,
1983. The project, as redefined to take into account FEPASA's weak
financial position in 1976-78, is nearing completion. FEPASA's
operations continue to improve significantly. Freight traffic
increased 25% in 1980 compared to 1979. The railway has reduced
its operating cost by 12% in real terms in the past year due to
reduction in staff and improvement of train operations.
1195      Rio Grande do Norte Rural Development Project:  US$12.0 million loan
of March 1, 1976; Effective Date: July 30, 1976; Closing Date:
September 30, 1982. Phase I of this project ended satisfactorily
in the areas of extension, credit, applied research, and health,
although one year behind the original schedule. The design of
Phase II, extended project activities to new municipalities,
sharpened the project's focus on the lowest income farmers, and
included new components in the areas of marketing, storage, support
to cooperatives, land services, seed production, and inland fisheries.
Serious droughts in the last three years, coupled with delays in the
release of funds, have slowed down the implementation of Phase II,
but activities related to land and inland fisheries have recently
shown good progress.



- 40 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 14
1207      Secondary and Feeder Roads Project:  US$55.0 million loan of
March 1, 1976; Effective Date: July 13, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981. Sixteen sub-loans have been approved,
committing the full amount of the Loan for construction or
improvement of 6653 km of roads in twelve states. One-fourth
of the work has been completed. Implementation has been very
slow, mostly because of the constant devaluation of the ORTN,
the monetary unit in which sub-loans are defined. The project
is now being reformulated to reduce the scope, and/or provide
additional financing for 13 sub-projects in order to restore
BNDE/IBRD participation to its initial level. The project is
now expected to be completed by end 1983.
1249      Agricultural Research I Project:  US$40.0 million loan of June 23,
1976; Effective Date: September 21, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. With the removal of constraints on the levels
of incremental staff, imports of project related equipment and
controls on the training programs (abroad) for research technicians,
the project is now progressing satisfactorily and the rate of
disbursements has risen sharply. Provided the current levels of
counterpart funding, project implementation, and consequent rate
of disbursements are sustained during 1982, project completion by
the current loan closing date should be substantially achieved.
1300      Northeast Power Distribution:  US$50.0 million loan of August 27,
1976; Effective Date: January 31, 1977; Closing Date: December 31,
1981. Project implementation is about 6 months behind schedule
because of initial difficulties in obtaining a Government defini-
tion regarding participation by Brazilian suppliers. Procurement
is now progressing satisfactorily. The agreed targets for con-
nection of low income households have been widely exceeded. Sub-
stantial improvements in the management of the project companies
have been achieved, particularly in the areas of financial control
and planning of COELBA and CELPE. In 1981, COELCE and COELBA will
not achieve the rate of return target agreed upon.
1302      Nutrition Research and Development:  US$19.0 million loan of
October 1, 1976; Effective Date: December 30, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1983. An amending Agreement to the Loan and
Project Agreements was signed on January 14, 1981. The major
changes in the project involved the elimination of a credit program
for nutritious foods industries and the incorporation of a program
for the distribution of basic foods to low-income urban families.
The reformulated project responds better to the Government's
institutional priorities. Since this reformulation, project
operations have improved substantially. Problems still remain
with the quality of evaluation studies presently carried out and
counterpart funding for these studies. The rate of disbursements
has risen sharply. Seventy-four percent of the loan is now disbursed.



- 41 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 14
1309      Second Minas Gerais Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  US$40.0
million loan of August 27, 1976; Effective Date: January 18, 1977;
Closing Date: September 30, 1982. This loan has been fully
committed for the financing of subprojects in the metropolitan
area of Belo Horizonte, 38 subprojects for medium sized cities in
the interior, and 138 subprojects for small communities mostly in
rural areas of the state. The physical works financed under the
project are about 60% complete.
1317      Second Agro-Industries Credit Project:  US$83.0 million loan of
September 22, 1976; Effective Date: March 25, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. Because of commitment delays under the First
Agro-Industries Credit Project (Loan No. 924-BR of August 1, 1973,
the undisbursed balance of which was cancelled as of December 31,
1981), commitments for the second loan began only in 1979. The
existence of competing credit lines at subsidized rates and a
temporary Government policy of prefixing monetary correction unrelated
to the actual inflation rate have ended. The Government is now follow-
ing a revised monetary correction system under which the level of
indexing more nearly reflects the level of inflation, in line with
the conditions of the Loan Agreement. Arrangements for monitoring
the adequacy of monetary correction have recently been agreed with
the Government. New commitments under this loan are now being
approved, and disbursements began in April 1981.
1343      ELETROSUL Transmission Project:  US$82.0 million loan of
February 23, 1977; Effective Date: June 13, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981. The project is about 95% complete and 100% of
the contracts for supply of equipment and materials to be financed
under the loan have been awarded. Project execution is on schedule.
The Loan is expected to be fully disbursed by the original closing
date of December 31, 1981.
1362      Minas Gerais Rural Development Project I:  US$42.0 million loan of
February 23, 1977; Effective Date: June 29, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983. This project is progressing satisfactorily
after initial delays. Participation in this project by landless
producers was initially lower than originally envisaged, but
concerted efforts by the state government and the participating
banks have improved this situation markedly. A postponement of
the closing date by 18 months, and a reallocation of loan
proceeds to incorporate marketing, road improvement, and water
supply activities, was recently agreed.



- 42 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 14
1406      Sergipe Fertilizer Project:  US$64.0 million loan of April 29, 1977;
Effective Date: August 31, 1977; Closing Date: May 31, 1982.
Construction of plant buildings and erection of equipment are well
advanced, but some delays have been experienced in delivery of
locally ordered equipment which may delay the project completion
date by about eighteen months. Commercial production is now
expected to begin in October 1982. The costs to complete the
project are expected to be about 15% below the appraisal estimate.
1411      VALEFERTIL Phosphate Fertilizer Project:  US$82.0 million loan of
April 29, 1977; Effective Date: July 29, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981. The project has been in operation from August
1980. During this period it achieved an average capacity utiliza-
tion of 81% for sulfuric acid, 55% for MAP and 37% for TSP. Several
plant modifications have been carried out to improve performance of
MAP and TSP plants.
1452      Vocational Training Project:  US$32.0 million loan of September 7,
1977; Effective Date: April 5, 1978; Closing Date: December 31,
1982. Construction of the industrial training center is largely
completed and the commercial centers are in the design stage.
The Government is preparing a proposal to allocate funds not used
for hotel training schools to the occupational safety training
component. The rural training program has not been carried out
as planned, and unless prompt corrective action is undertaken by the
Government, the corresponding portion of the loan may be cancelled.
1488      Ceara Rural Development Project:  US$17.0 million loan of
November 17, 1977; Effective Date: March 28, 1978, Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. The project is proceeding satisfactorily.
Agricultural extension has been particularly successful in reach-
ing target farmers, and initial land purchases for a first small
group of farmers have been made. Agricultural credit has suffered
from shortages of local bank funds. Physical and social infra-
structure is proceeding well, although there are some difficulties
in administering the health component and delays in carrying out the
water supply program.
1525      Greater Sao Paulo Sewage Collection and Treatment Project:  US$110.0
million loan of March 10, 1978; Effective Date: August 7, 1978;
Closing Date: September 30, 1984. Physical execution of the
project components financed by the Bank is on schedule; however,
because of financial constraints the pace of execution is slow for
those project components not financed by the Bank. Three important
municipalities whose facilities are not operated by the executing
agency are not building the necessary sewage collectors to connect
to one of the treatment plants being built under the project. This
problem has been raised with the Brazilian authorities and is
expected to be solved soon. Project completion is expected to be
delayed by about two years.



- 43 -
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 14
1537      Paraiba Rural Development Project:  US$24.0 million of May 8, 1978;
Effective Date: October 19, 1978; Closing Date: September 30, 1983.
While financial and managerial problems created significant delays
in project implementation over the past two years, the situation
has improved since the recent reorganization of the project administra-
tion. Several components, such as land tenure services, non-farm
rural enterprises, and agricultural credit, show encouraging progress.
However, the pace of execution of other project components, most
notably, marketing, is still slow.
1538      South-Southeast Power Distribution Project:  US$130.0 million loan
of May 8, 1978; Effective Date: September 14, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. Disbursements were initially delayed by about
one year due to necessary revisions of the beneficiaries' construc-
tion programs caused by changes in the power market, reluctance by
two of the beneficiaries to contract consultants as agreed, and
procurement delays. Regarding the sub-project of CEMIG (one of the
three beneficiaries under the Loan), the last supervision mission
found that delay in project execution was now also due to financial
difficulties which originated in low tariff levels that gave CEMIG
a 7.9% rate of return on remunerable investment instead of the
minimum of 10% allowed by Brazilian legislation. All available
funds were channelled to the Emborcasao hydro project which CEMIG
considered its first priority and current expectations are for a
2-year delay in project completion. The sub-projects of CELESC and
ESCELSA have similar problems, and project completion is expected
to be delayed by about two years. Delays in providing counterpart
funds have hampered the execution of the projects of all these
companies. In July 1981, ELECTROBRAS arranged for the required
counterpart funds to be provided so that these projects can now
proceed satisfactorily.
1557      Sixth Highway Project:  US$114.0 million loan of May 8, 1978;
Effective Date: October 13, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Rehabilitation of highways foreseen under the project proceeded
satisfactorily to mid-1980, when works were suspended because
of financial constraints imposed by the federal government. However,
these problems have been recently corrected and project execution
has been resumed after a satisfactory revision of the highway
rehabilitation component. The maintenance program in the state of
Parana is progressing well. The second phase of the weighing
station program will not begin until the first phase (under Loan
1075-BR) has been completed and the effects monitored. Project
completion could be delayed by two years.
1562      COPESUL Petrochemical Project:  US$85.0 million loan of July 6, 1978;
Effective Date: October 30, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Project implementation is proceeding well with an overall completion
ratio approaching 75%. Commencement of commercial operations is
expected in October 1982. The anticipated cost to complete the
project is presently running about 7% below the original estimate.



- 44 -
ANNEX II
Page 11 of 14
1563      Urban Transport Project:  US$88.0 million loan of May 22, 1978;
Effective Date: September 1, 1978; Closing Date: December 31,
1981. This project is progressing satisfactorily although progress
initially varied widely among the five cities involved.
1568      Agricultural Extension Project:  US$100.0 million loan of May 22,
1978; Effective Date: September 22, 1978; Closing Date: June 30,
1984. The executing agency, EMBRATER, continues to work closely
with state/territory agencies to achieve adequate project imple-
mentation. The Project Coordination Unit has been effective, and
project execution proceeded satisfactorily during 1980. Early
local funding delays appear to have been resolved. The Closing
Date has been postponed from December 31, 1982 to June 30, 1984,
in part to allow additional time to achieve planned levels of
incremental staffing, fellowships for staff training, and use
of consultants. Overall, project activities appear to be pro-
ceeding reasonably well.
1589      Bahia Rural Development Project:  US$37.0 million loan of July 19,
1978; Effective Date: December 5, 1978; Closing Date: December 31,
1983. The pace of project execution is now satisfactory, and delays
in funding have been reduced. Extension and land titling services
have been improved, but lack of land purchase credit is hampering
the balanced progress of the project. The quality of feeder road
construction has been uneven, but supervision of construction is
being strengthened. The health component is proceeding smoothly;
however, the education and water supply components are far behind
schedule.
1654      Sites and Services and Low-Cost Housing Project:  US$93.0 million
loan of February 8, 1979; Effective Date: July 9, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983. Housing targets are being met and
difficulties which had been encountered in meeting the sites and
services targets have been overcome. The Bank has approved a
proposal that will offer a solution to the problems which have
caused slow progress in this project and an amendment to the Loan
Agreement has recently been signed.
1656      Northeast Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  US$100.0 million
loan of February 8, 1979; Effective Date: July 10, 1979, Closing
Date: June 30, 1983. The National Housing Bank has approved the
five year investment program of the project water companies for the
period 1980-1984. The first subprojects for the capital cities have
also been approved and construction is underway. However, because
of initial difficulties, the project may be completed with about a
one-year delay.



- 45 -
ANNEX II
Page 12 of 14
1660      Valesul Aluminum Project:  US$98.0 million loan of March 7, 1979;
Effective Date: August 6, 1979; Closing Date: July 31, 1982.
The project is proceeding without major problems, but a delay of
six months and a cost overrun of 10% is expected.
1714      Sergipe Rural Development Project:  US$26.0 million loan of
June 20, 1979; Effective Date: February 5, 1980; Closing Date:
September 30, 1984. Reasonable progress is being made with
most project components. Extension services have come very
close to first year targets and exceed second year targets. The
land titling and colonization components are progressing more
slowly, but remedial action is beginning to show results. The
management of the project has become quite effective, and the
monitoring and evaluation of project results is proceeding
satisfactorily.
1720      Medium-Sized Cities Project:  US$70.0 million loan of June 20, 1979;
Effective Date: May 2, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The project is proceeding satisfactorily after a slow start due
to the change in Government.
1721      COPEL Second Power Distribution Project:  US$109.0 million loan of
June 20, 1979; Effective Date: November 21, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983. Project implementation is about six months behind
schedule because the Borrower postponed procurement pending loan
effectiveness. The Borrower is, however, accelerating procure-
ment and the project is expected to be completed on schedule.
1728      Pernambuco Rural Development Project:  US$40.0 million loan of
June 20, 1979; Effective Date: February 5, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984. The project's start-up period was longer
than expected, in part due to continuing delays in the release of
federal funds. Project administration has recently improved but
coordination among the entities involved in its execution is not
yet satisfactory and calls for close supervision. The agency
responsible for the village water supply component has not performed
adequately and is being replaced by another entity. The recommenda-
tions of the land tenure study are still under review in the state.
1729      Sao Francisco Second Irrigation Project:  US$28.0 million loan of
June 20, 1979; Effective Date: January 23, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986. While previously initiated civil works have
proceeded satisfactorily, local funding shortfalls and technical
problems emerging in the detailed design of project works for the
Boacica sub-area have slowed project progress. The infrastructure
being developed by the Government outside the project, in the
Brejo Grande sub-area may lead to the dropping from the project of
previously planned irrigation and drainage investments there. CODEVASF
is now reviewing proposals as to the number, location and management
capacity of silos and central rice processing mills. The monitoring
unit has been installed and is now operational.



- 46 -
ANNEX II
Page 13 of 14
1730      Second Feeder Roads Project:  US$110.0 million loan of June 20,
1979; Effective Date: December 17, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1986. The second feeder roads project provides
continuity to the program of secondary and feeder roads started
under Loan 1207-BR. Twenty-two organizations from 20 states and
one territory have applied for sub-loans. Nine sub-projects have
been approved and it is expected that six more would be approved by
November 1981 and fully commit the loan. The project is being
reformulated to take account of the devaluation of the ORTN, as
explained for Loan 1207-BR, and now aims at constructing or
improving 4630 km of roads. Project completion is expected to
take place by the end of 1985.
1822      Sao Paulo Industrial Pollution Control Project:  US$58.0 million
loan of April 14, 1980; Effective Date: January 15, 1981; Closing
Date: March 31, 1984. The project is experiencing some initial
delays, due mainly to long lead times in developing specific engi-
neering solutions to the pollution problems of individual industrial
concerns, but the first subprojects have begun to reach the Bank.
1823      Southern States Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  US$130.0
million loan of April 14, 1980; Effective Date: October 8, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983. After initial delays, the project
now is advancing at a good pace and will be completed by the end
of 1983.
1824      CEEE Power Distribution Project:  US$114.0 million loan of April 14,
1980; Effective Date: July 15, 1980; Closing Date: September 30,
1984. The project is experiencing some delays because of inadequate
resources mainly due to low tariffs.
1839      Second Urban Transport - Porto Alegre Project: US$159.0 million
loan of June 2, 1980; Effective Date: December 9, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984. The project is proceeding satisfactorily.
Some problems concerning procurement are in the process of being
solved.
1850      Third Minas Gerais Water Supply and Sewerage Project: US$139.0 million
loan of July 18, 1980; Effective Date: May 28, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985. This project is proceeding satisfactorily. Procure-
ment of items financed by the Bank is well advanced, physical execution
is progressing on schedule.
1867      Northeast Basic Education Project:  US$32.0 million loan of July 18,
1980; Effective Date: May 12, 1981; Closing Date: September 1, 1985.
Project implementation is delayed by about nine months due to delay
in effectiveness and in transferring resources to project states
during Calendar year 80. Part of the delay is expected to be made
up for during Calendar year 81 and Calendar year 82. A substantial
impact evaluation effort being mounted as part of this project
should yield knowledge of educational determinants vital to other
work in the education sector.



- 47 -
ANNEX II
Page 14 of 14
1877      Minas Gerais Second Rural Development Project:  US$63.0 million
loan of September 15, 1980; Effective Date: December 16, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985. The project is proceeding
satisfactorily.
1895      ELETROSUL Second Power Transmission Project:  US$125.0 million
loan of October 6, 1980; Effective Date: December 16, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984. The project is proceeding
satisfactorily.
1924      Ceara Second Rural Development Project:  US$56.0 million loan of
January 14, 1981; Effective Date: July 7, 1981; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985. The project is proceeding satisfactorily.
1939      Electric Power System Coordination:  US$54.0 million loan of
January 14, 1981; Effective Date: August 5, 1981; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985. The project is proceeding satisfactorily.
Procurement is in progress.



- 48 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 3
BRAZIL
NORTHWEST REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT AND
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:        One year
(b)  Agency which prepared project:        Territory of Rondonia
(with the assistance of the
Bank/FAO Cooperative Program)
and Federal Government
(c)  First presentation to the Bank:       May 1979
(d)  First mission to review project:    October/November 1979
(e)  Departure of Appraisal Mission:       January 1981
(f)  Completion of negotiations:           September 30, 1981
(g)  Planned date of effectivenesss:       March 31, 1982
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Action
None.
Section III - Special Conditions
(a) The federal government to implement a special project for protecting
the interests of the Amerindian groups located in the POLONOROESTE
program area (paragraph 35).
(b) CODARON and DER-RO/SOSP to enter into agreements defining their
collaboration on access road construction and establishing an
appropriate schedule for the project feeder roads (paragraph 53).
(c) All agricultural extension activities and services, except for
cocoa, would be consolidated within ASTER-RO. Recruitment and
training of project extension staff to be completed no later
than June 30, 1984 (paragraph 54).



- 49 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 3
(d) CODARON and CIBRAZEM to enter into agreement defining the construc-
tion plan and schedule of project storage facilities (paragraph 56).
(e)  The federal government to ensure that adequate credit for working
capital and investment would be available to project beneficiaries
(paragraph 58).
(f) Project land owners to be provided with definitive land titles no
later than March 31, 1982 (paragraph 60).
(g) A study of the legal, technical and environmental feasibility of
authorizing utilization of the 50% individual forest reserves for
small-scale farming purposes, and simultaneous establishment of
compensatory agglomerated forest reserves, to be completed and
submitted to the Bank no later than June 30, 1982. Studies in
methods for salvaging and utilizing timber from areas cleared for
agricultural purposes to be completed no later than December 31,
1982 (paragraph 61).
(h) The federal and territorial governments to take all necessary
measures, especially in the fields of land titling, agricultural
credit and services, and infrastructure development, to discourage
the agricultural exploitation of areas recognized as unsuitable
for agricultural development, or of unproven suitability (para-
graph 64).
(i) Definition, no later than March 31, 1982, of specific responsibil-
ities of the respective agencies of the ministries of agriculture
and interior in overall zoning and in the identification and devel-
opment of national forests in the Northwest region. The federal
government to take necessary steps for implementing appropriate
forestry development plans to be studied under the project (para-
graph 65).
(j) All seven IBDF forestry control posts in the northwest region to be
fully operational no later than December 31, 1982 (paragraph 66).
(k) Prior to initiating works provided for the Pacaas Novos Park, IBDF
and INCRA to enter into agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, defin-
ing their collaboration toward the protection of the park and
interdicted Amerindian areas, and the works to be carried out by
IBDF in specific locations (paragraph 67).
(1) The Guapore biological reserve to be legally established no later
than March 31, 1982 (paragraph 67).
(m)  CNPq to submit for Bank approval detailed research proposals includ-
ing terms of reference, budgets and execution arrangements, and
responsibilities no later than March 31, 1982. Research contracts
to be awarded under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank
(paragraph 69).



- 50 -
ANNEX III
Page 3 of 3
(n) INCRA to establish and operate new field units required for carrying
out land tenure regularization in Mato Grosso no later than March
1982 (paragraph 70).
(o) Establishment by SUDECO of POLONOROESTE program coordination unit to
be completed no later than March 31, 1982; unit to be staffed at all
times by personnel with qualifications, experience and conditions of
employment satisfactory to the Bank; SUDECO to submit proposed budget
for POLONOROESTE program to the Bank no later than September 30 of
each year (paragraph 77).
(p) CODARON to appoint, no later than March 31, 1982, the five coor-
dinators provided for under its central structure, as well as an
officer within its advisory unit to advise CODAL.ON's management
on the planning and supervision of the settlement consolidation
subproject. CODARON to enter, no later than March 31, 1982, into
contractual arrangements with consultants satisfactory to the Bank,
to assist in administrative and technical matters. These arrangements
to be for an initial period of two years to be extended or redefined
as appropriate, based on the findings of the project mid-term
review (paragraph 78).
(q) Consolidated quarterly monitoring reports and evaluation studies to
be carried out under terms of reference and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank. Evaluation of program activities as of March 31, 1984
to be carried out; a report on this evaluation to be provided to the
Bank no later than June 30, 1984 (paragraph 79).



- 51 -
ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 5
BRAZIL
NORTHWEST REGION DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMi
COMPOSITION AND ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION
Program Composition
1.        The basic objectives of POLONOROESTE would be reached through
the execution of integrated measures in the following areas:
(a)  Transport.  The POLONOROESTE program places a special emphasis
on the reconstruction and paving of the Cuiaba-Porto Velho
Highway (41.6% of the Program budget), the strengthening of
DER-RO (2.8%) and the improvement of the feeder road network
in the areas of greatest agricultural potential (8.5%).
(b) Settlement of New Areas. About one-fourth of the total Program
budget is tentatively designated for the settlement of up to
3 million ha of land suitable for sustained agricultural
production, through colonization projects sponsored by INCRA.
These projects are expected to settle 30,000 migrant families
(22,000 in Rondonia and 8,000 in Mato Grosso) and provide them
with basic social and economic infrastructure, including
schools and health posts, farm access roads, rural water and
electricity, and facilities for agricultural research, credit,
and crop storage.
(c) Land Tenure Services. 0.8% of the Program budget is devoted to
the regularization of land tenure, particularly in Mato Grosso.
(d) Rural Development. Existing settlement areas in Rondonia and
Mato Grosso are to be consolidated through the establishment of
productive and social infrastructure and services, including the
provision of agricultural extension services, municipal roads,
agricultural credit, crop storage facilities, and health and
educational facilities (14.9%).
(e) Environmental Protection. To help ensure that the environmental
risks of development are minimized, 0.8% of the Program budget
is to be used for such protective measures as the creation and
consolidation of parks and forest reserves, the strengthening
of institutions responsible for the implementation of such
measures, and zoning based on soil surveys.
(f) Protection and Assistance of Indian Communities. A further
2.5% of the Program budget is to be used to strengthen the
National Indian Foundation's (FUNAI) capability for protecting
the land and welfare of these communities.



- 52 -
ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 5
(g) Health. Health-related activities (2.3%) include extending
protection from malaria to 80% of the population of Rondonia,
providing a more adequate network of basic health services
and support facilities for the municipalities to be covered by
agricultural development activities and operational health
research.
(h) Ecological Research. This component (0.6%) would include such
elements as the establishment of hydrometeorology and biogeo-
chemistry stations in Rondonia, research on minimum size of
ecosystems, and flora and fauna surveys.
(i) Administration. One percent of the program budget has been
earmarked for the administration costs of the program.
Program Cost Estimates
2.        The total cost of the POLONOROESTE program, including physical and
price contingencies, is estimated at about US$1.5 billion. The general
composition of estimated program costs is shown in the following table. They
exclude agricultural credit of about US$100 million to be provided through
existing channels.
Estimated Northwest Program Costs
(In January 1981 terms)
Component                          US$ million       % of Total
Transport
Cuiaba-Porto Velho Road                                448.6            41.6
Strengthening of Rondonia Roads Department              30.7             2.8
Feeder Roads                                            91.3              8.5
Settlement of New Areas                                  261.5             24.2
Land Tenure Services                                        8.6             0.8
Rural Development
Rondonia                                                104.0             9.6
Mato Grosso                                             56.8              5.3
Environmental Protection                                    8.9             0.8
Ecological Research                                         7.0             0.6
Rondonia Health Project                                    24.7             2.3
Protection of Amerindian Communities                       26.6             2.5
Administration                                             10.1             1.0
TOTAL BASELINE COST                               1,078.8           100.0
Physical Contingencies                             136.4
Price Contingencies                                332.8
TOTAL                                            1,548.0



- 53 -                       ANNEX IV
Page 3 of 5
3.        The economic assessment of the POLONOROESTE Program is based on a
comparison of the economic circumstances of the target area with and without
the program implemented. General descriptions of the "without" and "with"
program situations are as follows:
Scenario A: "Without POLONOROESTE"
4.        The first scenario depicts the future as a continuation of past
trends. It assumes no investments to improve the Cuiaba-Porto Velho highway
or the feeder roads network; no strengthening of the institutions responsible
for land-use zoning, Indian affairs, or environmental protection; and no
improved land titling or additional technical support for agriculture, leading
to a continuation of the present, largely exploitative, methods of agriculture.
Medium- and long-term yields would decline. Market access would become
increasingly difficult as the agriculture perimeter expanded, preventing
access to inputs and leading to larger on-farm losses because farmers could
not evacuate their production.
Scenario B: "With POLONOROESTE"
5.        The second scenario represents the future as influenced by a full
range of government activities implemented through the POLONOROESTE Program.
More specifically, upgrading of the Cuiaba-Porto Velho highway and improvement
of the feeder roads network would be linked to a comprehensive program of
agricultural development. The latter would include measures to ensure that
land is zoned according to agricultural potential and that feeder roads and
physical and social infrastructure and services (including land titling) are
implemented only in agricultural zones. Institutions responsible for non-
agricultural reserves, (e.g., FUNAI, IBDF) would be strengthened to prevent,
as much as possible, settlement land clearing in these areas. Indiscriminate
land clearing would be checked, and by good initial land selection, improved
land use, and technical support, there would be a move toward sustained
cropping (emphasizing tree crops and continuous annual cropping) rather than
short-term exploitation of the land. Use of better land, plus technical
support, would lead to an upward trend in yields in the medium- to long-term,
and the integration of feeder roads with agricultural support would reduce
on-farm loss.
6.        The program generates two main kinds of quantifiable benefits:
the value added to agricultural production because of improved and expanded
agricultural output, and vehicle operating cost savings due to the improved
Cuiaba to Porto Velho road connection, and improved feeder and access roads.
7.        The costs included are those of agricultural production costs,
vehicle operating costs for agricultural traffic, and construction and
maintenance costs for the Cuiaba-Porto Velho highway as well as the feeder
roads.
8.        The agricultural production value added is included net of on-farm
costs. Off-farm agricultural production costs are included under "Agricultural
Production Cost." Therefore, by definition, the "without" program scenario does
not have any off-farm agricultural production costs. "Vehicle Operating Cost



- 54 -
ANNEX IV
Page 4 of 5
Savings" includes only non-agricultural vehicles and, for the traffic generated
only in the "with" program case, only half of the vehicle operating cost
savings has been included. The average trip distance on the feeder roads has
been assumed to be 20 and 40 km in the "without" and "with" project cases
respectively.
9.        Foreign exchange has been shadow priced at 1D% above its nominal value.
The labor component of highway construction costs has not been shadow priced.
Costs and benefits are net of taxes and subsidies.
10.       The present values of the incremental costs and benefits, taken
over the 20-year period under consideration and discounted 12%, which is
considered to be the opportunity cost of capital in Brazil, are the following:
Present Value                          Present Value
Cost Item                       US  million        Benefit Item         US$ million
Incremental
Agricultural Production             493            Agricultural
and off-farm agricultural                          Production,
support costs.                                     Value Added net         3,968
of on-farm costs
Agricultural Transport
Main Highway -152
Feeder Roads    34               -118
Construction Feeder Roads            64
Construction Main Highway           383            Vehicle Operating
Cost Savings Non-
Agricultural Traffic       832
Maintenance Main Highway             36
Maintenance Feeder Roads             21
Total                          879                                    4,800
11.       The program yields a net present value of more than US$3,900
million. Stated differently, the expected benefits are almost five times as
large as the expected costs. The corresponding internal rate of return is
higher than 50%. This suggests that the POLONOROESTE Program is economically
very worthwhile.



- 55 -
ANNEX IV
Page 5 of 5
12.       There are also major non-quantifiable benefits expected from the
program. They include the protection of the Amerindian population and of
large ecologically sensitive areas, a considerably strengthened institutional
capacity within the region, and improved knowledge of the Amazon basin
environment. There are also costs attached to the development of the Northwest
region which are difficult to quantify, such as those associated with invasions
of unsuitable soils, potential endangerment of the native flora and fauna, and
pressure on previously isolated Amerindian populations. However, since the
occupation and development of the region has already begun, such costs would
be far higher if development activities were not guided and coordinated
throughout the proposed program. Environmental monitoring built into the
program should considerably enhance the capacity to detect and respond to
adverse ecological trends.
October 1981






IRRO 14865R2
6,                                                                    .2-
A      R
A M A Z 0 N A S
VE
r
B P A Z I L
NORTHWEST REGION
P,RTC,                                                                           A
vE-H
An,
P
H
4
1 T
A  A
LJErl-
P, IT I'llI
T-IN  L
Ng    4Z
PA                                                                    0
V LHE
T', I
11-    W
-V 1. L
gi                                                                                                                                                              --T
fmmaA
OkVdt                                                                                                     IT,
E .. 'Cy
jg
T-      A-PAI                                             A,4A
f. be   'd                                          I E
W* lzi,
2 iLl                                 L                                                  D4
11IAN                                        go
H
Ae   e
Pbrl. 1--
t    1ftjlwl 69-
14
-m   -
I  N
A& iC4*,ojk
A VA
sw. 84y                   Z!                        T  4
- Q                                                        I,    IML
_,--T4q :-1 IA                                                                                                      10






_______ _______ _______ _____ IBRD     15483R
BRAZIL
j ,<C---~ \                                  AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT AND
/ 7                                /) \> - ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PROJECT
>) , ,,D¢<K                                                                   RONDONIA SETTLEMENT CONSOLIDATION COMPONENT
Existing and Planned Infrastructure
0                                                                                                                  noo 0 _ J     _  3droroodo lPorned o une nsoruccron)
*   i~R-ol spo
4    . /   +  g    z    8    \   ; .            _    r /t            . _ . ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Colon oa'lor /\roos
/F_-'L     Se/riemeo A,o- o
CET-noj,r A-on
a:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SIl- A-   X'1 
Ri'                                                   J                        (             L   , . 1 > o i T  Rl    -nd NIJ,,o-I Fo.  A.-.
(\N~~~~~~~~~~~ 4ono BonnooreBR                 )s v  gvJ/R, 2r&-->                                          . XPocs~Vlso-S
RESER/   ~  / VE>o->4w3t 3 I  OI O -.,
3 1   i)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/ /                                                  4't     0    25>o  nO'"'g   /n 00
,d, K S~~~~~~~~~/                                      Ih  / 5e                                                       ONS4a  n El nce l¢mln  n 
Ni~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r 
e   q   ,    2   O < s o s   af rS  EalW of ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ WozH Re . d ,s~~'~                 -  O      1
BA G vevnoos oT suct tOundNXE                                                                          A    T   0
I ~ ~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                            ~       ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ :'  002  K.s  
>0  >0     <~~~~~~~~'>0<4        I  -               A. YiW~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~    /~  0 < 
/7~~~~~~~~~~i~//    j/ K  
7                                                                                                                            k~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7
1"   -2%  BRAZIL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ - -- o
-.                                                                 0.aoilsr\   RESERVe~~~~-1p d.91
0                                                                                                                                -I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
/.                                  V oCloaoC os
-N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~47
:E~~~~ 



