OFFICIAL         LOAN NUMBER 2060 BR
.IJ,CUMENjTS
Project Agreement
(Northwest Region Development Program - First Phase:
Agricultural Development and
Environmental Protection Project)
between
FEDERAL TERRITORY OF RONDONIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                       /5    , 1981


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2060 BR
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated       26CA 71   e)  /'5      , 1981, between
the FEDERAL TERRITORY OF RONDONIA (hereinafter called Rondonia)
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (herein-
after called the Bank).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
the Federative Republic of Brazil (hereinafter called the
Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to
the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to
sixty-seven million dollars ($67,000,000), on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition
that Rondonia agree to undertake such obligations towards the Bank
as are hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS Rondonia warrants and represents that it is author-
ized to undertake the obligations in this Agreement contained
under the laws of the Borrower; and
WHEREAS Rondonia, in consideration of the Bank's entering
into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake
the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. Rondonia covenants and warrants that the
Project is of paramount importance to the development of Rondonia
and that it shall fully support the Project by cooperating with
the Borrower in the execution of the Project and by providing to
each Executing Entity which is an agency or institution of


﻿-2-
Rondonia, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services, and
other resources required on its part for the carrying out of the
Project and for the operation and maintenance of the facilities
and services included in the Project.
Section 2.02. (a) Rondonia shall employ consultants as
necessary for purposes of Parts A (3) and A (8) of the Project
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank, the selection and
employment of such consultants to be in accordance with the
policies and procedures set forth in the "Guidelines for the Use
of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
(b) Rondonia shall cause CODARON: (i) to employ, by
March 31, 1982, on the basis of detailed terms of reference (A)
an officer within CODARON's advisory unit whose main responsi-
bility shall be to advise CODARON's management on the planning
and supervision of the carrying out of Part A of the Project,
(B) a rural organizational coordinator, (C) an agricultural
production coordinator, (D) a marketing coordinator, (E) the
chief accountant, and (F) the chief of the procurement and
contracting unit; all of whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to
the Bank; and (ii) to enter into contractual arrangements, by
March 31, 1982, for the services of consultants, whoF2 qualifi-
cations, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall
be satisfactory to Bank, the selection and employment of such
consultants to be in accordance with the policies and procedures
set forth in the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency"
published by the Bank in August 1981, to assist CODARON in
administration and technical matters including, inter alia,
accounting, procurement and the carrying out of Parts A (1) and
(8) of the Project, such contractual arrangements to be for an
initial period of about two years and thereafter to be extended or
redefined as appropriate on the basis of the findings of the
mid-term evaluation carried out under Section 3.15 (d) of the Loan
Agreement.
Section 2.03. Rondonia shall enter into contractual arrange-
ments satisfactory to the Bank with each of the Executing Entities
as necessary or appropriate to ensure the efficient and timely
carrying out of the part or parts of the Project for which each
such Executing Entity is responsible.


﻿-3-
Section 2.04. Rondoria shall, for purposes of Part A (3)
of the Project, consolidate in ASTER-RO all agricultural extension
activities, except those related to cocoa planting and mainten-
ance and, by June 30, 1984, take all necessary measures to
complete the recruitment or transfer and training of staff
required by ASTER-RO for the purpose.
Section 2.05. Rondonia shall, for purposes of Part A (7)
of the Project, provide adequate and timely funding for teacher
salaries and, by March 31, 1982, enter into agreements with each
Municipality defining the respective responsibilities of each
Municipality in the carrying out of such Part A (7) of the
Project.
Section 2.06. Rondonia shall maintain adequate employment
and remuneration policies to attract and maintain qualified
staff in adequate numbers in Rondonia for purposes of the
Project.
Section 2.07. Rondonia and the Bank agree that the orderly
development of areas of the Program Area most suitable for
agricultural development and that the environmental protection of
areas determined to be unsuitable for agricultural development are
essential to the successful carrying out of the Project. To this
end, Rondonia shall take all necessary measures: (a) to discourage
the agricultural exploitation of areas in Rondonia which have been
determined to be unsuitable for agricultural development or of
areas whose suitability for. agricultural development has not as
yet been determined; and (b) to prevent the occupation of areas
which have been legally defined as reserves.
Section 2.08. Rondonia shall cause all access roads in the
Sub-project Area to be adequately maintained and all necessary
repairs, strengthening and rehabilitation thereof to be made
promptly, all. in accordance with sound engineering practice, and
cause to be provided, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the purpose.
Section 2.09. Rondonia shall cause ASTER-RO and UEPAT to
take all measures necessary to ensure that by September 30 of each
year ASTER-RO and UEPAT agree on the basic seed requirements for
the following crop year.
Section 2.10. Rondonia shall take, or cause to be taken, all
measures necessary for the acquisition of such land and rights in


﻿-4-
Rondonia in respect of land as shall be required for the construc-
tion and operation of the facilities in Rondonia provided under
the Project.
Section 2.11. (a) Rondonia shall, at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of the
Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement,
and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b) Rondonia shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of
the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan,
the performance by Rondonia of its obligations under this Agree-
ment or the performance by any Executing Entity or Collaborating
Entity owned or controlled by, or operating for the account or
benefit of, Rondonia.
Section 2.12. Rondonia shall not take or permit to be taken
and cause each of its political or administrative subdivisions and
each of the entities owned or controlled by, or operating for the
account or benefit of, Rondonia or such subdivisions not to take
or permit to be taken, any action that would prevent or interfere
with the execution of the Project or the performance of the
Borrower's obligations under the Loan Agreement or the performance
of the obligations of any Executing Entity or Collaborating Entity
under the Project.
ARTICLE III
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 3.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 3.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the
Bank and of Rondonia thereunder shall terminate on the date on
which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its
terms, and the Bank shall promptly so notify Rondonia thereof.
Section 3.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.


﻿-5
ARTICLE IV
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 4.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For Rondonia:
Federal Territory of Rondonia
Palacio Presidente Vargas
73000 Porto Velho
Rondonia
Brazil
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
Section 4.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of Rondonia may be taken or executed by
the Governador de Rondonia or such other person or. persons as
he shall designate in writing, and Rondonia shall furnish to the
Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated
specimen signature of each such person.


﻿-6-
Section 4.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
FEDERAL TERRITORY OF RONDONIA
.By                            /Z     o
Authorized Representa ie
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this J   L    day of Z  ue, 198 L.
FOR SECRETARY


