DOCUMENTS~     LOAN NUMBER 2060 BR
Loan Agreement
(Northwest Region Development Program - First Phase:
Agricultural Development and
Environmental Protection Project)
between
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                             , 1981


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2060 BR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                              , 1981, between
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL (hereinafter called the Borrower)
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (herein-
after called the Bank).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agree-
zents of the Bank being hereinafter called the General Condi-
tions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set
forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "Rondonia" means the Federal Territory of Rondonia of
the Borrower, or any successor thereto.
(b) "Mato Grosso" means the State of Mato Grosso of the
Borrower.
(c)  "Project Agreement" means the agreement between Rondonia
and the Bank of even date herewith, as the same may be amended
from time to time.
(d) "POLONOROESTE" means Programa Integrado de Desenvolvi-
mento do Noroeste do Brasil, the Borrower's Integrated Develop-
ment Program for the Northwest Region, a special development
program for the Borrower's northwest region established pursuant
to Decree No. 86.029 (as defined hereinafter).
(e)  "Decree No. 86.029" means Decree No. 86.029, dated
May 27, 1981, of the Borrower pursuant to which POLONOROESTE was
established, as such Decree may be amended from time to time.


﻿-2-
(f) "Program Area" means the area defined in Decree
No. 86.029.
(g) "Sub-project Area" means an area comprising five exist-
ing settlement locations in the municipalities of Ariquemes,
Cacoal, Ji-Parana, Jaru, Ouro Preto D'Oeste and Presidente Medici,
or any successor thereto or any subdivision thereof, in Rondonia.
(h) "Municipality" means the municipality of Ariquemes,
Cacoal, Ji-Parana, Jaru, Ouro Preto D'Oeste or Presidente Medici,
or any successor thereto or any subdivision thereof.
(i) "Program Coordination Unit" means the unit established
in SUDECO (as defined hereinafter) to coordinate, monitor and
evaluate all activities under POLONOROESTE.
(j) "Rondonia POLONOROESTE Coordination Unit" means the unit
established in SEPLAN-RO (as defined hereinafter) to coordinate
and monitor all POLONOROESTE activities in Rondonia.
(k) "Special Project" means Projeto de Apoio as Comunidades
Indigenas da Area de Influencia da Rodovia Cuiaba/Porto Velho,
Periodo 1980 - 1985, the Borrower's special project within
POLONOROESTE for the purposes of protecting the interests of
the Amerindians and the Amerindian communities located in ti
Program Area.
(1) "Law No. 6805" means Law No. 6805, dated July 7, 1980
of the Borrower pursuant to which CODARON (as hereinafter defined)
was established, as such Law may be amended from time to time.
(m) "Executing Entities" means the executing entities
set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement and "Collaborating
Entities" means the collaborating entities set forth in Schedule 5
to this Agreement.
(n) "ASTER-RO" means Associacao de Assistencia Tecnica e
Extensao Rural-Rondonia, the Technical Assistance and Rural
Extension Association-Rondonia.
(o) "CEPA-RO" means Comissao Estadual de Planejamento
Agricola, the Rondonia Agricultural Planning Commission.
(p) "CEPLAC" means Comissao Executiva do Plano da Lavoura
Cacaueira, the Borrower's Executive Commission for the Cacao
Development Plan.


﻿-3-
(q) "CIBRAZEM" means Companhia Brasileira de Armazenagem,
the Brazilian Storage Company.
(r) "CNPq" means Conselho Nacional de Desenvolvimento
Cientifico e Tecnologico, the National Research Council.
(s) "CODARON" means Companhia de Desenvolvimento Agricola de
Rondonia, the Rondonia Agricultural Development Company.
(t) "DER-RO" means Departamento de Estradas de Rodagem de
Rondonia, the Rondonia Roads Department.
(u) "DNER" means Departamento Nacional de Estradas de
Rodagem, the Borrower's National Roads Department.
(v) "EMBRAPA" means Empresa Brasileira de Pesquisa ngrope-
cuaria, the Brazilian Agricultural Research Company.
(w) "FUNAI" means Fundacao Nacional do Indio, the National
Indian Foundation.
(x) "IBDF" means Instituto Brasileiro de Desenvolvimento
Florestal, the Brazilian Forestry Development Institute.
(y) "INCRA" means Instituto Nacional de Colonizagao e
Reforma Agraria, the National Institute of Colonization and
Agrarian Reform.
(z) "NUAR" means Nucleo Urbano de Apoio Rural, rural
service centers located in the Sub-project Area and administered
by CODARON.
(aa) "SEMA" means Secretaria Especial do Meio Ambiente, the
Special Secretariat for the Environment of the Borrower's Ministry
of Interior. .
(bb) "SEPLAN-RO" means Secretaria de Planejamento de Ron-
donia, the Rondonia Planning Secretariat.
(cc) "SOSP" means Secretaria de Obras e Servicos Publicos,
the Rondonia Secretariat of Public Works and Services.
(dd) "SUDECO" means Superintendencia do Desenvolvimento
da Regiao Centro-0este, the Borrower's Superintendency of the
Development cf the Center-West Region.


﻿-4
(ee) "SUDHEVEA" means Superintendencia da Borracha, the
Borrower's Superintendency for Rubber Development.
(ff) "UEPAT" means Unidade de Pesquisa de Ambito Territorial,
the EMBRAPA Agricultural Research Unit at Territorial Level.
(gg) "Seed Production Program" means the program of the
Borrower and Rondonia established for the purposes of creating
within Rondonia the capability of producing certified seeds.
(hh) "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement and "Account Bank" means Banco
Central do Brasil.
(ii) "POLONOROESTE fiscal year" means the POLONOROESTE fiscal
year starting on April 1 in each year and ending on March 31
of the following calendar year.
(jj) "cruzeiro" means the currency of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
sixty-seven million dollars ($67,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Sched-
ule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time
to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b) The Borrower shall cause to be opened and thereafter
maintained a Special Account in the Account Bank on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Payments out of the Special
Account shall be made exclusively to pay the reasonable cost of
goods and services required to carry out the Project and to be
financed by the Bank under this Agreement in accordance with the
provisions of Section 2.02 and Schedule 1 hereto.


﻿-5-
(c) The Bank may, after the Effective Date and at the
request of the Borrower, withdraw on behalf of the Borrower from
the Loan Account and deposit in the Special Account an amount in
dollars of up to $4,000,000. In the event the amount of such
initial deposit into the Special Account is less than $4,000,000,
the Borrower may from time to time request the Bank to withdraw
from the Loan Account and make one or more additional initial
deposits into the Special Account, but in no event shall the
amount of such initial deposits exceed in the aggregate.
$4,000,000. At the request of the Borrower, the Bank shall further
withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit in the Special Account
such amounts as shall be required to replenish the Special Account
with amounts equal to payments made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) out of the Special-Account for expenditures for
the Project eligible for financing under this Agreement, but only
to the extent that the amount of any such deposit, together with.
any amount remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the
date of such request, shall not exceed in the aggregate
$4,000,000. Except as the Bank shall otherwise determine, each
such deposit after the initial deposits shall be withdrawn by the
Bank from the Loan Account under the same categories set forth in
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and in the same
respective amounts, as have been justified by the documentation
for the request for such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph
(e) of this Section.
(d) Prior to or at the time of each request for a withdrawal
by the Borrower from the Special Account, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Account Bank in respect of each payment made
by the Borrower an application for withdrawal from the Special
Account (including withdrawal applications on the basis of cer-
tificates of expenditures) showing that the payment was made on
account of the reasonable cost of goods or services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan in
accordance with paragraph (a) above. The Account Bank shall
authorize the Borrower to withdraw from the Special Account on the
basis of the foregoing evidence an amount in cruzeiros determined
on the basis of the rate of exchange between the dollar and the
cruzeiro in effect at the time each payment was made.
(e) Prior to or at the time of each request for a deposit
by the Bank into the Special Account, the Account Bank shall
furnish to the Bank in respect of each withdrawal from the
Special Account: (i) the application for withdrawal from the
Special Account referred to in paragraph (d) of this Section; and


﻿- 6 -
(ii) the estimated expenditures in respect of the payments to
be made in the following calendar quarter for the reasonable cost
of goods or services required for the Project and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with paragraph (a)
above.
(f) If the Bank shall have determined that any payment out
of the Special Account: (i) was made for any expenditure or in any
amount not eligible for financing by withdrawal from the Special
Account; or (ii) was not justified by the application for with-
drawal furnished pursuant to paragraph (e) of this Section,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank and,
unless otherwise determined by the Bank, prior to any further
deposit in the Special Account by the Bank, deposit in the Special
Account an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the
portion thereof not so eligible or justified.
(g) Notwithstanding the provision of paragraph (d) of
this Section, no further deposit in the Special Account shall be
made by the Bank when the Bank shall have determined, after
consultation with the Borrower, that all further withdrawals from
the Loan Account may be made directly by the Borrower from the
Loan Account pursuant to paragraph (a) above, or when the total
amount withdrawn from the Loan Account plus the amount of any
qualified agreement to reimburse made by the Bank and of any
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section
5jO2 of the General Conditions, shall have reached the equivalent
of $59,000,000, whichever shall be sooner. Withdrawal from the
Loan Account of the remaining amount of the Loan for the Project
shall follow such procedures as shall be agreed between the
Borrower and the Bank and shall be made only to the extent that
the Bank shall be satisfied by the evidence submitted in support
of the applications for such withdrawal that all payment by the
Borrower out of the Special Account were made on account of the
reasonable cost of goods or services required for the Project and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
paragraph (a) of this Section.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1986
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.


﻿-7-
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate,
of eleven and three-fifths per cent (11-3/5%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount:
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.09. Banco Central do Brasil is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any
action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01, The Borrower shall carry out the Project
or cause the Project to be carried out through the Executing
Entities designated for that purpose in Schedule 5 to this Agree-
ment with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, agricultural
and environmental practices, and shall provide, or cause to be
provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall employ consultants as
necessary for purposes of Parts A (4), A (8), C and F of the
Project whose qualifications, experience and terms and.conditions
of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank, the selection
and employment of such consultants to be in accordance with the
policies and procedures set forth in the "Guidelines for the Use
of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.


﻿- 8 -
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall cause SUDECO:
(a) by March 31, 1982, to establish the Program Coordination
Unit and to employ for such Program Coordination Unit one coordi-
nator and two section chiefs, whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Bank;
(b) thereafter to maintain such Program Coordination
Unit with staff in adequate numbers, whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satis-
factory to the Bank; and
(c) by October 31 of each year, to furnish to the Bank the
proposed plan of operations for POLONOROESTE activities for the
following POLONOROESTE fiscal year, and each year, promptly notify
the Bank of the formal approval of such plan of operations,
ir-luding final budgetary allocations for POLONOROESTE.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall cause:
(a) each of the Executing Entities involved in POLONOROESTE
activities to establish and furnish, through SUDECO, to the Bank,
by March 31, 1982, detailed monitoring plans and procedures
satisfactory to the Bank; and
(b) SUDECO to enter into, by March 31, 1982, contractual
arrangements with independent consultants, in accordance with
Section 3.02 of the Loan Agreement, for purposes of assisting
the Borrower in the continuous evaluation of POLONOROESTE in
its entirety under Part F of the Project, such evaluation to
be carried out on the basis of plans and procedures satisfactory
to the Bank.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall cause UEPAT to publish,
on an annual basis and in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, the
results of the research activities carried out under Part A (4) of
the Project.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall, for purposes of Part B (1)
of the Project:
(a) by March 31, 1982, take the necessary measures through
its Ministry of Agriculture and Ministry of Interior to assign,
in consultation with the Bank, the specific responsibilities to
their respective agencies for land-use planning and for the
identification and development, including, inter alia, financing
and execution, of national forest projects, in the Program Area;


﻿(b) cause IBDF: (i) by March 31, 1982, to establish and
thereafter operate a forestry development planning group within
IBDF; (Ai) by June 30, 1982, to furnish the Bank with detailed
terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank for the proposed
planning studies to be carried out under such Part B (1) of
the Project; and (iii) by June 30, 1983, to carry out such
studies; and
(c) take all measures necessary to put into effect plans:
for forestry development with adequate controls and safeguards.'
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall, for purposes of Part B (2)
of the Project, by December 31, 1982, provide all necessary
facilities, staff, services and other resources for each of the
seven forestry control posts in the Program Area.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall, for purposes of Part B (3)
of the Project:
(a) by March 31, 1982, define and legally establish the
Guapore Biological Reserve; and
(b) cause IBDF and FUNAI, prior to the initiation of the
works in the Pacaas Novos National Park under such Part B (3) of
the Project, to enter into contractual arrangements, satisfactory
to the Bank, defining: (i) the respective responsibilities of IBDF
and FUNAI in their collaboration with respect to the protection
of the Pacaas Novos National Park and overlapping interdicted
Amerindian areas; (ii) the works to be carried out by IBDF in
specific locations of the Pacaas Novos National Park; and (iii)
the procedures for FUNAI staff to accompany IBDF field staff as
necessary.
.     Section 3.09. The Borrower shall, for purposes of Part B (4)
of the Project:
(a)   cause SEMA, together with the appropriate agency of
Rondonia, to complete, by March 31, 1982, the delimitation of
the geographical boundaries of the Cunia ecological station in
Rondonia and thereafter legally establish such ecological
station; and
(b) cause SEMA, prior to the initiation of the works under
such Part B (4) of the Project, to furnish to the Bank for
approval detailed engineering designs and plans for the works
on the ecological stations of Ique, Serra das Araras, Taiama and
Cunia.


﻿- 10 -
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall, for purposes of Part C
of the Project, cause CNPq:
(a) to prepare, by March 31, 1982, a detailed research
program satisfactory to the Bank, such research program to
include, inter alia, a budget, terms of reference and execution
arrangements; and
(b) promptly therf-after, to enter into contractual arrange-
ments satisfactory to the Bank for the carrying out of such
research program, such contractual arrangements to include, inter
alia, the provision for dissemination by CNPq by June 30 of each
year of a progress report setting forth the findings and
recommendations of the research carried out under such research
program during the preceding POLONOROESTE fiscal year.
Section 3.11. The Borrower shall, for purposes of Part D of
the Project, cause INCRA:
(a) by March 31, 1982, to establish, with the necessary
funds, facilities, staff, services and other resources, its land-
tenure project in Vila Bela and complementary field units at
Pontes e Lacerda, Mirassol d'Oeste and Barra do Bugres in the
Program Area in Mato Grosso; and
(b) to put into effect, promptly, land discrimina:ion and
demarcation procedures in areas of Mato Grosso where rural
development or settlement activities are planned and to provide
owners of more than two hectares in such areas with good and
definitive titles promptly after the completion of demarcation of
their respective plots.
Section 3.12. The Borrower shall cause SUDECO: (a) to carry
out the special studies under Part F of the Project on the basis
of terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank; and (b) promptly
to furnish to the Bank the results of each study carried out under
such Part F of the Project.
Section 3.13. The Borrower and the Bank agree that the
orderly development of areas of the Program Area most suitable
for agricultural development and that the environmental protection
of areas determined to be unsuitable for agricultural development
are essential to the successful carrying out of the Project. To
this end the Borrower shall take all necessary measures: (a)
to discourage the agricultural exploitation of areas which have


﻿- 11 -
been determined to be unsuitable for agricultural development or
of areas whose suitability for agricultural development has not
yet been determined; and (b) to prevent the occupation of areas
which have been legally defined as reserves.
Section 3.14. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident.
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.15. (a) The Borrower shall furnish, or cause to be
furnished, to the Bank, promptly upon their preparation, the
plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and construc-
tion and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the
Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower shall cause each of the Executing Entities:
(i) to maintain records and procedures adequate to record and
monitor the progress of the part of the Project to be carried out
by each of them (including its cost and the benefits to be
derived from it), to identify the goods and services financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose their use in the
part of the Project to be carried out by each of them; (ii) to
enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit the facili-
ties and construction sites included in the part of the Project to
be carried out by each of them and to examine the goods financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant records and
documents; and (iii) to furnish to the Bank at regular intervals
all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request concern-
ing the part of the Project to be carried out by each of them, its
cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it,
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds, including, inter alia,
quarterly reports to be furnished promptly upon their preparation
but in any event not later than three months after the end of each
quarter of each POLONOROESTE fiscal year and all research and


﻿- 12 -
evaluation studies to be furnished promptly upon their prepara-
tion.
(c) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan, the Bank may publish a description thereof, the name and
nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded and the
contract price.
(d) The Borrower shall, through SUDECO, by June 30, 1984,
cause to be prepared and furnished to the Bank a report on the
evaluation of Program execution as of March 31, 1984 of such
scope and in such detail as the Borrower and the Bank shall
agree.
(e) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall cause each of the Executing
Entities to prepare and furnish to the Bank through SUDECO a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reason-
ably request, on the execution and 1nitial operation of the part
of the Project to be carried out by each of them, its cost and
the benefits derived and to be derived from it, the performance by
the Borrower and the Bank of their respective obligations under
the Loan Agreement, the performance by Rondonia and the Bank of
their respective obligations under.the Project Agreement and the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.
Section 3.16. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for the construction and operation of the facilities
provided under the Project and provide, or cause to be provided,
all the funds necessary for the purpose.
Section 3.17. The Borrower shall:
(a) cause the facilities included in the Project to be
efficiently operated and maintained, and the services to be
furnished thereunder to be provided promptly as needed, all in
conformity with appropriate practices and by competent personnel
in adequate numbers;


﻿- 13 -
(b) provide, or cause to be proviLLed, as and when needed,
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
purposes of paragraph (a) above; and
(c) without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of
paragraphs (a) and (b) hereof, cause CIBRAZEM to staff and main-
tain adequately the warehouses constructed under Part A (5) of the
Project.
ARTICLE IV
Execution of Other Activities
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower and the Bank agree that.
access to rural credit for Project beneficiaries is essential to
the successful carrying out of the Project. To this end, the
Borrower shall take all necessary measures to ensure the timely
availability of adequate funds for an estimated 18,200 small-scale
farmers, including sharecroppers, required for:
(i) seasonal crop credit for the production of annual
crops and maintenance of perennial crops; and
(ii) on-farm investment credit for the establishment or
upgrading of perennial crops, including coffee,
cocoa, rubber and other crops, and for livestock
and on-farm equipment.
(b) The Borrower shall make available credit for purposes
set forth in paragraph (a) hereof pursuant to procedures appro-
priate for the pUrpose, with priority for small-scale farmers
who would be receiving credit for the first time to establish
perennial crops.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall: (a) by December 31, 1985,
carry out in Rondonia the Seed Production Program, which program
shall provide funds for: (i) the installation of three seed
processing units and the establishment of a committee to coordi-
nate the production of improved seeds and planting material;
and (ii) the training of technicians; and (b) cause UEPAT to make
available on a timely basis an adequate supply of basic seeds for
the production of improved seeds in the Sub-project Area.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall cause IBDF: (a) to carry out
feasibility studies in the Sub-project Area to determine the most


﻿- 14 -
efficient salvage logging methods; (b) by December 31, 1982, to
furnish to the Bank for review and comment the recommendations of
such studies; and (c) thereafter to take all measures necessary
to put into effect such recommendations.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall: (a) cause INCRA, by
March 31, 1982, to provide all landowners within the settlement
areas of the Sub-project Area with good and definitive land
titles; and (b) carry out, or cause to be carried out, on the
basis of terms of reference and a schedule satisfactory to the
Bank, a study on the land tenure .nd use conditions and regula-
tions in the Sub-project Area.
Section 4.05. The Borrower and the Bank agree that the
strengthening of the measures to protect the indigenous Amerindian
population in the Program Area is essential to the successful
carrying out of the Project. To this end, the Borrower shall
take all necessary measures to put into effect promptly the
Special Project for protecting the interests of the Amerindians
and the Amerindian communities located in the Program Area.
Section 4.06. Without limitation or restriction upon the
provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, staff,
services and other resources required to carry out in the Program
Area all the activities financed by the Borrower described in this
Article.
ARTICLE V
Other Covenants
Section 5.01. (a, It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for
the benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the
allo ition, realization or distribution of foreign exchange,
such lien shall, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso
facto and at no cost to the Bank, equally and ratably secure


﻿- 15 -
the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan,
and the Borrower, in creating or permitting the creation of
such lien, shall make express provision to that effect; provided,
however, that, if for any constitutional or other legal reason
such provision cannot be made with respect to any lien created
on assets of any of its political or administrative subdivisions,
the Borrower shall promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the
principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan by an
equivalent lien on other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for payment of the purchase price of such
property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more
than one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets"
means assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any
such subdivision, including gold and foreign exchange assets held
by any institution performing the functions of a central bank
or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the
Borrower.
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall cause each of the Executing
Entities:
(a) to maintain separate accounts adequate to reflect,
in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting
practices, their respective operations, resources and expenditures
in respect of the part of the Project to be carried out by each of
them, including separate accounts reflecting all expenditures on
account of which withdrawals are requested from the Loan Account
on the basis of certificates of expenditures; and
(b) to retain or cause to be retained, until one year after
the Closing Date, all records (orders, invoices, bills, receipts
and other documents) evidencing the expenditures on account of
which withdrawals are requested from the Loan Account on the basis
of certificates of expenditures and shall enable the Bank's
accredited representatives to examine such records.


﻿- 16 -
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall:
,(a) cause the accounts referred to in Section 5.02 (a)
of this Agreement to be audited annually, in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(b) furnish, or cause to be furnished, to the Bank, as
soon as available, but in any case not later than six months
after the end of each POLONOROESTE fiscal year:(i) certified
copies of the accounts referred to in Section 5.02 (a) of this
Agreement for such year as so audited, and (ii) the report of
such audits by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested, including, without
limitation to the foregoing, a separate opinion by said auditors
in respect of the expenditures referred to in Section 5.02 (b)
of this Agreement as to: (A) whether the proceeds of the Loan
withdrawn from the Loan Account on the basis of certificates of
expenditures have been used to make payments for goods received,
or works or services performed; and (B) whether such goods,
works and services were eligible for financing under the Loan
Agreement and were used in the carrying out of the Project;
and
(c) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
the accounts referred to in Section 5.02 (a) of this Agreement
and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
reasonably request.
Section 5.04. Without limitation or restriction upon the
provisions of Section 5.03 of this Agreement:
(a) except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Special
Account shall be audited annually by independent auditors accept-
able to the Bank and, promptly after the audit and not later
than four months after the close of the Account Badk's fiscal
year, the Bank shall be furnished with certified copies of such
audit, together with a certified copy of the auditor's report,
including a description of the audit procedures; and
(b) the Borrower shall cause the Account Bank to furnish
to the Bank each month certified statements of the Special
Account, and from time to time such other information concerning
such Special Account and the certificates of expenditures as
the Bank shall reasonably request.


﻿- 17 -
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (k) thereof, namely, that:
(a) Rondonia shall have failed to perform any covenant,,
agreement or obligation of Rondonia under the Project Agreement;
(b) an event shall have occurred or any action shall have
been taken which shall materially and adversely affect the carry-
ing out of POLONOROESTE;
(c) Decree No. 86.029 or Law No. 6805 shall have been
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived in such a way as
to materially and adversely affect the ability of the Borrower or
Rondonia to carry out the respective covenants, agreements and
obligations set forth in the Loan Agreement and Project Agreement;t
and
(d) in the event that all necessary action shall have been
taken to convert the status of Rondonia from a federal territory
of the Borrower to that of a state of the Borrower, Rondonia, as a
state, shall have failed to assume all the covenants, agreements
and obligations of Rondonia, as a territory, under the Project
Agreement.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof: (a) any event specified in paragraph (a)
or (d) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall
continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall have
been given by the Bank to the Borrower and Rondonia; and
(b) any event specified in paragraph (b) or (c) of Section
6.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement.


﻿- 18 -
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions,
namely, that the Loan Agreement has been duly registered by Banco
Central do Brasil.
Section 7.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by Rondonia, and is legally binding upon Rondonia
in accordance with its terms;
(b) that the Loan Agreement has been duly registered by
Banco Central do Brasil;
(c) that all necessary acts, consents and approvals to be
performed or given by the Borrower, Rondonia, their political
subsidivisions or agencies, by any agency thereof, or by any of
the Executing Entities, or otherwise to be performed or given in
order to authorize the carrying out of the Project and to enable
the Borrower and Rondonia to perform their respective obligations
pursuant to this Agreement and the Project Agreement, together
with all necessary powers and rights in connection therewith, have
been peformed or given; and
(d) that in the event that all necessary action shall have
been taken to convert the status of Rondonia from a federal
territory of the Borrower to that of a state of the Borrower, that
the covenants, agreements and obligations of Rondonia as a federal
territory of the Borrower under the Project Agreement shall become
covenants, agreements and obligations of Rondonia as a state of
the Borrower.
Section 7.03. The date                    , is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. The Ministro da Fazenda of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.


﻿17 -
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (k) thereof, namely, that:
(a) Rondonia shall have failed to perform any covenant,,
agreement or obligation of Rondonia under the Project Agreement;
(b) an event shall have occurred or any action shall have
been taken which shall materially and adversely affect the carry-
ing out of POLONOROESTE;
(c) Decree No. 86.029 or Law No. 6805 shall have been
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived in such a way as
to materially and adversely affect the ability of the Borrower or
Rondonia to carry out the respective covenants, agreements and
obligations set forth in the Loan Agreement and Project Agreement;
and
(d) in the event that all necessary action shall have been
taken to convert the status of Rondonia from a federal territory
of the Borrower to that of a state of the Borrower, Rondonia, as a
state, shall have failed to assume all the covenants, agreements
and obligations of Rondonia, as a territory, under the Project
Agreement.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof: (a) any event specified in paragraph (a)
or (d) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall
continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall have
been given by the Bank to the Borrower and Rondonia; and
(b) any event specified in Daragraph (b) or (c) of Section
6.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement


﻿- 18 -
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions,
namely, that the Loan Agreement has been duly registered by Banco
Central do Brasil.
Section 7.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by Rondonia, and is legally binding upon Rondonia
in accordance with its terms;
(b) that the Loan Agreement has been duly registered by
Banco Central do Brasil;
(c) that all necessary acts, consents and approvals to be
performed or given by the Borrower, Rondonia, their political
subsidivisions or agencies, by any agency thereof, or by any of
the Executing Entities, or otherwise to be performed or given in
order to authorize the carrying out of the Project and to enable
the Borrower and Rondonia to perform their respective obligations
pursuant to this Agreement and the Project Agreement, together
with all necessary powers and rights in connection therewith, have
been peformed or given; and
(d) that in the event that all necessary action shall have
been taken to convert the status of Rondonia from a federal
territory of the Borrower to that of a state of the Borrower, that
the covenants, agreements and obligations of Rondonia as a federal
territory of the Borrower under the Project Agreement shall become
covenants, agreements and obligations of Rondonia as a state of
the Borrower.
Section 7.03. The date                      is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Sectio"2.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. The Ministro da Fazenda of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 19 -
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio da Fazenda
Esplanada dos Ministerios
70048 Brasilia, D.F.
Brazil
Cable address:                     Telex:
MINIFAZ                           611506
Brasilia, Brazil
With copies to:
Banco Central do Brasil
Edificio Sede do Banco Central
20 Andar
70070 Brasilia, D.F.
Brazil
Cable address:                     Telex:
BANCENTRAL                        41344
Brasilia, Brazil
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 20 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
By
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿- 19 -
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio da Fazenda
Esplanada dos Ministerios
70048 Brasilia, D.F.
Brazil
Cable address:                     Telex:
MINIFAZ                           611506
Brasilia, Brazil
With copies to:
Banco Central do Brasil
Edificio Sede do Banco Central
20 Andar
70070 Brasilia, D.F.
Brazil
Cable address:                     Telex:
BANCENTRAL                        41344
Brasilia, Brazil
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 20 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
By
By
By
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿21 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Goods and services for       37,100,000         33%
Parts A (1), A (2),
A (3), A (6), A (7)
and A (8) of the
Project
(2) Goods and services            1,900,000         33%
for Part A (4) of
the Project
(3) Goods and services            5,300,000         33%
for Part A (5) of
the Project
(4) Goods and services for        31250,000         33%
Parts B (1), B (2)
and B (3) of the
Project
(5) Goods and services for          750,000         33%
Part B (4) of the
Project
(6) Goods and services for        2,900,000         33%
Part C of the Project
(7) Goods and services for        3,500,000         33%
Part D of the Project


﻿- 22 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(8) Goods and services for         200,000         33%
Part E of the Project
(9) Goods and services for       4,300,000         33%
Part F of the Project
(10) Initial deposit into        4,000,000
Special Account
(11) Unallocated                 3,800,000
TOTAL             67,000,000
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, dis-
bursements shall be made, until March 31, 1983, at the rate nf
55% of expenditures, and thereafter at such rate that results
in an average disbursement rate equal to 33% of expenditures.
3. The disbursement percentages have been calculated in
compliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Loan shall 'be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof; to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied
on or in respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to
the Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage
then applicable to such item as required to be consistent with
the aforementioned policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for:
(a) expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except
that withdrawals in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equiva-
lent of $5,500,000 may be made in respect of: (i) Categories (1)
through (3) on account of payments made for such expenditures


﻿- 23 -
before that date but after May 31, 1981; (ii) Category (7) on
account of payments made for such expenditures for surveys
initiated before that date but after May 31, 1981; and (iii) Cate-
gory (8) on account of payments made for such expenditures for
surveys initiated before that date but after June 30, 1980;
(b) expenditures for activities under Part A of the Project
unless the Bank has been furnished with satisfactory evidence of
the execution of agreements satisfactory to the Bank between
CODARON, DER-RO and SOSP defining the collaboration of each of
the parties with respect to access road construction and to the
establishment of a schedule for the construction of the higher
quality feeder roads that is compatible with the schedule of
construction of the NUARs under Part A (2) of the Project and
of the access roads under Part A (1) of the Project; and
(c) expenditures for Part A (5) of the Project unless
the Bank has been furnished with satisfactory evidence of the
execution of an agreement satisfactory to the Bank between CODARON
and CIBRAZEM defining an appropriate plan and schedule for the
construction of the warehouses under such Part A (5) of the
Project and the procedures for coordinating warehouse construction
operations with those of NUAR construction.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient
to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that
Category, the Bank, after consultation with the Borrower, may by
notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the
extent required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the
Loan which are 'then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion of the Bank are not needed to meet other expenditures;
and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated
shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to
such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such
Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall
have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or


﻿- 24 -
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the
Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of
the 'Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 25 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is part of the Borrower's special development
program for the Northwest Region of Brazil (POLONOROESTE).
The purpose of the Project is to increase the economic contribu-
tion of the under-utilized resources of the Program Area to the
national economy by providing for the orderly development of the
agricultural and forestry resources while adequately protecting
the indigenous Amerindian population and the natural environment.
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Rondania Settlement Consolidation
(1)   Farm Access Roads
Construction or rehabilitation of about 3,900 kilometers of
all weather farm roads linking individual farms to feeder roads.
(2)   NUAR Infrastructure
Preparation of 39 NUAR sites and provision of the necessary
infrastructure for each NUAR site including central administrative
buildings, a public water supply system, a staff dormitory, a
small-scale saw-mill and a . wood-operated electricity generator
capable of supplying the distribution system at each NUAR site.
(3)   Agricultural and Forestry Extension
(a) Training of about 50 new or existing extension
staff of ASTER-RO;
(b) training of about 1,200 farmer leaders and about
1,600 farm youth;
(c) establishment and operation of about 200.demonstra-
tion plots on farmer lands to disseminate agricul-
tural research results; and
(d) provision of incremental staff, vehicles and
equipment for these purposes.


﻿- 26 -
(4)   Agricultural Research
Execution of an agricultural research and experimentation
program, including:
(a) adaptation of production technologies for annual
crops, including rice, corn and beans, and for
livestock to conditions in newly-opened regions
of the Sub-project Area;
(b) establishment of three demonstration farms
(including perennial crops and livestock), three
experimental sub-stations of about 10 hectares each
to test new cultivars, and about 12 simple weather
observation stations;
(c) soil survey and mapping services for an improved
land-use policy to train extension officers
in proper land-use practices and erosion and
environmental control; and
(d) provision of incremental staff, vehicles and
equipment for these purposes.
(5)   Crop Drying and Storage
Construction and equipping of about 19 crop drying and
storage facilities with a capacity adequate to handle Sub-project
Area production.
(6)   Farmer Organization
Establishment of community action groups for the purpose
of participating in community activities in such areas as access
road construction and maintenance, agricultural extension,
nutrition and health education, and school and health post
maintenance.
(7)   Education
Modification of the existing primary school calendar and
curriculum on the basis of the conclusions of a survey being
carried out by the Borrower to meet the educational needs of a
rural population; construction, furnishing and equipping of one
school of four classrooms in each NUAR and about 390 single


﻿- 27 -
classroom schools along access roads surrounding NUARs providing
about 40,000 new student places; and training of about 840
teachers.
(8)   Sub-project Area Coordination and Monitoring
Coordination and monitoring of activities under Parts A (1)
through (7) of the Project by the Rondonia POLONOROESTE Coordina-
tion Unit and CODARON and the provision of incremental staff,
vehicles and equipment for the purpose.
Part B:   Environmental Protection
(1)   National Forest
(a) Preliminary research and field studies to identify
suitable national forest sites;
(b) preliminary delineation, inventory and protection
of such sites; and
(c) preparation of detailed plans for infrastructure
and management of one or more forestry development
projects.
(2) Forestry Control
(a) Strengthening of the regional offices of IBDF at
Porto Velho in Rondonia and Cuiaba in Mato Grosso;
(b) establishment, furnishing and equipping of four new
forest control posts in Pimenta Bueno and Ji-Parana
in Rondonia, and Aripuana and Vila Bela in Mato
Grosso, and strengthening of the three existing
forest control posts in Vilhena in Rondonia, and in
Barra do Bugres and Caceres in Mato Grosso, such
seven control posts to monitor shipment of wood
products and supervised forestry extension and
research activities in the respective area under
each control post; and
(c) establishment and equipping of two nurseries
in the Program Area.


﻿- 28 -
(3)   Natural Reserves
Provision of infrastructure for the Pacaas Novos
National Park and Guapore and Jaru Biclogical
Reserves, including the construction and ejuipping
of central administrative and residential build-
ings, control posts, and aircraft landing strips,
and the provision of surveillance equipment,
including land and marine vehicles and one small
aircraft.
(4)  Ecological Stations
(a) Extension of the Ique ecological station in Aripua-
na in Mato Grosso by demarcation and the provision
of an office, residential space and an aircraft
landing strip;
(b) site preparation of the Serra das Araras ecological
station located between Barra do Bugres and Caceres
in Mato Grosso, and the provision of infrastruc-
ture, including access roads and office and
residential space;
(c) extension of the Taiama ecological station .in
Caceres in Mato Grosso by the construction of
office space; and
(d) establishment of the Cunia ecological station north
of Porto Velho in Rondonia, including site prepara-
tion, preliminary studies and the provision of
access infrastructure, vehicles and equipment.
Part C:  Ecological Research
(1) Establishment of a hydrometeorology and bio-
geochemistry monitoring system in the Program
Area, including a facility with a small laboratory,
equipment and accommodations for visiting
researchers.
(2) Research on flora and fauna in the Program Area.
(3) Research on other ecological topics.


﻿- 29 -
Part D:   Land Tenure Regularization
(1) Execution of land tenure regularization and titling
in the settlements in the Program Area in Mato
Grosso, including, inter alia, the settlements
along the Guapore Valley, including: (i) identifi-
cation of legal claims on about 5.3 million
hectares; (ii) demarcation (topographical survey
and physical demarcation) of about 600,000 hectares
which are owned by farmers who have title to less
than 100 hectares each; (iii) titling of demarcated
properties; and (iv) the provision of legal assist-
ance to small-scale farmers benefitting from the
regularization process.
(2) Training of INCRA staff in the Program Area in Mato
Grosso.
Part E:   New Settlement Soil Surveys
Execution of detailed soil surveys of about 70,000 hectares
in the Urupa area in Rondonia and about 100,000 hectares in the
Machadinho region in Rondonia to serve as a basis for suitable
zoning and land-use planning in future settlements.
Part F:   Program Coordination, Monitoring, Evaluation and Studies
Coordination, monitoring and evaluation by the Progral
Coordination Unit of the activities and impact of POLONOROESTE,
including, inter alia: (i) continuous monitoring of the execution
of POLONOROESTE; (ii) complementary on-going POLONOROESTE evalua-
tion studies; (iii) in-depth mid-term and completion evaluation
studies; and (iv) general studies on future development projects
in the Program Area; and the provision of incremental staff,
training, vehicles and equipment for the purpose.
The Project is expected to be completed on June 30, 1986.


﻿- 30 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each June 15 and December 15
beginning June 15, 1985
through   June 15, 1996                     2,790,000
On December 15, 1996                             2, 830,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Section 4.04), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 31 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of,
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                               Premium
Not more than three years                              2.30%
before maturity
More than three years but                              4.65%
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but                                8.50%
not more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but                            10.05%
not more than thirteen years
before maturity
More than thirteen years                              11.60%
before maturity


﻿- 32 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.    Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and civil works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of competitive
bidding locally advertised.
B.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of $500,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require
the Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the intended award would be inconsistent with the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" dated March
1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines) or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.


﻿- 33 -
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the
furnishing to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal
of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after
its execution and prior to the furnishing to the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such coitract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than .15% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and state
the reasons for its determination.
C.   Procurement Without Contracting
Civil works to be carried out in those regions of the Project
Area which the Borrower and the Bank determine to be isolated may
be carried out by use of force account.


﻿-34-
SCHEDULE 5
Executing Entities
A.   Entities Responsible for Execution of the Project
Collaborating
Project Component                  Executing Entity      Entity
Part A (1) Farm access roads         CODARON         DER-RO
Part A (2) NUAR infrastructure       CODARON         Municipali-
ties, Rondonia
Secretariat
of Education
Part A (3) Agricultural and          ASTER-RO,       Instituto Bra-
forestry extension              CEPLAC          sileiro do
Cafe, SUDHEVEA
Part A (4) Agricultural research     EMBRAPA         IBDF, INPA
Part A (5) Crop drying and           CIBRAZEM
storage
Part A (6) Farmer organization       Rondonia        CODARON
Secretariat
of Social
Action
Part A (7) Education                 Municipalities  Rondonia
Secretariat
of Education
Part A (8) Sub-project Area          CEPA-RO         SEPLAN-RO
coordination and
monitoring
Part B (1) National forest           IBDF            INCRA, SEMA
reserves
Part B (2) Forestry control          IBDF            CODARON
Part B (3) Natural reserves          IBDF


﻿- 35 -
Collaborating
Project Component                 Executing Entity      Entity
Part B (4) Ecological stations      SEMA            CNPq
Part C Ecological research          CNPq            SEMA
Part D Land tenure regularization   INCRA
Part E New settlement soil surveys INCRA
Part F Program coordination,        SUDECO,         Ministry of
monitoring, evaluation         SEPLAN-RO       the Interior,
and studies                                    Secretariat
of Planning
of the
Presidency
B.   Entities responsible for Execution of Cther Activities
Collaborating
Activity                          Executing Entity      Entity
Credit                               Banco do       ASTER-RO
Brasil,
Banco da
Amazonia
Seed supply                          CODARON        Ministry of
Agriculture,
EMBRAPA
Rubber nurseries                     CODARON        SUDHEVEA
Salvage logging studies              IBDF           Food and
Agricultural
Organization
of the United
Nations
Amerindian protection                FUNAI


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this  Ajw     day ofjou,    198 1.
FOR SECRETARY


