Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-7293-PE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US $300 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF PERU
FOR A
SECOND FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
June 5, 1999
Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure Department
Country Department for Bolivia, Paraguay and Peru
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY AND EXCHANGE RATE
(As of May 31, 1999)
Currency IJnit = New Sol ("soles"): SI.
IJS$1.00 = S/. 3.35
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AFP          Administradora Privada de Fondos de Pensiones
BCR          Banco Central de Reserva del Peru
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
COFIDE       Corporaci6n Financiera de Desarrollo
CONASEV    Comisi6n Nacional de Empresas y Valores
CV           Cedula Viva
EFF          Extended Financing Facility
FCR          Fondo Consolidado de Reservas Previsionales
FONAHPU    Fondo Nacional de Ahorro Puiblico
FSAL         Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
GDP          Gross Domestic Product
IDB          Inter-American Development Bank
IFIs         International Financial Institutions
IMF          International Monetary Fund
IPSS         Instituto Peruano de Seguro Social
MEF          Ministerio de Economia y Finanzas
MLT          Medium and Long Term
ONP          Oficina de Normalizaci6n Previsional
SAFP         Superintendencia de Administradoras Privadas de Fondos de Pensiones
SAL          Structural Adjustment Loan
SBS          Superindentencia de Bancos y Seguros
SECAL        Sector Adjustment Loan
SNP          Sistema Nacional de Pensiones
SPP          Sistema Privado de Pensiones
SUTNAT       Superintendencia Nacional de Tributaci6n
Vice President:       Shahid Javed Burki
Country Director:    Isabel Guerrero
Sector Director       Danny Leipziger
Task Team Leader:     Ernesto May
Co-Task Managers:     Fred Levy
John Pollner



FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF PERU
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN II
LOAN SUMMARY
Borrower:               The Republic of Peru
Implementing Agency:    Ministry of the Economy and Finance
Beneficiaries:          Financial sector regulatory agencies (banking, securities,
pensions), the banking industry, pension fund affiliates, pension
fund institutions, and the Treasury of Peru.
Poverty:                A social protection component is included under the loan to ensure
protection of key social programs during the adjustment period,
and to have in place contingency programs for the temporary
provision of employment to vulnerable groups. The latter would
be triggered by changes in pre-specified indicators linked to
adverse economic developments.
Amount:                 US $300 million, to be disbursed in two tranches of US $175
million for first tranche and $125 million for second tranche
(before applying front-end fee).
Terms:                  LIBOR-based US Dollar loan with a grace period of 5 years, a
final maturity of 17 years, and level repayment of principal, at the
Bank's standard variable interest rate.
Commitment Fee:         0.75 percent on undisbursed loan balances, beginning 60 days after
Loan signing.
Front-end Fee:          1 percent of the loan amount payable upon effectiveness.
Schedule of Disbursements: First tranche to be disbursed upon effectiveness. All conditionality
to be met before Board presentation except for standard
effectiveness conditions. Second tranche estimated to be disbursed
nine months after first tranche release, after meeting second
tranche conditionality.
Economic Rate of Return: Not applicable.
Project Identification No.: PE-PE-65596.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



REPUBLIC OF PERU
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN II
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Loan Summary ......................................................    .i
PART I. Recent Economic Developments and Prospects .......................................................                       1
A. Economic Context .......................................................                                                   1
B. Recent Economic Developments ......................................................2
C. Economic Prospects and Financing Requirements .......................................................4
PART II. Financial Sector Context and the Reform  Program ....................................................... 5
A. Overview .......................................................5
B. The Banking Sector .......................................................6
C. The Capital Market ......................................................                                                 14
D. The Pension System ......................................................                                                 19
E. Social Protection for the Poor and Contingency Plan ......................................................                 25
PART III. THE PROPOSED  LOAN ......................................................                                             27
A. Loan Description: Objective and Rationale for Bank Involvement ........................................ 27
B. Tranche Conditionality .......................................................                                            29
C. Disbursement and Auditing ......................................................                                          33
D. Environmental Aspects ......................................................                                              33
E. Program  Objective Categories ......................................................                                      34
F. Benefits and Risks ......................................................                                                 34
PART IV. RECOMMENDATION ......................................................                                                  35
Annex 1: Policy Matrix ....................................................... 36
Annex 2: Letter of Sectoral Development Policy ......................................................                           39
Annex 3: Timetable of Key Processing Events ...................................................... 49
Annex 4a: Peru - Status of World Bank Operations ...................................................... 50
Annex 4b: Peru - Statement of IFC's Committed and Disbursed Portfolio .                                  ..................................... 51
Annex 5: List of Protected Basic Social Spending ......................................................                         52
Annex 6: Table of Macroeconomic Indicators ...................................................... 54
Annex 7: Peru at a Glance ...................................................... 56
Bank staff and consultants who worked on the FSAL II included: Ernesto May (Task Team Leader, LCC6C); Fred Levy and John Pollner
(Co-Task Managers, FSD & LCSFP); Augusto de la Torre (LCSFP); Gabriella Ferencz (FSD); Fred Truslow (Cons.); Clemente Del
Valle (CMD); and Genaro Alarcon (LEG). The Financial Sector reform program was developed based on the findings from a Rapid
Financial Sector Assessment conducted in December 1998, task managed by Fred Levy (Advisor, FSD), and which included the
following team: Jose Antonio Alepuz (LEGPS); Fred Truslow (Cons.); Clemente Del Valle (CMD); Patrick Conroy (CMD); Eriko Togo
(CMD); Michael Ballhausen (FSD); Gabriella Ferencz (FSD); Santiago Herrera (LCSPR); and Hunt Howell (IDB). Additional key
inputs were received by Augusto de la Torre (LCSFP); P.S. Srinivas (LCSFP); Norman Hicks (LCSPR); Judy Baker (LCSPR), and John
Shilling (FSPEU). Peer reviewers for the FSAL II were Diana McNaughton (FSD) and Alberto Musalem (CMD).



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN II
TO THE REPUBLIC OF PERU
1.    I submit for your approval the following Report and Recommendation on a proposed
Financial Sector Adjustment Loan II (FSAL II) to the Republic of Peru in the amount of US
$300 million. The Loan would be LIBOR-based, US Dollar denominated, with a grace period of
five years, a final maturity of seventeen years, and level repayment of principal at the Bank's
standard variable interest rate.
PART I. RECENT ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS AND PROSPECTS
A.  Economic Context
2.   As a result of decades of mismanagement of economic and social policies, Peru entered the
1 990s with falling per capita incomes, hyperinflation, and one of the worst income distributions
in Latin America. By the time of the change in Government in mid- 1990, per capita income was
below that of 1966; prices had risen by a factor of 27 million over three decades, including
almost 7,700 percent in 1990 itself; tax collections had fallen to less than 5 percent of GDP; the
country was in default on most of its external debt; and political violence was claiming 3,000
lives per year. The immediate priorities of the new Government that took office in July 1990
were to reestablish the authority of the state, to bring inflation under control, to restore the
functioning of the market system, and to provide minimum protection to the most disadvantaged
groups from the expected heavy social costs of the necessary adjustment process.
3.   Among the stringent monetary and fiscal measures adopted were the establishment of the
full independence of the central bank, the prohibition of central bank credit to the public sector,
the elimination of credit subsidies, and drastic reductions in the deficits of the state enterprises.
As a result, the combined public sector deficit was reduced from 7.5 percent of GDP in 1990 to
zero by early 1997. Deficits in the interim were fully financed by external funds, including from
the IFIs, with which relations were reestablished. Structural reforms included the elimination of
controls on prices, interest rates, and foreign exchange transactions; the reduction of tariffs,
removal of administrative trade barriers, and liquidation of state marketing agencies; and the
strengthening of private property rights and a far-reaching program of privatization. Financial
sector reforms included the liquidation of the public development banks, the privatization of
state-owned commercial banks, the elimination of state interventions in the allocation of credit,
the strengthening of bank and capital markets regulation and supervision, the opening of the
financial system to private pension funds, and first steps toward covering the unfunded liabilities
of the public pension system. The negotiation of debt reduction and restructuring agreements
with the Paris Club and commercial bank creditors completed Peru's reintegration into the
international financial system.
4.   Stabilization, structural reforrn, and the restoration of public order achieved the hoped-for
results. Incomes grew an average 5.3 percent per year between 1990-1997, while inflation



-2-
decelerated rapidly, falling to 6.5 percernt by 1997. Increasing price stability encouraged the
remonetization of the economy in both soles and US dollars, and interest rates declined.
Reflecting the improving public sector accounts, domestic savings rose steadily from less than 12
percent of GDP in 1990 to more almost 19 percent in 1998. Investment, spurred largely by the
private sector, rose from under 16 percent to more than 24 percent of GDP over the same period.
Peru moved from being a net exporter of capital to becoming an attractive recipient. Net capital
inflows averaged US$2.8 billion per year during 1991-1996, of which 60 percent was long-term.
The net international reserves of the central bank rose from around US$300 million at the
beginning of 1990 to about US$10 billion by end-1998, providing an important cushion in face
of the high degree of dollarization of the economy and the openness of the capital account.
B.  Recent Economic Developments
5.   After a strong economic performance in 1997, marked by rapid growth, falling inflation, a
primary fiscal surplus, large foreign investment, and a high but declining current account deficit
in the balance of payments, the Peruvian economy was hit with successive shocks in late 1997
and 1998. The Asian financial crisis hurt Peru's export markets, with sharp declines in the prices
of major mineral and agricultural exports; the El Nino phenomenon directly affected fisheries
and agricultural crop production and washed out infrastructure; and the Russian financial crisis
resulted in an abrupt tightening of access to external credit lines by private borrowers and the
banking system. As summarized in Table 1, the cumulative macroeconomic impacts of these
shocks in 1998 included a sharp fall in growth and a deteriorating current account. Fiscal
management remained tight, however, and inflation continued to decline. The real effective
exchange rate depreciated an estimated 11.6 percent over the course of the year.
Table 1: Macroeconomic Impact of External Shocks
1997               1998
Growth of GDP (%)                                   7.2                 0.7
Inflation - CPI (%)                                 6.5                 6.0
Combined public sector balance (% of GDP)           0.1                (0.5)
Public sector primary balance (% of GDP)            1.8                 1.3
Current account deficit, % of GDP                  (5.2)               (6.0)
Money and Credit - Annual % change
Broad Money                                       22.7                 4.5
Total Credit to Private Sector                    36.9                13.7
Real effective exchange rate:'( )' depreciation     3.1               (11.6)
m_                 :



- 3 -
6.   External Environment. The combination of the Asian crisis, which caused steep price
declines for Peru's major minerals and agricultural export products, and the El Nino
phenomenon which affected production particularly of Peru's important fisheries sector, had a
profound impact on the real economy. The export volume of fish products in 1998 decreased by
68 percent compared to the level registered in 1997. Despite higher prices, the export value of
fish products decreased from US$1.4 billion (22.5 percent of total exports) in 1997 to US$634
million in 1998. The value of Peru's major agricultural exports, principally cotton, sugar, and
coffee, were similarly down 23 percent over the period. Falling world prices also impacted
negatively on the value of Peru's metals exports (which accounted for 40 percent of total exports
in 1997). Export prices overall were down 17 percent over the period. Import prices, led by
petroleum, also declined The terms of trade deteriorated by an estimated 13.4 percent for the
year.
7.   Falling external demand and the loss of output from El Nifno thus resulted in a sharp
slowdown in the growth of the economy with GDP estimated to have risen only 0.7 percent
during 1998, as compared to a growth rate of 7.2 percent in 1997. All sectors of the economy
were affected. The rate of inflation, as measured by the consumer price index, continued to
decline to reach 6 percent for the year. The prices of tradeable goods rose relative to non-
tradeables, reflecting exchange rate movement and weakening domestic demand. The El Nifbo
shock was transitory, and the most vulnerable sectors, fisheries and agriculture, have started to
rebound in 1999. Overall recovery in 1999 highly dependent on the growth of the world
economy, which is likely to be slow and continues to be inhibited by uncertainties in
international financial markets.
8.   Monetary and Financial Developments. The third major external shock affecting the
Peruvian economy in 1998 was the Russian debt default, which added to the nervousness of
international lenders extending credits to emerging market economies. This was further
exacerbated by growing fears of devaluation and recession in Brazil. The response was a sharp
fall in external credit lines, intermediated principally through the Peruvian banking system. The
net short-term external liabilities of the financial system (excluding the central bank) had
increased continuously at an average rate of US$269 million annually during 1992-1996.
During 1997, this stock almost doubled, from US$1.7 billion to US$3.3 billion. Net short-term
external liabilities of the financial banking sector reached a peak of US$4.3 billion in September
1998, but by end December had fallen to US $3.3 billion.2
9.   The sudden reduction of external credit lines, combined with deteriorating loan
performance and increased provisioning requirements under the December 1996 banking law,
resulted in a sharp contraction of bank liquidity and credit, and higher interest rates. Commercial
bank credit outstanding to the private sector in dollars, after growing 11 percent through the first
nine months of 1998, contracted 1.8 percent in October-December. Nominal credit outstanding
to the private sector in soles contracted 3.3 percent during the third quarter, before government
policy measures allowed a 9.2 percent expansion to ease the squeeze during the fourth quarter.
In general, the Peruvian economy and financial system have shown resiliency in adjusting to the
series of heavy external shocks. A number of points of vulnerability, however, have been
identified. The proposed loan would support strengthening of the government's capacity to
manage external shocks while fortifying key institutional and regulatory functions to enhance the
2 The impact of the cut of short-term credit lines through the banking system was exacerbated by a parallel reduction in the level
of direct external credit to Peruvian enterprises.



health of the financial system and allow the government to maintain a stable macroeconomic
policy framework.
C.  Economic Prospects and Financing Requirements
10. The Bank is closely coordinating its financial sector adjustment program with the IMF
which is currently finalizing the arrangements for a new EFF for Peru; and with the IDB which is
financing a parallel operation jointly developed with the Bank, covering the banking and capital
markets sectors. The IDB is also including related programs in housing finance and financial
services for low income sectors, as well as technical assistance funding for some of the structural
measures under the joint program. With IMF support, the government's economic program
contained the current account deficit and reduced inflation in 1998. The slowdown in output
growth was stronger than anticipated and the authorities implemented a restrained monetary
policy, with monetary aggregates growing below programmed levels. Although public
expenditure was kept in line, tax revenue deteriorated partly as a result of lower than expected
economic activity, and the program's targets on net domestic financing of the combined public
sector was exceeded. The public sector primary surplus was 1.3 percent of GDP, below the
program target of 1.7 percent of GDP.
11. The external current account deficit is estimated to have increased to 6 percent of GDP in
1998, slightly above the program projection of 5.9 percent, reflecting the large drop in export
volume and a deterioration in Peru's terms of trade, which were only partially offset by a decline
in import volume. The current account is was financed mostly by private inflows (of which
about 75 percent were in the form of foreign direct investment and medium-long-term
disbursements), and by a small decline in net international reserves. During 1999, the current
account deficit is projected at US$ 2.9 billion. Private capital flows are expected to total just
US$ 1.3 billion, continuing their decline from US$ 4.9 billion in 1997 and US$ 2.4 billion in
1998. Given the authorities' desire to replenish half of the US$ 1.0 billion in international
reserves lost during 1998, a projected financing requirement of US$ 2.1 billion will necessitate
increased public sector net external borrowing of about US$ 1.2 billion.
12. The authorities continue to implement a flexible exchange rate policy. Last year, nominal
depreciation of the sol amounted to 15.4 percent with respect to the dollar, and by 11.6 percent in
real terms. So far in 1999 the sol has depreciated by about 6 percent against the U.S. dollar, in
part reflecting uncertainty resulting from developments in Brazil. This has placed increased
pressure on the banking system, as a large share of loans denominated in U.S. dollars were
extended to borrowers without a steady flow of income in foreign currency.



- 5 -
PART Il. FINANCIAL SECTOR CONTEXT AND THE REFORM PROGRAM
A. Overview
13. Structural reform has resulted in enormous growth of the financial system since 1990.
Total deposits in the banking system increased almost fourfold (in US dollars equivalent) during
1991-1997, as M3 rose from 13 to 24 percent of GDP. Commercial bank credit outstanding to
the private sector rose six-fold (also in US dollars equivalent) over the same period, or from less
than 5 percent of GDP in 1991 to 19 percent in 1997. The incipient capital market also grew
rapidly, stock market capitalization rising from less than US$600 million in 1991 to US$17
billion by the end of 1997, before falling in the wake of the international financial crisis to
US$11 billion by end-1998. Although also growing rapidly, the size of the bond market is far
smaller, capitalization amounting to US$1.8 billion at the end of 1998, more than five times the
level of four years earlier. With virtually no public sector domestic debt, bond issuance has been
almost entirely corporate.
14. Despite this rapid growth, the level of financial intermediation in Peru remains well below
that of many other emerging market economies. Many new financial institutions have entered
the Peruvian financial system during the 1990s, but the system continues to be dominated by the
banking sector, the commercial banks accounting for more than 80 percent of the system's assets
and loans, more than 90 percent of customer deposits, and almost 75 percent of shareholders'
equity. Concentration is also high within the banking sector, although declining in recent years.
The four largest of the 25 banks accounted in 1998 for about 62 percent of the assets of the
system, 69 percent of deposits, and 60 percent of aggregate equity, ratios well above the average
in Latin America.3 The banks, moreover, through their financial groups, dominate other
segments of the system as well. In 1998, the three largest bank groups accounted, respectively,
for 56 percent of bank assets, 63 percent of bank deposits, 76 percent of the pension funds under
private administration, 74 percent of the asset value of mutual funds, and 73 percent of the
brokerage of long-term bonds. Such a concentration of market participation and control weakens
competition and increases the risk that a crisis in one part of the system can rapidly spread to the
rest.
15. Although stabilization increased general confidence in the economy, and a gradual shift
occurred after 1993 in favor of domestic-currency assets, the Peruvian financial system remains
highly dollarized. There are no reliable data for the volume of dollars held outside the banking
system, but it is known to be large. In broad terms, Peruvians hold soles largely for small day-
to-day transactions, with most large-ticket items (e.g., mortgage payments, consumer durables
and other imports) priced in dollars. Savings are held largely in dollars. More than three-fourths
of private deposits in the banking system and bank credits to the private sector were denominated
in dollars at the end of 1998. In addition, two-thirds of outstanding private bond issues were
denominated in dollars (including bonds denominated in local currency but whose principal was
indexed to the exchange rate).
3The year began with 26 banks, but the failure of one small bank in December reduced the number to 25. The four largest banks
in order of size are Banco de Crddito, Banco Wiese, Banco Continental, and Interbanc. In February 1999, Sudamneris bought
a controlling interest in Banco Wiese and merged it with its previously owned Banco de Lima, thus further concentrating the
share of the "Big Four" in the sector.



- 6 -
16. As a consequence of strict fiscal discipline and the reopening of Peru's access to external
financing, including from the IFIs, the Peruvian financial system is marked by the virtual
absence of public debt from the domestic market. Government debt is thus mostly external.
Public sector MLT debt (including central bank obligations) totaled some US$19 billion as of
December 1998, equivalent to 33 percent of GDP and almost 340 percent of export earnings in
1998. Debt service in 1998 absorbed about 29 percent of export earnings. At the same time, a
significant proportion of government revenue is also denominated in, or effectively indexed to
foreign currency. The policy against borrowing internally has itself been an important element
of Peru's impressive fiscal performance. The absence of a reliable benchmark yield curve,
however, typically provided by public debt, may be an inhibiting factor in the growth of Peru's
domestic capital market, with the result that large private sector borrowers, too, must go to the
external market to meet their financing needs.
17. The major source of funds to the Peruvian capital markets, accounting for over 40 percent
of daily investments in the securities tradLed on the Lima Stock Exchange, is the private pension
system, consisting of five private pension fund administrators (AFPs), now managing the
individual accounts of some 1.9 million workers and totaling more than US$2 billion. Unlike the
other actors in the financial system, the AFPs are largely invested in sol-denominated
instruments. Moreover, despite their potential importance as suppliers of long-term funds to the
market, AFP investments are predominantly short-term, responding both to regulatory
constraints and to the absence of adequate long-term instruments in the domestic market.
B.  The Banking Sector
Background
18. As noted above, Peru's financial system is dominated by the conmmercial banks. The
Banking Law of 1991 as well as the 1996 Banking Law, prohibited the state from engaging in
first-tier banking activities. The then-existing state development banks, with the exception of the
Corporaci6n Financiera de Desarrollo (COFIDE), were closed; the Banco de la Naci6n was
downsized and restricted to its role as fiscal agent for the government, and COFIDE was
redefined as a strictly second-tier lending institution. Two previously nationalized commercial
banks, the third and fourth most important banks in the system in terms of asset size, were re-
privatized. With the liberalization of the system, foreign investment in the sector has grown
rapidly, through both the entry of new banks and the purchase of shares of existing banks, and
exceeded 40 percent of the system's total equity by end-1998. Nearly half the banks in the
system are now more than 40-percent foreign-owned and controlled, with significant foreign
participations in several other banks as well.
19. The Peruvian banking system experienced very rapid loan growth over the past several
years: commercial bank credit outstanding to the private sector rising 75 percent in 1994, 46
percent in 1995, 50 percent in 1996, and 33 percent in 1997. Although consistent with the rapid
improvement of the macroeconomy and the attendant reintermediation of the economy, at the
micro level banks' credit risk managemernt capacities are likely to have been significantly
strained by such rapid portfolio growth.
20. The sharp improvement in Peru's access to external capital, that resulted from completion
of a debt restructuring agreement with the commercial banks and the country's rapidly
improving economic prospects, was reflected in a strong growth in external short-term credit



- 7 -
lines intermediated through the banking system. These credit lines financed almost 44 percent of
the increase in bank lending to the private sector in 1997 and reached almost 24 percent of total
banking liabilities. Long-term external credit to the banking system financed an additional 5
percent of incremental credit to the private sector in 1997. In contrast, domestic foreign currency
deposits (net of required reserves) accounted for only 15 percent of credit expansion in 1997,
compared to 47 percent in 1996.
21. The availability of credit was thus becoming increasingly dependent on sustained access to
external credit lines. The growth and degree of dollarization of bank lending operations was not
matched on the deposit side, so that the loans-to-deposits ratio for foreign-currency operations
diverged sharply from that of domestic-currency operations. The overall increase in the ratio of
loans to deposits was reflected in a significant reduction in banking system "headroom",
particularly in foreign currency. Bank reserves in foreign currency exceeded required reserves
by only 0.4 percent by mid-1998, while actual sol reserves exceeded required reserves by only
5.2 percent. The stage was thus being set for the credit crunch that resulted from the reduction of
access to the external lines in the third quarter of 1998. The reduction of the mandatory reserve
requirement on foreign currency deposits (see para. 29) partially ameliorated some of the
repayment pressures following the withdrawal of short term external credit.
22. The impacts of external shocks on the real economy were reflected in bank loan
performance (Table 2). The quality of commercial bank loan portfolios had improved steadily
through the middle of the 1990s but leveled off in 1997 and deteriorated significantly in 1998.
By end-1998, the ratio of problem loans (defined as past due loans plus rescheduled loans) to
gross loans reached 10.5 percent, as compared to 7.9 percent at the end of 1996. As a result of
higher provisioning requirements and a rapid growth in provisions over the period, the ratio of
provisions to problem loans increased by 3.5% during 1998. Nevertheless, the level of problem
loans not covered by provisions rose sharply in relation to bank equity.
Table 2: Quality of Commercial Bank Loan Portfolios, 1993-1998 (e.o.p., SI. mn.)
1993   1994    1995      1996      1997      1998
(1) Gross loans            7,059  12,214   18,075   27,151    36,250   44,550
(2) Problem loans          1,136  1,445    1,616    2,155      2,898    4,690
Rescheduled loans          479    601      745      738      1,061     1,589
Overdue loans              657    844      871     1,417     1,837    3,101
Less than 4 mos.        (106)  (188)   (214)    (378)        (428)    (982)
Over 4 mos.             ( 77)  ( 90)   ( 96)    (223)        (297)    (440)
Under litigation        (474)  (566)   (561)    (816)    (1,112)  (1,679)
(3) Loan loss provisions    498    649      793      1,219     1,664    2,855
(4) Equity                 1,396  2,084    2,798    3,966      5,083     6,029
Ratios (%): (2)/(1)      16.1   11.8      8.9      7.9       8.0       10.5
(3)/(2)        43.9   44.9    49.1       56.6      57.4      60.9
[(2)-(3)]/(4)  45.7   38.2    29.4      23.6       24.3      30.4
Source: Superintendency of Banks and Insurance



- 8 -
23. The restoration of confidence in Peru, as evidenced, inter alia, by the remonetization of the
economy, massive capital inflow, and the entry of new competitors, both foreign and domestic,
into the financial sector, brought with it a significant initial decline in interest rates and financial
spreads (Table 3). Nevertheless, rates remained high in nominal terms and in real terms, as
inflation declined even faster. High spreads in the banking system reflect a combination of the
inefficiencies inherited from the past, the strong growth of credit demand that accompanied
financial liberalization, risk perceptions, and the high reserve requirements on foreign currency
deposits.
Table 3: Average Interest Rates ona Commercial Bank Loans and Deposits, 1995-98
Local Currency
MONTH/YEAR            Loan rates        Deposit         Spreads            Inflation
rates
Dec. 1993               173.8 (84.2)     44.1 (-3.0)    129.7 (87.2)           48.6
Dec. 1995               33.5 (20.8)      9.9 (-0.5)     23.6 (21.3)             10.5
Dec. 1996               30.6 (19.4)      10.5 (1.0)     20.1 (18.4)             9.4
Dec. 1997               30.4 (21.4)      9.9 (2.3)      20.5 (19.1)             7.4
Dec. 1998               37.1 (29.3)      12.6 (6.2)     24.5 (23.1)             6.0
U.S. Dollars
MONTH/YEAR           Loan Rates              Deposit rates               Spreads
Dec. 1993
Dec. 1995                  17.2                     6.2                      11.0
Dec. 1996                  16.8                     5.7                      11.1
Dec. 1997                  15.6                     5.2                      10.4
Dec. 1998                  16.8                     5.4                      11.4
Note: Interest rates are annualized weighted average rates for the indicated month; inflation is the average increase
in the consumer price index during the year; the numbers in parentheses are the indicated nominal interest rates
deflated by the price index.
24. Rates and spreads rose sharply in the third quarter of 1998 as a consequence of the
tightening liquidity, rising spreads on and reduction of foreign financial inflows, and the
deterioration of bank portfolios. Higher real interest rates raised credit risk in the system,
leading to further increases in provisions and further credit tightening. The expected
asymmetrical impact of credit tightening on medium and small-sized enterprises, which normally
pay interest rates well above the average rates shown above, was exacerbated by the return to
reliance on the banking system of large enterprises no longer able to borrow abroad directly.
25. Bank earnings have been severely impacted by the externally generated crises and by
increased loan loss provisioning. As a consequence of the deterioration of portfolio quality and
more stringent provisioning requirements, loan loss provisions in 1998 consumed almost 49
percent of net interest income, as compared to only 25 percent in 1996. The return on assets for
the sector fell dramatically during 1997-98, decreasing from 1.6 percent in 1996, to 1.2 percent
in 1997, and to 0.7 percent in 1998. This low level of earnings, together with decreased access to
sources of liquidity and flight to quality among depositors, has increased the vulnerability of



- 9 -
some institutions to external shocks and to continuing poor economic conditions at home.
Liquidity has been doubly impacted by the decrease in cash flow from loan portfolios and by
reduced access to external lines of credit. The current economic environment and expected
increases in non-performing loans and higher provisions, will continue to negatively impact the
banking sector in 1999. With world economic growth rates not expected to recover quickly, the
improvement of portfolio quality is likely to be slow.
26. In late November 1998, a small bank (Banco Republica) accounting for around 1 percent
of the assets of the banking system, was intervened by the Superintendency of Banks and
Insurance (SBS) for having fallen out of compliance with several regulatory criteria, including
individual lending limits, following which access to central bank credit was halted. At the same
time, efforts were proceeding to complete the sale of a medium-sized bank (Banco Latino),
which accounted for about 4 percent of system assets, and which was also approaching
intervention trigger points. In December 1998, COFIDE announced it would make a US$60
million dollar equity investment in that bank, thus becoming the principal stockholder pending
its resale to private investors.
27. Monetary Policy Instruments. Since 1990, the central bank has exerted strict monetary
control while shifting from direct to indirect, mostly market-based tools of monetary
management. The most actively used instruments of monetary policy have been the central
bank's purchases and sales of foreign exchange and open-market operations, for which it issues
its own short-term (7-21 day) debt obligations, in the absence of sol-denominated public debt
instruments or comparable private sector securities. With the accelerating inflow of foreign
capital after 1993, the BCR managed the trade-off between upward pressures on the exchange
rate and excessive domestic monetary expansion by purchasing dollars and mopping up domestic
liquidity through the auction sale of central bank certificates of deposit (CDs). The BCR became
a net repurchaser of its CDs during 1998, with the slowing of capital inflow, the depreciation of
the sol, and the tightening of domestic credit. Given the recent shocks and the consequent
weakening of the financial sector, the monetary authorities may now have less room to maneuver
in managing the trade-off between credit tightening and a stable exchange rate.
28. The central bank imposes a significantly higher marginal reserve requirement on foreign
currency deposits than on domestic currency deposits. In mid-1998, the marginal reserve
requirement on dollar deposits stood at 45 percent, partially remunerated, while the reserve
requirement on sol deposits was fixed at 7 percent, remunerating only excess reserves. The high
reserve requirement on foreign currency deposits was intended to reduce the likelihood of a
currency crisis in the context of Peru's open capital account, and to cushion the impact on the
macroeconomy and financial sector of sudden fluctuations in capital flows. Toward these ends,
the policy served Peru well. The implicit tax on foreign currency deposits has been less
successful, however, in encouraging a more rapid de-dollarization of the econormy. Moreover, it
led the banks to prefer the contracting of external credit lines, which were not subject to a reserve
requirement or other form of taxation, rather than more vigorous mobilization of deposits, and
also motivated the more creditworthy enterprises to seek credit directly from the international
financial market. Indeed, large bank customers were encouraged to place their deposits in
offshore bank accounts, for repatriation via credit lines to avoid the reserve requirement.
Consequently, as noted above, these credit lines grew rapidly in 1996 and 1997. As
demonstrated by the reaction of international lenders to the Russian crisis, the magnitude reached
by the external short-term liabilities of the commercial banks and their borrowers significantly
increased foreign exchange risk in the economy and its vulnerability to liquidity crisis.



- 10-
29. Managing Bank Liquidity. During the second semester of 1998, in order to inject liquidity
into the system, the marginal reserve requirement on foreign currency deposits was lowered in
successive steps from the initial level of 45 percent to 20 percent by the end of the year. At the
same time, a prudential regulation was irntroduced requiring that banks maintain a 20-percent
liquidity ratio against all short-term liabilities, including external short-term credit lines. In this
way, the incentives to banks in choosing between these two sources of funds have now been
effectively balanced.
30. Other measures were also taken in the last half of 1998 to alleviate liquidity pressures
affecting both banks and enterprises. To counter the decline in sol-denominated deposits, public
sector institutions were directed to convert dollar deposits, as they matured, into local currency.
To ease the credit squeeze on small and medium-sized enterprises, the government increased
COFIDE funds available for on-lending in soles through the banking system by S/. 320 million,
financed by external lines of credit and by the transfer of public sector deposits in Banco de la
Naci6n. An emergency decree also authorized Banco de la Naci6n to make deposits in banks
requiring liquidity support, effectively giving it temporary lender-of-last-resort responsibility.
To maintain depositor confidence, the ceiling on deposit insurance on personal accounts was
retroactively raised more than five-fold (from about US$ 4,000 equivalent to US$20,000)
following the Banco Repuiblica intervention. In addition, a US $150 million public bond
exchange was offered for the restructuring of bank debt (since then raised to US $300 million).4
To be eligible for the bond exchange, banks must agree to augment capital, including the
reinvestment of profits, make no additional loans to related enterprises, and ensure that existing
related loans are adequately secured. The amount of bonds exchanged cannot exceed the bank's
capital, and provisions on the exchanged portfolio cannot be reduced. In addition, under a
recently announced program, COFIDE will make available up to US$1 billion of funding
through the commercial banks, enabling enterprises to refinance existing debt at longer
maturities. Loans will be at market terms, and will be subject to COFIDE's normal prudential
limits for individual banks, and the participating banks will bear the full credit risk.
31. Bank Regulation and Supervision. Bank supervision and regulation, which is well
advanced in Peru, is the responsibility of the Superintendency of Banks and Insurance (SBS).
The SBS is also responsible for the consolidated supervision of financial groups. The banking
law and regulations were substantially strengthened in 1996. In general terms, the body of laws
and regulations governing the banking sector, including those for loan classification and
provisioning, is adequate and in conformbity with international standards for bank supervision
(Table 4), and capital adequacy requirements exceed current Basle Committee guidelines. In
August 1997, the SBS raised the minimum ratio of regulatory capital to risk-weighted assets to
9.09 percent (from the previous required level of 8.0 percent), allowing the banks until the end of
1999 to meet the new requirement. While standards are high, further determination as to
whether they are consistently and uniformly applied, is needed. SBS continues to evolve
towards a more risk-based approach in its oversight function and has steadily upgraded its
processes, procedures, and staffing. Off-site supervision is a continuous process based on the
monthly Teports submitted by the individual banks. Normally, comprehensive on-site
4The bonds, which are negotiable in the secondary market, are denominated in dollars and remunerated at the average interest
rate on dollar bank deposits, mature at the end of 2003, and are to be amortized in equal installments over five years. The
exchanged portfolio, which must be classified in the top three of the five ratings categories, will continue to be managed by
the bank on a fiduciary basis, also paying a return equal to the average interest rate on dollar deposits.



- II -
examinations are conducted once a year for each bank, but special "surprise" examinations may
be conducted at any time in response to specific concerns as they arise. Particular attention is
given to the assessment of credit, liquidity, and market risks, information systems, and internal
controls.
Table 4: Provisioning Requirements by Level of Loan Classification (%)
Classification                       Without preferred                   With preferred
Guarantee                         Guarantee 5
Pass / Normal                                1                                 1
Special Mention                              5                                2.5
Sub-standard / deficient                    25                                12.5
Doubtful                                    60                                 30
Loss                                        100                                50
The Government Reform Agenda in the Banking Sector
32. As noted above, banking law and regulation in Peru have been substantially strengthened
and modernized since 1990. Nevertheless, recent difficulties in the financial sector have made
evident several aspects of the banking sector's legal and regulatory framework that required
attention. The government reform agenda includes a number of measures that have been taken
or are being prepared for implementation to further strengthen the financial system. These
measures, which are closely interrelated, include: (i) the enforcement of early and prompt
effective actions to prevent anticipated deterioration in a bank's performance from leading to a
situation requiring formal intervention; (ii) improving the systemic management of liquidity and
access to the central bank's discount facility; (iii) implementing the legal and policy framework
for failed bank resolution; and (iv) strengthening the consolidated supervision of financial
groups.
33. Early Corrective Action. The SBS's authority and willingness to force timely and
effective corrective actions well in advance of the triggering of enhanced surveillance or formal
intervention procedures, by which time a bank may already be at the brink of insolvency, is
crucial for public confidence and to reduce the likelihood and severity of bank failures. Peru's
banking law endows SBS with substantial powers to enforce corrective actions, which in its
judgment are necessary to avoid the future deterioration of bank performance. The SBS also has
wide authority to sanction banks, their managers, and owners for infractions of bank prudential
regulations and failures to adhere to its orders. To anchor the reform program in the banking
sector, important modifications to the banking law were enacted in May 1999, after intensive
discussions with the Bank and within the government. These changes enable SBS to more
effectively utilize its authority to anticipate banking problems before they are manifested in
deteriorating financial performance and to move more expeditiously (through, inter alia, cease
and desist orders) to mitigate emerging bank problems. The law also protects the supervisory
process by providing that the enforcement actions implemented by SBS cannot be halted by
lawsuits. To further strengthen the efficiency and consistency with which it carries out its
responsibilities, SBS is preparing new directives and guidelines for the supervisory staff, setting
Preferred guarantees are defined as those that (i) are rapidly convertible into cash without significant cost; (ii) have adequate
legal documentation; (iii) have no prior claims against them; and (iv) whose value is continuously updated.



- 12-
out the methodologies for risk management analysis and the instruments and sanctions available
to the supervisors for correcting unsafe practices. It has also contracted an international
consultant to carry out an in-depth evaluation of its supervision procedures, to make
recommendations for improvement, and to provide on-the-job training to its bank examiners.
34. An additional important step needed to assure strong and effective supervision, consistent
with international practice and considered a Basle Core Principle, is to extend to supervisory
staff legal protections against civil suits ifor actions taken during the conduct of their duties.
Currently, the Superintendent and Vice-Superintendents enjoy a degree of legal protection under
the banking law, but an effort to extend that protection under the recent modifications to the law
was not adopted by the Congress. Other mechanisms, including an insurance plan, are now
being explored.
35. Management of Bank Liquidity and Intensive Supervision. The rigidity of the formal
process previously defined by the banking law, in which a bank, after having exceeded defined
prudential limits, would be placed under enhanced surveillance ("vigilancia"), had severe
consequences. In particular, the regime provided few tools for rehabilitation of the bank, may
have come too late in any event for rehabilitation to have been a feasible alternative, contained
no mechanism for sustaining the value of the failed bank's good assets, and did not provide
adequate bank restructuring tools and orderly mechanisms for dealing with the systemic risks of
contagion. The new legal framework clarifies SBS's powers to enforce changes in bank
behaviors during the 'intensive supervision' stage prior to enhanced surveillance, when the
rehabilitation of banks which are solvent and salvageable remains a viable option. In the new
legal framework, greater flexibility is provided for the use of the central bank discount facility as
a means of temporary liquidity support. Under the old law, any bank that utilized the facility for
a cumulative total of 90 days out of any 360 days was automatically thrown into enhanced
surveillance, after which it was prohibited from any further access to the discount window.
Under the new law, banks that present an acceptable plan to solve their liquidity problems can
access the BCR's discount facility for up to 90 out of 180 days without triggering enhanced
surveillance.
36. Enhanced Surveillance and Bank Resolution. The recent modifications to the banking law
also define a more orderly and efficient process for enhanced surveillance and, if necessary, the
treatment of insolvent banks during the subsequent resolution ("intervenci6n") stage. The
triggers for putting a bank under the enhanced surveillance regime are more sharply defined, to
include, inter alia, the reduction of the capital adequacy ratio below the required minimum, as
well as a reduction of more than 40 percent in the bank's capital. The SBS is given added
authority to remove managers and directors deemed responsible for the deterioration and to insist
on an immnediate infusion of new capital. The period allowed a bank for improving its situation
to avoid liquidation is shortened. In the event that a bank is unable to comply with the
commitments for rehabilitation made to the SBS during the enhanced surveillance stage, or its
capital decline exceeds 50 percent, its operations are suspended. The bank is effectively taken
over by the SBS, and a process of resolution is begun, under which the authorities have the legal
power to separate, according to specified rules, a so-called "good" bank from the balance sheet of
the failing bank. The assets and liabilities of the "good" bank can then be quickly and efficiently
transferred to one or several existing (and sound) private banks, with market-based techniques
available to facilitate the rapid transfer of assets whose value is uncertain and difficult to
determine without lengthy due diligence. The residual "bad" bank's license will be revoked, and
it will proceed into the traditional (udicial or extrajudicial) liquidation process. Under carefully



- 13 -
defined "exceptional circumstances" involving systemic risks of contagion, the Deposit
Insurance Fund is empowered to participate with its own resources in the rehabilitation of an
otherwise failed bank during the enhanced surveillance stage.
37. The key principle underlying this bank resolution framework is to minimize costs to
depositors and to the State, while optimizing asset value under more efficient bank restructuring
and/or liquidation procedures. The formalization of this type of procedure enables the authorities
to close nonviable banks, while avoiding unnecessary destabilization of the financial system and
the economy, and better preserving assets relative to their liquidation value. This resolution
framework improves overall incentives in the banking system, by removing concerns regarding
contagion risk that tend to inhibit authorities from closing nonviable banks when traditional
liquidation is the only option. The procedures adopted also minimize the risk of losses to the
Deposit Insurance Fund.
38. Coordination Among Regulatory Agencies. Overlaying the process, will be the increased
coordination among supervisory institutions. As described earlier, ownership in the financial
sector is heavily concentrated in a handful of bank groups, which operate mutual funds, pension
funds, insurance companies, and brokerage houses. In addition to ownership concentration, the
banks are also the principal issuers in the bond market, with bank obligations accounting for 61
percent of market capitalization in October 1998. At the same time, pension funds and mutual
funds are major investors in the bonds issued by these banks. Besides possibly constraining
intrasectoral competition, the ability to move assets around within a financial group provide
managers with ample opportunities to avoid or stretch prudential regulations. Such a
concentration of market participation and control poses significant systemic risk for the financial
sector as a whole.
39. The Banking Law empowers SBS to supervise financial groups on a consolidated basis.
Many of the nonbank financial institutions, however, are under the supervisory authority of the
National Companies and Securities Commission (CONASEV) or the Superintendency for
Private Pension Funds (SAFP), whose functions are discussed below. This division of
responsibility is not necessarily undesirable, and similar institutional arrangements have been
adopted in many countries. However, the freedom of financial conglomeration permitted in Peru
requires an intensive coordination and timely exchange of information among the supervisory
agencies, as well as intensive staff training and effort to monitor and evaluate the risks inherent
in group operations. In the past, coordination depended largely on informal, interpersonal
relationships. To assure adequate supervision, the government, under its reform program, is
strengthening and formalizing the coordination and information-sharing among the regulatory
agencies by creating working committees and inter-institutional agreements among the SBS,
CONASEV, and the SAFP, to complement existing mechanisms for coordinating crisis
management and macroeconomic policies more generally.



-14-
C.   The Capital Market
Background
40.   As described above, Peru's capital market has experienced rapid growth during the 1990s
in response to the more stable, revitalized economy; the liberalization of the financial system; the
appearance and rapid expansion of long-term contractual savings (pension funds and insurance);
and the substantial modernization of the legal and regulatory framework governing its
operations. With no public sector domestic debt, bond issues are entirely corporate and
concentrated in a handful of market participants. At the end of the decade, the capital market
remains small and, in many respects, pocirly developed: lacking liquidity and transparency,
attracting few participants, and offering little competition to the dominant banking sector. In
addition to the implications for the mobilization of savings and the efficiency of their use, the
small size of the domestic capital market reduces the access of small and medium-sized
enterprises to investment financing and forces large corporate borrowers to go to the external
market for the bulk of their financing, assuming substantial foreign exchange risk in the process.
41. Market Instruments and Participanrts. The principal capital market intermnediaries as well
as the primary buyers of capital markets instruments (i.e., the mutual funds, insurance funds, and
pension funds) are fully or partially owned by commercial banks. At the same time, more than
half of the bonds outstanding were issuecl by financial institutions. Major issuers of securities,
including the banks themselves, may also be members of the same economic groups. The
principal institutional investors in Peru are the banks, the private pension funds (AFPs), the
insurance companies, and the mutual fund administrators. Overall, these institutions buy more
than 95 percent of the available fixed-income securities, the AFPs alone accounting for almost
half, and the mutual funds for another 30 percent. The insurance companies, which buy about 9
percent of the bonds issued, are only beginning to gain importance. The small size and
illiquidity of the markets, combined with the internal nature of many of its transactions and the
lack of a benchmark yield curve, make asset valuation difficult for issuers, buyers and dealers
alike, they reduce transparency, competition and allocative efficiency, and complicate financial
sector supervision. The 300 equities listed on the Lima Stock Exchange in 1998 were of two
kinds: capital shares and labor shares (Table 5). The latter are non-voting shares created during
the military government in 1970 as a form of profit-sharing and redistribution of ownership, a
rationale that was largely unrealized. Of total issues, only 70 to 80 are actively traded, and only
42 have an annual turnover of more than 80 percent of the shares outstanding. The vast majority
of transactions are concentrated in the labor shares of the largest companies. The low frequency
of trading for most stocks is explained, in part, by the large number of shares that are listed only
to comply with legal obligations. Financial sector enterprises, for example, are required to list
their shares, even though many are closely held. In general, the liquidity of traded shares is very
low, leading to high volatility of share prices.



- 15 -
Table 5: Stock Market Capitalization by Sector and Types of Shares, 1993-1998
(Millions of US dollars)
1993      1994      1995       1996       1997        1998
Capital shares:
AFPs                    58        68        164       245         146         171
Banks and finance    1,176     2,243      2,099      2,411      2,593        1,882
companies
Industrials            837      1,512     2,001      2,205      3,059        2,439
Mining                 281       521        765      1,105      1,452         902
Insurance              337       424        380       357        397          323
Agricultural             0         0          0         0        440          236
Utilities            1.344      1,666     3,706      4,465      5,185        3,284
Other                  140       211        358       411        656          679
Labor shares:
Industrials            640       894        756        653       774          460
Mining                 267       617        580        686       688          463
Other                    0         2          1          1          1          7
Shares issued abroad      0         0        885      1,300      1,977        1,288
Total                 5,084     8,162      11,701    13,842      17,383       12,139
Source: Lima Stock Exchange.
42.   The money market is minimally developed, and there is very little short-term paper
present in the market. The largest volume of short-term instruments are the Certificate of
Deposit (CDs) issued by the central bank, ranging from 1 to 12 weeks in maturity. These,
however, are auctioned in the primary market and do not trade in the secondary market.
Inasmuch as they are used to implement short-term monetary policies, central bank CDs do not
represent a stable source of supply of securities to the market. To compensate for the lack of
short-term instruments, a market for liquid repurchase agreements (repos) has also developed, in
which securities lending and borrowing take place for periods ranging from 7 to 30 days.
43.   Regulatory Functions. The regulatory agency for Peru's capital market is the National
Commission for Companies and Securitites (CONASEV). Under the 1992 law that established it
in its present form, CONASEV's responsibilities go well beyond that of market regulation.
Among CONASEV's specific functions under the law are: (i) to study, promote, and regulate the
securities market and to control the natural and legal persons who participate in it; (ii) to assure
market transparency, proper price formation, and investor protection; (iii) to investigate and act
upon accusations of wrongdoing; (iv) to maintain the Public Registry of Companies and
Securities; (v) to prepare and distribute securities market data; (vi) to supervise the management
and accounting of companies organized under the General Law of Corporations, foreign
enterprises, and cooperatives; (vii) to oversee the activities of auditing firms; and (viii) to control
consultant services.
44.   Stock Brokerage Firms. There were 28 stock brokerage firms in Peru at the end of 1998,
a number that had declined sharply over the course of the year in the context of a declining
market and tightening capital requirements imposed by the regulators. Of the eight largest firms,
six were linked to the largest banks in the country, and the top six brokers accounted for 60
percent of total commissions. Half of the brokerage firms suffered losses during the year, and



- 16-
the total commissions collected by all firms failed to cover their collective operational costs.
Their weak financial situation implies significant counterpart risk for investors and limited
ability on the part of the firms to assume the risks of proprietary trading and market-making
activities.
45.   The Mutual Fund Industry and Asset Valuation Issues. Peru's mutual fund industry was
growing rapidly until recent economic developments and events specific to the industry
precipitated a sharp reduction in overall asset values. Funds under administration grew from US
$140 million at end-1996 to about US $700 million in mid-1998, before falling back to US $400
million in late 1998, following the international financial crisis. After the Russian crisis in
August 1998, banks raised interest rates, as external lines of credit were cut and liquidity in the
system was squeezed. As corporate investors, in particular, sold fund shares for needed liquidity,
they discovered that the value of their principal had eroded. This situation attracted considerable
negative press coverage and led to a significant deterioration of confidence in the market. A lack
of investor sophistication, combined with marketing efforts that had implied guaranteed
investment principal and returns, precipitated intervention by CONASEV. This intervention
culminated in changes being made to the regulations governing asset valuation methodology. As
previously prescribed by CONASEV, bonds with a turnover of less than 20 percent per year had
been valued at original acquisition cost, while more frequently traded issues were valued at
market prices. The new regulations stipulated that the assets must be marked to market, giving
discretion to the individual fund managers regarding the method and periodicity of asset
valuation. This episode highlighted the difficulties of establishing asset values in an
underdeveloped and illiquid secondary market.
46.   Private Pension Funds. The private pension fund administrators (AFPs), now
responsible for the investment of some US$2 billion of contractual savings, are the largest single
source of demand for capital market instruments and account for a large proportion of market
turnover. Nevertheless, the shortage of investment instruments, high administrative costs, and
restrictive regulation have combined to limit both the fulfillment of their potential role as a stable
source of long-term funds and the returns to their affiliates. These issues are further discussed in
Section D below.
47.   Rating Agencies. The law requires that any security offered to the public must be rated
by at least two rating agencies. Doubts have been raised about conflicts of interest and the
quality of ratings. Given the small size of the Peruvian market, it is questionable whether the
existence of the four rating agencies currently operating is justified. Only about 100 companies
are currently rated, and there is little evidence of investor demand for the agencies' output.
Issuers of securities and large investors often employ their own credit analysts to perform the
same function. The raison d 'etre and credibility of the rating agencies might be enhanced, if
they took a longer-term view of business development and made a greater investment in
identifying and analyzing new entrants to the market, such as medium-sized companies.
48.   Clearing House Arrangements. The "Instituci6n de Compensaci6n y Liquidaci6n de
Valores" (CAVALI) is the clearing house for securities transacted at the stock exchange, and for
other transactions occurring outside the exchange. Transactions are settled three days after the
trade date, at which point shares are debited and credited to participant accounts via a book entry
system. All monetary settlement occurs at one medium-sized bank. The consequent settlement
concentration risk needs to be rectified by spreading settlement across multiple institutions of the
requisite financial strength and management capacity to minimize systemic risk. CAVALI



- 17-
currently does not provide a central guarantee of settlement (i.e., it does not assume the role of
settlement counter-party to the seller and buyer). CAVALI is considering modifying this
arrangement. Removing counter-party risk through the provision of a guarantee, would
contribute to market efficiency and overall liquidity.
The Government Reform Agenda for the Capital Markets
49.   Capital market development is an integral component of effectively managing economic
risks. The small size and fragility of Peru's bond and equity markets have left enterprises with
little option but to seek external credit, thus increasing their own vulnerability to exchange risk
and to the volatility of international capital flows. The development of the domestic capital
market would enable them to effectively manage risk through the matching of currency and
maturity between assets and liabilities. Development of such markets in Peru is thus not only a
question of improving the efficiency of resource mobilization and investment in the economy,
but also one of reducing the economy's vulnerability to external shocks. With the rapid past
growth and projected future growth of the pension system as well as other contractual savings
institutions, the constraint is no longer a shortage of investible funds, but rather the lack of
appropriate instruments, infrastructure, and efficient intermediaries. To address these issues, the
government will take a number of mutually complementary measures, which include: (i)
establishing an interagency working committee to examine, in consultation with the private
sector, existing regulatory and other impediments to, and recommend strategies for capital
market development; (ii) clarifying the regulatory mandate and work program of CONASEV to
focus primarily on the securities market, taking into account its accompanying responsibility for
promoting market development; and (iii) establishing an interagency working committee to
develop a government debt management policy, including options for government participation
in the capital markets consistent with a sound framework for asset, liability, and risk
management.
50.   Capital Market Development Program. Development of the capital market requires
breaking out of the "vicious circle" of a small, illiquid market that results in high risks and lack
of transparency for investors, high costs and poor investment incentives for intermediaries, and
high entry costs and limited options for borrowers, all of which combine to keep the market
small and illiquid. Complicating this "vicious circle" in Peru are high financial sector
concentration-with the consequent internal, noncompetitive nature of many of its transactions--
and the lack of a benchmark yield curve typically provided by public debt issues, which makes
asset valuation difficult for issuers, buyers, and dealers alike. As part of the reform agenda, the
government has recently established an inter-agency working committee to identify factors
impeding domestic capital market development. The committee is comprised of all the financial
sector regulatory agencies, MEF and BCR. This committee will conduct a study and issue
recommendations for implementation of policies and instrumentalities to develop the domestic
debt market and the creation of a pricing benchmark for establishing a yield curve, including the
potential roles of the government, COFIDE, and private corporations in the development of
primary and secondary markets in fixed income securities. Private sector participants in the
market as well as external consultants, will support the work of the committee.
51.   Regulatory Functions. CONASEV has made significant strides in modernizing and
strengthening the legal and regulatory regime for the capital market, and improving its own
efficiency. A number of issues remain, however. The first concerns the unduly broad scope of
CONASEV's current functions, many of which are of little relevance to, and distract its attention



- 18-
from its core responsibilities. As part of the reform program, CONASEV has begun
implementing a series of measures to streamline its organization sharpen its focus, and further
such measures will be incorporated into amendments to its organic law. A review will also be
undertaken of CONASEV's resource requirements and necessary measures taken to assure
adequate funding in view of the loss of fees from its budget due to functions dropped.,
CONASEV also needs to further develop analytical methods for asset valuation, market
oversight, and to upgrade its market monitoring and supervisory tools. As noted in Section B,
formal coordination and information-sharing will be strengthened with other regulatory bodies,
in order to better manage the risks of a financial crisis spreading across the financial system. At
the same time, CONASEV will seek to balance its statutory responsibility to both "promote and
regulate" the capital market. Toward that end, it will establish more formal internal processes to
identify capital market promotion strategies and to assure that the impact of its regulatory
decisions on market development are taken fully into consideration. In a number of these areas,
CONASEV will benefit from technical assistance financed by the Inter-American Development
Bank.
52.   Government Debt Management. The government itself could potentially be a key player
in promoting the development of a benchlmark yield curve. Moreover, even if the budget itself
might not carry a significant direct foreign exchange risk (a large proportion of revenues-e.g.,
customs duties--are effectively indexed to the exchange rate), there is a strong argument for the
government to diversify the currency of its debt in terms of its own debt management objectives.
The high currency risks assumed by the private sector, for lack of domestic debt alternatives,
also represents significant indirect risk to the Treasury. For all these reasons, a gradual shift of
the currency composition of the government debt is an option to be explored (although it could
entail somewhat higher debt-servicing costs in the short term, given higher domestic interest
rates). As part of its reform program, therefore, the government will take steps to strengthen its
debt management capacity and to create an analytically based debt strategy, dealing with, among
other factors, the indicated trade-offs between cost and risk exposure and the development of
sound asset/liability management policies. This work will take place under the aegis of ajoint
MEF and BCR working committee to be created as part of the reform program with technical
support coordinated in the Public Credit ]Directorate of MEF.



- 19-
D.   The Pension System
Background - The Private Pension System
53.   The private pension system (SPP) has, since it started operations in mid-1993, become
the principal source of retirement security for Peruvian employees in the formal sector and the
most important source of domestic investment capital for the Peruvian financial system. Some
1.9 million contributing employees (affiliates) are now enrolled compared to under 1 million in
the competing public national system (SNP). By the end of 1998, contributions to the private
pension funds reached 100 million soles a month despite a recession, and the value of the
pension funds under administration reached 5.5 billion soles (US$1.8 billion at the then
prevailing exchange rate). AFPs accounted in 1998 for about 40 percent of the daily investments
in securities on the Lima Securities Exchange (up to 90 percent for fixed income securities) and
about one-seventh of national savings.
54.   The SPP was designed along the lines of the Chilean model, under which private
administrators (AFPs) receive contributions from, and are paid commissions by affiliates who
have individual retirement accounts in funds independently managed by the AFPs. Pension
benefits for each affiliate are funded solely from the assets and earnings of their retirement
accounts and an insurance policy paid by the affiliate covering death and disability before
retirement. The government, in the case of Peru, provides no guarantee or minimum pension.
The SPP is regulated strictly by the Superintendency of AFPs (SAFP), an independent public
agency. Peru's relatively small middle class and capital market constrain the growth of, and
increase risks to the system, which also faces continued competition from the open national
system. The original eight AFPs have been reduced by mergers to five, three of which have just
reached break-even operation, while the other two remain in weak financial condition. Planned
changes include actions to reduce high costs, improve collections, reduce systemic risks, and
expand the reach and flexibility of the system.
55.   Characteristics of the Private System. AFPs collect monthly pension contributions from
employers equal to 8 percent of affiliate salaries, plus a commission determined by the AFP
equal to 2.3 - 2.5 percent of salary, and a death and disability insurance premiurn negotiated by
the AFP with an insurance company equal to 1.3 - 1.4 percent of salary." As in Chile and
elsewhere, commissions are front-loaded and make up about 22 percent of total monthly
payments by affiliates for retirement benefits, excluding insurance. Commissions are charged
for each contribution as it is made. Because commission payments are set as a percentage of
salaries (instead of as a percentage of funds under administration, as is customary for mutual
funds), commissions decline over time as a percentage of total invested funds. For an affiliate
with 10 years of participation, the effective annual rate is equivalent to about 4.3 percent of funds
invested; after 20 years, the rate drops to slightly over 2 percent, and after 40 years to just under
1 percent. The effective rate would be even lower if the affiliate ceased to contribute for some
period before retirement. In the early years, front-loaded commissions generate a negative return
for the affiliate. Thus, despite a cumulative 5 percent positive real annual return on portfolio
investment since inception, the value of SPP retirement funds after 5 years of operation is about
12 percent less than the aggregate contributions and commissions paid in by affiliates.
" Health insurance premiums are paid separately to the Institute of Social Security (IPSS).



- 20 -
56.   AFPs might be expected to reduce commissions gradually over time in response to
competitive pressures. There is, however, little inclination in the present oligopolistic structure
of the industry to compete on price, particularly since two of the AFPs are not yet profitable.'2
To mandate commission reductions would be contrary to the notion of a private, competitive
system and would likely shrink the already low number of AFPs. In order to facilitate
commission reductions, the regulatory authorities are considering restoring to AFPs the
authority, removed in late 1996, to charge a combination of fixed commissions and commissions
calculated as a percentage of funds under administration, while taking steps to reduce operating
costs.
57.   Market Limitations on Investments and Systemic Risks. Despite their potential
importance as suppliers of long-term funds to the market, AFP investments are largely short-term
in nature. This short-term concentration of their portfolios responds to constraints and incentives
imposed by the regulatory framework as well as to the absence of adequate long-term
instruments in the domestic market. Unlike other actors in the system, AFP investments are
largely sol-denominated. This investmernt pattern leaves AFP affiliates vulnerable to systemic
risks. At the same time, the large sums now being invested by the AFPs and their concentration
in sol-denominated short-term assets make them a potential source of volatility in the financial
system as a whole.
58.   Financial Condition of AFPs. Front-loaded commissions have been important in
financing the start-up of the SPP. At the end of 1997, the year in which the AFPs in aggregate
achieved a break-even level of operations, cumulative commissions paid into the system (766
million soles) were twice aggregate AFP capital contributions (378 million soles). Had the AFPs
charged commissions of 2 percent of fund balances, more comparable to local mutual fund
practices, they would have received only about 170 million soles. As indicated by the following
table, these substantial cash flows have permitted the AFPs to depreciate or arnortize the bulk of
their fixed assets and start-up costs in their first 5 years of operation while attaining some
profitability. System liabilities have declined in the last two years, and profits have risen
substantially.
Table 6. AFP Financial Results (S/. millions)
|~~~~~~~~~ i
AFPs (combined results for system)                  1997                      1998 (to Sept.)
Cumulative capital contributions'3                  378                        382
Fixed assets and intangibles                        347                        383
Less: Depreciation and amortization                 254                        310
Unamortized fixed assets & intangibles               93                         73
Required reserves and investments                    48                         59
Excess of liabilities over current assets             50                         10
Net profit (annualized for 1998)                      14                         35
Source: SAFP, Boletin Informativo Mensual.
59.    Operating Costs of AFPs. Sales costs account for more than 50 percent of AFP operating
costs. AFPs do not make detailed or complete cost breakdowns public, but have estimated that
30-40 percent of their costs are for the sales force and 8-10 percent for publicity and promotion.
12 The Herfindahl-Hirschman (HH) index for Peru's AFPs rose from about 1,950 in 1996 to 2,271 in September 1998, indicating
a high degree of concentration (substantially highet than the HH for the region of 1,373).
13 Estimated from year end capital in annual financial statements.



- 21 -
Estimates of collection costs averaged 5 percent; supervision fees paid the SAFP - 4 percent; and
intermediation costs including brokerage fees, 3 percent. It is evident from the above that
reducing expenditures on sales forces offers the best opportunity for cost reduction. An
important factor in generating the high sales costs is the front-loaded commission system that
concentrates AFP profit opportunities in the higher-income affiliates. These affiliates are in
short supply, and AFPs compete vigorously amongst themselves, paying fees to sales agents of
as much as 15 percent of salary (i.e., half a year's anticipated commissions) to attract such
affiliates.
Background - The Public Pension System
60.   The Oficina de Normalizaci6n Previsional (ONP) was created in 1992 to administer the
defined-benefit, pay-as-you-go National Pension System (SNP). Steps taken in 1996-97 to
reform these systems were supported by a World Bank Pension Reform Adjustment Loan
(PRAL), approved in 1997. The principal objectives of these steps were to improve the terms of
the SPP relative to the SNP, so that the former would be more attractive to new affiliates; close
the Cedula Viva (CV), a state-funded pension system for government employees, and identify its
beneficiaries and costs; establish a framework to fund future government obligations to the
pension system by creating the Fondo Consolidado de Reservas Previsionales (FCR), and make
an initial deposit to the FCR to fund the Bonos de Reconocimiento (Recognition Bonds), which
were created to endow and permit transferability of the accumulated benefits of workers in the
SNP to the SPP.
61.   The Instituto Peruano de Seguro Social (IPSS) recently renamed ESSALUD,
administered both the national retirement and the health insurance systems prior to the creation
of the ONP, and afterwards continued to administer the health system and collect contributions
for both systems. IPSS, however, never developed a system for identifying enrollees in the
health or retirement systems; it simply collected contributions from employers based on their
payrolls, and transferred the monies to the State. ONP thus does not know who or how many
people are contributing to the SNP. It cannot project future pension obligations, because it does
not have the ages, marital status, or number of children of affiliates. The now closed Cedula
Viva (CV) system has about 50,000 active affiliates, and 260,000 retired pensioners, whose
pensions are paid by the over 800 state entities to which they belong. New affiliations to the CV
are prohibited, and the ONP is completing a program started under the PRAL to register all
enrollees and eliminate unauthorized persons from its rolls. As of late 1998, registration had been
completed, and 80 percent of the registrants had been cross-checked against employment records
to confirm the accuracy of inscriptions.
62.   Characteristics of the SNP. The SNP presently contains about 1 million active affiliates,
and 340,000 retired pensioners. It distributes about 1.3 billion soles annually in retirement
benefits, of which 60 percent are covered by contributions from active affiliates, and the
remainder from the public treasury. New enrollment is permitted, despite the establishment of
the SPP. The closing of the SNP to new entrants was considered when the SPP was started and
again at the time of the 1996-97 reforms, but was rejected. Continuation of the SNP commands
considerable political support. In contrast to the SPP, the SNP is a defined-benefit, pay-as-you-
go system; that is, the government commits to pay each affiliate a pension benefit determined by
years of service and pay and not necessarily corresponding to the contributions received from the
affiliate. The lack of a direct linkage between contributions and benefits results in a loss of
control over costs and less attention given to the collection of contributions. In addition, because



- 22 -
obligations to current pensioners are paid from current contributions, funds are not accumulated
to cover future costs.
63.   Funding Arrangements for the Public System and Government Pensions. The Fondo
Consolidado de Reservas Previsionales i(FCR) was established in April 1996 to fund government
pension obligations. The decree establishing the regulatory regime for the FCR allows it to: (i)
invest funds in the domestic market or abroad, (ii) subcontract one or more administrators to
manage the investment portfolio, and (iii) invest no more than 5 percent of the funds in
government debt instruments. The funds of the FCR are declared to be exempt from embargo or
attachment, and may be used only for payment of pension obligations. It is administered by five
directors: the Finance Minister, the General Manager of the BCR, the Head of the ONP, and two
private citizens chosen by the President of the Republic.
64.   The FCR presently administers: (a) US$ 1.06 billion derived from the allocation of
privatization proceeds in March 1997 arid held to fund Recognition Bonds; (b) US$ 180 million
contributed to fund particular pension obligations in connection with the Entel, Electrolima and
other privatizations; (c) US$ 600 million whose earnings are allocated to the "Fondo Nacional de
Ahorro Publico" (FONAHPU); and (d), US$ 350 million (plus US$100 million in real estate)
transferred from the IPSS and also applied to the FONAHPU. The FONAHPU was created in
July 1998, to supplement in equal amounts, each year's pension payments to SNP and CV
retirees with pensions of less than 1,000 soles per month. It is to be funded with up to US$ 1.3
billion from proceeds of the sale of state interests in companies to be privatized. Of this amount,
about US$70 million has been funded to date. Until the rest is funded, FONAHPU will be
supported as indicated above, by earnings on US$ 950 million of the FCR. Most funds in the
FCR are presently invested by the BCR in short- term, international, fixed-income securities in
the same manner as BCR reserves.
The Government Reform Agenda for the Pension Sector
Private System
65.   The reform program for the SPP seeks to: (a) improve the collection of contributions due,
(b) expand investment options available for AFPs to permit better returns and risk management,
and (c) significantly reduce AFP operating costs. In combination, these measures will achieve a
more satisfactory return to affiliates, attract new entrants to the SPP, enhance savings, reduce
systemic risks, and enhance the pension system's contribution as a provider of stable, long-term
funds to the economy.
66.   Collections. According to the SAFP, of the 1.9 million affiliates enrolled in the private
SPP in September 1998, 420,000 (22 percent) had never contributed, and an additional 650,000
(34 percent) did not contribute during the preceding month. The amount in arrears is estimated
at 10-20 percent of scheduled collections, plus fines and interest. In some cases the arrears to the
SPP result from employers erroneously continuing to send payments to the SNP for employees
who have migrated to the private system. In addition, however, many employers traditionally
ignored or avoided their obligations to contribute to the public pension system, and have
continued this pattern of nonpayment for SPP affiliates. In many cases, private sector employers
defer pension payments, in effect using the SPP as a source of credit. Perhaps a third or more of
the arrearages are owed by the public sector, which generally is immune from judicial debt
collection and attachment of accounts. AFPs are thus ill-equipped to deal with wide-spread



- 23 -
collection problems. Because the SAFP has not taken the lead in collection efforts, each AFP
has had to deal with each employer (averaging 40,000 per AFP), involving costly efforts.
67.   As part of the reform program, a new law and accompanying regulations have established
a program for conciliation of accumulated pension debts and payment over three years. The
SAFP and AFPs are authorized to settle collection disputes with employers participating in the
program and to bring criminal charges against delinquent employers. The SAFP is empowered
to inspect employer records or delegate this function to others, impose personal responsibility on
officers of the employer for failure to pay pension obligations, and impose fines. The proposed
law with its complementary regulations, as well as a Supreme Decree requiring public sector
employers to participate in the program, will be enacted in June 1999. The program to improve
collections from public and private sector employers will involve three main components. First,
payments currently being erroneously made to the SNP for public sector employees that have
elected to affiliate with the SPP will be redirected to the latter. This involves (i) cross-checking
between ONP's individual accounts database (to be ready in September) and the SAFP's
database of delinquent affiliates to identify the problems; and (ii) instructions by ONP to the
corresponding employers to correct their records and properly direct payments to the AFPs.
Second, the amount of contributions owed to public sector employees for payments misdirected
in the past to SNP will be determined, and corresponding compensation made. Third, the full
compliance of private sector employers with their pension obligations to the SPP will be
vigorously pursued.
68.   Reforming Investment Regulations. The investment options open to AFPs are,
appropriately, regulated by the SAFP. Under current limits, they may invest only in rated issues,
no AFP can take more than 25 percent of a new debt issue, and no more than 5 percent can be
invested in securitization issues or in Peruvian "Brady bonds". At the same time, AFP portfolio
choices are severely limited by the relatively small supply and diversity of debt and equity
instruments available in the domestic market. These constraints reduce AFPs' ability to diversify
risks. Under the law, AFPs are permitted to invest up to 10 percent of their portfolios outside of
Peru in categories of instruments approved by the BCR. Under the reform program, the BCR
will authorize limited categories of foreign investments but will retain control over the amounts
to be invested, below the 10 percent allowed by law, allowing the proportion to increase as
macroeconomic conditions permit. In addition, a complete assessment will be carried out of
current pension investment regulations, with a view to expanding domestic investment
opportunities consistent with prudential adequacy and responsiveness to evolving market
opportunities.
69.   In addition, to reduce systemic risk, the current requirement that the funds each achieve a
positive real return on their investments over the three-year period ending June 1999, and over a
five-year period thereafter, will be removed. This requirement increases systemic risk, inasmuch
as a steep market downturn could force AFPs either to fund reserves equal to market losses or to
liquidate their positions, thereby contributing to the market fall. A requirement that an AFP's
investment returns not fall below 25 percent of the average for all AFPs will remain in effect.
70.   Reduction of Costs. All the stakeholders in the SPP, including the AFPs themselves,
agree on the need to reduce the system's high operating costs. Thus, a time-bound study is being
14 An immediate reallocation of AFP investments to the external market, however, may not be desirable in the
present macroeconomic environment, and BCR will retain its authority to regulate portfolio limits in this regard.



- 24 -
carried out under the reform program to identify the sources of these costs, including, inter alia,
sales/marketing costs, transfer-inducement costs, regulatory costs, and insurance premiums, and
to take action to reduce them. Possibilities for introducing more varied and lower-cost pension
products to better meet the needs of existing affiliates and to attract new affiliates to the SPP will
also be studied.
Public System
71.   Under the reform program, the government will carry out steps to improve the
management of the SNP and modify its structure to promote greater discipline in its operation,
including: (a) improved collections of contributions due from public and private sector
employers; (b) institutionalization of mechanisms to determine liabilities under the SNP and CV,
and project government pension obligations and future pension reserves, (c) further progress
toward reducing the future fiscal costs of SNP obligations through the implementation of a long-
term investment program for the FCR mranaged by investment administrators, (d) establishment
of a budget strategy for the next three years, for controlling and covering future budgetary
transfers for pension obligations; and (e' additional measures to encourage migration from the
SNP to the SPP, including authorization for the issuance of additional Recognition Bonds or
other mechanisms to provide the transferability of affilitates' accumulated contributions from the
public to the private system.
72.  Improving Collections. As part of the government's reform agenda, the ONP has entered
into a contract with the SUNAT, the NatLional Tax Superintendency, to administer the collection
of pension obligations, including the declaration and payment of contributions, registration of
contributors, establishment and maintenance of individual contributor accounts, enforcement of
compliance, and handling complaints. In addition to improving system administration, this
arrangement will generate vital information concerning affiliates. This will allow the ONP to
project future pension obligations and to identify public and private employers who are not
making required contributions to the SNP and to bring them current.
73.   Improved Financial Management of the SNP. Utilizing the information on characteristics
of SNP and CV affiliates and their accoumts, a study will be undertaken to project the
government's future pension obligations, and the resources needed to cover projected unfunded
obligations. Based on cost and contribution projections being developed by ONP and SUNAT,
the government will define a strategy control and fund pension costs to the budget over a rolling
3-year period. This will be coupled with the employment of investment administrators and the
implementation of a long-term investment program for the funds deposited in the FCR for the
exclusive backing of the Recognition Bonds in order to improve investment returns on these
funds and reduce the government's unfunded liabilities.
74.   Incentives for Transfer to the Private System. Improvements to the private system
outlined above will help to make the SP]P more attractive to workers. In addition, as part of the
reform program, the government will study alternatives for controlling SNP costs, including the
establishment of individual accounts. Under the program, the government will also authorize the
issue of additional Recognition Bonds o:r other instruments, to make accumulated pension
benefits already accrued under the SNP, more portable and attractive for transfer to the SPP.



- 25 -
E.    Social Protection for the Poor and Contingency Plan
75.   If a significant economic downturn were to affect Peru during the period covered by the
program, it is clear from experiences of other countries that the poorest families would be
severely affected. These effects could be felt by households through declining real incomes, as a
result of falling labor demand and resulting increases in unemployment, underemployment,
and/or lower real wages. At the same time, households are likely to face the effects of decline in
public spending leading to a loss in essential services such as health, education, and nutrition,
and an increase in social problems such as a rise in crime and violence."5 Households which
would likely be more vulnerable to economic shocks are those with less diversified household
income, those working in the informal economy where employment is more unstable, and those
lacking access to private or public safety nets. Both rural and urban households would be
affected, with vulnerable subgroups including children and the indigenous population.'6 To
protect those households most affected by a potential economic downturn in Peru, the
Government will undertake two new initiatives under the program. First, spending levels have
been agreed for basic social programs that will be maintained during 1999 and 2000, despite any
reductions in overall government spending induced by a potential crisis and necessary fiscal
adjustments. Second, a contingency plan for providing social protection has been developed that
would implement key employment generation programs targeted to the most vulnerable
segments of the population in the event of a crisis.
76. Protecting spending for key social programs. As part of this operation, the government
has agreed with the Bank on a list of high priority social programs that will be protected from
budget cuts in 1999 and 2000 in the advent of a crisis (see Annex 5). The list of protected
programs, selected in consultation with the Bank, includes programs that are effective in
reducing poverty, are well targeted to the poor, and are likely to experience increased utilization
during a crisis. Spending on these programs represents approximately 14 percent of the total
budget. Monitoring of Government allocations for these programs will be carried out through
monthly reports of budget distributions and expenditures.
77.   Contingency Social Protection Plan. A contingency plan for providing social protection
in the advent of a crisis has also been developed. The plan may be refined in the coming months
through further consultation to better respond to the particular needs of a crisis. The plan would
provide assistance to the affected population through an expansion of existing programs to
provide employment. The implementation of the contingency plan would be triggered with
quantifiable changes in the following indicators: terms of trade, tax collections, and poverty
levels. The level of changes in these indicators, based on economic performance data over time,
are an 18 percent decline in terms of trade from the same three month period in the previous
year, a 12 percent drop in three consecutive months in collected current revenues from the same
period in the previous year, or an increase of 3 percentage points in the poverty rate from the
same period during the previous year17.
78.   If economic performance deteriorates and results in a significant change in any of three
indicators exceeding the levels above, this would necessitate the implementation of the
5 See for example, Atinc, T. M., and M. Walton, "Social Consequences of the East Asian Financial Crisis", The World Bank
September 1998.
16 Based on information from the World Bank Poverty Assessment, 1998.
'7 The terms of trade and tax data are collected monthly; the poverty data collected quarterly. The poverty rate is based on the
percentage of population unable to consume a basket of basic goods and non-food items.



- 26 -
contingency plan. The plan includes provisions for the expansion of three existing programs
which would provide temporary employment for those who have been identified as vulnerable in
both urban and rural areas, depending on the nature of the crisis. Program expansion levels
would be based on need, with a minimum spending level of S/. 30 million creating between
40,000 and 250,000 person months of employment, depending on the program. The programs
include the construction of rural roads (Caminos Rurales), the financing of community based
social and economic infrastructure and productive activities through FONCODES, and a food-
for-work program which currently provides assistance for small rural community works
(PRONAA). Participation in the programs under the contingency plan would be limited to one
member per family for a period of up to six months, depending on the program, with benefits
equivalent to a value lower than the local market wage. Expansion of the programs would be
targeted to selected geographic areas based on need. Further targeting would be carried out
through self-selection given the low wage levels and labor intensive nature of the work.
79.   The rural roads program (Caminos Rurales) finances the construction, rehabilitation and
maintenance of rural roads and key links connecting to the primary road system in selected poor
areas of the country. The program is operated by the Ministry of Transport, Communications,
Housing and Construction and is financed by the World Bank and the Inter-American
Development Bank. Currently, the program operates mainly in the Sierra, and in some areas of
the Ceja de Selva. These investments help alleviate rural poverty and raise living standards of
rural communities through increased access to basic social and economic and income-generating
activities, and through the direct generation of employment. While employment generation is
not a long term objective, the type of work carried out is labor intensive, drawing on the local
labor force. Expansion of this program under the contingency plan would be targeted to those
areas most affected by a crisis, with temporary employment limited to two and a half months per
beneficiary, at a wage rate of S/. 360 per month.
80. FONCODES, the Government's social investment fund, finances community-based
subprojects in social and economic infrastructure, productive activities, as well a series of special
projects that include the production and distribution of school uniforms, shoes, school breakfasts
and school furniture through urban microenterprises. FONCODES operates out of the Ministry
of the Presidency with financing (on the first component only) from the World Bank and Inter-
American Development Bank. Subprojects are identified and executed by community groups, in
cooperation with NGOs, local governments and line ministries. Under the contingency plan, the
Government would identify, within the rmenu of FONCODES projects, those which would be
most appropriate for generating urban employment in a cost-effective manner. Employment
would be limited for a period of maximum four months per beneficiary, with wages set below
local market rates.
81.   The food for work program under PRONAA currently operates in poor rural areas.
PRONAA provides food rations as payment for labor in the construction of small-scale
community works. Projects are demand driven, with the community or local NGOs providing
the materials, and community members providing the labor. The food rations provided by
PRONAA are 2 kilos of food per beneficiary, per day of work which is equivalent to 50-70
percent of the daily recommended family caloric allowance. The value of this transfer is
approximately S/. 107 per month. Under the contingency plan, expansion of this program would
be in both rural and urban areas, with the same food ration as exists, and employment generation
limited to six months per beneficiary.



- 27 -
PART III. THE PROPOSED LOAN
A.  Loan Description: Objective and Rationale for Bank Involvement
82. Loan Objective. The objective of the loan is to strengthen the government's capacity to
manage the impact of future economic shocks on the financial system, promote the longer-term
development and resiliency of the system, and enhance its contribution to the overall growth and
stability of the economy. Toward these objectives, the loan will support implementation of a
modernized bank resolution framework coupled with improved surveillance and prompt
corrective actions, and finer-tuned rules for providing liquidity support to healthy banks. In
addition, the loan will support reforms aimed at more systematic coordination of prudential
supervision and crisis management across the banking, capital markets, and pension sectors. In
the capital markets area, measures will be supported to deepen the securities markets, including
the design of an institutional framework for government debt management and its role in the
development of the long-teii fixed-income securities market, as well as to better focus the
mandate of the regulatory authorities. The loan will also support second generation reforms in
the pension sector to improve benefits and expand options to affiliates and enhance the pension
sector's role in mobilizing and channeling a growing long-term savings base to productive
investments in the economy. In this context, the loan will support reforms in the private pension
system aimed at eliminating arrears in employer-funded contributions, improving the scope of
safe and better yielding investment instruments for pension funds, rationalizing the industry's
operating cost structure, and broadening the range of pension products available to workers. For
the public pension system, measures will be implemented to improve system administration,
control costs, and strengthen fiscal management and funding practices.
83. A key aspect of the proposed program will be to ensure, that, if economic conditions
deteriorate on account of external factors while the financial sector reform effort is underway,
measures will be taken to protect social programs for the poor. In this regard, and based on the
experience with the South East Asian crisis, the government and the Bank consider it prudent to
build in the requisite protections during the period of financial sector adjustment. In order to
protect the gains attained in poverty reduction and to mitigate any adverse impact of an
economic downturn on the poor, the government has designed a safety net program that consists
of two elements: First, the protection of high-priority social programs identified by the
government include those that are targeted to the poor and are essential for provision of basic
education, rural development, nutrition and basic health. The protected programs cover about 14
percent of the government's total budget for 1999. In addition, the government has identified
emergency employment measures that will be put in place if an economic downturn occurs. This
contingency plan will permit the expansion of existing programs presently being operated. A set
of indicators has been developed along with a set of critical trigger points - these indicators will
be monitored under the program to determine when it would become appropriate to implement
the contingency plan.
84. Loan Amount and Tranching. The amount of the FSAL II will be US $300 million, to be
disbursed in two tranches. The first tranche of US $175 million will be available upon
effectiveness. The date of release for the second tranche of US $125 million, is estimated to be
nine months after effectiveness.



- 28 -
Rationale for Bank Involvement and Strategy
85. Relation to Country Assistance Strategy. The Bank has supported earlier financial sector
reforms in Peru with adjustment loans for both banking (FSAL I) and pension sector reform
(PRAL). In the most recent CAS discussion on July 22, 1997 (Report No. 1 6796-PE dated June
26, 1997), the consideration of another adjustment loan for the financial sector, with particular
emphasis on second-stage pension reforms "if justified by program content and financial
requirements" was recommended and included in the lending program. The objective of poverty
reduction in Peru is supported by this operation through conditionalities to protect and maintain
basic social programs and key services throughout the program, and provide safety net
contingency funds in the event of economic downturns. This loan, therefore, not only supports
the implementation of the CAS but is critical to attaining its objectives.
86. Timing and Level of Financial Support. The Peruvian economy has been hard hit by a
series of externally generated shocks over the past year and a half, which, despite a solid track
record of good economic management and a vigorous growth rate of 7.2 percent in 1997, have
severely slowed economic growth, widened the current account deficit, reduced capital inflows,
and threatened the sustainability of anti-poverty efforts. The main transmission mechanisms of
these shocks were a deterioration of Peru's terms-of-trade, coupled with a decrease in the
volumes of main exports and a US $2.4 billion reduction in private capital flows from US$ 4.9
billion in 1997 to US$ 2.4 billion in 1998 and a projected US$ 1.3 billion in 1999.
87. At the same time, while the financial sector has proven itself resilient, vulnerabilities owed
to weaknesses in its bank resolution framework and the shallowness of its capital markets, not so
evident during the previous high-growth period, have become more apparent. The proposed
lending operation has been designed and will be carried out in close coordination with parallel
adjustment lending from the IDB and a new EFF program supported by the IMF. The combined
programs of the IMF, IDB and World Bank will boost public sector borrowing, partially
offsetting the projected reduction in net private capital inflows while avoiding a decline in the
level of international reserves over the medium term. During 1999, a projected further reduction
of US $1.2 billion in private flows, and a requirement to replenish international reserves
following a US $1.0 billion decline in the previous year, will require net public borrowing of
US$ 1.2 billion (of which the Bank and IDB will provide US$ 500 million).
Table 7: External F'inancing Requirements ($US billions)
1998            1999 (est.)      2000 (proj.)
Current Account Balance            (3.8)            (2.9)             (3.0)
Financing:
Private Capital Flows              2.4              1.3               2.6
Privatization Proceeds             0.1              0.8               0.9
IBRD/IDB Disbursements             0.0              0.5               0.2
Other Public Disbursements         0.8              1.3               0.5
Repayments                       (0.9)            (0.8)             (0.8)
Debt Relief                        0.4              0.1
Int. Reserves (-) = increase       1.0             (0.4)             (0.5)
88. Under the program, real GDP growth is expected to be around 3 percent in 1999, while the
external current account deficit would be reduced to around 5 percent of GDP. Prudent fiscal
and monetary policy will allow gross domestic investment to start recovering, after an



- 29 -
anticipated decline in 1999 owing to the high interest rates and worsened expectations. The loan,
by supporting implementation of more robust regulatory, supervisory and institutional
mechanisms for the financial system will complement Peru's macroeconomic program and the
strengthening of its external accounts, particularly in the context of the currently unsettled
international financial markets.
B. Tranche Conditionality
Conditions for Board Presentation / First Tranche
89.   Prior to Board Presentation: The Government will have (i) taken the necessary steps to
maintain a sound macroeconomic framework; (ii) agreed to implement an overall medium term
economic reform program as indicated in the Letter of Development Policy (Annex 2); and (iii)
carried out the following specific regulatory and institutional reform actions in the areas of
banking sector, capital markets, and pension systems (see Annex 1):
I. Banking Sector Reform
a.   Banking law modifications and complementary regulations (Supreme Decree on
"Reglamento de Seguro de Dep6sitos", SBS regulations on "Regimenes Especiales,
Disoluci6n, y Liquidaci6n", and FSD Statute) enacted to incorporate new procedures for
timely and efficient resolution of failed banks.
b.  Regulatory directive of the Superintendency of Banks and Insurance issued to set out
policies for prompt corrective and cease and desist orders for prevention of banking
problems.
c.   Terms of reference agreed to with Bank for external adviser to carry out a project to
improve diagnostic and forecasting methodologies, enhance and integrate on-site and off-
site supervision, and upgrade the technical capacity of SBS.
d.   Consistent with the recent amendments to the banking law, time limits on commercial
bank access to the BCR discount facility extended.
e.   Evidence of incorporation of SAFP officials into inter-agency working groups among SBS,
CONASEV and SAFP, covering consolidated supervision, risk management standards,
asset valuation and risk identification issues.
II. Capital Markets Reform
a.  Inter-agency working committee including MEF, BCR, SBS, CONASEV, SAFP, and
COFIDE constituted via issuance of Ministerial Resolution and supporting terms of
reference, to review current impediments to the development of the domestic debt market,
and to evaluate the possible role of the government, COFIDE and private corporations as
participants in spurring the development of such market.
b.   Terms of reference and funding approved for a review of CONASEV's strategy and its
mandate to balance its functions of capital market regulation and promotion.



- 30 -
c.   Working committee including MEF's Public Credit Director and Public Treasury Director,
and a BCR representative, established via issuance of a Ministerial Resolution and
supporting terms of reference, to develop a policy and institutional framework, and
strategy for instituting a systematic approach to government debt management; and terms
of reference for the committee's technical coordinator established.
III. Pension System Reform
Private System
a.   Legislation enacted and complementary regulations issued authorizing settlement and
extended payment program, and granting SAFP access to personnel records of employers
in arrears, with the aim to eliminate public and private sector arrears of employer
contributions to the private pension system.
b.   Supreme decree issued requiring public sector employers to participate in extended
payment program.
c.   Foreign investment instrument categories suitable for AFPs investments approved by the
Central Bank, with AFP portfolio limits for foreign investments set at a minimum of 1%.
d.  Terms of reference established, a consultant satisfactory to the Bank identified, and studies
initiated to identify mechanisms to reduce AFP operations costs, permit additional
investment options to affiliates, an,d attract more workers to the SPP.
Public System
e.    Schedules set and implementation of work program begun to prepare ONP projections of
future SNP and CV pension obligations including numbers of SNP and CV retirees and
active SNP affiliates, and to prepare the carrying out of collection activities under the
SUNAT/ONP contract.
f.    Terms of reference and selection procedure established for the qualification and selection
of an investment consultant for the long term investment program of the FCR, and letters
of invitation issued to pre-qualified investment consultants.
g.    Statement issued by Board of Directors of the FCR, confirming that the assets (and
earnings thereon) in the fund established for the coverage of Recognition Bonds, are
inviolable and can only be used for that purpose.
h.    Private and public system affiliation procedures equalized by ONP to encourage
migration from the SNP to SPP.



- 31 -
IV.  Protection of Social Programs and Vulnerable Populations
a.    Agreed budget allocations for key priority social programs (Annex 5) for the second half
of 1999 effected under corresponding monthly allocations for the relevant executing
agencies.
b.    Contingency Social Protection Plan defined and approved for the expansion of
emergency employment generation to be enacted in the event of an economic downturn
(triggered by changes in pre-specified agreed indicators).
Conditions for Second Tranche Release
90.  In addition to continuous adherence to the commitments for Board presentation and first
tranche release, the Government will maintain a sound macroeconomic policy framework and
carry out the following specific actions prior to release of the second tranche (see Annex 1 for
more details):
V. Financial Sector Reform
a.   Operational procedures of SBS adopted for the implementation of the reformed banking
resolution mechanism, and incorporated into the body of SBS existing policies and
procedures.
b.  Action plan incorporating methods and techniques into the ongoing supervisory process of
SBS based on recommendations drawn from the project carried out with the assistance of
the external adviser, documented and adopted.
c.   Verification of improvements in: bank supervision, including prompt corrective actions
and enforcement, improvements in off-site and on-site supervisory processes, and
application of new bank resolution tools if needed.
d.   Formal inter-agency agreement among SBS, CONASEV and SAFP is in effect to ensure
systematic information sharing, promote consistency in norms across financial sub-sectors,
enhance the financial sector policy dialogue, and facilitate the consolidated supervision of
financial conglomerates. Work plan established to address specific issues identified under
the agreement.
e.   Budgetary autonomy granted to the Superintendency of Banks and Insurance under the
Budget Law for the year 2000.
VI. Capital Markets Reform
a.   An action plan has been approved and adopted for implementation, based on
recommendations of the review in II.a above.
b.   The draft law, satisfactory to the Bank, including modifications to rationalize the functions
of CONASEV, define its funding sources, and improve its capital markets regulatory
capabilities, is presented to Congress.



- 32 -
c.   An action plan to improve the balance between CONASEV's regulatory and market
promotion functions adopted for implementation.
d.  Review under II.c. above completed, and based on the recommendations of the committee,
an action plan adopted for the implementation of a policy and institutional debt
management framework.
VII. Pension System Reform
Private System
a.    All contributions by public sector employers for their employees affiliated to the SPP and
listed under the ONP individual accounts database, that are being erroneously redirected
to the SNP by public entities, are redirected to the SPP.
b.    Notification and instructions to submit debt reconciliation and employee payroll data,
given to 100% of non contributing public sector employers of SPP affiliates,
matched/identified by the ONP/SUNAT database. Employee payroll and related debt
reconciliation data covering at least 7,500 such affiliates, has been submitted by
employers to SAFP for the AFPs.
c.    Reconciliation process completed for, and collections begun or authorized, with respect
to all delinquent private sector employees enrolled in the extended payment program. At
least 200 inspections of delinquent private employers have been carried out by SAFP
prior to August 31, 1999, and at least 100 inspections per month completed thereafter,
with priority given to delinquent employers with more than 50 employees.
d.    A program is authorized by BCR. to increase the current 1% portfolio limits on foreign
investment by AFPs. Under this program, an additional 1% of portfolio will be allowed
to be invested abroad for every US$ 20 million of reserves reached above the net
international reserves target for December 31, 1999, up to a limit of 5%.
e.    SAFP regulations modified and enacted, to (a) expand AFPs' domestic investment
opportunities consistent with prudential standards and evolving market opportunities, and
(b) eliminate the requirement that AFPs demonstrate a positive real rate of return.
f.    Plan, satisfactory to the Bank, adopted to implement measures to reduce AFP operating
costs, open broader investment options to affiliates, and attract new affiliates to the SPP.
Public System
g.   Individual accounts database created, permitting identification and enumeration of public
pension system affiliates, and providing necessary information to project future
obligations of SNP.
h.   Investment administrator(s) selected for the long term investment program implemented
for FCR, and report submitted on investment allocations and execution strategy.



- 33 -
1.   Investment of at least US$220 million equivalent of the FCR fund, under the new
investment strategy.
Study funded under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and analysis initiated to
project future obligations of and required government contributions to the SNP and CV.
k.    ONP to issue report providing ten year projections of government SNP & CV pension
obligations, future pension reserves, and required budget funding for such.
1.    Government to establish a strategy to control and cover future budget transfers for
pension obligations, over the next 3 years.
m.   Adoption of a mechanism to effect the transferability to the SPP, via the offer of
Recognition Bonds or some other mechanism, of workers' accumulated contributions to
the SNP as of the date of transfer, thereby enabling workers to move from the SNP to the
SPP without financial loss.
VIII Social Sector - Protection of Vulnerable Population and Contingency Plan
a.    Presentation of evidence, satisfactory to the Bank, that the 1999 monthly budget
allocations for the priority social programs (Annex 5) were maintained at an aggregate
level equivalent to at least S/. 2.2 billion for the second half of 1999.
b.    Presentation of evidence, satisfactory to the Bank, that an aggregate amount at least equal
to S/. 4.52 billion has been budgeted for the year 2000 for the social programs listed in
Annex 5.
c.    Presentation of evidence, satisfactory to the Bank, that in the event that the pre-specified
indicators in the Contingency Social Protection Plan exceed the agreed trigger points as
listed in such plan, the Government has enacted the expansion of the Contingency Plan
programs in an aggregate level equivalent to at least S/. 30 million.
C.   Disbursement and Auditing
91.   Disbursement arrangements will follow the simplified procedures for SALs/SECALs
approved by the Board on February 1, 1996. The Borrower will open an account in the Central
Bank of Peru. Once the Bank formally notifies the borrower that a tranche is available for
withdrawal, the borrower may submit a withdrawal application so that the proceeds of the
tranche are deposited by the Bank in this account to be used in accordance with the Loan
Agreement. Although a routine audit of the deposit account will not be required, the Bank
reserves the right to conduct one.
D.   Environmental Aspects
92.   The FSAL II has no direct impact on the environment. For the purposes of Operational
Directive 4.01, it has an environmental category of C, which does not require an environrnental
assessment.



- 34 -
E.   Program Objective Categories
93.   The FSAL II belongs to the category of Economic Management. It supports the
Government's economic reform prograrn aimed at improving the environment for sustained and
stable economic growth, by ensuring a stable, appropriately capitalized, and well functioning
financial system. The FSAL II includes features to protect social programs from budget cuts,
and contingency measures targeted exclusively at the poor, in the event that adverse economic
circumstances materialize during the course of the program. Implementation of the wider
financial sector program will also benefit the population at large by eventually generating
improved access to finance and retirement savings. The program thus complements assistance
by the Bank and other donors designed to directly support the Government's social development
objectives.
F.    Benefits and Risks
94.   Benefits. This proposed adjustment loan would have benefits in a number of areas of the
financial system. The modernization of bank supervisory practices and better 'tuned' use of the
central bank's discount facility, will enhance banking sector surveillance and reduce the
frequency and severity of bank failures. Modernization of the failed bank resolution procedures
will reduce potential drains on both the public budget and deposit insurance funds and improve
confidence in the financial system by providing a rapid and efficient mechanism for bank exit,
which will reduce the likelihood of contagion effects. The increased coordination among
regulatory institutions will also strengthen the country's financial management.
95.   In the private pensions and capital market areas, the reforms under the program will
promote a deeper, more liquid and transparent market, reducing the economy's dependency on,
and the foreign exchange risk associated with external financing. Both the anticipated cost
reductions mandated by the proposed pension reform, as well as the improved collection
mandates and broadening of eligible prudential investment instruments (paralleled by efforts to
develop the domestic capital market), will result in more efficient savings intermediation and a
corresponding larger savings stock for beneficiaries. Similarly, the rationalization of the public
sector pension scheme, and the reforms proposed to ensure better cost control and more orderly
funding, and encourage affiliate transfer, will reduce future government outlays and liabilities,
and increase the competitiveness of the pension fund industry.
96.   Risks. The principal risks to the reform program are political and macroeconomic, and
the two are interrelated. Peru will be holding national Presidential and Congressional elections
in 2000, and active campaigning can be expected to begin in the second half of 1999. As in all
countries, this process can be expected to engender increasing pressures for public expenditure,
pressures likely to be intensified if economic growth is slow to recover. Banks, too, could come
under increasing public pressure to ease credit requirements despite the portfolio deterioration
suffered over the past year. The government's demonstrated track record of sound economic
management over the past eight years, and the importance it gives and its responsiveness to the
support of the international financial institutions provide a strong presumption of confidence that
electoral pressures will not be allowed to pull the macroeconomic program off track.
97.   The current outlook is for a gradual acceleration of growth over the course of 1999, as
production recovers from El Nifio, the world economy stabilizes, and confidence in international
financial markets is restored. Some easing of Peru's access to external capital is already evident,



- 35 -
and pressures on the exchange rate, banking liquidity and the domestic interest rate have begun
to ease. This outlook, particularly with regard to access to external private capital, could be
rapidly reversed, however, if the financial difficulties of Russia, Brazil, or other major countries
intensified. A new constriction of liquidity in the economy, coupled with a significant further
currency depreciation, would intensify the immediate portfolio problems of the banking system,
reduce needed credit to the private sector, and make a number of the specific elements of the
reform program-e.g., reduction of arrears to the pension system, strengthening bank loan
classification and, thus, provisioning-more difficult to implement. Additional banks could also
be forced into the enhanced surveillance or resolution regimes, possibly resulting in the use of
seemingly expedient but more costly approaches for restructuring problem banks. There is an
important risk, therefore, that progress under the program could be slowed. The financial
support of the Bank, IMF, and IDB are an important signal to the international financial
community of our continuing confidence in Peru's economic management and creditworthiness
and will help to prevent the above scenario from coming to pass. Setting these reforms in
motion, moreover, is crucial to building Peru's capacity to manage and mitigate future shocks to
the economy and financial system. The govemment's recognition of this necessity and
commitment to the direction of reform, as clearly evidenced in understandings reached with its
IFI partners and the major steps taken toward release of first tranche funds, gives confidence that
the program will be carried out and the expected benefits realized.
PART IV. RECOMMENDATION
98.   I am satisfied that the proposed Loan would comply with the Articles of Agreement of
the Bank, and recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
By:
Sven Sandstrom
Attachments
Washington, D.C.



PERU                                                                               Annex I
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN II
POLICY MATRIX
OBJECTIVES                                       FIRST TRANCHE                                                         SECOND TRANCHE
Macroeconomic Policy
Framework
Maintenance of a sound     Maintenance of an adequate framework of macroeconomic management agreed    Maintenance of macroeconomic policy framework endorsed by the Bank.
macroeconomic policy       with the Bank, covering fiscal, external, exchange, and monetary policies.
framework.
Banking Legal and Regulatory
Framework
*   Develop and institute sound    Enactment of modifications to the banking law, and complementary regulations    Operational procedures for the reformed banking resolution mechanism adopted.
legal/regulatory institutional   satisfactory to the Bank, in effect, in order to establish an effective bank failure    Such procedures incorporated into the body of SBS's existing policies and
framework for bank failure    resolution mechanism.                                               procedures.
resolution.
*   Strengthen bank supervision    SBS Directive issued, setting forth policies for prompt corrective, and cease and   Policies and procedures incorporated into SBS supervisory practices.
to enforce early and prompt    desist type actions.
corrective actions by banks, as
well as cease and desist   Terms of reference agreed to with Bank for an external adviser to carry out a  Action plan documented and adopted, incorporating methods and techniques into
measures.                  project to: (i) improve diagnostic and forecasting methodologies, (ii) enhance and  the ongoing supervisory process, based on the recommendations drawn from the  W
integrate on-site and off-site supervision and (iii) upgrade the technical capacity   project with the extemal adviser.
of SBS.
Verification of improvements in bank supervision including prompt corrective
actions and enforcement, and application of new bank resolution tools if needed.
*   Make more flexible the      Consistent with the modifications to the banking law, the time limits on
lender-of-last-resort      commercial bank access to the BCR discount facility will be extended. BCR will
responsibility of the BCR.  continue to exercise its authority to grant or withhold access to the facility based
upon assessment of the bank's condition, and to make use of the facility by
recurrent banks contingent on the presentation of a plan to reverse liquidity
problems.
*   Strengthen the consolidated    Incorporation of SAFP officials into inter-agency (SBS, CONASEV, SAFP)  Formal inter-agency agreement between SBS, CONASEV and SAFP in effect to:
supervision of financial   working groups dealing with (i) consolidated supervision, (ii) standards for risk   (i) ensure systematic information sharing, (ii) promote consistency in norms across
groups and improve         management, and (iii) asset valuation / risk identification issues.    sub-sectors of the financial system, (iii) enhance financial sector policy dialogue,
information sharing &                                                                             and (iv) facilitate the (off-site and on-site) consolidated supervision of financial
consistency of norms across                                                                       conglomerates.
financial sub-sectors.
*   Establish budget autonomy                                                                          Budgetary autonomy for the SBS granted under the Budget Law for the year 2000.
for the SBS.
Capital Markets Development
*   Address systemic risk via the   A working committee established, including MEF, BCR, CONASEV, SBS,  Review has been undertaken and an action plan based on recommendations, has
development of primary and    SAFP, and COFIDE with agreed terms of reference, to review and make  been approved, satisfactory to the Bank, for implementation.
secondary markets in fixed  recommendations regarding current impediments to the development of the
income securities.         domestic debt market, including the absence of market benchmarks, and to
evaluate the potential roles of government, COFIDE, and private corporations in
the development of the domestic debt market. Terms of reference, membership,
and work schedule satisfactory to the Bank, established.



PERU                                                                               Annex I
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN II
POLICY MATRIX
OBJECTIVES                                       FIRST TRANCHE                                                         SECOND TRANCHE
lmprove capital markets       Terms of reference and funding approved to initiate a review of CONASEV's  The draft Law to improve the efficiency of CONVASEV, rationalize its functions,
regulation and promotion, and  strategy and mandate to balance its functions of capital markets regulation and  define its budget funding sources, and improve its capabilities for capital markets
rationalize institutional  promotion.                                                             regulation; is presented to Congress.
supervisory functions towards
securities market oversight.                                                                      An action plan for implementation of recommendations on improving the balance
between CONASEV's regulatory and market promotion functions, adopted.
*   Develop a strategy for      A working committee established, including MEF and BCR, to develop a   Review has been undertaken and an action plan for a policy and institutional
govemment debt             policy/institutional framework and time-bound work program for government  framework for implementation of a debt management strategy based on the
management.                 debt management. Terms of reference, membership, and work schedule    review's recommendations, has been approved, satisfactory to the Bank, for
satisfactory to the Bank, established, including the terms of reference for the  implementation.
technical coordinator of the committee.
Pension Reform
Private Pension System (SPP)
*   Improve collections from both  Legislation enacted and complemernry regulations issued authorizing extended   Redirection to the SPP of pension contributions for all public sector employees in
public and private sector  payment program and settlement of late contributions and commissions to AFPs,  the ONP individual accounts database whose contributions are being erroneously
employers.                  and granting the SAFP access to personnel records of employers in payments  directed to the SNP by public entities. Notification given by SAFP, to 100% of
arrears, with the aim to eliminate public and private sector arrears of employer  non contributing public sector employers of SPP affiliates matched/identified by
contributions to the SPP.                                             ONP/SUNAT individual accounts database, to submit debt reconciliation and
employee payroll information. For at least 7,500 of such affiliates, employee data
for reconciliation of debts has been fully submitted by employers to SAFP/AFPs.
Supreme Decree issued requiring public sector employers to participate in the  Reconciliation process completed for, and collections begun or authorized, with
extended payment program.                                             respect to all delinquent private sector employers enrolled in the extended payment
program. SAFP has carried out least 200 inspections of delinquent private
employers prior to end-August, 1999, and at least 100 inspections per month
thereafter; priority given to delinquent employers with more than 50 employees.
*   Expand investment options   Categories of foreign investments suitable for AFPs (e.g., investment grade  A program is authorized by BCR to increase current portfolio limits on foreign
and risk management.       sovereign debt, index and fixed-income funds of appropriate quality) specified by  investments of AFPs. Under the program, additional increments of 1%/o, up to a
SAFP and approved by BCR. Portfolio limit for foreign investments of AFPs set  limit of 5% of the portfolio will be permitted for investment abroad for every $20
by BCR at a minimum of 1% of their portfolios.                        million of reserves reached over and above the end-December 1999 net
international reserves target.
SPP regulations modified via enactment of amendments thereof, with a view to (a)
expand domestic investmnent opportunities consistent with prudential standards, and
(b) eliminate the requirement that AFPs demonstrate positive real rate of return on
pension fund investments while providing the appropriate safeguards.
*   Increase attractiveness of SPP   Terms of reference for SPP studies approved, consultants satisfactory to the Bank  Presentation and adoption by the Govemment, of a plan to reduce AFP operating
to workers and expand its  identified, and studies initiated to identify means of (i) reducing the SPP's high    costs, open up wider and lower-cost investment options to affiliates, and attract
coverage of the working    operating costs (sales costs and insurance premiums); (ii) permnitting workers  new affiliates to the SPP.
population by reducing SPP    additional investment options; and (iii) attracting more workers to the SPP.
costs and enhancing
competition among pension
providers.



PERU                                                                               Annex I
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN II
POLICY MATRIX
OBJECTIVES                                       FIRST TRANCHE                                                         SECOND TRANCHE
National Pension System (SNP)
*   Improve accounting, cost    Schedules set and implementation of work program begun to prepare (i) ONP  Individual accounts database for SNP established, affiliates identified and
controls and collections of the  projections of future SNP and CV pension obligations and determine numbers of  enumerated, and all necessary information provided to properly project future
SNP and C0dula Viva         SNP and CV retirees and SNP active affiliates; and (ii) the carrying out of  obligations of SNP.
systems.                    collection activities under SUNAT contract with ONP.
*   Fund future obligations of the   Terms of reference and selection procedure established for contracting of FCR  The investment administrator(s) selected for the long-term investment program of
SNP and CV.                 investment advisor(s), and letters of invitation issued to pre-qualified investment  the FCR, and report submitted on investment allocations and execution strategy.
consultants.
At least 10% of the full amount of the FCR fund invested under the program.
Board of Directors of the FCR issues statement confirming that the assets and
eamings of the fund established for and dedicated to the coverage of Recognition   Study funded under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank and analysis
Bonds, are inviolable and can only be used for that purpose.          initiated to project future obligations of, and required govemment contributions to
the SNP and CV.
ONP to issue report providing 10-year projections of govemment SNP and CV
pension obligations, future pension reserves, and required budget funding for such.
Government to establish a strategy to annually project, control and cover future
budget transfers for pension obligations, over the next 3 years.
*   Reduce future fiscal        SPP and SNP affiliation procedures equalized by SAFP and ONP to encourage    Adoption of a mechanism to enable workers to move from the SNP to the SPP
obligations to the SNP.     migration of affiliates from SNP to SPP.                              (including option of using Recognition Bonds) to permit transferability to SPP of
workers' accumulated SNP contributions as of the date of tramsfer, without
incurring financial loss.
Protection of Social Programs
*   Protection of key social    The agreed budget allocations for key priority social programs for the second half Presentation of evidence, satisfactory to the Bank, that the 1999 monthly budget
programs and basic services    of 1999 provided under the corresponding monthly allocations to the relevant  allocations for priority social programs were maintained at the agreed aggregate
for low income sectors, and    executing units.                                                   levels of at least S/. 2.2 billion for the second half of 1999.
contingency programs to
expand/maintain income      Contingency plan defined, for the expansion of emergency employment   Presentation of evidence, satisfactory to the Bank, that the year 2000 budget for
generation for vulnerable   generation in vulnerable communities, in the event of an economic downtum (as   protected programs is maintained at least at a level equal to the 1999 budget in real
communities in the event of    triggered by changes in pre-specified and agreed set of economic/social  terms (SI. 4.52 billion).
adverse economic           indicators).
developments.                                                                                     In the event that any of the economic/social indicators defined for the contingency
plan reach their trigger points, the Govemment will present evidence, satisfactory
to the Bank that it has implemented the expansion of programs (the Contingency
Social Protection Plan) in accordance with agreed procedures and budget amounts
of at least S/. 30 million.



qSLUCA Dtt .
Annex 2
39 -
/ 
MINISTERIO DE ECONOMIA Y FINANZAS
OFICIO No. 114 -99-EF/10
FINANCIAL SECTOR POLICY LETTER
Lima, May 29h, 1999
Mr. James Wolfensohn
President
The World Bank
Dear Mr. Wolfensohn:
1. The Government of Peru is undertaking a wide range of actions in the financial sector
with the objectives of enhancing the soundness of the banking system, promoting the
development of domestic capital markets, and furthering progress in pension reform. We
consider these actions to be essential to reduce the economy's vulnerability to external
economic shocks and to consolidate the foundation for sustained economic growth and
social development in the long run. At the same time, we believe that in the short run the
government should take precautionary steps to protect the poorest sectors of the population
from the possible negative effects of exogenous shocks and slowdown in economic activity.
Therefore, the government is also introducing a safety-net approach to protect the most
vulnerable groups in society and to maintain the gains achieved in poverty reduction in
recent years. In support of these financial sector reforms and social protection programs,
the government requests a financial sector adjustment loan in the amount of US$ 300
million from the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development.
2.  In support of this request, this letter describes:
a. The government's macroeconomic policy framework and external financing plan,
that have recently been endorsed by the IMF. The framework covers the
management of fiscal, external, exchange and monetary policies.
b. The objectives of financial sector reform and the policy measures to be
implemented, highlighting the govermment's commitrnent to strengthen the
Peruvian banking system, promote the development of the domestic capital
markets, and improve the public and private pension systems.
c. The safety net program designed to protect the gains attained in poverty reduction
and to mitigate any adverse impact of an economic downturn on the poor.



- 40 -
I. Background
3.  Peru witnessed a major economic turnaround during the 1990's. As a result of sound
macroeconomic policies, major structural reforms, and the reestablishment of public
security, hyperinflation was stopped, and sustained growth was restored. In fact, inflation
declined from over 7,650 percent in 1990 to 6 percent in 1998, while average GDP growth
reached 5.0 percent per year during 1991-1998. These accomplishments, in turn, allowed
for an equally impressive improvement in social indicators: reduction in extreme poverty,
increased investment in human capital, and extended coverage of health care. In particular,
the incidence of extreme poverty fell from 26.8 percent of the population in 1991 to 14.7
percent in 1997, and it is the intention of the government to further reduce it to no more
than 10 percent by 2000.
4.  In addition to its macroeconomic stabilization efforts, Peru implemented a wide array
of market-oriented structural reforms during the 1990s. These reforms aimed at enhancing
economic efficiency, stimulating growth, and improving social conditions by fostering
domestic and foreign private investment, and increasing public sector savings and the
quality of public sector investments and social expenditures. The reforms included the
elimination of domestic price controls and subsidies, liberalization of the foreign trade
regime, elimination of controls on capital flows, tax and customs reforms, and the
reintegration of Peru into the international financial community. The privatization program
included the sale to the private sector of major enterprises in the telecommunications,
energy, financial, fishing and mining sectors. A private pension system was created in
1993, and workers have increasingly chosen to enroll in the private instead of the public
pension system.
5.  Against this background, the Peruvian economy suffered three exogenous shocks
during 1998. First, the deepening of the Asian crisis further depressed the international
prices of Peru's main export products. Second, the El Nifno phenomenon, which caused
direct losses to physical infrastructure valued at about US$ 1.2 billion (approximately 2
percent of GDP), also took a toll on economic activity, especially in the agricultural and
fishing sectors. Finally, the Russian crisis caused a virtual halt in capital inflows, resulting
in a sharp real depreciation of the sol and a liquidity crunch, which in turn produced a
severe contraction in domestic demand. Although the financial turmoil has abated, and
capital inflows are coming back to the country, domestic demand is still depressed, and
enterprises in the nontradable sectors that are highly indebted in dollars continue to suffer
debt-servicing difficulties.
II. Macroeconomic Policy Framework and External Financing
6.  The government's economic program for 1999-2001 includes fiscal and monetary
targets consistent with macroeconomic stability and addresses key structural problems in
both the financial and real sectors. The program has been endorsed by the IMF and is the
basis for a third consecutive three-year EFF agreement with the Fund. Moreover, a



- 41 -
program of reforms in the financial and social sectors has been developed in close
consultation with World Bank staff. The macroeconomic program aims at restoring GDP
growth to 3-4 percent in 1999 and achieving a sustainable rate of growth of 6 percent by
2001. At the same time, inflation is envisaged to remain in the 5-6 percent range in 1999
and to drop gradually to 3 percent by 2001.
7.  In order to support a prompt economic recovery, the government has targeted a
combined public sector primary surplus equivalent to 0.9 percent of GDP in 1999 (reduced
from 1.3 percent in 1998). This will result in an overall fiscal deficit of 1 percent of GDP
in 1999, a deficit level well below the average for the region and mainly attributable to the
recent slowdown of economic activity and the associated drop in tax revenues. This fiscal
target will accommodate the lower tax revenues without cuts in public outlays or reductions
in social programns that would deepen the economic recession and harm anti-poverty efforts.
In the medium term, as GDP growth accelerates, fiscal policy will permit strengthening the
budget position; thus, the primary surplus is projected to reach 1.6 percent of GDP in 2001.
8.  Regarding monetary policy, the central bank will continue to utilize base money as its
intermediate target in order to ensure that the growth of domestic credit is in line with the
program's main objectives. In this vein, the government will continue to implement a
flexible exchange rate policy, with discretionary central bank intervention in the foreign
exchange market aiming to smooth out temporary fluctuations in the exchange rate. This
policy will permit the economy to adjust to terms-of-trade or other external shocks and, at
the same time, to reduce excessive volatility stemming from speculative capital
movements.
9.  During 1998, to provide additional liquidity to the economy, the central bank lowered
the marginal reserve requirement on foreign currency deposits in successive steps from 45
percent to 20 percent. Also, at the end of 1998, the SBS introduced for prudential reasons a
20-percent liquidity ratio (including legal reserves) that banks must maintain against all
short-term liabilities, including foreign borrowings. The continued close coordination
between the Central Bank and the SBS will ensure that the banking system as well as
individual banks have adequate liquidity.
10. The above program envisages a reduction in the current account deficit of the balance
of payments in 1999 to about 5 percent of GDP (compared to 6 percent in 1998), despite
some further decline foreseen in Peru's terms of trade. Official foreign borrowing will be
increased in the face of the continued weakness of private capital flows. Nevertheless, it is
expected that more than two-thirds of the current account deficit will be financed from
private sources, including revenues from privatization and other foreign direct investment.
Gross international reserves will be maintained at about the current level of 1 1 months of
import coverage.



- 42 -
III. Structural Reforms and Protection of Social Programs
l1. In addition to appropriate short-term, counter-cyclical macroeconomic policy, the
government recognizes that renewed growth requires that the domestic banks have the
capacity to refinance private sector debt, as current debt-servicing difficulties, resulting
from the recent external shocks, could preclude a sustained recovery. For this reason,
resources borrowed abroad by the public sector are being on-lent to banks by the Peruvian
Development Corporation (COFIDE), a second-tier public financial institution. This
program, which has a US$ I billion ceiling, will provide long-term funds to the domestic
banking system to permit the maturity of bank loans to be lengthened, and to provide
additional liquidity to the system. It is understood that this program will neither entail
fiscal subsidies nor be used to support insolvent borrowers or unsound commercial banks.
Thus, these credits will be subject to COFIDE 's prudential limits for individual banks, the
participating banks will bear the credit risk on the refinanced loans, and related party debts
will not be refinanced under this program.
12. The government considers that the deepening of the structural reforms will foster
private investment, reduce reliance on external capital flows and enhance efficiency
throughout the economy. Thus, the government will continue to implement its ambitious
privatization program, including the sale of all its remaining shares in previously privatized
enterprises, privatization of the remaining publicly owned mining and some small
manufacturing enterprises, and the sale of a number of publicly owned fixed assets. Also,
as a complement of the privatization program, the government is increasing the use of
concessions to foster private sector participation in the economy. Within this program, the
government will award concessions for the management of a number of forests, at least two
highways, and several seaports and airports, including Lima's international airport. This
program will also include the concession of several fields for mining and oil exploration as
well as all state railway lines.  The Treasury's receipts from the privatization and
concession programs are expected to total at least US$800 million in 1999.
13. The government is committed to strengthening and increasing the efficiency of its
social policies. Key social programs, such as basic education and basic health, have been
given priority in the budget. As the government remains firmly committed to reducing
poverty and improving the quality of life of the poorest segments of the population, the
central government budget for 1999 contemplates a reallocation of resources away from
military expenditures towards the education and health sectors. It will continue to improve
the targeting of existing poverty alleviation programs and will strengthen them through
better design and closer coordination among ministries.
14. In order to protect the gains attained in poverty reduction and to mitigate any adverse
impact of an economic downturn on the poor, the government has designed a safety net
program that consists of two elements: first, the protection of the budget of high-priority
social programs and, second, a contingency plan for emergency employment creation. The
high-priority social programs identified by the government include those that are targeted to
the poor and are essential for provision of basic education, rural development, nutrition, and
basic health. The programs protected cover about 14 percent of the government's total
budget for 1999. The government will monitor expenditures under these programs, with



- 43 -
the aim of ensuring that they are carried out efficiently, and provide monthly reports to the
Bank on their actual expenditures. The program of protected high-priority social programs
will be continued through the year 2000 with the same level of resources, in real terms, as
in 1999.
15. In addition, the government has identified emergency employment measures that will
be put in place if an economic downturn occurs. This contingency plan will permit the
expansion of existing programs presently being operated by the Emergency Social Fund
(FONCODES), the National Nutrition Program (PRONAA), and the Rural Roads Program.
A set of indicators has been developed, along with a set of trigger points and these
indicators will be monitored to determine when it might become appropriate to enact the
contingency plan.
IV. Financial Sector Policies
16. In support of its macroeconomic policy, the government has implemented a series of
reforrns since 1990 aimed at enhancing the strength and efficiency of the financial sector.
Among the principal actions have been the liberalization of interest rates and the
elimination of state intervention in the allocation of credit; the privatization of state-owned
commercial banks and the liquidation of state development banks; the progressive
improvement of banking and capital markets laws and the institutional strengthening of the
related supervisory agencies; and the opening of the financial system to private pension
funds and first steps toward covering the unfunded liabilities of the public pension system.
These reforms have been essential to support and sustain the high rates of growth achieved
in the 1990s. However, they now need to be strengthened, and the current regulatory
frarnework needs to be adapted to the new problems and challenges posed by recent
international and domestic financial developments.
17. The Peruvian government considers the policies and measures described in this
section as essential to the realization of its commitment to strengthen the Peruvian financial
system. These policies, complemented by those referred to earlier aimed at protecting the
basic social programs, should contribute to sustained economic and human development.
To achieve these objectives, the policy strategy for 1999 and 2000, rests on three pillars:
a. Further strengthening banking supervision,
b. Capital market development, and
c. Pension system reform.
The specific policy steps that the government intends to take are elaborated below.



- 44 -
Strengthening Bank Supervision
18. The government has taken continuing actions over the past several years to enhance
the soundness of the banking system through the improvement of the legal and regulatory
framework, the supervisory capabilities of the Superintendency of Banks and Insurance
(SBS), and the latter's internal guidelines for the monitoring of, and when necessary
changing, bank behavior. A modem banking law, promulgated in 1996, established new
risk-based supervision (consistent with international standards), including consolidated
supervision faculties for the SBS, and a general framework for preventing money
laundering and for introducing capital requirements for market risks. Thus, minimum
requirements for credit, market and liquidity risk management and control practices have
been put in place; and requirements for entry into the banking system have been tightened.
19. Modifications to the law were introduced in late 1998 and 1999 to enhance the
efficiency of the whole resolution process, by increasing the capacity of the SBS to enforce
prompt corrective actions and improving resolution and liquidation mechanisms. The
triggers for enhanced surveillance have been clarified and sharpened, and the SBS has been
authorized to call for a capital infusion by shareholders, or by a third party when
shareholders cannot fully replenish lost capital.  The law has also introduced new
procedures for failed bank resolution, which are subject to a least-cost criterion and follow
a "good bank/bad bank" approach that serves to maintain the value of good assets while
expediting and reducing the costs of liquidation of the bad assets. Finally, the law and its
regulations empower the Deposit Insurance Fund (FSD), under carefully defined and
circumscribed conditions, to enter into the rehabilitation of a bank to prevent systemic
destabilization. To make these modifications operational, the necessary regulations and
complementary decree will be issued and enacted by May 24, 1999, and a statute defining
the operations of the FSD will be issued by FSD's Administrative Council and approved by
SBS by June 15, 1999.
20. To further strengthen bank supervision, the SBS will continue with the
implementation of a risk-based supervisory strategy. A directive issued in May 1999 will
provide guidelines, so that field supervisory staff apply timely and consistent corrective
actions to prevent unsafe banking practices. Capital for market risks will be required
according to a planned schedule, starting with foreign exchange exposures effective in June
1999; and following with exposures to changes in stock prices effective in December 1999
and interest rate exposures effective in June 2000. The SBS will also seek to strengthen the
role of internal and external auditors to ensure their effective independence from
management. In this regard, regulations will be issued requiring an explanation from the
Board of Directors, to the satisfaction of the SBS, whenever an internal auditor is laid off,
or an external auditing firm is changed. In addition, the SBS will take steps to develop a
new information system to improve information-sharing between SBS and the banks and to
allow for more effective use of the information in the supervisory process. Moreover, an
information systems auditing software will be used during on-site inspections starting in
April 2000. In addition, SBS has arranged to hire an international expert to implement an
in-depth pilot project aimed at developing new supervisory methods that will better



- 45 -
integrate off-site analysis and on-site inspections, while building technical capacity through
an innovative approach to the on-the-job training of its bank examiners. The lessons
learned in the pilot project will be incorporated by SBS into its supervision methodology.
21. Consistent with international practice, the government will extend to the appropriate
levels of SBS staff the legal protections or risk insurance necessary to enable them to carry
out their supervisory functions. Also, to ensure the independence of the supervisory
function from external interference, and its ability to hire and retain the quality of staff
necessary, SBS's budgetary autonomy will be recognized in the budget law.
22. To further enhance financial sector supervision, the government considers that the
coordination of the activities of the different supervisory agencies and the timely sharing of
information among them is essential to reduce the risks associated with related-party
lending and the activities of financial conglomerates.  In this area, the SBS, the
Superintendency of the Private Pension Fund Administrators (SAFP), and the National
Securities Commission (CONASEV) are proceeding to strengthen formal institutional
mechanisms for consultation and the systematic sharing of information in order to ensure
the consistency of prudential norms and facilitate consolidated supervision.
23. The government is aware, in the light of last year's liquidity crunch, of the need to
improve the means by which solvent but illiquid banks can access public resources in an
orderly manner, while assuring that such resources are not used to support mismanaged and
insolvent institutions. As part of the reform of the overall supervisory framework, the
recent amendment to the banking law has made more flexible the lender-of-last-resort
function of the Central Reserve Bank (BCR) by extending the time limits on access to this
discount facility for healthy banks with temporary liquidity shortages.
Capital Market Development Policies
24. The government, with the support of the Bank, will, carry out a comprehensive study
aimed at identifying the most important obstacles that hinder the development of domestic
debt markets and at developing an action plan to address them. Also, the government will
review  CONASEV's regulatory and promotional responsibilities  to ensure that
CONASEV's activities are and remain properly focused on the domestic capital markets,
and that its resources are adequate to the performance of those responsibilities.
25. The government will also improve the strategic management of public debt by
modernizing the current legal, policy and institutional framework in this area. Public debt
management in the future will progressively be based on an asset-liability approach with
proper and explicit risk coverage mechanisms. In this context and in order to foster the
deepening of domestic capital markets by private agents, the government will study the
feasibility and appropriateness of issuing domestic long-term government securities. This
could have important benefits in relation to establishing a yield curve, facilitating price
formation and improving the liquidity of medium and long-term credit markets. The
development of long-term instruments will, at the same time, establish new investment
opportunities for private pension funds, insurance companies and households, and should



- 46 -
also contribute to increase the demand for domestic-currency denominated securities and
therefore the demand for base money.
Pension System Reform
26. Pension system reform has been a major achievement of the structural reforms
program of the government. Its objectives are to: provide higher and more secure returns to
workers' savings for retirement, while expanding the covered population; generate a
growing, dependable source of contractual savings available to finance long-term
investments, while enhancing the depth and liquidity of Peru's financial and capital
markets; and reduce the future fiscal burden of the public pension system, while moving
toward the full funding of existing liabilities. Several measures have been taken in recent
years to achieve these objectives. In order to build on the progress already made toward
these objectives, the government will take additional steps to: (i) improve the collection of
contributions to both public and private systems from public and private sector employers;
(ii) reduce the administrative costs of both systems; (iii) modify the regulatory regime
governing the private system in order to reduce its financial risks, enhance its investment
opportunities, encourage pension product diversification, and stimulate competition; and
(iv) define a strategy for the funding of the future obligations of the public system.
27. The expected future retirement benefits of workers affiliated with the private pension
system (SPP) are currently being reduced by high levels of arrears in employer remittances
of contributions to the AFPs. At the same time, the future fiscal burden of the public
pension system (SNP) to the Treasury is increased by employers' arrears to that system. To
improve the collection of contributions to the SPP, a law has been submitted to Congress to
grant the SAFP access to the personnel records of private sector employers in payments
arrears, to authorize a settlement regime, to extend payment periods for contributions in
arrears, and to assess penalties for noncompliance within the time limits set for making
payments current.
28. A complementary Supreme Decree will require public sector employers at the national
level to determine their debts to the SPP within 15 months and to recognize and pay such
debts. The SAFP and public sector employers will cooperate to make available and review
the latters' personnel records and determine the amount of public debts to the SPP as
promptly as possible. To eliminate one important source of arrears, all non-contributing
SPP affiliates in the public sector will be checked before year-end against the SNP
individual accounts database, and payments being erroneously made by their employers to
the SNP will be redirected to the SPP. The same methodology will then be applied to
private sector affiliates of the SPP.
29. By the end of 1999, the reconciliation process will be completed, and collections
begun or authorized with respect to delinquent private sector employers enrolled in the
extended payment program.   Starting in July 1999, a vigorous program to inspect
personnel records will be undertaken by the SAFP to determine the arrearages of private
sector employers not enrolled in the extended payment program, and enforcement actions



- 47 -
will be brought to require payment. An initial target has been set of 200 inspections by
August 31, 1999 and an average of at least 100 inspections per month thereafter. Every
effort will be made to exceed those targets.
30. To improve the net returns realized by workers from their contributions to the SPP,
thereby making the SPP more attractive to potential affiliates and encouraging broader
worker coverage, the government will undertake a study to identify measures, including
regulatory changes, to reduce the AFP's operating costs. The study will also include an
examination of options for introducing new pension products that may better match the
needs and objectives of different groups of current and potential affiliates, as well as
options to enhance competition among pension fund administrators, including allowing
variations in the structure of contributions and commissions. In addition to this study, the
government has equalized the affiliation procedures of the SPP and the SNP, and will take
measures to increase incentives for affiliates to transfer from the SNP to the SPP, including
fuller reflection of affiliate contributions in Recognition Bonds.
31. To permit the AFPs to better manage their risks, thus contributing to the reduction of
systemic risks in the financial sector, the government will: identify categories of foreign
assets that qualify as allowable investments of the private pension funds, eliminate the
requirement of a positive real rate of return on pension funds in order to reduce systemic
risk during a general market downturn, and review existing investment regulations with a
view to expanding investment opportunities consistent with prudential adequacy and
responsiveness to market possibilities. The regulations to be assessed will include, inter
alia, limits on investments in Brady bonds and the subordinated debts of commercial banks,
and participations in privatizations and in the local and international syndications of
Peruvian companies. As macroeconomic conditions permit, the ceiling on the portfolio
share of investments abroad for private pension funds will be increased.
32. The assets of the Consolidated Pension Reserves Fund (FCR) allocated to finance the
service of the Recognition Bonds, and the incomes earned on those assets, are considered
inviolable and will not be diverted to any other purposes. The government will also
enhance the financial management of FCR funds, by employing professional investment
advisers and introducing an adequate policy framework that will allow diversification for
the fund's portfolios into assets with long-term maturities. At least US$220 million
equivalent of the fund's portfolio will be made available for long-term investment during
1999.
33. To improve public system (SNP) collections in the future, the ONP has entered into a
contract with the National Tax Superintendency (SUNAT), under which the latter will
administer the collection process and create a register of affiliates that will allow the
government to better project future pension obligations of the SNP. Based on annual
projections of the future obligations of the SNP and CV systems, and of the resources of the
FCR, it is the government's intention to define a strategy for controlling and covering
future budgetary transfers for pension obligations. In addition, with a view to reducing the
future fiscal obligations of the SNP, the government will carry out a study of alternative



- 48 -
actions, including its possible conversion into a fully financed regime with individual
accounts.
V. Conclusions
34. Significant progress in modernizing the economy's financial sector and improving
public policies in the social sectors has already been achieved. As described in this letter,
the government is committed to making further progress in these areas. The policies to be
implemented in the following two years should strengthen the soundness of the Peruvian
financial sector and protect the poorest sectors of the population. Therefore, the Peruvian
government requests your favorable consideration of its request for a new financial sector
loan
Yours sincerely,
Vtory Wa(
Mist of conomy and Finance



- 49 -
Annex 3
ANNEX 3. TIMETABLE OF KEY PROCESSING EVENTS
Time taken to Prepare:
(Identification to Negotiations)    6 months
Prepared by:                        Government and World Bank Staff
Identification Mission Departure:   November 26, 1998
Regional Operations Committee:      April 26, 1999
Appraisal:                          May 3, 1999
Negotiations:                       May 25, 1999
Board Presentation:                 June 29, 1999
Planned Date of Effectiveness:      July 15, 1999
Closing Date:                       July 31, 2000



- 50 -
Annex 4a
Peru
Status of World Bank Operations
IBRD/IDA
As of 24-May-99
Original Amount in US$ Millions
Fiscal
Project ID   Year             Borrower               Purpose
IBRD       IDA      Cancellations  Undisb.
Number of Closed Projects: 71
Active Projects
PE-PE-39086   1999   GOP                            URBAN PROPERTY RIGHT                38.00       0.00       0.00       36.00
PE-PE-54667   1998   GOVERNMENT OF PERU             EL NINO EMERGENCY LN               150.00       0.00       0.00       118.23
PE-PE-40125   1997   GOVERNMENT OF PERU             FONCODES II                        150.00       0.00       0.00       65.80
PE-PE-42442   1997  GOVERNMENT OF PERU              SIERRA NATURAL RES.                 51.00       0.00       0.00       27.62
PE-PE-8037    1997   GOVERNMENT OF PERU             IRRIG. REHAB                        85.00       0.00       0.00       63.79
PE-PE-37047   1996  REPUBLIC OF PERU                RURAL RDS. REHAB & M                90.00       0.00       0.00       20.90
PE-PE-8051    1995   SEDAPAL                        LIMA WAT.PRIVZN                    150.00       0.00       0.00       75.76
PE-PE-8055    1995   GOVERNMENT                     PRIM.EDUC                          146.40       0.00       0.00       90.88
PE-PE-8045    1994   GOVERNMENT                     TRANSP.RHB                         150.00       0.00       0.00       19.89
PE-PE-8048    1994   GOVERNMENT                     BASIC HLTHINUTRITION                34.00       0.00       0.00       12.61
Total                                                                                 1,044.40      0.00       0.00       531.48
Active Projects     Closed Projects       Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):            512.92           2,975.35          3,488.27
of which has been repaid:                 0.00           1,237.13          1,237.13
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:           1,044.40          1,738.22          2,782.62
Amount sold          :                        0.00             18.31             18.31
Of which repaid    :                        0.00             18.31             18.31
Total Undisbursed    :                     531.48               0.00            531.48



- 51 -
Annex 4b
Peru
Statement of IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 28-Feb-99
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval            Company          Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic   Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
1979/83/90/93         Buenaventura            0.00    1.69    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.69    0.00    0.00
1982/92/95            Wiese Leasing           8.18    1.43    0.00    8.57    8.18    1.43    0.00    8.57
1984                  Minera Regina           1.89    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.89    0.00    0.00    0.00
1993/94               Yanacocha               5.02     .33    0.00     .71    5.02     .33    0.00     .71
1993/96               Quellaveco              0.00    0.00   11.52    0.00    0.00    0.00    8.86    0.00
1994                  Banco Credito           5.14    0.00    0.00    0.00    5.14    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994                  Peru Prvtzn Fund        0.00   20.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   13.89    0.00    0.00
1994                  PPF Cayman              0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994/96               AFP Horizonte           0.00     .23    0.00    0.00    0.00     .23    0.00    0.00
1997                  Interbank-Peru         20.00    0.00    0.00  100.00   20.00    0.00    0.00   97.98
1998                  agroguayabito           7.00    1.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.00    0.00    0.00
1998                  Latino Leasing         10.00    2.50    0.00    0.00   10.00    2.50    0.00    0.00
1998                  Paramonga              22.00    0.00    0.00   23.00   14.18    0.00    0.00   14.82
Total Portfolio:                  79.23   27.18   11.52  132.28   64.41   21.07    8.86  122.08
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
1998                  WONG                   25.00    0.00    5.00   60.00
Total Pending Commitment:         25.00    0.00    5.00   60.00



- 52 -
Annex 5
List of Protected Social Programs
Second Semester 1999
($US equivalent)
Sector          Program            Sub Program                             Total
Administration and Planning                                               366,239
f Administration   Financial Assistance                    366,239
Governmental      Supervision and Coordination            107,831
Planning
Agriculture                                                              15,330,646
Administration    General Administration                  881,811
Preservation of   Soil Conservation                      1,561,897
renewable natural
resources
Promotion of      Rural Extension                           121
agricultural      Agricultural promotion                  984,542
production        Promotion and Community Assistance     11,439,978
Social and        Assistance to farming and indigenous     9,457
Community         communities
Promotion and
Assistance
Promotion and     Rural Extension                         270,630
Rural Extension   Agricultural Promotion                  182,209
Assistance and Social Insurance                                          148,052,804
Solidarity        Assistance to farming and indigenous    511,431
Assistance        communities
Elderly Assistance                      88,867
Child and Adolescent Assistance       6,108,354
Public Buildings                       389,309
Promotion and Social Assistance       17,141,696
Promotion and     Assistance to farming and indigenous     9,746
Social and        communities
Community         Child and Adolescent Assistance        4,483,284
Assistance        Financial Assistance                   6,411,596
Promotion and Community Assistance    41,683,210
Promotion and Social Assistance       71,183,473
Promotion and     Promotion and Community Assistance      41,837
Rural Extension
Education and Culture                                                   302,150,920
Administration    Financial Assistance                    188,481
Special Assistance   Compensatory Education              5,785,560
Initial Education    Daycare                             12,88,579
Kindergartens                         49,275,133
Primary Education   Primary schooling                   233,616,565
Eradication of illiteracy             4,887,181



- 53 -
Higher Education   University Extension                 591,309
Higher University                      15,228
Educational       School Buildings                      6,500,069
Infrastructure    Public Buildings                       2,815
% Energy and Mineral Resources                                          1,209,383
Energy            Rural Electrification                 1,209,383
l7                   1Generation of Electric Energy          253,578
Justice                                                                34,522,503
Justice           Administration of Justice            29,605,416
Child and Adolescent Assistance       1,357,048
Defense of Constitutional and Legal  2,732,459
Rights
lPublic Buildings                     827,580
Fishery                                          _                      300,556
Promotion of      Development of fisheries               93,866
l_____________ fishery production   Fostering fisheries                 206,690
Health and Sanitation                                                  146,756,466
Administration    General Administration                 30,765
Financial Assistance                 3,472,851
Public Announcements                   17,413
l _____________   ________________ F Public  Buildings                 10,946,362
Collective Health   Basic food and nutrition           13,409,582
lBasic medical attention              113,817
Control of health risks and injuries  1,170,656
E,pidemiological control             5,352,197
PFublic Announcements                 1,258,724
Applied research                      484,174
Promotion and social assistance       1,005,276
Regulation and control                175,334
Ambulatory health                    2,531,922
Individual Health   Basic Food and Nutrition            4,052,924
Basic Medical Attention              65,055,361
Control of health risks and injuries  30,894,660
Public Buildings                     2,495,040
l________________ Promotion and social assistance       1,642,253
Sanitation        Environmental health                   36,397
General sanitation                   2,610,759
Transport                                                               8,305,034
Land transport    Rural Roads                           8,289,155
lRehabilitation of highways             15,879
Housing and Urban Development                                           370,168
Urban             Urban Planning                         370,168
Development
Total                                                                  657,726,128



- 54 -
Annex 6
(Annual percentage change)
Real GDP                                                         7.3        2.5        7.2           0.7        3.0        5.5        6.0
Real domestic demand                                            11.9        0.2        6.7         -0.2       -1.3         4.7        5.6
Of which: private consumption                                   8.1        1.6        4.0         -0.3        1.6        4.0        4.8
Consumer prices
End of period                                                 10.2        11.8        6.5          6.0        6.0        4.0        3.0
Period average                                                11.1        11.5        8.5          7.3        4.5        5.1        3.5
Exports (U.S. dollars)                                          21.9        5.8       15.5        -17.7        12.4       15.0       11.4
Imports (U.S. dollars)                                          38.7        1.8        8.3         -4.1        -4.5        9.5        8.5
Terms of trade                                                   2.8        0.2        5.2          -8.0     -10.3         3.0        4.1
Real effective exchange rate (- depreciation)                   -3.3        0.9        7.4        -11.1         ...         ...        ...
I. Money and Credit
Broad money                                                     24.2       28.0       22.7           4.5        7.3       10.8       10.5
Credittothe private sector                                      33.0       35.6       36.9         13.7        13.4        9.7        8.7
Interest rate (annual rate)
Loans in domestic currency                                    33.5       30.6       30.4          36.5         ...        ...        ...
Loans in foreign currency                                     17.2        16.8       15.6         18.9         ...        ...
(In percent of GDP)
II. Savings and Investment
Gross domestic investment                                       24.4       23.3       24.5         24.6        22.9       23.6       24.1
Public sector                                                  4.3         3.8        3.8          3.8        3.9        3.9        3.8
Private sector"'                                              20.1       19.5       20.7          20.8       19.0       19.7       20.3
National savings                                                17.1       17.4       19.1          18.4       17.8       18.6       19.2
Public sector"'                                                2.1        3.5         4.4          3.7        2.9        3.2        3.6
Private sector                                                15.0        13.9       14.7         14.7       14.9       15.4       15.6
External savings"'                                               7.3        5.9        5.2          6.2         5.1        5.0        4.9
Ill. Combined Public Sector
Combined public sector primary balance                           0.4        1.3        1.8           1.3        0.9        1.3        1.5
Central govemment                                               1.6        2.7        2.9           3.0       2.8        3.2        3.6
Rest of general government                                     -1.6      -1.8       -1.9          -1.9       -2.1       -2.1       -2.2
Public enterprises                                             0.4         0.4        0.7          0.1        0.1        0.1        0.0
Central bank operating balance                                 0.0         0.0        0.1          0.1        0.1        0.1        0.1
Interest due                                                     3.2        2.3        1.7           1.7        2.1        2.1        1.9
Financing                                                        2.8        1.0        0.0           0.4        1.2        0.8        0.3
Extemal                                                        2.3         0.7      -0.5           0.3        1.7       -0.1       -0.1
Intemal                                                         0.5        0.3        0.5          0.1       -0.5        0.9        0.4
Privatization receipts (net)                                   1.5       3.2        0.8           0.3        1.4        1.6        1.1
Other'r                                                      -1.0       -2.9       -0.3          -0.2       -1.9       -0.7       -0.7
(In percent; unless othervise Indicated)
Memorandum items:
Velocity of money5                                              5.9        4.8        4.7           4.5        4.2        4.1        3.9
Credittotheprivatesector/GDP                                   15.0       19.5       22.2         25.5       29.0       29.9        30.6
Share of foreign currency deposits in
total bank deposits                                         72.4       74.9       72.0          77.0       77.8       77.4       76.7
Share of foreign currency loans in total lending              71.1        74.2       77.2         78.8       81.7       81.9        81.8
Nonperforming loans/total loans'                                6.1        5.4        5.8          8.1         ...         -
Provisions/nonperforming loans"                               77.6       79.0       79.7          84.5         ...
Risk-based capital-to-assets ratio                             9.4        10.0      10.2          11.2         ...        ...        ...
Total medium- and long-term foreign public debt/GDP7'         45.1        42.8       30.0         31.1       35.9        33.8       31.2
Total extemal debt to exports of goods and services          490.2      460.4      335.3         388.7      366.1      327.4      300.8
Public external debt service/exports of goods
and services                                                37.9       30.9       23.8          28.1       25.9       23.4       22.6
Total grossofficial reserves to short-term extemal debt"'      89.3     109.7      110.8          92.8       93.9      114.2      113.9
Total gross official reserves to broad money                  78.0        80.7      79.8          79.1       73.9        68.5       64.9
Gross reserves (in months of imports of goods and
nonfactor servicese'                                         5.9        7.5        7.9           7.0        7.3        8.2        7.7
Sources: Central Reserve Bank of Peru; and Fund atff estimates.
"Indudes changes in inventories.
"Exdudes privatization rceipts.
t GDP ronverted into U.S. dollars at the penod average exchange rate,
Inicudes stabstcal descrepency, variation in domestic arrears, and impact of valuaton of privatization receipts at program exrhange rates.
' Defined as the inverse of the rteo of broad money to GDP.
'Annual average.
r Indudes central Resenve Bank of Peru debt
' Includes debt service to the Fund.
8 Net of finandal intermediares! foreign currency deposits vwith the central reserve bank.



- 55 -
Annex 6
A. Balance of Payments
Current account                                          -4,319    -3,604    -3,410    -3,900    -3,043    -3,009    -3,172
Merchandise trade                                       -2,186    -2,000    -1,739    -2,589    -1,522    -1,322    -1,228
Exports                                                 5,576     5,897     6,814     5,610      6,307     7,253     8,079
Imports                                                -7,762    -7,897    -8,553    -8,199    -7,829    -8,575    -9,307
Services and transfers                                  -2,133    -1,604    -1,671    -1,311    -1,521    -1,687    -1,944
Financial and capital account                             3,696     4,565     5,012      2,587     3,349     3,501     3,679
Public sector                                             -292      -415       -60        -76     1,084       -24      -196
Disbursements                                            567       463        777       783      2,011       749       725
Amortization                                            -859       -878      -837      -859       -801      -773      -921
Bonds (net)                                                 0         0         0         0       -126         0         0
Capital transfers (net)                                     19         3        -6          0         0         0         0
Privatization                                             547      1,688       145        50       850        942       685
Private sector                                           3,422     3,289     4,933      2,613     1,415     2,583     3,190
Foreign direct investment                               1,536     1,882     1,884     1,918      1,395     2,394     2,895
Other private capital                                   1,886     1,407     3,049       695        20        189       295
Medium- and long-term loans                             415       219        378       605       684       458        380
Portfolio investment                                    145       342        327      -370       -197       -36       -27
Financial intermediaries"                               306       -205     2,683       -79      -188       -161      -159
Short term (incl. errors and omissions)               1,020      1,051      -339       539      -279        -72       101
Financing                                                   624      -961    -1,602      1,313      -306      -492      -508
Change in central bank reserves (- increase)              -933    -1,883    -1,628       949       -385      -492      -508
Exceptional financing                                    1,557       922        26       364         79         0         0
Debt relief                                              727       602      5,309       373        88          0         0
Change in arrears23                                      680        319    -6,138         -9        -9         0         0
Exceptional financing identified                         150          1       198         0          0         0         0
Purchases of guarantees                                    0          0      -133         0          0         0         0
Financing of DDSR operations                               0          0       790         0          0         0         0
B. External Debt (end-of-period data)
Total external debt                                      33,433    33,466    28,013    28,834    30,482    33,665    33,835
Medium and long term                                     28,033    27,766    21,605    22,189    23,840    24,169    24,209
Public debt                                            25,652    25,197    18,787    18,911    20,062    20,038    19,842
Multilateral creditors                                  3,840     3,670     4,530     4,929      5,677     5,829     5,924
Bilateral creditors                                    11,462    11,237     9,043     8,712      8,733     8,604     8,456
Paris Club                                            9,424      9,152     8,677     8,445      8,558     8,477     8,360
Other bilaterals                                       2,038     2,085       366       267       175        127        96
Private creditors                                     10,350    10,290      5,214     5,270      5,652     5,605     5,462
Central reserve bank3'                                    955        924       795       650       466        361       217
Private                                                  1,426     1,645     2,023      2,628     3,312     3,770     4,150
Short term                                                5,400     5,700     6,408      6,645     6,642     9,496      9,626
Total outstanding arrears                                10,231    10,541        30        23         14        14        14
(In percent of GDP; unless otherwise specified)
Memorandum items:
Current account balance                                   -7.3      -5.9       -5.2      -6.2      -5.1      -5.0       -4.9
In percent of exports of goods and services             -63.3     -49.6     -40.8     -52.6      -37.5     -32.3      -30.9
Foreign direct investment and private medium- and
long-term capital in percent of the current account deficit  45.2  58.3      66.3       64.7      68.3      94.8     103.3
Exports                                                    9.4       9.7      10.5        8.9      11.0      12.0       12.6
Imports                                                   13.1      13.0      13.1       13.0      13.7      14.2       14.5
Total medium- and long-term public debt4'                 45.1      42.8      30.0       31.1      35.9      33.8       31.2
Public debt service5'                                     37.9      30.9      23.8       28.1      25.9      23.4      22.6
Sources. Central Reserve Bank of Peru; Ministry of Economy and Finance; and Fund staff estimates.
"Includes variations in financial intermediaries' reserve requirements on foreign currency deposds.
Includes accumulation of arrears to private and bilateral creditors pending the conclusion of debt negotiations,
and payments and rescheduling of arrears. In 1997, stock of arrears includes prncipal only.
Exdcudes the Central Reserve Bank Of Peru's reserve tranche with the IMF.
nlcudes imputed interest on arrears; in 1997 includes principal arrears only.
As a percent of exports of goods and services. Inlcudes debt service to the Fund.



- 56 -
Peru at a glance                                                              Annex 7
Latin   Lower-
POVERlTY and SOCIAL                                           America'  middle-
Peru   & Carlb,  Ancome;    Development dlamond'
Population, rbld-year (millions)                       2417       494      2,285                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US$)                    2,4600     3,880     1 230
GNP (Atlas method. U.S$ bilmon.5)                      60.9      1,917     2.818
Average annual growth, 1091497
Population I(%)                                         2,0        1,7NP
Labor force m%                                          3,1        23        1.3     GPGross
per                             primary
Most recent estimate (Istast year avaIlable, 199147)                                 capita                        enrollment
Poverty (% of poplation below national poverty line)     84
Urban populaiton f% of lotapopulf ioan)                 72         74        42
Life expectancy t birth yer)69                                     :70       69
Infarnt mortality (perl,000 live bIrths)                40         32        36
Childmalnutrition (% ofchildren under )                  1.,Access to safe water
Access to safe water (%ofp'opullatiorl)                  80 ~    73           34
llliteracy(%Notpopulalion age 15+)                       11        13.        19
Gross primary enrollmient (% of school-age population)  123       111        11'ller
Mvale                                                 126 5                118              Lower-middle-income group
Female                                                121.,                13      _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _         _ _ _ _
1976     1986       1996      1;997
Economic ratlos*
GDP (US$ b lon)15.5                                    13.0       81.0      639
Gross domestic i)nvestmentlGDP                21.9     21.4       23.3      24.5Trd
Exports of goods and serviceL-sGOP            12.0     13.9       12.0      12.6Trd
Grossdornestic savings/GflP                   13.8     20.0       18.       20.8 
Gross national savings/GDP                             15.3       17.3      192T
current account balanoeIGDP                   -7.7     -7.7       -59.9     -omst.3'
Interest p4yments/GPI                          2.2      1.3        2.1       1.~3    DoetcInvestment
Total debt lGDP                               48.8     82.8       481  ~47.          Savings
Total debt service/expeirts                   49.3     210        35.5      31.1
Present value of debt/GDP                       .,38.9 
Present value of debtlexports                   .         ..     287.2                             Idbens
1976-6  1987-9       1996       1997   1998-02
(average annual growth)
GDP                                  1.3       2.3      2.5        7.2       4.1         -Peru
GN4P per capita                     -1,4       1.1     -0.2        0.5       2.4               Lower-middle-income group
1~xp~oftsgoods,and services          2.4       6.1     10.2       13.0      10.5    _______________
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976     1936       1996      1997      Growth rates of output and Investment(%
(%. of GDP)                                                                          40 
Agriculture                                   15.3     11.2        7.4       6.9
Industry                                      34.2     27.4       36.9      36.4     20
Manufactcnumping                             74.1     24.2       23.2      22.09     0      9    ~      4
Services                                      50.5     61.1       55.8      56.7      0                             I
General govemment consumption                 12.2      9.6        8.1       8.4                     GDI    ---GDP
Imports of goods and servir-es                20.2     15.3       16.4      18.6     ________________
(average anual growth)1976486  1987-97                 1996      1997      Growth rates of exports and Imports  )
Agriculture                                    1.4      3.0        5.0       0.5    30
Industry                                       1.5      1.6        2.6       5.9
Manufacturing                               -0.1       1.2       2.5       6.0    20
Services                                       1.0      2.7        1.8       8.8
10
Private consumption                            0.5      1.6        1.6       4.1
General govemment consumption                  1.3      0.0        1.9       4.6     0
Gross domestic investment                     -0. 1     5.8       -3.1      12,7            92   93   94   99   95   97
Imports of goods and services                 -1.3      8.3        0.6      11.3                   Exports   l--mports
Gross national product                         1.0      3.2        1.8       2.4     __________________
Note: 1997 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show tour key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average, If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



- 57 -
Peru
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prices                              1976     1986       1996      1997        Inflation (%)
(% change)                                                                          000
Consumer prices                               33.3     77.9      11.8       6.5    400
Implicit GDP deflator                         29.1     74.7       9.8       8.3    300
200
Government finance                                                                  100
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                   0 -
Current revenue                                 ..    12.6       14.2      14.1              02   93   94   95   95   97
Current budget balance                          ..    -3.7        3.4       2.2                    GDP deflator    :  CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                         ..    -7.3       -1.2      -0.9
TRADE
(US$ millions)                               1976     1986       1996      1997      Export and Import levels (US$ mIllilons)
Total exports (fob)                             ..   2,576      5,897    6,814      10,000,
Copper                                         ..    451       1,052     1,096
Fish flour                                     ..    206        835      1,031     8,0000
Manufactures                                   .      653      1,590     2,043     5,000
Total imports (fob)                              .   3,179      7,885     8,552      4,000
Food                                          ..  432   1,072  1,107                    w               i             i
Fuel and energy                               ..       84       734       780      2,000
Capital goods                                 ..   1,016       2,417    2,816         o
91  92  93  94 S  05   6   97
Export price index (1995=100)                           66        102        97
Import price index (1995=100)                   ..       ..        ..         .                * Exports     K Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                       ..       .._.._..
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                               1976     1986       1996      1997      Current account balance to GDP ratio ()
Exports of goods and services                1,744    3,257     7,312     8,354     o
Imports of goods and services               2,626    3,662      9,985    10,840
Resource balance                             -882     -405      -2,673    -2,486    2
Net income                                   -370   -1,100      -1,642    -1,603
Net current transfers                           ..  ..  689  681  -4 1111111
Current account balance                     -1,197   -1,393     -3,626    -3,408    -8
Financing items (net)                         807      834      5,508     5,036
Changes in net reserves                       390      559      -1,882    -1,628   |-81
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)        331    1,865     10,929    11,254
Conversion rate (DEC, localWUS$)           5.64E-8  2.OOE-5       2.5       2.7
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976     1986      1996      1997
(US$ millions)                                                                       Compositlon of total debt, 1997 (USS millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed         7,576   14,882    29,342    30,388
IBRD                                        148      951      1,633     1,920                          A: 1,920
IDA                                           0        0          0         0            G: 6,654             c 1,011
Total debt service                            865      718      2,931     2,936                                     D:2,285
IBRD                                         20      143        195       182
IDA                                           0        0          0         0
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                              18       96        239       240
Official creditors                          203      153        -23       963
Private creditors                           812      161       -467       373         F 7,190                    : 11328
Foreign direct investment                   170       22      3,242     2,030
Portfolio equity                              0        0        180       327
World Bank program
Commitments                                 174        0        235       507     A - IBRD                      E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                20      119        108      490      B - IOD    D - Other multulateral   F - Private
Principal repayments                         10       66         79        65     c - IMF                       G - Sh-t-term
Net flows                                    10       53         29      425
Interest payments                            10       76        116       117
Net transfers                                 0       -23       -87       308
Development Economics                                                                                                  9/29/98



MAP SECTION



8~~1              78'                       I74'                                              72' 
t              ~~~ECUADOR                                                                    C -       L          
/2'-
a~~~~~K2
~~~  )  ~        ~       ~        OUO
TUMBES.                                                                                   -      _                       /         
4' _& M.,_~~~~I
CL   TUES                          ?      o                                                                              o   - ft>             /    t
Moeoy4"                        /   ~        I                              LO0R ETO                           - 00 
ElATo. O/N~ m                        ~~~~0
Ay.bSn                                                        A U-
loom  Ayobooo  tsr0010 ~~~~~~  cteer ~~~'  '~    ~ ~ Y                                     I
6         DImos~~  -j~o    'o,o    4RioNaqq. o                            <
~~M~AY~UEf~~ ~.   Che8hopoyom~~~   oyodo00   ~~~~'>                                --' PAVED ROADS
*  ~ ~ +.~-~~e%905050~~0   S              SA N                                     I                       ----OTHER ALL-WEATHER ROADS
*  7                                           7''"''                                   C JAMRCA->/   RAILROADS
M.onn                                              -     "    1 2                           ''RAILFERRY
*  d,iooo'  ooecN:b~~~~~~~~olooombo  <~~~~~~  K                                    4 ~AIRPORTS
!\'~+LA[lBTTADPORTS
TEl             ,0Sop'  z             ~        ,RIVERS
t  -~~~~  \~~K-~~~>                                   l.~~~J                      DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES
0  N~~~~~~~  j~~~~~~            t ~~~INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
<SANC'ASH(<
A   K\NIL0 ~HUARAZ7'     HUANUCO               '                          " 
in'                       8               ~~~~~~~~~~~HUANUCOC<L                                             .     r                               5
51C~ ICERRO DEDO-OP-mpORA I
Ak -C".Po F  j                                             <RRo        r SC 
~  ~*A  .               &~VI YA'                Om;ajUINO7<.               /            2b
*  0'    O09O~~~~~~~0'-4   Son ~~~M AD R E  D E  D IO0S
,~~~~~~~~~~<  I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~12'
Coneo.Aoo    HEAHCAW~~~~~LICA         c~u  z c 0">         ~        T 
Omoobo ABp                                      -  CUZCD9PoocoAYACoA Mo  
AY    UCH 0     cooZO< +6                           0 
140                                  U                        XAHJRIMAC~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P        
N~ ~ ~~~~~A                                             N 
0    sE   155  156  205  250                                                            Mooo                M        IUOU<            ( C-
KILOMESE5EMGE39 ' 
4.
&T/qe ANlrt
80,                7 I,'                   7,1'                    72' ~~~~~~~~~~~At        CHILE~                   .



