Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 21932
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(SCL-44970; TF-25903; COFN-04280)
ONNA
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 300 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF PERU
FOR A
SECOND FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN (FSAL II)
July 02, 2001
Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure Department
Country Management Unit for Bolivia, Ecuador and Peru
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.  l



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Excage Rate Effective April 15, 2001)
Currency Unit = Nuevo Sol (S/.)
S/. = US$ 0.2798
US$ 1.00 = S/. 3.57
FISCAL YEAR
January December
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AFP         Private Pension Fund Administrator
ALM         Asset/Liability Management
BCR         Central Bank of Peru
CONASEV   Companies and Securities Regulatory Commission
DGCP        Public Debt Management Directorate
ESW         Economic and Sector Work
FCR         Pension Reserve Fund
FLAR        Latin American Fund for the Administration of Reserves
GDP         Gross Domestic Product
FSAL II     Second Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
IADB        Inter American Development Bank
ICR         Implementation Completion Report
JBIC        Japan Bank for International Cooperation
IMF         International Monetary Fund
MEF         Ministry of Economy and Finance
ONP         Public Pension Regulatory Office
PR          President's Report
PRAL        Pension Reform Adjustment Loan
SAFP        Superintendency of AFPs
SBS         Superintendency of Banking and Insurance
SNP         Public Pension System
SPP         Private Pension System
SUNAT       Superintendency of Tax and Revenue
Vice President    David de Ferranti
Country Manager/Director:  Isabel Guerrero
Sector Manager/Director:   Danny Leipziger
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   John Pollner



PERU
SECOND FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                     1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                    1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry          1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                             7
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              17
6. Sustainability                                                                  18
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                   18
8. Lessons Learned                                                                 19
9. Partner Comments                                                               20
10. Additional Information
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                              27
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                              29
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                              30
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                              35
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components               36
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                 37
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                              38






Project ID: P065596                                      Project Name: FIN SECTRADJ.LN II
Team Leader: John Daniel Pollner                         TL Unit: LCSFF
ICR Type: Core ICR                                       Report Date: June 29, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: FIN SECTRADJ.LN II                            LIC/TF Number: SCL-44970;
TF-25903;
COFN-04280
Country/Department: PERU                                                Region: Latin America and
Caribbean Region--
Sector/subsector: FS - Financial Sector Development
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD: 03/08/1999                               Effective: 06/23/1999         06/23/1999
Appraisal:  04/26/1999                               MTR: 01/15/2000            01/15/2000
Approval:  06/22/1999                             Closing: 07/31/2000           12/31/2000
Borrower/Implementing Agency: MINISTRY OF FINANCE/Ministry of Finance
Other Partners:  Superintendency of Banks, Securities Conmnission, Superintendency of Pension
Funds
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      David de Ferranti                         David de Ferranti
Country Manager:    Isabel M. Guerrero                         Isabel Guerrero
Sector Manager:      Danny Leipziger                           Danny Leipziger
Team Leader at ICR:   John Poliner                             Emesto May
ICR Primary Author:  John Daniel Pollner; Manuel
Lasaga; Modibo Camara
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN-Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: HS
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: H
Bank Performance: HS
Borrower Performance: HS
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry: S                      HS
Project at Risk at Any Time: No
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
1.     The Second Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (FSAL 11, the Loan) which was cofinanced by a



loan extended by the Japan Bank for Intemational Cooperation (JBIC) and also shared programmatic
components with an IADB Financial Sector loan, evolved out of initial concems by both the Bank and the
Govemment of Peru over possible weaknesses in the financial sector. The Peruvian economy underwent
several extemal shocks during 1997-1998, which caused both the Bank and the Govemment, acting
independently, to look into the effectiveness of the then existing economic management tools and how
these might be strengthened to prevent systemic problems in the financial system.
2.    The Asian financial crisis in 1997 had hurt Peru's export markets, with sharp declines in the
prices of major mineral and agricultural exports. The El Nitio phenomenon directly affected fisheries and
agricultural crop production and washed out infrastructure. And the Russian financial crisis in 1998
resulted in an abrupt fightening of access to external credit lines by private borrowers and the banking
system. The cumulative macroeconomic impacts of these shocks in 1998 included a sharp fall in growth
and a deteriorating current account. Fiscal management remained tight, however, and inflation continued
to decline. The real effective exchange rate depreciated an estimated 11.6 percent over the course of
the year. On the other hand, the El Nifho shock was transitory, and the most vulnerable sectors, fisheries
and agriculture, started to rebound in 1999.
3.    The Russian debt default, through the contagion effect, added to nervousness of intemational
lenders to extend credits to emerging markets. These concems were exacerbated by the devaluation of
the Brazilian currency in January 1999. The response to these events was a sharp fall in extemal lines of
credits to Peru, mainly to the banking system. The sudden reduction of extemal credit lines in 1998,
combined with deteriorafing loan performance and increased provisioning requirements under the
December 1996 banking law, resulted in a sharp contraction of bank liquidity and credit, higher interest
rates, and lower profits, respecfively. Despite the resiliency of the financial sector in adjusting to the
extemal shocks, a number of points of vulnerability were identified. Based on the identification of these
factors, the Loan was approved to support the strengthening of the govemment's capacity to manage
extemal shocks while fortifying key institutional and regulatory functions to enhance the health of the
financial system and allow the government to maintain a stable macroeconomic policy framework.
The objectives of the Second Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (FSALI I), thus were:
- First, to strengthen the government's capacity to manage the impact of future economic shocks on the
financial system;
- Second, to promote the longer-term development and resiliency of the system; and
- Third, to enhance its contribution to overall growth and stability of the economy.
4.    The loan was arranged to help finance implementation of an improved banking resolution
framework coupled with prompt action surveillance measures and upgraded rules for determining
liquidity access for healthy banks. In addition, the loan supported reforms aimed at coordinating
sub-sectoral financial supervision among the banking, capital markets, and pension sectors. In the
capital markets area, measures to develop the long term funding market, and modernization of the
regulatory mandate were supported, including implementation of an institutional framework for
government debt management and its role in the development of the long term fixed income market.
The loan also supported second generation reforms in the pension sector, to optimize benefits to
affiliates, raftonalize costs, and augment the pension sector's role in maintaining a growing savings base
in the financial system.
3.2 Revised Objective:
Not Applicable
3.3 Original Components:
1.    In order to achieve these objectives, the loan focused on three critical areas of the financial
system. Specifically, the loan supported reforms in the banking sector to empower regulators to more
- 2-



effectively manage the impact of economic shocks to the system. In the capital markets area, it
assisted in the reorganization of the securities exchange commission and elaborate a framework for the
development of a domestic debt market. The loan also supported second generation reforms in the
pension sector. In addition, the Loan established a mechanism to protect the social sectorfrom
adverse economic shocks, whereby govemment funds would be earmarked for social spending based on
certain pre-determined trigger conditions.
2.     A detailed discussion of the project components is provided below:
Component l: Banking Sector Reform
Description:
a.    Support implementation of a modemized bank resolution framework, along with improved
surveillance and prompt corrective actions; and introduce greater flexibility in the rules for providing
liquidity support to healthy banks.
b.    Support reforms aimed at more systematic coordination of prudential supervision and crisis
management across sectors.
Rationale:
3.    The objectives of this project were reasonable and consistent with the Bank's country strategy.
The first general objective, dealing with the management of economic shocks, was a high priority of this
Loan particularly in the short- to medium-term. The other two goals were considered important in terms
of a sustainable strategy to deepen the financial sector and enhance its contribubon to economic growth.
The strategy to develop good shock absorbers against both extemal and intemal threats focused mostly
on the banking sector, since they are the dominant players in the financial system.
4.    As a result of the country's rapidly improving economic prospects, and the successful completion
of a debt restructuring agreement with commercial banks in 1997, Peru experienced a notable
improvement in access to extemal capital, including a strong increase in short-term lines of credit to the
banking system. The banking system thus became more vulnerable to extemal shocks through its
reliance on extemal lines of credit and through a high degree of dollarization. The availability of domestic
credit was thus becoming increasingly dependent on the banks' sustained access to extemal credit lines.
In addition, about 80 percent of banking system liabilities were denominated in foreign currency. This
heightened the vulnerability of the banking system to liquidity risk in the event of a sudden outflow of
deposits.
5.    At the time of appraisal, banking supervision and regulation were well advanced in Peru. The
banking law and regulations had been substantially strengthened in 1996. On the other hand, the
Superintendency of Banks and Insurance (SBS) was keenly aware of the above-mentioned problems.
However, it was limited in terms of its legal authority to adopt corrective actions regarding weakening
financial institutions. Such actions would be necessary in the event of a sudden adverse change in
economic conditions. Yet existing laws and regulations prevented SBS from acting early to prevent the
failure of a bank. The Loan thus appropriately supported initiatives by the SBS to set forth policies for
prompt corrective actions as well as more intensive cease and desist type actions. In the event of a bank
failure, the Loan also supported the formulation of an effectve resolution strategy whereby the regulators
would have the authority to restructure the bank and sell the viable components to another financial
intermediary.
6.    While the central focus of the banking sector component was the strengthening of preemptive
supervision, the Loan also supported the development of policies for consolidated supervision induding
the formalization of inter-institutional agreements with other supervisory agencies (pension, securities)
and the promotion of working groups to harmonize asset valuation standards in the financial sub-sectors.
Recognizing that the consolidated operations of financial groups involve other areas such as insurance
- 3-



and securities, the Loan appropriately emphasized the creation of an inter-agency task force to share
information and coordinate their examination duties.
7.    In addressing concerns over the vulnerability of the financial system to extemal shocks, the Bank
could perhaps have considered under the program, additional secondary measures related to the
practice of Asset-Liability Management (ALM) in areas such as interest rate risk, liquidity risk, maturity
risk, and currency risk. Both interest rates and exchange rates are very vulnerable to extemal shocks,
and while the supervisory authorities had already implemented norms for asset liability matching in the
banking sector, a sudden outflow of deposits from the country, for example, could compromise the
banking system's liquidity position. The response by regulators to a liquidity shock to the banking system
should be different than in the case of solvency problems. Thus, selective use or fine tuning of ALM
practices could help to enhance the effectiveness of the banking system and its corporate cilients in
dealing with extemal shocks. Appropriate management tools can range from simple contingency plans
for tapping alternative sources of funding to sophisticated financial models and instruments that measure
the impact of currency and interest rate shocks on a bank's capital. While the SBS already had a well
developed set of regulations and norms goveming ALM issues, and while the banking sector as a whole
was fully hedged against direct currency risks, the program might have addressed some of these issues
as second order tools for vulnerability management at the corporate level.
Component II: Capital Markets Reform
Description:
a.    Set up an action plan to promote the development of the capital markets.
b.    Design an institutional framework for govemment debt management and its role in developing
the fixed income market.
Rationale:
8.    This was the first Bank project in Peru to directly address the development of capital markets.
Capital market development is an integral component of effectively managing economic risks. The small
size and fragility of Peru's bond and equity markets have left enterprises with few options other than to
seek external credit, thus increasing their own vulnerability to exchange rate risk and to the volatility of
international capital flows. The development of the domestic capital market would thus enable them to
effectively manage risk through the matching of currencies and maturities between their assets and
liabilities. Development of such markets in Peru is thus not only a question of improving the efficiency of
resource mobilization and investment in the economy, but also one of reducing the economy's
vulnerability to extemal shocks.
9.    The Loan's capital market strategy was to support an initial diagnosis of the capital market,
including the potential role of the government in the expansion of the fixed income market. Development
of the capital market requires breaking out of the "viscious circle" of the small, illiquid market that results
in high risks and lack of transparency for investors, high costs and poor investment incentives for
intermediaries, and high entry costs and limited options for borrowers, all of which combine to keep the
market small and illiquid. In view of the limited information about market conditions, constraints and
opportunities, the Loan appropriately focused on the study of the market. For that reason the capital
market component did not have specific action steps, but rather the development of a study that would
then be used to design an action plan. Whereas the Bank would normally engage in an in-depth analysis
of the capital market at the time of appraisal, and based on these findings, design an appropriate reform
program, the urgency of the first objective - to develop contingency plans for dealing with the impact of
extemal shocks on the banking system, justified the approach taken in this Loan with respect to the
capital market component.
10.   One of the immediate challenges in the development of efficient money and capital markets is
the attainment of a critical mass of issuers or primary market makers that would ensure a sustainable
-4 -



supply of creditworthy instruments. In emerging markets, the public sector plays a dominant role in the
domestic debt market. However, in the case of Peru, the public sector has maintained a low profile in the
market. Typically, the largest issuer of debt securities with widespread market acceptance is the public
sector. The Bank's recommendations were thus based on the premise that the development of the fixed
income market in Peru was dependent on a more active participation by the govemment through the
issuance of bills, notes, and bonds in the local market. From the government's perspective, however, it
was necessary to first evaluate such an initiative in the context of a broader debt management strategy
that would be consistent with fiscal and monetary policy objectives. At the time of appraisal, the
government relied almost exclusively on extemal financing. The issuance of debt in the domestic market
was thus not an existing tool of fiscal management, nor was it evident at the time whether such a
strategy was viable in view of the government's fiscal objectives. This sub-component of the Loan was
thus appropriately designed as an institutional development component aimed at restructuring the public
debt management unit (DGCP) with greater emphasis on the front and middle office areas while
strengthening the analysis capabilities of the unit.
Component Ill: Pension System Reform
Description:
a.    Implement second generation reforms in the pension sector to improve benefits and expand
investment options.
b.    Support reforms in the Private Pension System (SPP) to eliminate arrears in employer
contributions, improving the scope and yield of pension fund investments, rationalizing the industry's
operating cost structure, and broadening the range of pension products.
c.    Support reforms of the Public Pension System (SNP) to improve system administration, control
costs, and strengthen management practices.
Rationale:
11.   The pension system component was a continuation of the earlier Pension Reform Adjustment
Loan - PRAL (See Implementation Completion Report, Peru: Pension Reform Adjustment Loan, Loan
Number 4131-PE, Report Number 18048). Pension reform has been a major achievement of the
structural reforms of the government. The private pension system (SPP) was, since it started operations
in mid-1993, the principal source of retirement security for Peruvian employees in the formal sector, and
the most important source of domestic investment capital for the Peruvian financial system. The SPP
was designed along the lines of the Chilean model, under which private pension administrators (AFPs)
receive contributions from, and are paid commissions by affiliates who have individual retirement
accounts in funds independently managed. The National Pension System (SNP) is a defined-benefits,
pay-as-you-go system administered by National Pension Office (ONP), which was created in 1992. At the
time of appraisal, the SNP had about 1 million active affiliates, and 340,000 retired pensioners. Because
obligations to current pensioners are paid from current contributions, funds are not accumulated to cover
future costs. In the earlier PRAL, the government established a Pension Reserve Fund (FCR) to cover
future pension liabilities. The initial resources of the FCR were derived from privatization proceeds.
12.   When the SPP system was established, there was a firm decision by the govemment not to
close the public system. The two systems are very different, the SPP is based on defined contributions
and the SNP is based on defined benefits. All individuals, except new entrants to the work force, were
free to choose one of the two systems. From the point of view of the individual, or affiliate, the choice is
driven by their income level, number of years to retirement, and confidence in the ability of each system
to generate an expected level of benefits. For individuals in the lower income levels, the SNP offers a
minimum guaranteed coverage, while for higher income individuals, the SPP offers the opportunity to
reach higher levels of benefit, although their contributions are not protected from losses.
13.   From a fiscal policy perspective, the SNP can generate substantial liabilities for the government,
- 5-



which may not be covered by current contributions. In that case additional resources would have to be
transferred from the Treasury, thus adding to the fiscal burden. One of the sub-components of pension
reform program was to estimate the expected future liabilities of the SNP based on the covered
population. The goal of the FCR was to establish a sinking fund that would help to cover future pension
obligations. In order to determine the magnitude of the govemment's pension liability, it was first
necessary to upgrade the database of affiliates, which was another task supported by this Loan. Since
the closure of the SNP was not a political option, despite the economic advantages to a single system
such as the SPP, a logical strategy supported by this loan was to develop additional incentives to
encourage individuals to transfer from the public to the private pension system. The Loan thus
appropriately supported several initiatives, which included increasing the required contribution rate to the
SNP above that of the SPP.
14.   With respect to efficiency of the pension system, there were several pending issues from the
PRAL which this loan sought to address: (i) regulatory complexity, which increased operational costs of
the AFPs; (ii) limited scope of pension fund investments and rigid rules on required rates of return on
those investments; (iii) lack of diversity of pension fund products; (iv) high incidence of system errors in
registering and processing new affiliates and weak enforcement of required employer contributions; and
(v) commissions charged by the AFPs. These were rather complex issues. The regulatory environment
was perhaps the area where immediate changes could be achieved. With respect to the limited scope of
pension fund investments and lack of diversity of pension fund products, it was not evident that a
short-run solution could be identified. AFP portfolio choices are severely limited by the relatively small
supply and lack of diversity of debt and equity instruments available in the domestic market. In this
regard, the Loan supported changes in existing regulations, such as the rules on the percentage of
investments overseas, and the range of allowable investments in the domestic market. The real rate of
return requirement on pension fund investments was also to be eliminated. A reconciliation of both
systems, the SPP and the SNP, was placed as a loan condition in order to weed out the errors in the
registration process.
15.   In order to address the issue of high commissions charged by the AFP's, it was necessary to
prepare a detailed analysis of the operating cost structure of the pension administrators. At the time of
loan preparation, the AFPs were charging a commission of about 2.4 percent of the affiliate's income.
However, this was an up front fee (charged each month as a percentage of salary), so that the AFPs did
not charge any other investment management fees during the life of the account. For an individual who
contrbuted for 35 years, the effective commission rate would be significantly lower when averaged over
that period. This commission was considered high by intemational standards, that is, in comparison to
several other SPPs in the region. On the other hand, these comparisons did not address the compatibility
of the data for different countries, nor did it analyze the reasons for the cost differences. The priority was
thus to study the cost structure of the AFPs and to make recommendations on how to reduce them. At
the same time, comparisons to other systems may not have been a valid exercise due to differences in
economic conditions, demographics, and stage of development of the system in other countries. The
Loan's conditionality called for a plan to reduce AFPs operating costs, provide wider investment options
to affiliates, and attract more participants. In this case it would have been presumptuous to mandate
specific changes in the operations of the AFPs to achieve cost reductions that may have in tum created
serious distortions in their performance.
Component IV: Social Sector Support
Description:
a.    Design and Implementation of a Social Protection Program in the event of an economic
downtum.
Rationale:
16.   The social sector protection component of the Loan was one of the first of its type in financial
sector adjustment lending. A key aspect of the proposed Loan was to ensure, that, if economic
-6-



conditions deteriorated on account of extemal factors while the financial sector reform effort was
underway, measures would be taken to provide some level of protection to low income households. As
experience shows, these households are more vulnerable to a recession because of their less stable
employment conditions, less diversified income, their reliance on public spending in basic services such
as heath and education, and their limited access to public and private safety nets. The contingency
portion of the plan was comprised of public expenditure programs aimed at creating jobs in high
unemployment areas.
17.   To reduce this vulnerability ex ante, the Govemment first agreed with the World Bank on
spending levels for selected high impact social programs that were to be maintained during Loan
implementation in 1999-2000, including in the event of an economic downturn. The selected programs
included the Peru rural roads project, priority activities of the Govemment's social investment fund
(FONCODES) and the food for work program (PRONAA). Second, the Govemment committed itself to
develop the contingency plan for social protection in the event of a crisis, with a triggering mechanism
based on terms of trade, tax collections, and poverty levels.
3.4 Revised Components:
Not Applicable
3.5 Quality at Entry:
1.    The QAG conducted a quality at entry assessment, which was rated Satisfactory. The QAG
assessment noted that this operation responded to a negative extemal shock and preparation was done
efficiently by a competent and well-experienced team. The project team took the opportunity to address
a broad spectrum of structural issues in the financial sector and also included a poverty dimension in the
operation. The QAG assessment noted that the operation was phased in well, to suit the country's
financial market needs. It noted at the time, that while the design and technical quality were excellent,
much of the eventual success would depend on close monitoring and evaluation with ongoing political
support for the reform agenda. Appropriate monitoring was subsequently confirmed in a later QAG
assessment on quality of supervision, which received a Highly Satisfactory rating.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
1. The FSAL II was a successful project. The project's satisfactory outcome was attributed to the quality
of design and to the diligent implementation of the three project components by the Borrower. Even
though the implementation period was relatively short, about one and a half years, the implementing
agency was very effective in meeting project deadlines. The relevance of the project's design and the
efficiency of its implementation contributed to success of the outcome. This section discusses the
outcome and achievement of objectives first, and then concludes with an assessment of the
implementation experience.
2. The Loan was able to achieve its objective of strengthening the government's capacity to manage the
impact of future economic shocks on the financial system. The successful implementation of the Loan's
conditionality was a decisive factor in the achievement of this objective. Nevertheless, it is still too early
to assess the impact of the loan on the longer-term development and resiliency of the system, and on its
contribution to overall economic growth. The success of the first goal combined with the high quality of
the structural reforms adopted by the govemment bodes well for the eventual achievement of the
medium- to longer-term goals as well. The project's contribution to the institutional capacities of the
financial sector regulators, the public pension fund administrators, and the Treasury of Peru was
substantial, although follow-up work would be desirable in the areas of capital market and pension
system development. As mentioned in the President's Report (PR), the principal risks to this outcome are
political and macroeconomic. The recent political crisis and call for new presidential and congressional
-7 -



elections in 2001 raise some concems about the new govemment's commitment to this program. On the
economic front, a new constriction of liquidity in the economy, coupled with a significant further currency
depreciation, could intensify the problems of the financial system beyond the govemment's capacity to
resolve them. Nevertheless, the very positive outcome of this program has significantly reduced these
risks.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Macroeconomic Environment
3.    During the period covered by the FSAL, the govemment maintained a macroeconomic policy
framework with the IMF. The govemment was basically in compliance with that program except for the
fiscal deficit for 1999, which at 2.9 percent of GDP was modestly above the target of 2.5 percent. The
higher than expected deficit was attributed in part to the presidential and congressional elections, which
were held in May 2000. The weak economy in 1999 was also responsible for the fiscal overrun as
revenues fell short of their target. In order to affirm its commitment to fiscal restraint, the govemment
passed the Fiscal Responsibility Law in 2000, which set the following deficit targets for the 2000-2004
period: 2.0 percent for 2000, 1.5 percent for 2001, and 1.0 percent during 2002-2004.
4.    The breakout of a political scandal in September of 2000 and subsequent resignation by
President Fujimon in November heightened uncertainty about the economic outlook. The appointment of
an interim president, until elections were held in April 2001, has also resulted in a change in the
economic management team that further muddles the fiscal situation. Once again the year 2000 deficit is
expected to reach 3.0 percent of GDP, exceeding the target of 2.0 percent. While the Fiscal
Responsibility Law is a step in the right direction, the government still needs to address the long-term
fiscal outlook and the fiscal reform agenda. For instance, higher than expected liabilities of the public
pension system could undermine the government's fiscal targets in the future. The government also
announced a special amnesty program for past-due taxes, immediately after the scandal broke out. So
far, however, there has been little response to this initiative.
5.    The political uncertainty has hampered the economic recovery and thus makes it more difficult to
achieve the fiscal target for 2001. However, inflation continues to remain very low, which has helped to
increase demand for local currency assets as well as lowering real interest rates. Nevertheless, the
combination of political and economic uncertainty has had a detrimental impact on the financial sector.
As economic recovery continues to be delayed, domestic banks in particular will suffer from weaker
earnings and loss of confidence.
Banking Sector Reform
6.    The measures taken under the banking reform component have strengthened the govemment's
capacity to manage future economic shocks on the financial system. Nevertheless, weak economic
conditions during the past two years, combined with a growing credit quality problem, has placed the
SBS in the alert mode for potential banking difficulties. If the economy does not grow this year, the
banking sector is likely to shrink further. The more vulnerable players are the small banks, which may not
have a deep source of capital to withstand unfavorable market forces. In view of these challenges, the
successful implementation of its new regulatory tools has enhanced the ability of SBS to deal with future
shocks. The key outcomes include the following:
a.    Reinforced bank resolution Drocedures. The use of more proactive measures to deal with
problem banks has minimized the contagion effect from economic shocks. The increased credibility of
regulators in managing banking system problems has reduced the volatility of deposits, as seen by the
modest reaction to the recent political crisis.
b.    More flexible lender of last resort responsibilitv of BCR. Measures have been taken to grant BCR
- 8 -



greater scope of support for banks experiencing liquidity problems. However, the application of the
lender of last resort facility should be utilized with less hesitation. Sometimes forceful actions in support
of the banks can assuage market concems.
c.    Informatfon sharina with other aaencies. Through regular meetings with other regulators, there is
now an expanded scope for review of systemic risks.
Capital Markets Reform
7.    Most of the work undertaken in the capital markets area dealt with the preparation of an action
plan for the development of the market in general and with the development of a public debt
management unit. The successful implementation of these conditions has improved the longer-term
outlook for the capital markets. The principal outcomes are:
a.    Caoital markets study and action Dlan. The action plan has identified numerous regulatory and
market efficiency issues. An effective response to these issues should enhance the government's
capacity to manage economic shocks. At the same time, the plan's recommendations regarding the
demand and supply of financial instruments should contribute to the longer-term development of the
system and to overall economic growth. However, the successful outcome of this component hinges on
additional follow up work in this area.
b.    Institutional framework for covemment debt manacement. The development of an organizational
plan for DGCP and a model for risk assessment should bolster the longer-term development and
resiliency of the system. The successful outcome of this component also hinges on additional follow up
work in this area.
Pension System Reform
8.    The reforms introduced in the SPP have contributed to the positive outcome of the project. Most
of the impact is expected to affect the longer-term and resiliency of the system and overall economic
growth prospects. Some of the principal outcomes of this component are as follows:
a.    Improved enforcement and streamlined regulations: Actions to improve enforcement have
concentrated on the minimization of system errors regarding affiliate registrations and contributions by
employers. Enforcement of employer payments of contributions has been intensified through field
inspections. The regulatory burden has also been reduced through reduction in cumbersome reporting
requirements as well as through the merger of the pension and banking supervisory entities. These
measures should contribute to an increase in the number of affiliates in the system and thus to the
longer-term resiliency of the system and to overall economic growth through increased savings.
b.    Liberalization of AFP investment rules. New regulations were adopted to ease the rules for
minimum return on portfolio and allow AFPs a greater room for maneuver with respect to foreign
investments, single company shareholdings, and participation in investment funds. These measures
should encourage additional investments, including in lower cost investment options, and thereby
contribute to the longer-term development of the financial system.
c.    Elimination of the AFPs minimum positive real rate of return rule. By applying a much less
demanding condition on the rate of retum, the government has reduced the likelihood of sub optimal
investment strategies by the AFPs. This is expected to reduce the negative consequences of extemal
shocks by reducing the performance burden on the AFPs at a time when low retums could have
otherwise sparked additional questionable investments.
d.    Implementation of action plan to reduce costs of AFPs. The reduction in operating costs has
contributed to the longer-term development of the system. Nevertheless, as stated in the following
section on project implementation, more emphasis should now be placed on measures to increase
competition.
-9-



e.    Improvement of SNP administration. By getting SUNAT involved in the collection of affiliate
contributions, system efficiency has improved noticeably. Periodic data base reconciliation with the SPP
system and with employer/employee account information has improved the longer-term development of
the system.
f.    Reduce future govemment liabilities from the SNP. The development of the FCR as an
independent agency to manage the SNP's reserves against future claims has enhanced the longer-term
development of the system. The transfer of part of the US$220 million to an investment manager and
removal of the rest from the central bank, is a step in the right direction. However, the remaining funds
need to be assigned to an investment program in order to maximize its contribution to the longer-term
resiliency of the system.
Social Sector Support
9.    The social expenditures that formed part of the govemment's commitment under the Loan were
included in the budget for 2001. In this area the govemment went beyond the scope of the Loan and is
currently designing a set of basic need indicators for as many as 12 social sector programs throughout
the country. A fiscal law passed in December 1999 established a Fund for Fiscal Stabilization, which
includes a social sector component. The Fund will receive 75 percent of the proceeds from privatization.
Currently there are $97 million in the Fund. This component was an innovative feature of the Loan. Its
success should contribute to the govemment's ability to manage the impact of future economic shocks
as well as the longer-term goal of enhancing overall economic growth. These efforts will be supported by
a Bank Structural Adjustment Loan for the social sector foreseen for the fiscal year 2002.
Project ImplementationlOutputs (For detailed discussion of compliance with specific conditionality see
Peru - Second Financial Sector Adjustment Loan: Release of Second Tranche, SEC-M-2000-558, August
21, 2000):
The overall implementation rating is considered highly satisfactory as elaborated below by
objectives and program components.
Banking Sector Reform
10.   The prescribed modifications to the banking law effected under the reform program defined a
more orderly and efficient process for enhanced surveillance and, if necessary, the treatment of
insolvent banks during the subsequent intervention or resolution stages. The bank resolution process was
organized into several steps based on the bank's financial condition: the first category was described as
"financial instability" (Inestabilidad Financiera); the second was "enhanced surveillance" (Regimen de
Vigilancia); and the third, "Intervention" which includes the subsequent option of resolution/restructuring
of bank assets and liabilities and/or partial or full liquidation. The triggers for putting a bank under the
enhanced surveillance regime were more sharply defined. The SBS was given added authority to
remove managers and directors deemed responsible for the deterioration of a bank, and when
necessary, to insist on an immediate infusion of new capital. In the event that a bank is unable to comply
with the commitments for rehabilitation made to the SBS during the enhanced surveillance stage, or its
capital decline exceeds 50 percent, its operations would then be suspended.
The principal achievements of this component of the loan included the following:
a.    The SBS has been substantially strengthened and gained credibility with market participants and
intemational credit rating agencies (see for instance the January 2001 report on Peru prepared by
Moody's Investor Service / Global Credit Reseach). To streamline its operations, the SBS contracted an
extemal advisor to assist in strengthening banking supervision procedures and practices. The new
regulatory authority, procedures and intervention instruments of the Superintendency have been key to
prevent a systemic crisis in the current political turmoil and prolonged economic downturn.
- 10-



b.    The SBS has developed an operational manual internalizing the new regulations under the
reformed banking resolution process.
c.    An inter-agency agreement was signed between the three financial sector regulatory agencies:
the SBS, the SAFP, and CONASEV to provide for collaboration in joint supervision of financial groups
and to harmonize regulations in overlapping areas such as valuation of financial assets and the
measurement of risk. In October, 2000, the SAFP was merged into the SBS, thus reducing the number
of financial sector supervisory agencies to two, and providing opportunities for streamlining regulatory
activities.
11.   In the application of the new examination procedures SBS was able to rely on the new
regulations to strengthen its supervisory actions. With respect to the bank resolution process, the SBS
has generally been applying its new options for undertaking action sequentially, thereby allowing the
process to be determined by each bank's financial condition. Prior to formal actions, however, SBS can
make specific requests known as "prompt corrective actions" (Medidas Correctivas) aimed at structural
weaknesses that were not yet considered detrimental to the sustainability of the bank's operations. An
early phase of deficient administration can also be invoked if bank managers are seen to be operating in
fraudulent or highly imprudent ways. During the period of implementation of this program SBS applied
276 corrective actions associated with bank examinations, which included the requirement of additional
capital contributions and increases in loan loss provisions. At the same time, several banks were
intervened: Banex, Orion, Serbanco, Nuevo Mundo, and NBK, all of which were relatively small banks.
12.   Banco Orion was intervened at the end of 1998. This bank had started as a consumer credit
agency and subsequently converted to a commercial bank. Most of the problems were associated with
the poor quality of its overseas credit portfolio. Orion participated in the government's debt for bond swap
program. The bank had a concentration of liabilities to large lenders. Unable to meet the SBS's request
for additional capital, the bank was subsequently intervened. Similarly, Serbanco started as a retail
oriented consumer credit intermediary. The SBS resolution process in this case went from the Financial
Instability category directly to Intervention. Serbanco was subsequently liquidated and the assets were
sold based on the value of the client base.
13.   Banex was originally established as a finance company. As its financial condition started to
deteriorate, SBS requested additional capital contributions. Unable to comply with these requirements,
the bank was intervened. The bank's status in this case went from financial instability to outright
intervention in November 1999.
14.   In December of 2000, at the time of the ICR mission, Banco Nuevo Mundo and NBK bank were
intervened. The banks had suffered a dramatic run on deposits during the three-month period following
the political crisis of August 2000. Prior to these incidents, the banks had exhibited normal financial
performance. The concentration of deposits in few individuals and institutions exacerbated their liquidity
problems. In this particular case, the SBS began to monitor the banks' status closely but was compelled
to intervene before it could implement the orderly resolution program.
15.   The experience of SBS in the resolution of problem banks has been very positive. The swift
response to early signs of weakness, their case-by-case and market friendly approach, have lessened
the incidence of systemic risk. While the individual actions appear to have been well conceived and
carried out, there is a learning process involved in the development of new supervision methodologies
that takes time to assimilate. The actions taken so far raise some questions regarding the sequence of
steps that have been followed in the resolution process, particularly the infrequent use of the enhanced
vigilance phase. In four of the five cases described above, the SBS moved from the financial instability
status directly to intervention. Perhaps the recent experience with the intervention of these banks might
provide some lessons about banking supervision in dealing with problem banks that could result in a
better calibration of the new bank resolution policies.
16.   The experience with Banco Nuevo Mundo underscores the importance of other factors, other
than quality of assets, in the determination of the overall soundness of a financial intermediary. The
- 1 1 -



sharp drop in Nuevo Mundo's deposits triggered a serious liquidity problem. Perhaps more emphasis on
liability management policies in the event of potential bank runs, could help the banks in dealing with
these problems. In response to the Banco Nuevo Mundo incident, regulators are considering the
requirement that banks develop contingency plans for an unusual drop off in deposits. Greater emphasis
on interest rate and currency risk would also be desirable.
17.   Other measures taken by SBS included obtaining budget autonomy by removing its budget
authority from under the Ministry of Finance, the hiring of a consulting firm of Aristobulo de Juan S.A. to
improve supervision, and the development of a new manual on resolution of troubled banks and
consolidated supervision of financial groups. The consultant has been helpful in developing more
sophisticated models of credit risk that draws on SBS's existing debtors' data base (Central de Riesgos),
and involves the use of additional financial information to predict potential difficulties in servicing their
debts. This database should be helpful to examiners in the execution of their duties. However, emphasis
should be placed on the evaluation of a financial institution, including the adequacy of its risk assets, and
not on the evaluation of the credit risk of the bank's individual loans. With respect to the issue of
consolidated supervision, a manual was prepared, and is being implemented in 2001.
Capital Markets Reform
18.   To address the issues of capital market development, the govemment took a number of mutually
complementary measures, which included: (i) establishing an interagency working committee to examine
existing regulatory and other impediments to market growth, and recommend strategies for capital
market development; (ii) clarifying the regulatory mandate and work program of CONASEV to focus
primarily on the securities market; and (iii) establishing an interagency working committee to develop a
government debt management policy.
a.    The government issued a policy action plan to address the diagnosed impediments to the
development of the domestic capital market.
b.    A new Organic Law for CONASEV was approved. A work program was developed for the
promotion of the domestic capital market through regulatory incentives, and is being implemented by
CONASEV.
c.    A program was approved to strengthen the government's debt management function, including a
new organizational structure for the DGCP.
19.   As prescribed in the Loan agreement, the govemment issued an action plan for the development
of the domestic capital market. A local consulting firm was hired to prepare a comprehensive analysis of
the capital market (Macroconsult, "Informe Final de la Consultoria para el Desarrollo del Mercado de
Capitales Peruano", August 7, 2000). One of the advantages of the consultant was their familiarity with
local market conditions and their network of contacts with local market players, which helped to give their
report a more practical vision of the problems and their possible solutions. Delays in the preparation of
the action plan resulted in a request for extension of the Loan closing date. One of the reasons for the
delay were procedural matters relating to the contracting of the consulting firm combined with the
relatively short tme span of this Loan. Nevertheless, the final version of the plan was found to be
satisfactory and the govemment has taken steps to assign implementation responsibilities to various
agencies.
20.   The action plan is both comprehensive and substantive. The short-term agenda addresses the
issues dealing with market efficiency: (i) the need for greater information; (ii) a review of market
valuation methodologies to arrive at a common framework - including the development of a yield curve;
(iii) a review of altemative trading mechanisms, such as over-the-counter and intemet trading; and (iv)
the generation of greater liquidity in the market. In addition, the plan calls for streamlining of the
regulatory process and greater efforts in promoting the capital market, particularly by CONASEV. The
medium to long-term agenda focuses on the demand and the supply side of the market. The principal
recommendations for the medium- to longer-term development of the market include:
- 12-



Demand Side of the Market:
*     Develop and promote new investment vehicles such as investment companies or mutual funds.
*     Give the AFPs more flexibility in the investment of funds under management.
Supply side of the market:
*     Facilitate market access by medium-sized companies.
*     Align fiscal incentives with those offered by other types of investment opportunities.
*     Allow institutional investors to participate in specific infrastructure projects.
Streamline the securities issuance process.
*     Create an appropriate environment for securitization and promote the mortgage market and
mortgage backed instruments.
21.   Some concems were expressed regarding the scope of the action plan and the need for greater
specificity in the agenda. However, the Macroconsult study was basically the equivalent of ESW on the
capital markets. The action plan was thus a first attempt at defining priorities for the development of the
market. In that regard, the action plan was the beginning of a concerted policy effort to support the
expansion of the capital market. The complexity of the issues involved and their interdependence is a
strong reason to proceed with caution and to focus acton steps on narrow areas with a sequental
approach. For example, the work of the capital markets task force has produced an initiative involving
the trading of Pension Recognition Bonds (Bonos de Reconocimiento), which could be used to determine
a representative market yield curve, and thus facilitate the process of asset valuation. This option needs
to be studied carefully before endorsing it in order to avoid market distortions. On the other hand, more
research is needed on the feasibility of issuing govemment debt for the development of the capital
market, and on the implications of the high degree of dollarization in the financial sector in terms of the
opportunities and the risks in the market. Further development work is thus needed in the capital market;
perhaps the Bank can participate through a follow-up operation.
22.   Elements of the action plan are being implemented by the respective regulatory agencies.
CONASEV has been working on a broad range of issues. The recent merger of SAFP into SBS will
facilitate the coordination between these agencies and CONASEV resulting in further streamlining of
regulations. Some of the recommendations have already been incorporated into policy actions. A draft of
a modification of the Securities Law is pending in Congress, which proposes to grant CONASEV greater
discretion with respect to registration requirements for smaller issues, it also allows the creation of
non-diversified Funds and infrastructure investment funds as well as other changes introduced by the
action plan. At the same time, there is another draft legislation dealing with tax matters, which includes
some of the recommendations of the action plan such as the elimination of the interest withholding and
other distortions in the tax treatment of different financial instruments. Clearly these initiatives went
beyond the original scope of the Loan's conditionality and demonstrate the govemment's commitment to
reforms in this sector. However, the outlook for passage of this legislation is now uncertain in view of the
recent political changes caused by the unexpected resignation of President Fujimori, the call for
presidential elections in 2001, and the changes in MEF brought on by the interim-President and his new
Minister of Finance.
23.   Significant progress has been made in the development of an institutional framework for
govemment debt management. The public debt unit of MEF, DGCP, has been reorganized into three
departments: a front office for debt negotiations; a middle office for financial analysis and risk evaluation;
and a back office for operational support. DGCP developed a Value at Risk model to evaluate existing
market risks and identify hedging options. A methodology was also developed to analyze the advantages
and disadvantages of issuing debt in the domestic and the foreign markets. Currently, government policy
does not support the issuance of debt in the local market, whether domestic or foreign currency
denominated. Recent changes in MEF have temporarily suspended any initiatives concerning a review of
debt management policies. Nevertheless, the DGCP has introduced a useful framework for evaluating
the issuance of domestic debt. The Bank is also providing follow up technical assistance in order to
- 13 -



strengthen the analytical work by the unit.
Pension System Reform
24.   The reform program for the SPP emphasized (i) improving the collection of affiliate
contributions; (ii) expanding investment options available for AFPs; and (iii) reducing AFP operating
costs. A new law and accompanying regulations established a program for settlement of accumulated
pension debts and payment over three years. On the public sector side, the SNP reforms promoted
greater discipline in its operations. The management of the SNP system was improved through
measures that helped to enhance compliance by public and private sector employers with their pension
obligations; to institutionalize the determination of future pension liabilities through periodic projections of
future payments to beneficiaries; to reduce future liabilities by strengthening the investment program for
the FCR, which manages the reserves for future claims; and to encourage migration from the SNP to the
SPP system. The following actions were indicative of this component's successful implementation:
a.    The SAFP carried out over 1,200 inspections of employers to assure compliance with their
requirements.
b.    New regulations expanding investment opportunities for AFPs were adopted, which included
foreign investments, reasonable limits on single company shareholdings, and holding of investment
funds. At the same time, the regulation on the minimum required rate of retum was modified with a less
restrictive guideline -- now the minimum rate of return is a function of the average for all AFPs rather
than an arbitrary postive real rate or retum.
c.    A cost reduction plan for AFPs was implemented. Limits on the transfer of accounts between
AFPs were adopted.
d.    Working jointly with the Tax Authority (SUNAT), the ONP conducted a database matching
exercise to identify employees whose contributions were erroneously being directed to the public system.
e.    Projections of future pension liabilities for the SNP were prepared including the required
payments and outlays of the govemment.
f.    The FCR approved new investment strategies and selected an investment consultant. FCR
funds in the amount of US$220 million were placed under investment in private markets (outside of
central bank accounts) and under management for foreign investing with the Latin American Fund for the
Administration of Reserves (FLAR).
25.   This Loan was helpful in expanding the agenda first developed by the PRAL. Many of the
initiatives dealt with the operational aspects of the public and private pension systems. The merger of the
SAFP into the SBS helped to consolidate a number of the regulatory initiatives as well as strengthening
the institutional framework for regulating the pension system.
26.   The SPP is a highly regulated system, however. In this regard, continued emphasis needs to be
placed on loosening up the regulatory environment. The increase in the foreign investment limit and the
opening up of lower-cost investment options for affiliates should contribute to the longer-term
development of the financial system. At the same time, the application of more favorable investment
rules should encourage additional investments and thus enhance overall growth prospects.
27.   The rules on foreign investments by AFPs were liberalized, allowing up to 7.5 percent of assets,
which was higher than the original target between 1-5 percent. Nevertheless, this change was introduced
principally to enable the AFPs to hold on to their investments in the national phone company when it was
bought by Telef6nica de Esparia, in the form of a swap of shares, thus changing their holdings from
national to foreign investments. The change in the rule was basically to accommodate this transaction,
even though it was purely a swap of shares without any capital flows. While this change was needed in
order to preserve the AFPs interest in the local phone company, the govemment might have considered
grandfathering existing Telefonica de Espanla investments as domestic, and thus leaving open the full
increase in the foreign component of the portfolio for other investments.
28.   In accordance with the conditions of the Loan agreement, a cost reduction plan for the AFPs was
- 14-



implemented. Among the actions taken to reduce costs were the following: new rules limiting the
transfer of accounts between AFPs; report of daily information through electronic medium; reduced
frequency in the issuance of statement of accounts for affiliates; reduced regulatory burden, particularly
as it pertains to the amount of information required by SAFP; use of electronic payment by affiliates;
clean up of the list of affiliates by deleting those individuals who did not make payments. The limitation
on the transfers of accounts between AFPs within a given period, was very successful as the number of
account transfers dropped from 5,000 persons per month to about 400. The constraint was mostly in the
form of delays in the processing of transfer requests and an increase in the cost. One of the problems
with the transfer of accounts was that the affiliate would end up paying more in terms of commissions to
the AFP.
29.   The action plan to reduce AFP costs was well thought out and implemented. As a result of these
measures, the number of sales representatives has been reduced from 3,153 in 1995 to 1,104 in October
2000. However, average commissions charged by AFPs have not declined, they are currently at about
2.4 percent of an affiliate's income. These measures appear to have focused primarily in making direct
cost reductions. In view of the limited response regarding the sales commissions, the govemment should
consider more proactive measures to increase competition in this sector. This might further encourage
the entry of foreign pension management firms to operate in Peru. Yet increased competition may not
necessarily reduce the average commission rates charged by the AFPs.
30.   The particular structure of the Peruvian AFP system relies on up front commissions. Since
commissions are charged only at the time each contribution is made, as deducted every month from
salaries, and which covers the maintenance of that account until the individual retires, it appears as if the
system is charging high commissions. Interestingly though, these commissions compare favorably to
similar rates based on a pension system where commissions are based on an annual investment
management fee. For example, based on the current commission of 2.4 percent, an individual who
enters the SPP at age 30 and retires at age 65 will have paid the equivalent of an annual average
commission of 1.38 percent of assets under management, which does not appear to be unreasonable.
This analysis is based on the following assumptions: real income growth of 5.5 percent; a fund
contribution rate of 8 percent of income, a real retum on investments of 6.25 percent, a real discount rate
of 5.0 percent and a life expectancy of 75 years. In the latter example, the individual would theoretically
be able to retire at 44 percent of the level of the last year's income. Also, the pension fund accounts are
supposed to be a long-term source of savings, and not an active trading account.
31.   Under the reform program, the government carried out steps to improve the management of the
SNP and modify its structure to promote greater discipline in its operation, including: (a) improved
collections of contributions due from public and private sector employers; (b) institutionalization of
mechanisms to determine liabilities under the SNP and CV, and project govemment pension obligations
and future pension reserves, (c) further progress toward reducing the future fiscal costs of SNP
obligations through the implementation of a long-term investment program for the FCR managed by
investment advisers, and (d) additional measures to encourage migration from the SNP to the SPP .
Social Sector Support
32.   Spending levels were agreed for basic social programs and maintained during 1999 and 2000,
despite potential reductions in overall govemment spending with the necessary fiscal adjustments. A
contingency plan for providing social protection was developed to implement key employment generation
programs targeted to the most vulnerable segments of the population in the event of a crisis. Fortunately,
the adverse economic indicators were not reached and therefore the contingency plan was not triggered.
Other Implementation Issues
33.   The closing date of the loan was extended from end-July, 2000 to end-December, 2000. The
primary reason for the extension, was that given the twenty-five loan conditions to be met for second
tranche release, there remained four conditions which required additional time beyond the original
- 15 -



closing date deadline to be implemented properly. These related to the following components: the
capital markets development action plan, the debt management development plan, the final validation of
matched employees whose contributions were being erroneously directed, and the implementation of the
extemal investment plan for public pension assets. While significant progress on these conditions was
already underway by July 2000, thus obviating the need for any waivers, their completion in the full
conceptual and legal sense could not be confirmed by the Bank team.
34.   For example, on the capital markets and debt management plans, the Bank requested that
additional operational aspects be included so as to ensure that they could be used as practical guidance
documents for policy setting and market oversight, rather than just as studies. For the pension database
matching exercise, some statistical verifications were required for prudential reasons to ensure that the
universe of relevant matches had been properly identified. For the public pension investment plan,
finalization of a legal agreement with an agency, which would invest funds abroad, was needed.
Therefore, it was agreed with the govemment to extend the closing date until the end of calendar year
2000 to permit sufficient margin to fully complete those conditions and the final detailed steps to be
culminated. Compliance was finally verified less than two months later and the disbursement of the
second tranche therefore took place on September 20, 2000. In retrospect, given the urgent aspect of
the loan program, the timeline for achieving full compliance was perhaps set somewhat ambitiously,
though in the end, the Government met all the targets with a modest delay of just over one and a half
months.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not Applicable
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not Applicable
4.S Institutional development impact:
35.   Many of the loan's conditions were implicitly geared to set up procedures, which would
strengthen institutional processes and capacities. While the loan's first tranche conditions reflected
mainly structural policy changes (e.g.: approval of new laws and regulatory norms), the second tranche
conditions were primarily geared towards the implementation of first tranche actions within sustainable
institutional structures. In particular, under the banking component, the SBS benefited from the structure
of the loan program since the approval of the new legal and regulatory framework, required as a first
tranche condition, greatly increased the powers and flexibility of the SBS in resolving banking crises and
insolvency situations swiftly. This was supported under the second tranche loan requirements, by the
institution building efforts, where expert extemal assistance was deployed to assist the SBS in adapting
its intemal procedures to the new banking regulations, and train staff via the production of operational
manuals in order to implement the new norms established under the law for preventing potential banking
problems (e.g.: such as how to mandate prompt corrective actions to prevent banks from eroding their
capital). The loan also directly promoted inter-institutional coordination under the then three supervisory
agencies (banking, securities, pensions) which led to a stronger mutual capacity for consolidated
supervision of large financial groups which in Peru, cover all three aspects of the financial sector's
commercial activities.
36.   In the capital markets area, as mentioned above, the loan was instrumental in strengthening
institutional capacity on two fronts: (i) In the MEF's office of public debt management, loan conditionality
required the design of an explicit institutional set up to analyze market risks for debt management
purposes and define the specific institutional processes and staffing requirements to carry out these
functions; and (ii) For the development of the domestic capital market, the loan prompted the
development of an action plan to define regulatory changes which would encourage the generation of
- 16 -



additional capital market activities - this prompted CONASEV, the Securities Commission, to develop a
number of in house initiatives which by the end of the loan program, had been presented to the Congress
as new legal measures to promote capital markets activity (e.g.: setting an even playing regulatory field
in the treatment of tax deductibility of loan interest versus bond interest, the latter of which had not been
exempted to-date, thus biasing corporate financing towards loan instruments instead of capital market
altematives).
37.   In the pensions area, significant changes promoted by the FSAL il, have greatly improved the
technical and policy making capacity of the pension oversight agencies. The intensive inspection
programs conducted by the SAFP were prompted by the loan's conditionality to determine which
employers in the private pension system were in arrears in terms of their matching pension contributions.
The SAFP, seeing the value of this exercise has continued it (now under the SBS, which absorbed the
SAFP). In the public pension system, the ONP greatly benefited from the collaboration with the SUNAT
Tax Office, given that the development of an individual accounts public pension database has now
greatly increased the analytical and financial planning capacity of the ONP, which previously did not
count on individual affiliate accounts for the defined-benefit national pension scheme. Also, the change
in the public pension fund's investment strategy as required under the loan, to move towards an
extemally managed investment administrator with funds invested abroad, strengthened the institutional
capacity of the ONP to better analyze future investment approaches to the public pension fund with a
view towards eventually reducing the required fiscal contributions and liabilities towards future
pensioners.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
S. l Factors outside the control ofgovernment or implementing agency:
1.    External factors were influential in the design of this Loan, in its implementation and are likely to
play a role in the outcome. The FSAL II was designed in response to government and Bank concems
regarding the volatility of intemational financial markets and Peru's vulnerability through its open
financial system. The Asian crisis in 1997 and the subsequent debt default by Russia impacted
negatively on Peru's access to intemational financial markets. The natural disasters sparked by the El
Niho took a toll on the economy and in particular, the banks' loan portfolio. The goal of this Loan was to
prepare the government to effectively manage the impact of future extemal shocks on the economy.
2.    On the political front, the recent political crisis and resignation of President Fujimori may affect
the Loan's outcome. Elections took place in April 2001. The interim President already made changes in
senior positions in the economic cabinet. Uncertainty regarding the outcome of those elections could
have a material impact particularly now that they have moved to a second round for finalization in May
2001.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
3.    Perhaps the key factor from the govemment's perspective was a strong commitment to the
reform process in the financial sector. With respect to the macroeconomic environment, the govemment
held firm to its fiscal and monetary policies, despite the pressures on the fiscal deficit generated by the
weakening of the economy in 1999. Excellent macroeconomic management thus contributed to a
favorable environment for reforms in the financial sector. A strong government ownership of this
program helped to assure a smooth implementation of many conditions in a relatively short period of
time.
- 17-



5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
4.    As the implementing agency, MEF was strongly committed to the Loan's objectives. There were
few areas of disagreement in terms of the Loan's scope and work program. The implementing agency
was the same economic team that has been credited with many of the successful structural reforms
during the past two presidential administrations.
5.4 Costs and financing:
Not Applicable
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
1.    The sustainability of the project is judged to be likely. The strong commitment by the
govemment to economic reforms is an important ingredient for continued success of the program. The
excellent track record on macroeconomic policies assures a favorable environment for the longer-term
development of the financial system. Once again, the general goal of strengthening the government's
capacity to manage the impact of economic shocks is sustainable. The success of the SBS in dealing
with problem banks under the new preventive supervision policies demonstrates that it has the tools and
capacity to offset potential systemic threats. Notable institutional improvement in the agencies
responsible for the regulation and supervision such as SBS and CONASEV should help to strengthen the
performance of the financial sector.
2.    As stated earlier, the political and macroeconomic environment poses some risks to the
sustainability of the program. This evaluation is based on the commitment of the present government to
the reform of the financial sector as reflected in the objectives of this Loan. However, with presidential
and congressional elections in April and May of this year, it is not certain at this time whether a new
govemment would continue to support the same types of policies. At the same time, there are significant
risks of reversal regarding the pension reforms. During the first part of 2000, congress proposed
legislation to exempt certain sectors from participating in the pension system, and subsequently
approved the exemption for employees in the agricultural sector. Towards the end of last year, another
law was proposed that could seriously undermine the financial integrity of the pension system. The
proposed changes included the possibility of retirement as early as age 55, the ability of affiliates to draw
down on their pension account whenever they encountered employment difficulties, and granting full
discretion to affiliates as to the allocation of their investments. While it does not appear that all the
proposed changes will be approved by congress, the fact that this is the second time the legislature
attempts to notably alter the rules of the game for the pension system raises serious concems about the
sustainability of this component. This situation needs to be monitored closely.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Not Applicable
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
1.    In the identification of the project the Bank showed very good judgement in recognizing the
issues at stake, early on. The Bank became concerned about the vulnerability of the financial system
after the Asian crisis and subsequent Russian debt default in 1998. The Bank was proactive in mounting
- 18 -



a seres of financial sector assessments of vulnerable countries, which then led to the case of Peru.
When the govemment also expressed an interest in strengthening its capacity to manage economic
shocks, the Bank moved quickly to work out the structure of this Loan. While the project was complex,
the design was compatible with the borrower's capacity.
7.2 Supervision:
2.    Bank supervision was highly satisfactory as evidenced by the frequency of monitoring and the
attention paid to the compliance with the achievement of the objectives. Bank staff provided very good
advice to their counterparts in Peru. The recommendation to extend the Loan closing date to allow
further development of the capital markets action plan and complete the investment strategy for the
public pension funds, was a very good decision. The timing of supervision missions was very
appropriate.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
3.    Bank performance was highly satisfactory. In general the project was well designed and
consistent with the Bank's country strategy. Bank staff worked very close with their counterparts in the
Peruvian government. The Bank was able to support the institutional development of key regulatory
agencies such as SBS and CONASEV.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
4.    The commitment of the govemment to support the reforms in the financial system went back to
the early 1990s. The quality of Borrower participation during the preparation phase was highly
satisfactory. The govemment's team was comprised of the key architects of the overall economic reform
agenda. One of the reasons for the quick preparation of this Loan was the high quality of the economic
management team. They maintained a very positive policy dialogue with the Bank during this initial
phase of the project.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
5.    Both Govemment and implementing agency performance was highly satisfactory. As stated
above, the govemment's strong commitment to financial sector reforms was instrumental in contributing
to the project's momentum. Macroeconomic and sector policies were compatible with the Loan's
objectives. Throughout the implementation period the implementing agency was very responsive to
project deadlines and output requirements. The selection of consultants for the banking sector and
capital markets analysis was very satisfactory. The documentation submitted in support of fulfillment of
conditionality was of high quality.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
Same as above (Ministry of Finance was Implemenfng Agency)
7.7 Overall Borrowerperformance:
6.    After consideration of the above-mentioned factors and of the outcome of the project, the overall
performance of the Borrower is rated as highly satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
The principal lessons derived from the outcome of this project include the following:
-19 -



a.    Strona aovemment commitment and ownership of a Drolect is a key inaredient for its success. In
the case of FSAL li, the govemment had sought the Bank's support in framing a strategy for managing
economic shocks. The govemment also went beyond the Loan requirements regarding the capital
markets component by introducing changes in legislation for several of the action plan
recommendations.
b.    Early in-depth analysis of financial sector vulnerabilities helped focus highest impact issues and
sDeed UD loan preparation. Bank staff was proactive in preparing its own analysis of the impact of global
financial shocks on emerging markets. This work had been motivated by the 1997-1998 Asia and
Russian financial sector problems and helped to identify key issues that proved to be highly relevant for
the Peruvian experience. For instance, concems about banking system vulnerabilities resulted in greater
emphasis being placed on implementing SBS preventive supervision and bank resolution methodologies.
Instead of limiting conditonality to the preparation of new legislation, the emphasis of this project was on
actual bank resolution practices.
c.    New or follow-up operations should be well interlinked with previous reform orograms to ensure
continuity in reform benefits. The pension system component of this Loan incorporated second
generation reforms that had been initiated in the earlier PRAL. Since the SPP was in the initial stages of
development at the time of appraisal, it was important to provide more sector-related work through this
Loan. As mentioned earlier in this report, further Bank work in this area would be desirable.
d.    When development options are unclear, it is best to focus on studies and action plans. and then
prepare follow-up oroiects that can focus on the implementation of the plans. The capital markets
component was limited to development of an action plan. However, in view of the complexity of the
problem conceming the supply and demand for investments, it was wise to focus first on the
development of a comprehensive study and preparation of an action plan. Further Bank participation in
the capital markets can now focus on implementation of the plan. The conditionality dealing with cost
reduction by AFPs was also well designed. It is still unclear whether commissions charged by AFPs are
high. It is better to spend additional time studying the problem and preparing an action plan than applying
ad hoc cost reduction policies, which could result in lower commission rates but create serious distortions
in operations of the AFPs.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Comments Conveyed from the Superintendency of Banks, Insurance and Pension Funds
(Note from Bank staff: Following receipt of these comments, adjustments were made to the report to
address them)
I.    General Comments
This report describes the financial system reforms that the Peruvian government agreed to make in order
to be able to receive the loan. The report is in general terms accurate, however, there are some points
that deserve some specific comments. There are basically two types of observations made to this
report: a) inaccuracies related to dates and phrasing and b) inaccuracies related to the modifications
made to the financial system normative.
Specific comments to individual items in the report and a brief description of the impact of the reforms
on the financial system are presented in the next two sections.
II.    Specific Comments
These comments are made to each specific element on the FSAL report.
- 20 -



a.    Report states: "The sudden reduction of extemal credit lines, combined with deteriorating loan
performance and increased provisioning requirements under December 1996 banking law,
resulted in a sharp contraction of bank liquidity and credit, higher interest rates, and lower
profits".
This sentence seems to indicate that the provision rule will lead to a contraction of liquidity and
bank credit, higher interest rates and lower bank profits. It should be included the word
"respectively" at the end of the sentence in order to make clear that the provision rule does not
contract credit or increase interest rates.
It should be noted that the drop in foreign credit lines occurred in 1998, but it finished by the end
of the year. Besides, pad of the observed reduction in foreign credit lines was caused by the
prepayment ahead of schedule, made by local banks due to the contraction of the demand for
credit of clients in good standing.
b.    Report states: "The loan was arranged to help finance implementation of a modemized banking
resolution framework coupled with prompt action surveillance measures and upgraded ruies for
determining liquidity access for healthy banks."
This sentence seems to imply that the SBS did not have prompt action surveillance measures
prior to the FSAL II, which is not accurate. In fact, the SBS had those measures taken into
account in the Law issued in 1996 and were used appropriately. The loan made possible a
significant improvement in bank resolution mechanisms and provided a more specific structure
to prompt action surveillance measures.
c.    Addition to Report: Include year of the signature of the Brady plan.
d.    Comment: At the moment the loan was being negotiated, the SBS was already in the process of
implementing regulation relative to consolidated supervision. We recommend the statement be
more specific about contributions of the loan in this area.
e.    Re. Regulatory Regime/Market Risks: The statement might give the impression we do not have
adequate regulation on ALM, liquidity risk, interest rate risk, maturity risk and currency risk. We
had, prior to the loan, regulation on those issues and we think that recent events (Intervention of
Banco Nuevo Mundo and NBK Bank) or previous difficulties can not be tied to regulatory
problems in those areas.
f.    Re. Political Crisis: It says that the political crisis began in August. In fact, the video was
released in the month of September.
9.    Re. Tax Amnesty: The amnesty does not target income taxes oniy, it targets all kind of taxes.
h.    Report states: "small banks are more vulnerable than big ones because they do not have
enough capital to face adverse market forces". Sometimes, banks do business with a certain
segment of the market and because of this, they need not be megabanks. In this sense, size is
not the issue, it is to have well-capitalized banks that can confront well any kind of problem.
i.    Comment: The SBS-SAFP merger has improved the flow of information between these two
institutions and it will enhance the supervision of financial system institutions. Besides, the
merger will contribute lo the cost reducton process, as duplicate functions will be eliminated.
This could, in tum, contribute to reduce fees charged by the SAFP to the AFPs.
j.    Correction: Replace Serbanc for Serbanco.
k.    Report states: "In most of the cases, the SBS moved banks from financial instability status to
- 21 -



intervention directly", which questions the sequence of steps that have been followed in the
resolution process.
The banking resolution mechanism was designed recognizing some of the political and practical
constraints to modify extensive portions of the Banking Law or the Organic Law of the Central
Bank. The surveillance regime has as one of its consequences the elimination of any kind of
liquidity assistance of the Central Bank and therefore if the bank being subjected to the
surveillance regime had a significant exposure with the Central Bank, it can cause the immediate
intervention of the Bank. Since this feature could not be modified because it would have
required a modification of Central Bank Law, the decision was to strengthen the financial stability
regime by providing the SBS with similar powers to those granted in surveillance regime. The
idea was to use more frequently financial stability as preventive supervision specially when
liquidity problem arises, unless an objective cause established in the law is configured for
surveillance. Under this design it is a reasonable sequence to go from financial stability to
intervention when a liquidity problem arises that ends up with for instance a payment default
which triggers the intervention clause.
I.    Comment: The recent fall of NBK bank and Banco Nuevo Mundo were caused by exogenous
factors outside these two banks. In mid September, a political crisis emerged and a smail
deposit run out of the financial system was observed. This run mainly focused on two medium
sized banks, Banco Nuevo Mundo and NBK Bank, for reasons that are yet to be clarified. For
example, Banco del Nuevo Mundo lost 50% of its deposits over a period of 2 months. Thus, it is
unfair to classify this case as poor liquidity management. It should be emphasized that this crisis
implied a major deposit run and that any bank in the world, no matter how cautious in terms of
liquidity management, would have failed as well.
M.    Re. Pension Market Barriers: There are no baniers to entry in the AFP market, companies are
free to enter or exit.  Foreign pension managers could enter the AFP market in Peru.
Importantly, the SBS cannot be responsible for supervising foreign pension managers, unless
they operate in Peru.
Ill.    Complementary measures taken by the SBS and its impact on the Financial System
Three major reforms were done in Banking Supervision in the last few years: a. Mechanisms of Banking
Resolution, b. Increased flexibility by the Central Bank as lender of last resort and c. The merger of the
SAFP with the SBS.
1.    Mechanisms of Banking Resolution
In June of 1998, as the Asian crisis was spreading to other developing countries, the Superintendency
began to develop a strategy to confront the diverse possible scenarios of financial crises. The main
objectives of this strategy were to protect depositors, concentrate losses on the shareholders and
minimize costs for the economy of the exit of an entity of the financial system. These objectves were
accomplished with two important measures:
a.    Good Bank-Bad Bank
The Superintendency was conferred the ability to identify good assets from an intervened bank
in order to transfer these assets with the related liabilities to an entity of the financial system,
leaving the rest of assets, liabilities and equity ready for liquidation.
b.    FSD as a temporary administrator
The FSD was conferred the ability to issue capital on a troubled financial institution and take
-22-



control of a bank under surveillance, after verifying that neither the shareholders nor third
persons could issue extra capital. The objective of this measure is to resolve the problems of
the troubled bank without interrupting its operations and sell it to the private sector in the near
term. This is an excepcional measure and it can be taken after the Superintendency has
determined the losses and applied them against the capital. There must exist a unanimous
agreement among the SBS, MEF and the Board of Directors of the BCRP that the cessation of
operations of the troubled bank would have systemic consequences.
These two changes to the Banking Law in 1999 constituted a clear signal towards companies of the
financial system that they should find market solutions to their problems in order to avoid their
intervention and later dissolution. Many financial companies began to pursue different strategies to
resolve their problems such as increasing capital, reorganization, merger and others.
These two market resolution mechanisms smoothed the process of exit of financial entities and lowered
the negative impacts on the rest of the economy. In the good bank-bad bank approach, since good
assets will be sold jointly with their respective liabilities, depositors not covered by the FSD or other
creditors would have the possibility to recover their funds without going through the process of
liquidation. In the other case, the process would go unnoticed by the public since the bank would never
close its doors, making the resolution mechanism even smoother than the first case and decreasing the
negative impact on the rest of the economy.
The Good Bank-Bad Bank approach was used last year after the intervention of Banco Ori6n that failed
to increase its capital after losing an important part of it due to the deterioration of its assets. The SBS
identified good assets and auctioned them. As of today, 100% of all deposits had been paid and 20% of
the FSD contribution had been already recovered.
The FSD as temporary administrator element of the banking resolution mechanism has never been used,
as systemic risk cases have not arisen since the passing of the law modification. It is worth mentioning
that the safeguards against indiscriminate use of this option have proved successful since it has never
been used for the several cases where small or even medium size institutions were intervened since
1999.
Finally, in July 2000 the Law was changed again to introduce a third mechanism of banking resolution:
the Bridge Bank. In this new mechanism, the FSD creates a new bank that embraces new capital issued
by the FSD and good assets from the intervened institution. After that, the FSD is given a time frame to
sell the bank to the private sector.
2.    Increased flexibility by the Central Bank as a lender of last resort
The BCRP has a very important role as a supplier of liquidity to the financial system in the event of a
banking crisis. Thus, it was important to make a change in the Banking Law in order to give the BCRP
more flexibility to act as a lender of last resort. In order to increase its powers, the BCRP was allowed to
offer liquidity (rediscount) to financial system companies for 90 days every 180 days. In the past, the
BCRP was constrained by law to give liquidity to entities of the financial system for 90 days every 360
days. Additionally, banks are allowed to seek for liquidity at the Central Bank whenever they are in
goodstanding or in financial instability, if they entered the surveillance regime the Central Bank could not
supply liquidity to them.
In the recent case of liquidity problems by the NBK Bank and Banco Nuevo Mundo, the Central Bank did
play a central role in assisting these banks with rediscount lines of credit. However, since these two
banks could not give assets of good quality as collateral, the Central Bank could not continue to aid
these banks with more loans. At the end, these two banks had to be intervened due to failure comply
with its obligations.
3.    Impact of the change in AFP regulation framework
-23 -



After a few years of the creation of the Private Pension System, the process of mergers and acquisitions
of AFPs reduced the number of companies to four. Thus, the SAFP was supervising a few companies,
making less likely a reduction in the SAFP's supervision fees.
Additionally, the merger will allow supervisors to better share information on supervised companies. As
a matter of fact, it will consolidate the efforts made by the inter-agency agreement in the past related to
information sharing. This will, in tum, improve supervision of financial conglomerates.
Future work
The SBS agrees that follow-up work is necessary in the pension system. This follow-up work should
include measures to encourage competition in the system. In this regard, is important to consider that
current transfer regulations are too cumbersome and have encouraged less competition in the system.
Thus, the SBS is considering relaxing transfer rules while preserving an adequate balance between
competition and sales costs. Moreover, the SBS is also considering fudher relaxing investment rules.
Currently, the SBS is proposing gradually increasing the foreign investment limit to 20 percent of pension
portfolios beginning in January 2002 and introducing a new fund for risk averse individuals and elder
affiliates.
Follow-up work should also include measures to encourage migration from the public pension system to
the private pension system. In this regard, the govemment is planning to issue a new compensation
bond ("bono de reconocimiento") to take into account contributions to the public system up to the year
2000. This measure coupled with the implementation of a minimum pension guarantee will foster growth
in the private pension system.
In connection with the cost reduction plan, additional work is necessary to encourage a reduction in
commissions through market mechanisms. While a number of measures included in the cost reduction
plan have been implemented, further measures which were originally included in the plan still need to be
implemented to encourage efficiency in the private pension system. For instance, further work is
necessary to streamline information requirements on investments and improving the efficiency of the
custodian system for domestic securities.
Finally, additional work is also required to reduce insurance related costs, a measure that was also
included in the cost reduction plan. In this area, the SBS is working on introducing measures to
encourage competition in the insurance market by eliminating the transition regime for claims handling
-- whereas the same insurance company provides disability and survivor benefit coverage and finances
the related annuity in monthly installments. The transition regime would be replaced with the use of
"aportes adicionales" a regime by which insurance companies providing coverage at the same time
provide the lump sum required to purchase an annuity.
Comments Conveyed by the Office of Public Pension Administration via the Ministry of Finance
(Comments in Spanish)
Comentario sucinto de la reformas implementadas en el marco del programa y su impacto en el sistema
de pensiones:
Desde el 23 de octubre del 2000 se viene realizando inversiones en el extranjero a traves del Fondo
Latinoamericano de Reservas, mediante un patrimonio fideicometido, constituido por inversiones en
renta fija (en su mayoria por Bonos del Tesoro Norteamericano y Agencias del Gobierno), el mismo que
ha obtenido un excelente desempeiho debido a la continua caida de las tasas de interes en el mercado
norteamercano. El rendimiento desde el inicio de operaciones del patrmonio al 26 de enero del 2000 ha
sido de 12,5% TEA.
Actualmente la empresa Callan Associeates Inc., una de las empresas de consultoria de inversiones de
mayor renombre a nivel mundial, esta trabajando en la elaboraci6n de la Politica y Reglamento para la
- 24 -



Inversi6n de los recursos administrados por el FCR en el mercado intemacional, el modelo de
activo-pasivo de los fondos del FCR, y los terminos de referencia para el proceso de selecci6n de los
administradores de inversiones.
Asimismo, se estan llevando a cabo reuniones de coordinaci6n donde participan CAVALI, AAFP, SBS,
CONASEV, BVL, ASABS, y ONP con el objeto de analizar la viabilidad de la negociaci6n de los Bonos
de Reconocimiento.
(b) Cofinanciers:
Japan Bank for International Cooperation
First of all, we, JBIC, would like to express our gratitude to you, The World Bank, for accepting our
participation in the co-financing with the Bank regarding FSAL II to The Republic of Peru, and for giving
us your assistance towards the first and second tranche release respectively.
The historical circumstances of JBIC loan so far are as follows.
*     Board Approval: October 20, 1999
*     Conclusion of the Loan Agreement with The Republic of Peru: December 15, 1999
*     Conclusion of the Co-lenders' Agreement with The World Bank: January 20, 2000
*     Fulfillment of the Conditions Precedent for the First Disbursement: January 26, 2000
*     Disbursement of the First Tranche: January 31, 2000 (JPY18,541,250,000.00, equivalent to
US$175,000,000.00)
*     |)Disbursement of the Second Tranche: September 26, 2000 (JPY13,450,000,000.00, equivalent
to US$125,000,000.00)
We would like to make our comments on FSAL II item by item as mentioned below.
Achievement of Objectives and Outputs
With respect to the main components of the conditionalities (i.e.: Banking Sector, Capital
Market and Pension System), as the Bank pointed out, there were some differences among the
components in the pace of progresses towards the compliance of conditionalities.
As to the Banking Sector Reform, we thought that the situation of progress was quite well, and
that the outputs of the adjustment have already had a good effect on the private banking system in the
viewpoint of the surveillance and action taken by the SBS. Although we care about a series of
bankruptcies in Peru since last year, we are sure that the SBS will play an important role for establishing
the sound banking sector.
Regarding Capital Market Development and Pension System Reform, it took a relatively long
time for the Peruvian Govemment and its agencies to fulfill all of the conditionalities, especially, of the
second tranche because there were so many issues to be coped with in these two components. However,
these reforms will organically contribute in the long run to the development of domestic capital market
and the reduction in fiscal expenditure of the government. The reform of the private pension system
would also be a key to the capital market development since the AFPs could be important players in the
market as investors.
Major Factors Affecting ImDlementation and Outcome
On the process of evaluations for the compliance of conditionalities, we confirmed the strong
commitment of MEF. In this FSAL II, the cooperation with the govemmental agencies (i.e.: SBS,
CONASEV, SAFP and ONP) was requisite to the achievements of objectives, and we were in the view
-25-



that MEF played an important role as a coordinator of these agencies.
Sustainabilitv
We have some concerns about the effect by the presidential and congressional election in April
of next year on macroeconomic policies and a series of structural reform, and would like to monitor the
aspect of sustainability in cooperation with the Bank in the future.
JBIC Performance .
With respect to the first tranche, we made our disbursement seven months after the Bank's
disbursement. In January of last year, we sent the joint mission to Peru with the Bank in order to evaluate
the level of compliance of the intermediate conditionalities for the JBIC's first tranche. The outcome of
this mission was very satisfactory to us, and we felt that our disbursement of the first tranche was an
incentive for the compliance of the conditionalities.
In last June, we again dispatched the joint mission with the Bank for the overall evaluation of
the second tranche conditionalities. The procedures by the Peruvian side, especially the procedures
regarding the components of Capital Market and Pension Reform, caused a delay to fulfill the
conditionalities for the second tranche release. We supposed that the delay above was partly due to the
negative effect by the presidential election and the confusion after that.
We think that the overall performance of JBIC was relatively good in the viewpoint that we had
a close contact with the Bank and the Peruvian Govemment from the stage of preparation of the Loan
toward the compliance of conditionalities and the realization of disbursement. We believe that the close
and good relationship between JBIC and the Bank has given the fruitful effect to the program, especially
through the process of evaluation.
Lessons Learned
Most of all, we acknowledged again that it is important for us to keep the close communications
with the Bank and the executing agencies in the case of co-financing, especially in the sector adjustment
loan of this type. It is precious experience for us to implement the program of FSAL 11 jointly with the
Bank.
In addition, we could deepen our knowledge of the financial sector in Peru through the
pre-appraisal of the loan and the process of joint evaluation, which could contribute to our consideration
for the future assistance to Peru.
Lastly, we sincerely hope the sustainable development of Peruvian economy through the
achievement of sound financial sector based on the reforms executed in this loan, and expect that the
benefits by this loan will last in the future.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N/A
10. Additional Information
-26 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Theproject was an adjustment operation and as such did not have a log matrix or dedicated
resourcesfor specifc procured contracts. Nevertheless, included below are some of thefinancial
industry indicators which indicate the state of thefinancial sector before and during the course of the
project, when the economy was experiencing severefinancial andfiscal stress.
Key Accounts of the Banking System
(US$ Millions)
Dic-94 Dlc-95  Dic-96  Dic-97  Dlc-98  Dlc-99 May-00
Colocacionesbrutas            5607  7825  10443  13327  14233  12004  11721
Depositos                    7554  9 317  11 450  13 511  13 060  12 700  12 753
Inversiones brutas             522    543    596   1 056    852   1 994   2 195
Cartera atrasada               392    377    545    675    991   1 003   1 204
Provisiones + adjudicados      367    432    599    781    945   1 029   1 136
Patrimonio                     957  1211   1 525   1 868   1926   1865   1867
Utilidad neta                  111    228    274    256    161         70      63
Fuente: SBS.
Elaboracion: MACROCONSULT S.A.
Principal Performance Indlcators of the Banking System
(in percentages)
Dic-94 Dic-95 Dic-96 Dlc-97 Dlc-98 Dic-99 Mav-0O
Fondos disponibles/dep6sitos                 37,3   38,3   35,6   36,0   31,0   34,0   34,0
Dep6sftos, bonos y adeudados/patilmonio 1/    8,6    9,0   9,1    9,5    9,1    8,8      8,7
Cartera atrasada/colocaciones brutas          7,0   4,8    5,2    5,1    7,0    8,4   10,3
Provisioneslcartera pesada                   75,6  91,1   86,1   90,6   92,0   97,3   88,0
Gastos de personal y generales/Ingresos flnancieros 51,2  41,2   38,8   39,4   37,7   37,1    37,6
Utilidad neta/patrimonio                     11,6   18,8   18,0   13,7    8,9    3,8     3,4
Utilidad neta/ingresos totales                6,9   10,6   10,2    7,9    4,8    2,4     2,2
11 en n6merm de veces.
Fuente: SBS.
Elaboracf6t: MACROCONSULT S.A.
-27 -



Outstanding Private Sector Bonds by Type of Issuer (1991-2000)
(Millions of US$)
1991 1992 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997 1999 1999 200011
BONOS DEL SECTOR PRIVADO 2W                     39  105  154  325  595 1054 1432 1804 1884  1984
BONOS DE ENTIDADES FINANCIERAS (A+B)13          39  105  142  236  387  582  733 1007 1033  1077
A.  BONOSDEARPENDAMIENTOF1NANCIERO       39  105  142  203  291  371  450  695  757    800
S.  BONOSSUBORDINADOS                     0    0    0   33   96  211  283  312  276    277
BONOS DE ENTIDADES NO FINANCIERAS (A+B+C)        0    0   12   89  208  472  699  797  852    907
A    BONOSCORPORA11VOS                    0    0   12   49  168  432  699  782  813    851
B.  BONIOSDETITULIZACION                  0    0    0    0    0    0    0   15   39           56
C.  BONOS CONVERTlBLES                    0    0    0   40   40   40    0    0    0             0
11 Dto a Mayo dl 2000
2t Inrdyj odamornt s nwODcacone de oferos pulicos re&tmdas por l CONASEV. L iodtrumordo on monodo nadol ostin vhdal on rd6Wme a
tipo dor rrabo dn i o.atid  rmonm Dilh idoas  on nolef  d I svhauad6n por bipo do mbio
31 Insby baaso mp_s hnriunni  y *mpo  d .n.domAfmncsimo.
Fueno: BCRP.
Elabormci6n: Mamonuot SA
-28 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Theprogram was an adjustment operationfor balance ofpayments and budget support. In
this contex, use offunds were not defined under investment loan procurement arrangements.
While this was an adjustment operation and thus did not have specific resources allocated for
investment purposes, it should be mentioned that the finds helped to resolve a critical balance of payments
problem. This was associated with the capital flight of external creditors of the banking system
(withdrawal of short term credit lines) and subsequent drawdown of international reserves (see attached
table). The project thus helped to alleviate this macroeconomic imbalance which in turn helped avoid a
breakdown in the banldng payments system as well as a sovereign downgrade on account of international
reserves levels.
External Financing Requirements (US$ billions)
1998              1999              2000 (est.)
Current Account Balance                    (3.8)              (2.9)             (3.0)
Financing:
Private Capital Flows                     2.4                 1.3               2.6
Privatization Proceeds                    0.1                0.8                0.9
IBRD/IDB Disbursements                    0.0                0.5                0.2
Other Public Disbursements                 0.8                1.3               0.5
Repayments                              (0.9)              (0.8)              (0.8)
Debt Relief                               0.4                0.1
Int. Reserves (-) = increase               1.0              (0.4)              (0.5)
-29 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Being an adjustment operation, the project did not calculate economic or financial rates of return
since most of the outcomes were related to the maintenance of macroeconomic and financial stability as
well as building institutions. However, it is worth noting that under both first and second tranche activities
and accomplishments (below), all conditions were met. This was particularly important in order to assure a
sound transition in the banking system where the new regulatory/legal framework permitted a market
friendly approach for merging banks and consolidating the financial system, as well as correcting some of
the structural deficiencies of the pension system and setting the base for developing the domestic capital
markets.
PERU
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN II
POLICY MATRIX
OBJECTIVES                                                       FIRST TRANCHE
Macroeconomic Policy Framework
*        Maintenance of a sound
macroeconomic policy framework.           Maintenance of an adequate framework of macroeconomic management agreed with the Bank,
covering fiscal, extemal, exchange, and monetary policies.
Banidnf Legal and Renulatorv
Framework
*        Develop and institute sound      Enactment of modifications to the banking law, and complementary regulations satisfactory to the
legal/regulatory institutional framework for    Bank, in effect, in order to establish an effective bank failure resolution mechanismn
bank failure resolution.
*        Strengthen bank supervision to   SBS Directive issued, setting forth policies for prompt corrective, and cease and desist type actions.
enforce early and prompt corrective actions
by banks, as well as cease and desist     Terms of reference agreed to with Bank foran external adviser to carzy outa project to: (i) improve
measures.                                 diagnostic and forecasting methodologies, (ii) enhance and integrate on-site and off-site supervision
and (iii) upgrade the technical capacity of SBS.
*        Make more flexible the           Consistent with the modifications to the banking law, the time hmits on commercial bank access to
lender-of-last-resort responsibility of the  the BCR discount facility will be extended. BCR will continue to exercise its authority to grant or
BCR                                       withhold access to the facility based upon assessment of the bank's condition, and to make use of the
facility by recurrent banks contingent on the presentation of a plan to reverse hquidity problems.
*        Strengthen the consohdated       Incorporation of SAFP officials into inter-agency (SBS, CONASEV, SAFP) working groups dealing
supervision of financial groups and       with (i) consolidated supervision, (ii) standards for risk management, and (ili) asset valuation / risk
improve information sharing & consistency    identification issues.
of norms across financial sub-sectors.
*        Establish budget autonomy for
the SBS.
- 30 -



Capital Markets Development
*       Address systemic risk via the   A working committee established, including MEF, BCR, CONASEV, SBS, SAFP, and COFIDE
development of primary and secondary    with agreed terms of reference, to review and make recmmendations regarding current inpedimts
markets in fixed income securities.    to the development of the domestic debt market, including the absence of market benchmarks, and to
evaluate the potential roles of government, COFIDE, and private corporations in the developnent of
the domestic debt market. Terms of reference, membership, and work schedule satisfactory to the
Banl, established.
*        Improve capital markets        Tenns of reference and funding approved to initiate a review of CONASEV's sategy and mandate
regulation and promotion, and rationalize  to balance its fimctions of capital markets regulation and promotion.
institutional supervisory fimutions towards
securities market oversight.
*        Develop a strategy for         A working committee established, including MEF and BCR, to develop a policy/institutional
government debt management              framework and time-bound work program for government debt management. Terms of reference,
membership, and work schedule satisfactory to the Bank, established, including the terms of
reference for the technical coordinator of the committee.
- 31 -



Pension Reform
Private Pension System (SPP)
*        Improve collections from both   Legislation enacted and complementary regulations issued authorizing extended payment program
public and private sector employers.     and settlement of late contributions and commissions to AFPs, and granting the SAFP access to
pennmel records of employers in payments arrears, with the aim to eliminate public and private
sector arrears of employer contributions to the SPP.
Supreme Decree issued requmirng public sector employers to participate in the extended payment
program.
*        Expand investment options and  Categories of foreign investments suitable for AFPs (e.g., investment grade sovereign debt, index and
risk management.                         fixed-income fimds of appropriate quality) specified by SAFP and approved by BCR. Portfoho limit
for foreign investments ofAFPs set by BCR at a minimum of 1% of their portfolios.
*        Increase attractiveness of SPP to    Terms of reference for SPP studies approved, consultants satisfactory to the Bank identified, and
workers and expand its coverage of the   studies initiated to identify means of (i) reducing the SPP's high operating costs (sales costs and
working population by reducing SPP costs    insurance premiums); (ii) permitting workers additional investment options; and (iii) attracting more
and enhancing competition among pension  workers to the SPP.
providers.
National Pension System (SNP)
*        Improve accounting, cost        Schedules set and implementation of work program begun to prepare (i) ONP projections of future
controls and colections of the SNP and   SNP and CV pension obligations and determine numbers of SNP and CV retirees and SNP active
Cedula Viva systems.                     affiliates; and (ii) the carrying out of collection activities under SUNAT contract with ONP.
*        Fund future obligations of the  Terms of reference and selection procedure established for contracting of FCR investment advisor(s),
SNP and CV.                              and letters of invitation issued to pre-qualified investment consultants.
Board of Directors of the FCR issues statement confirming that the assets and earnings of the fund
established for and dedicated to the coverage of Recognition Bonds, are inviolable and can only be
used for that purpose.
*        Reduce future fiscal obligations  SPP and SNP affiliation procedures equalized by SAFP and ONP to encourage migration of affiliates
tothe SNP.                             from SNP to SPP.
Protection of Social Proarams
Protection of key social  The agreed budget allocations for key priority social programs for the second half of 1999 provided
*        Protection of key social       under the corresponding monthly aUlocations to the relevant executing units.
programs and basic services for low income
sectors, and contingency programs to    Contingency plan defined, for the expansion of emergency employment generation in vulnerable
expand/maintain mcome generation for     communities, in the event of an economic downtum (as triggered by changes in pre-specified and
vulnerable communities in the event of   agreed set of economic/social indicators).
adverse economic developments.
- 32 -



PERU
FINANCIL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN II
POLICY MATRIX
OBJECTIVES                                                   SECOND TRANCHE
Macroeconomic Policv Framework
*       Maintenance of a sound
macroeconomic polcy framework.          Maintenance of macroeconomic policy framework endorsed by the Bank.
Banklna Leeal and Reeulatorv
Framewerk
*        Develop and institute sound    Operational procedures for the reformed banking resolution mechanism adopted. Such procedures
legal/regulatory institutional framework for   incorporated into the body of SBS's existing policies and procedures.
bank failure resolution.
*        Strengthen bank supervision to  Policies and procedures incorporated into SBS supervisory practices.
enforce early and prompt conrective actions
by banks, as well as cease and desist
measures.                               Action plan documented and adopted, incorporating methods and techniques into the ongoing
supervisory process, based on the recommendations drawn from the project with the external adviser.
Verification of improvements in bank supervision including prompt corrective actions and
enforcement, and application of new bank resolution tools if needed.
.        Make more flexible the
lender-of-last-resort responsibility of the
BCR
*        Stegd&   the consolidated      Formal inter-agency agreement between SBS, CONASEV and SAFP in effect to: (i) ensure systematic
supervision of financial groups and    infonnation sharing, (ii) promote consisteny in norms across sub-sectors of the frnancial system, (m)
improve information sharing & consistency    enhance financial sector policy dialogue, and (*v) facilitate the (off-site and on-site) consolidated
of norms across fun   sub-sectors.      supervision of financial congiomerates.
*        Establish budget autonomy for  Budgetary autonomy for the SBS granted under the Budget Law for the year 2000.
the SBS.                                Bde3yatnm  o b  B   rne  ne n  ugtLwfrteya  00
Canital Markets Development
*       Address systemic risk via the   Review has been undertaken and an action plan based on recommendations, has been approved,
development of prinary and secondary    satisfactory to the Bank, for implementation.
markets in fixed income securities.
*        Improve capital markets        The draft Law to inprove the efficiency of CONVASEV, rationalize its functions, define its budget
regulation and promotion, and rationalze  funding sources, and improve its capabilities for capital markets regulation; is presented to Congress.
institutional supervisory fimctions towards
securities market oversight.            An action plan for implementation of recommendations on improving the balance between
CONASEV's regulatory and market promotion functions, adopted.
.        Develop a strategy for         Review has been undertaken and an action plan for a policy and institutional framework for
government debt  nagement.              implementation of a debt management strategy based on the review's recommendations, has been
approved, satisfactory to the Bank, for implementation.
-33-



Pension Reform
Private Pension System (SPP)
*          wImprove collecdons from both  Redirection to the SPP of pension contributions for all public sector employees in the ONP individual
public and private sector employers.    accounts database whose contributions are being erroneously directed to the SNP by public entities.
Notification given by SAFP, to 100% of non contributing public sector employers of SPP affiliates
matched/identified by ONP/SUNAT individual accounts database, to submit debt reconciliation and
employee payroll information. For at least 7,500 of such affiliates, employee data for reconciliation of
debts has been fully submitted by employers to SAFP/AFPs.
Reconciliation process completed for, and collections begun or authorized, with respect to all
delinquent private sector employers enrolled in the extended payment program. SAFP has carried out
least 200 inspections of delinquent private employers prior to end-August, 1999, and at least 100
inspections per month thereafter, priority given to delinquent employers with more than 50 employees.
*        Expand investment options and  A program is authorized by BCR to increase current portfolio limits on foreign investments of AFPs.
risk management.                        Under the progrsn, additional increments of 1%, up to a limit of 5% of the portfolio wiDl be permitted
for investment abroad for every $20 miDlion of reserves reached over and above the end-December
1999 net internaional reserves target.
SPP regulations modified via enactment of amendments thereof, with a view to (a) expand domestic
investment opportunities consistent with prudential standards, and (b) eliminate the requirement that
AFPs demonstrate positve real rate of return on pension fimd investments while providing the
*        Increase attractiveness of SPP to   appropriate safeguards.
workers and expand its coverage of the
working population by reducing SpP costs    Presentation and adoption by the Government, of a plan to reduce AFP operating costs, open up wider
and enhancing competition among pension    and lower-cost investment options to affiliates, and attract new affiliates to the SPP.
providers.
National Pension System (SNP)
*        Improve accountmng, cost       Individual accounts database for SNP established, affiliates identified and enumerated, and aDl
controls and collections of the SNP and  necessary information provided to properly project future obhgations of SNP.
Cedula Viva systems.
.        Fund future obligations of the  The investment administrator(s) selected for the long-term investment program of the FCR, and report
SNP and CV.                             submitted on investment allocations and execution strategy.
At least 10% of the ful amount of the FCR fund invested under the program.
Study funded under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank and analysis initated to project future
obligations of, and required government contributions to the SNP and CV.
ONP to issue report providing 1 0-year projections of govermnent SNP and CV pension obligations,
future pension reserves, and required budget fndming for such.
Government to establish a strategy to annually project, control and cover future budget transfers for
pension obligations, over the next 3 years.
Reduce future fiscal oblgations    Adoption of a mechanism to enable workers to move from the SNP to the SPP (including option of
to the         f     iP.                using Recognition Bonds) to permit transferability to SPP of workers' accumulated SNP contnbutrons
as of the date of transfer, without incurring financial loss.
Protection of Social Proerams           Presentation of evidence, satisfactory to the Bank, that the 1999 monthly budget allocations for priority
Protection of key social       social programs were maintained at the agreed aggregate levels of at least S. 2.2 billion for the second
half of 1999.
programs and basic services for low income
sectors, and contingency programs to    Presentation of evidence, satisfactory to the Bank, that the year 2000 budget for protected programs is
expand/maintain income generation for   maintained at las at a level equal tD the 1999 budget in real terms (Sl. 4.52 billion).
vuinerable commumties in the event of
adverse economic developments.          In the event that any of the economic/social indicators defined for the contingency plan reach their
trigger points, the Government wil present evidence, satisfactory to the Bank that it has implemented
the expansion of programs (the Contingency Social Protection Plan) in accordance with agreed
procedures and budget amounts of at least S/. 30 million.
- 34 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty             Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economnists, I FMS, etc.)   Implementation  Development
Month/Year    Count            Specialty                      Progress      Objective
IdentificationoPreparation
1/99 to 4/99                 1   Financial/Monetary Policy
2   Banking Sector
1   Macroeconomics
2   Capital Markets
I   Legal Framework
1   Pension Sector
1   Financial Sector (Overall)
Appraisal/Negotiation
5/99 to 6/99                 1   Financial/Monetary Policy
I   Macroeconomics
I   Financial Sector
1   Bank Resolution
1   Banking Supervision
1   Capital Markets
1   Legal
Supervision
6/99 to 12/00                 1   Financial Sector
I   Banking Supervision                 S             S
I   Securities Markets/Settlement
1   Macroeconomics
2   Pension Sector
1   Legal
ICR
1/01 - 4/01                  1    Financial Sector                    S            HS
I    Financial Economist
I    Banking Sector
(b) Staff.
Stage of Project Cycle                    Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ (V0)
Identification/Preparation                 21                          109
Appraisal/Negotiation                      10                           69
Supervision                                23                          154
ICR                                         7                           46
Total                                      61                          378
- 35 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
ESMacro policies                          OH   *SUOM  O N  O NA
Sector Policies                          * H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
O Physical                                O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
F Financial                               O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
M Institutional Development               * H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
O Environmental                           O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Social
' Poverty Reduction                 O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Gender                             OH OSUOM ON *NA
F Other (Please specify)            * H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
Protection of basic services for lower
income communities
 Private sector development              0 H  * SU O M  0 N  0 NA
F Public sector management                * H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
O Other (Please specify)                  O H  O SU O M  O N  O NA
- 36 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                 Rating
B Lending                                           OHS*S OU OHU
F Supervision                                       OHS OS  Ou  OHU
0 Overall                                           OHS OS  O U  0 HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
N Preparation                                       OHS OS  O U  O HU
2 Government implementation performance             O HS O S  0 U  0 HU
F Implementation agency performance                 OHS OS   OU  OHU
M Overall                                           OHS OS  OU  O HU
-37 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Report and Recommendation of the President (FSAL II), Report No. P-7293-PE, June 5, 1999
Project Supervision Reports, January to December, 2000.
Reports on Borrower compliance submitted by the SBS, SAFP, CONASEV and ONP.
Memorandum to the Board on 2nd Tranche Release, SEC-M2000-558, August 21, 2000
-38 -



