Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4497-PE
Loan Agreement
(Second Financial Sector Adjustment Loan)
between 
REPUBLIC OF PERU
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated June 23, 1999
LOAN NUMBER 4497-PE 
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 23, 1999, between  REPUBLIC OF PERU (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank): 
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter dated May 29, 1999 from the Borrower 
describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to achieve 
structural adjustment of the financial sector of the Borrower’s economy (hereinafter 
called the Program), declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the 
Program, and requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the Program during the 
execution thereof; and 
(B)
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Bank has decided in 
support of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the Loan 
in two  tranches as hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, as amended 
through December 2, 1997 and, with the modifications set forth below (the General 
Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
Section 2.01, paragraph 18, is modified to read: "‘Project’ means the 
program, referred to in the Preamble to the Loan Agreement, in support of which the 
Loan is made.";
Page  2
(b)
Section 4.01 is modified to read: "Except as the Bank and the Borrower 
shall otherwise agree, withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be made in the currency 
of the deposit account specified in Section 2.02 of the Loan Agreement.";
(c)
Section 5.01 is modified to read: "The Borrower shall be entitled to 
withdraw the proceeds of the Loan from the Loan Account in accordance with the 
provisions of the Loan Agreement and of these General Conditions"; 
(d)
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted;
(e)
Section 9.07 (c) shall be modified to read: "(c) Not later than six 
months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose 
between the Borrower and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank 
a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on 
the execution of the program referred to in the Preamble to the Loan Agreement, the 
performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respective obligations under the 
Loan Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan."; and  
(f)
Section 9.05 is deleted and Sections 9.06, 9.07 (as modified above), 9.08 
and 9.09 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a)
"AFPs" means Administradoras Privadas de Fondos de Pensiones, specialized 
limited liability companies for the administration of private pension funds in the 
Borrower’s territory; 
(b)
"Amended Private Pension Law" means the law conformed under Decreto 
Supremo No. 054-97 EF as amended by Law No. 27130 dated May 31, 1999; 
(c)
"BCR" means Banco Central de Reserva del Perú, the Borrower’s Central 
Bank; 
(d)
"CONASEV" means Comisión Nacional Supervisora de Empresas y Valores, the 
Borrower’s National Companies and Securities Commission;  
(e)
"Contingency Social Protection Plan" means the Borrower’s plan dated May, 
1999, a copy of which was delivered to the Bank under cover of the Borrower’s letter 
dated May 24, 1999; 
(f)
"CV" means Cédula Viva, the Borrower’s former national pension system 
established by Decree Law No. 20530, dated February 26, 1974;
(g) 
"Debt Management Committee" means the Borrower’s committee established 
pursuant to Ministerial Resolution No. 102-99-EF/10, dated May 14, 1999; 
(h)
"Deposit Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
(i)
"EFF" means the Extended Funding Facility of the International Monetary 
Fund; 
(j)
"FCR" means Fondo Consolidado de Reservas Previsionales, the Borrower’s 
Consolidated Pension Reserve Fund, created by Legislative Decree No. 817, dated April 
22,1996; 
(k)
"Financial Sector Regulatory Agencies" means CONASEV, SAFP (as 
hereinafter defined), and SBS, (as hereinafter defined); 
(l)
"Nuevos Soles" and "S/." mean the currency of the Borrower; 
(m)
"ONP" means  Oficina de Normalización Previsional,  the Borrower’s 
National Pensions Office established by Law No. 263232, dated June 1, 1994; 
(n)
"Public Sector Entity" means the public sector entities referred to in 
Article 1 of the Supreme Decree (as hereinafter defined); 
(o)
"SAFP" means Superintendencia de Administradoras Privadas de Fondos de 
Pensiones, the Borrower’s Private Pension Fund Administrators Superintendency; 
Page  3
(p)
"SBS" means Superintendencia de Banca y Seguros, the Borrower’s 
Superintendency of Banking and Insurance; 
(q)
"SNP" means Sistema Nacional de Pensiones, the Borrower’s National 
Pension System established by Law No. 19990, dated April 24, 1973;  
(r)
"SPP" means Sistema Privado de Pensiones, the Borrower’s Private Pension 
System created by Decree Law No. 25897 dated November 26, 1992;  
(s)
"SPP Regulations" means the regulations published pursuant to SAFP 
Resolution No. 052-98-EF/SAFP, dated February 11, 1998; and 
(t)
"Supreme Decree" means the Decreto Supremo No. 090-99-EF dated June 3, 
1999. 
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to three 
hundred million Dollars ($300,000,000).  
Section 2.02. (a) The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Bank the 
first request for withdrawal from the Loan Account, and thereafter maintain in BCR, a 
deposit account in Dollars on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. All 
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the Deposit 
Account.  The Borrower shall not allow any other amounts from any source to be 
deposited in the Deposit Account.
(b)
Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (c) and (d) of this Section, the 
Borrower shall be entitled to use the proceeds of the Loan from the Loan Account in 
support of the Program.
(c)
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall not be used 
to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of the Loan 
shall have been used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the Borrower 
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (i) deposit into the Deposit Account an 
amount equal to the amount of said payment; or (ii) if the Bank shall so request, 
refund such amount to the Bank. Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such request shall 
be credited to the Loan Account for cancellation.
(d)
No withdrawals shall be made from the Loan Account after the aggregate of 
the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account shall have reached the 
equivalent of $178,000,000, unless: 
(i) 
at least six months have passed since the Effective Date;
(ii)
the Bank shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views as 
described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement based on evidence 
satisfactory to the Bank: (A)
with the progress achieved by the 
Borrower in the carrying out of Program; (B) that the 
macroeconomic policy framework is consistent with the 
objectives 
of the Program; and (C) that the actions described in 
Schedule 3 
to this Agreement have been taken in form and 
substance 
satisfactory to the Bank. If, after said 
exchange of views, the 
Bank shall have given notice to the 
Borrower that the progress 
achieved and actions taken are 
not satisfactory and, within 90 
days after such notice, the 
Borrower shall not have achieved 
progress and taken actions 
satisfactory to the Bank, then the Bank 
may, by notice to the 
Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan or any part 
thereof. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be July 31, 2000 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to one 
percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  On or promptly after the Effective Date, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
Page  4
itself the amount of said fee.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.  
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i)
"Interest Period" means the initial period from and including the 
date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment Date to, but 
excluding the next following Interest Payment Date. 
(ii)
"Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in Section 2.07 
of this Agreement. 
(iii)
"LIBOR Base Rate" means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for value 
the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date 
occurring on or next preceding the first day of such Interest 
Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(iv)
"LIBOR Total Spread" means, for each Interest Period: (A) 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the 
weighted average margin, for such Interest Period, below (or 
above) the London interbank offered rates, or other reference 
rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s 
outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank 
to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by it that 
include the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per annum. 
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof. 
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section, the Bank determines 
that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a 
basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided 
in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates 
applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower of 
the new basis. The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period 
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in 
which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on June 
15 and December 15 in each year. 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the 
request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program and the actions specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
(b)
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request. 
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank on any proposed action to be taken 
Page  5
after the disbursement of the Loan which would have the effect of materially reversing 
the objectives of the Program or any action taken under the Program, including any 
action specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Upon the Bank’s request, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
(b)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than 
four months after the date of the Bank’s request for such audit, a certified copy of 
the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Bank shall have reasonably requested; and 
(c)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the Deposit Account 
and the audit thereof as the Bank shall have reasonably requested. 
ARTICLE IV 
Additional Event of Suspension 
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which 
shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be 
carried out. 
ARTICLE V 
Effective date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions: 
(a)
the macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower is consistent with the 
objectives of the Program; and 
(b)
the Bank is satisfied, after an exchange of views described in Section 
3.01 (a) of this Agreement with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying 
out of the Program.
Section 5.02. The date September 23, 1999 is hereby specified for the purposes 
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01. The Minister of Economy and Finance of the Borrower is designated 
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Economy and Finance
Jirón Junín 319
Lima 1
Perú
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Page  6
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF PERU
By /s/ Ricardo Luna 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Xavier Coll 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1 
Excluded Expenditures
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Loan 
shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures: 
1. 
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of the Borrower; 
2.
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national 
or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance under another loan or a credit; 
and 
3.
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by 
the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or 
any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by 
the Bank by notice to the Borrower.
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112                     -
Alcoholic beverages
121                     -
Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco
refuse
122                     -
Tobacco, manufactured (whether or 
not containing tobacco 
substitutes)
525                     -
Radioactive and associated materials
667
   -
Pearls, precious and semiprecious
stones, unworked or worked
718                  718.7
Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof; 
fuel elements (cartridges), 
non-irradiated, for nuclear 
reactors
728
728.43
Tobacco processing machinery
Page  7
897                  897.3
Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum
group metals (except watches and 
watch cases) and goldsmiths’ or 
silversmiths’ wares (including 
set gems)
971                     -
Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold
ores and concentrates)
4.
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for 
luxury consumption;
5.
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this paragraph 
the term "environmentally hazardous goods" means goods, the manufacture, use or import 
of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to 
which the Borrower is a party);
6.
expenditures: (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the 
Bank or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) on 
account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment 
or import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken 
under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and
7.
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Bank determines that 
corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or 
of a beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement or execution of such contract, 
without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the 
Bank to remedy the situation.
SCHEDULE 2 
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal 
Date Payment Due
(Expressed in Dollars)*
On each June 15 and December 15
beginning December 15, 2004
through June 15, 2016
12,500,000
SCHEDULE 3 
Actions Referred to in Section 2.02 (d) of this Agreement 
1.
Macroeconomic Framework Continued maintenance of a sound macroeconomic 
framework, consistent with the objectives of the Program, as determined on the basis 
of indicators agreed to by the Borrower and the Bank. 
2.
Banking Legal and Regulatory Framework
(a)
Adoption by SBS of operational procedures to implement the reformed 
banking resolution mechanism provided in Law No. 27102, dated May 5, 1999. 
(b)
Adoption by SBS of a plan to improve SBS’s supervision.
(c)
Record of enhanced banking supervision by SBS, satisfactory to the Bank.
(d)
Conclusion by the Borrower of an inter-agency agreement among the 
Financial Sector Regulatory Agencies and adoption of a working plan, to: (i) ensure 
systematic information sharing among them; (ii) promote consistency in norms across 
sub-sectors of the Borrower’s financial system; (iii) enhance financial sector policy 
dialogue among Financial Sector Regulatory Agencies; and (iv) facilitate the 
consolidated supervision of financial conglomerates, both off-site and on-site. 
(e)
Submission to the Borrower’s legislature of a draft budget law for the 
year 2000  granting budgetary autonomy to SBS. 
3.
Capital Markets Development
(a)
Adoption by the Borrower of an action plan to deal with the current 
Page  8
impediments to the development of the domestic debt market.
(b)
Presentation to the Borrower’s legislature of a draft law which would 
improve the efficiency of CONASEV by: (i) rationalizing its functions; (ii) defining 
its funding sources; and (iii) improving its enforcement capabilities under the legal 
framework for the capital markets. 
(c)
Adoption by CONASEV of a program to improve the balance between its 
regulatory and market promotion functions. 
(d)
Adoption by the Borrower of a policy and institutional debt management 
program based on the recommendations of the Debt Management Committee. 
4.
Pension Reform
Private Pension System 
(a)
Redirection to the SPP of pension contributions for all Public Sector 
Entities employees identified in the ONP individual accounts database whose 
contributions are being erroneously directed to the SNP by Public Sector Entities. 
(b)
Request for reconciliation of debts and submission of related 
information, pursuant to the Supreme Decree, transmitted by SAFP to each Public Sector 
Entity, with respect to each of its SPP affiliated employees identified in the ONP 
individual accounts database, and receipt by the SAFP of information permitting 
determination of debts for at least 7,500 of such employees. 
(c)
SAFP has carried out under Article 57 (p) of the Amended Private Pensions 
Law at least 200 inspections of delinquent private employers prior to  August 31, 1999 
and an average of 100 inspections per month thereafter, with priority for such 
inspections given to delinquent private employers with more than 50 employees.  
(d)
Portfolio limit for foreign investments by AFPs, set by BCR at a minimum 
level of one percent and increased by one percent for each 20 million dollars, of net 
international reserves of BCR above the target established in the quantitative 
performance criteria under the EFF for December 31, 1999.
(e)
Enactment by the Borrower of amendments to the SPP Regulations to: (i) 
expand domestic investment opportunities consistent with appropriate prudential 
standards; and (ii) eliminate the requirement that AFPs demonstrate a positive real 
rate of return on pension funds investments while providing for the appropriate 
safeguards.
(f)
Presentation and adoption by the Borrower of a plan, to: (i) reduce the 
AFPs operating costs; (ii) provide wider and lower-cost investment options to 
affiliates; and (iii) attract more participants to the SPP. 
Public Pension System 
(a)
Establishment of a database of individual accounts under the SNP 
containing all necessary information to project properly the future obligations of SNP 
and to permit the identification of SNP affiliates.
(b)
Selection by the Borrower of investment administrators for the long-term 
investment program of the FCR and issuance of a report by the Borrower on investment 
allocations and execution strategy.
(c)
Investment by the Borrower, pursuant to the long-term investment program 
of the FCR, of at least 220 million dollars equivalent of the FCR resources. 
(d)
Contracting by the Borrower of a study, prepared under terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Bank, to project future obligations of, and government 
contributions to, SNP and CV.
(e)
Issuance by ONP of a report including ten year projections of future SNP 
and CV pension obligations, future funding levels of existing pension reserves and 
required budget allocations to cover obligations falling due within such ten year 
period.  
(f)
Adoption by the Borrower of a strategy, to be implemented annually, to 
control and cover budgetary transfers for pension obligations for the next three 
years. 
Page  9
(g)
Adoption by the Borrower of a mechanism to permit transferability to SPP 
of recognized accumulated contributions of SNP affiliates through the date of 
transfer. 
5.
Protection of Social Programs
(a)
Presentation by the Borrower of evidence that the allocation (Calendario) 
under the Borrower’s budget law for 1999 for the priority social programs listed in 
the Annex to this Schedule, was maintained at an aggregate level equivalent of at 
least S/. 2,235 million for the second half of 1999.   
(b)
Presentation by the Borrower of evidence, that an aggregate amount 
equivalent to at least S/. 4,522.5 million, has been included in the Borrower’s budget 
law for year 2000, for the priority social programs listed in the Annex to this 
Schedule. 
(c)
In the event any of the indicators set forth in the Implementation Letter 
is triggered, the Borrower shall provide evidence to the Bank that provision has been 
made in an additional amount of at least S/. 30 million in the aggregate, for the 
expansion of the social programs described in the Implementation Letter in accordance 
with the Contingency Social Protection Plan.
