Page  1
December 15, 1999 
Mr. Efraín Goldenberg 
Ministro de Economía y Finanzas 
Jirón 
Junín 319 Lima 1, 
Perú
Re:
Loan No. 4497-PE (Second Financial Sector Adjustment Loan) 
Amendment to the Loan Agreement
Dear Sir:
Please refer to the Loan Agreement between International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development (the Bank) and the Republic of Perú (the Borrower) dated June 23, 1999 
(the Loan Agreement) with regard to the above-captioned Loan.  We are pleased to 
inform you that, pursuant to your request and our recent discussions on the subject, 
the Bank agrees to amend the Loan Agreement as set forth below to reflect co-financing 
provided by the Japan Bank for International Cooperation (JBIC).
1.
Whereas clause (B) is hereby redesignated to become Whereas clause (C), and is 
immediately preceded by the following new Whereas clause:
"(B)
by an agreement dated December 15, 1999 between the Japan Bank for 
International Cooperation (JBIC) and the Borrower (the JBIC Loan Agreement), 
JBIC has agreed to make a loan to the Borrower in a principal amount not to 
exceed either thirty seven billion two hundred million Japanese yen 
(37,200,000,000 Japanese yen) or its equivalent in Dollars up to three hundred 
million Dollars ($300,000,000) (the JBIC Loan) to assist in supporting the 
Program during the execution thereof; and".
2.
Article IV is hereby amended to read as follows in its entirety:  "Section 4.01. 
Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the following additional 
events are specified:
(a)
 A situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, 
or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
(b)
The JBIC Loan Agreement shall have failed to become effective by April 1, 
2000, or such later date as the Bank may agree; provided, however, that the provisions 
of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of 
the Bank that adequate funds to assist in supporting the Program are available to the 
Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of 
the Borrower under this Agreement.
(c)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A)
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the 
JBIC Loan shall have been suspended, canceled or terminated 
in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of the JBIC Loan 
Agreement, or
(B)
the JBIC Loan shall have become due and payable prior to the 
agreed maturity thereof.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that:  (A) such 
suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is not caused 
by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations 
under such agreement; and (B) adequate funds to assist in 
supporting the Program are available to the Borrower from other 
sources on terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of 
the Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 4.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the event specified in Section 
4.01 (c) (i) (B) of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso in paragraph 
Page  2
(c) (ii) of that Section 
Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing amendments by signing and dating 
this letter in the spaces provided below.  This amendment letter may be executed in 
two counterparts, each of which shall be an original.  Upon your confirmation, please 
return one fully executed original to us.  The provisions of this amendment letter 
will become effective as of the date first above written upon receipt by the Bank of 
one fully executed original of this amendment letter.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
   AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Isabel Guerrero 
Director 
Country Management Unit for Bolivia, Paraguay and Perú
REPUBLIC OF PERU
By /s/ Efraín Goldenberg
Minister of Economy and Finance
Date:
January 11, 2000
