Page  1
June 2, 1999
Ing. Victor Joy Way
Minister of Economy and Finance
Ministry of Economy and Finance
Lima, Peru
Re:  Japanese Grant for the Poverty Structural Adjustment Loan 
Grant TF No. TF025903 
Dear Sir:
I
am writing on behalf of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) 
to indicate the Bank’s agreement, as administrator of grant funds provided by the Government of 
Japan, to make a grant in an amount not exceeding four hundred and seventy thousand U.S. Dollars 
($470,000) (the Grant) to the Republic of Peru (the Recipient).
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient's request for financial assistance and for the 
purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex to this Letter Agreement.  The 
Recipient represents, by confirming its agreement below, that it is authorized to contract and 
withdraw the Grant for the said purposes and on the said terms and conditions.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by signing, 
dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement.  Upon receipt by the Bank of 
the copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, this Letter Agreement will become effective 
as of the date of the countersignature.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Isabel Guerrero
Country Director, 
Bolivia, Paraguay and Peru
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
AGREED:
REPUBLIC OF PERU
By: /s/ Victor Joy Way
Minister of Economy and Finance
Date: June 3, 1999
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms, and Conditions of the Grant
Page  2
1.
Purposes and Activities
1.1.
The purposes of the Grant are to assist the Recipient in the preparation of a proposed 
Financial Adjustment Loan Program.  The activities (the Activities) for which the Grant is given are 
as follows:
(a) 
Overall Social Development Strategy
Complement the existing social strategy through: (i) the design of a contingency plan to be applied in 
case of economic slow-down; (ii) the design of a rapid assessment survey instrument for evaluating 
the impact of an economic slow-down  in different regions of the country, and (iii) the design of 
model development agreements between beneficiaries and the Government.
(b) 
Improvement of
Social Programs- Design, Targeting, Evaluation and Monitoring
Provision of technical assistance for: (i) the development of a methodology to elaborate a poverty 
map, including the definition of a revised poverty line; (ii) the development of a strategy to improve 
the monitoring and evaluation of social programs; (iii) the development of a strategy to establish a 
uniform system of codification of geographic areas as a first step to harmonizing existing data bases, 
and (iv) the development of a plan to establish priorities, indicators and a registration system for 
institutions that give attention to the most vulnerable groups such as homeless, children and elder 
people.
(c) Action Plan for Implementing Changes in the Recipient’s Regulatory Framework and 
Monitoring/Evaluation System of Food Nutrition Programs
Foster the implementation of the National Plan for Nutrition and Feeding 1998-2000, through the 
provision of technical assistance for: (i) the establishment of objectives, technical specifications and 
type of attention given, as well as a strategy to establish entry and exit criteria; (ii) the design of a 
strategy to avoid duplicate attentions to same beneficiaries and information, monitoring and 
administrative control systems for improving the cost effectiveness of food programs, and (iii) the 
design of a public information campaign on nutrition education and on the role of the Government in 
this area.
(d) 
Action Plan for Implementing Education Sector Reforms
Provision of technical assistance for: (i) diagnosing the design requirements of a training program for 
primary teachers and of a teacher’s exchange program including innovative training practices; (ii) the 
design of a pilot program to improve the supervision and close monitoring of schools, and the 
definition of performance indicators; (iii) diagnosing the analysis requirements of the causes that  
generate teacher’s attendance problems in rural areas, defining the basic characteristics of a pilot 
program for distant education, and designing the rules of a scholarship contest for outperforming 
students in distant rural areas; (iv) the design of a legal framework to improve the management of the 
Ministry of Education’s infrastructure and land properties and of a proposal for better personnel 
management procedures; (v) defining the basic characteristics of a Children Census and a Children’s 
Height Census; and (vi) the design of a system of tuition payments linked to household income to be 
used by public universities.
Page  3
(e) 
Action Plan for Implementing Health Sector Reforms
Provision of technical assistance for: (i) the design of a plan to improve access to health services, and 
streamline mother/child programs, nutrition programs and environmental health programs; (ii) the 
design of a plan to establish quality improvement mechanisms and accreditation of maternal care in 
hospitals; (iii) the design of: (A) a plan to reduce capacity of  redundant beds in hospitals; (B) a 
system for cross-sector purchase of health supplies; and (C) a health sector pre-investment policy; (iv) 
the design of: (A) a plan to “corporatize” general national hospitals in Lima and propose mechanisms 
to increase access for the poor; (B) a program to prepare national hospitals for 
“corporativization”, including the design of performance agreements; and (C) a system for monitoring 
targets for exemptions and use of agreed procedures of identification; (v) the design of a plan for 
expanding insurance coverage for the non-poor; and (vi) the design of a plan for an institutional 
change management.
2.
Implementation Generally
2.1. The Recipient shall: (a) carry out the Activities with due diligence and efficiency through its 
Ministry of Economy and Finance; (b) promptly provide the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for that purpose; (c) furnish all information covering the Activities and the use of 
the proceeds of the Grant as the Bank shall reasonably request; (d) from time to time exchange views 
with the Bank's representatives on the progress and results of the Activities; and (e) take all necessary 
measures required to enable the Bank to visit the territory of Peru for purposes related to the Grant.  
Without limitation on the foregoing, the Recipient shall, if the Bank shall so request, prepare and 
furnish to the Bank promptly upon completion of the Activities a report, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank, on the results and impact of the Activities.
3.
Procurement
3.1.
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the consultants’ services required 
for the carrying out of the Activities and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant shall be 
governed by the provisions of Attachment I to this Annex.
4.
Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds
4.1.
The amount of the Grant shall be credited to an account opened by the Bank on its books in 
the name of the Recipient (the Grant Account), and may be withdrawn therefrom by the Recipient in 
accordance with the provisions of this Section 4, for expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost of 
services required for the Activities and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant.
4.2.
The expenditures for the following items may be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant 
and shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Activities:
Item
Amount of the Grant
Allocated (in U.S. Dollars)
% of 
Expenditures to
be Financed
Page  4
(1) Consultants’ services 
(2) Goods
$455,000
$15,000
100%
100% of foreign 
expenditures; 90% of local 
expenditures
TOTAL
$470,000
For the purposes of this paragraph, the terms:
(a)
“foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any country other than that 
of the Recipient for goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the 
Recipient; and
(b)
“local expenditures” means expenditures that are not foreign expenditures.
 
4.3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 4.2 above: (a) no withdrawals shall be made: (i) 
on account of payments for any taxes levied by or in the territory of the Recipient; (ii) on account of 
expenditures in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank or for services 
supplied from such territories; (iii) for the purpose of any payment to persons or entities if such 
payment, to the Bank’s knowledge, is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council 
taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; or (iv) after June 30, 2000 or such later 
date as the Bank shall establish by written notice to the Recipient (the Closing Date), except that 
withdrawals may be made for expenditures incurred prior to the Closing Date if the corresponding 
application is received by the Bank within four months after the Closing Date, after which time any 
amount of the Grant remaining unwithdrawn from the Grant Account shall be canceled; and (b) if, in 
the Bank’s opinion, an amount of the Grant allocated to any of the items in the table in paragraph 4.2 
above will be insufficient to finance the expenditures for such item, the Bank may, by written notice 
to the Recipient, reallocate to such item an amount of the Grant then allocated to another item which, 
in the Bank’s opinion, will not be necessary to meet other expenditures.
4.4.
When the Recipient shall desire to withdraw any amount from the Grant Account, it shall 
deliver to the Bank a written application for withdrawal of such amount in the form specified by the 
Bank.  Withdrawal applications shall be: (a) signed on behalf of the Recipient by the Minister of 
Economy and Finance or such other person as he or she shall have authorized in writing; and (b) be 
accompanied by such evidence in support of the application as the Bank shall reasonably request.  
Authenticated specimen signatures of the person authorized to sign withdrawal applications shall be 
provided with the first application bearing his or her signature.  Each withdrawal application for an 
amount of the Grant and its supporting evidence must be sufficient in form and substance to satisfy 
the Bank that the Recipient is entitled to withdraw such amount from the Grant Account and that such 
amount is to be used in the carrying out of the Activities.  The Bank shall pay the amounts withdrawn 
by the Recipient from the Grant Account only to or on the order of the Recipient.
4.5.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on the basis of 
statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (a) services of consulting firms costing 
less than $100,000 equivalent; (b) services of individual consultants costing less than $40,000 
equivalent, and (c) goods; all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to 
Page  5
the Recipient. 
4.6.
Withdrawals of the proceeds of the Grant shall be made in the currency of the Grant.  The 
Bank, at the Recipient’s request and acting as an agent of the Recipient, shall purchase with the 
currency of the Grant withdrawn from the Grant Account such currencies as shall be required to pay 
for expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant.  Whenever it shall be necessary, for 
the purposes of this Letter Agreement, to determine the value of one currency in terms of another, 
such value shall be as reasonably determined by the Bank.
4.7.
To facilitate the carrying out of the Activities, the Recipient may open and maintain in U.S. 
dollars a special deposit account (the Special Account) in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment.  
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the 
provisions of Attachment II to this Annex.
5.
Accounts and Audits
5.1.
(a)
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained records and accounts adequate to 
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures in 
respect of the Activities of the departments or agencies of the Recipient responsible for carrying out 
the Activities or any part thereof.
(b)
The Recipient shall: (i) have the records and accounts referred to in subparagraph (a) 
above and the records and accounts for the Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than six 
months after the end of each such year, the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other 
information concerning said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant Account were 
made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall: (i) maintain or cause to be 
maintained, in accordance with subparagraph (a) above, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures; (ii) retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the audit report for the 
fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures; (iii) enable the 
Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and (iv) ensure that such records and accounts are 
included in the annual audit referred to in subparagraph (b) above and that the report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted 
during such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
6.
Suspension and Cancellation
6.1. The Bank may at any time, by notice to the Recipient, suspend the right of the Recipient to make 
further withdrawals from the Grant Account if any of the following events has occurred and is 
continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to comply with any of its obligations herein specified; or (b) 
the right of the Recipient, or any other entity to which the Bank has made a loan with the guarantee of 
the Republic of Peru, to make withdrawals under any loan agreement with the Bank or any 
Page  6
development credit agreement with the International Development Association shall have been 
suspended. 
6.2. The Bank may, by written notice to the Recipient, terminate the right of the Recipient to make 
further withdrawals from the Grant Account: (a) at any time after the right of the Recipient to make 
withdrawals from the Grant Account shall have been suspended pursuant to the provisions of 
paragraph 6.1 above; or (b) if the Recipient shall have failed to take action, satisfactory to the Bank, 
within six months after the effective date hereof, to carry out the Activities; or (c) if the Bank has 
decided, at any time after consultation with the Recipient, to withdraw its support to the Program; or 
(d) if the Recipient has withdrawn its request for the Bank’s assistance in financing the Program.
Page  7
Attachment I 
Procurement 
Section I
.
Consultants’ Services
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the Introduction 
and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers”, published by the Bank in January 1997, revised in September 1997 and January 1999 
(the Consultant Guidelines), and the following provisions of this Section I.
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Consultant Guidelines, 
paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 
3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  The short list of consultants 
for services for activities listed under paragraph 1.1 (a) (b) (c) (d) (e) of the Annex, estimated to cost 
less than $80,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Quality-based Selection
Services for activities listed under paragraph 1.1 (a) (c) (d) of the Annex may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for  activities listed under paragraph 1.1 (a) (b) (c) (d) (e) of the Annex (tasks that meet 
the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines) may be procured under 
contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 
through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed plan for the 
selection of consultants under the Activities shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Page  8
Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
selection plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms for activities listed 
under paragraph 1.1 (a) (b) (c) (d) (e), estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms for activities listed 
under paragraph 1.1 (a) (b) (c) (d) (e) estimated to cost the equivalent of $80,000 or more, but less 
than the equivalent of $100,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants estimated to 
cost the equivalent of $[40,000] or more, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms 
of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  
The contract shall be awarded only after said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set forth in 
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
Section II
.
Procurement of Goods
Goods shall be procured: (a) in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines for 
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised 
in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines); and (b) under 
contracts awarded on the basis of shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.  The review procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 
1
to the Guidelines shall apply to such contracts, provided that the word “bids”, in such paragraph 4, 
shall be read as “quotations”.
Page  9
Attachment II
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Attachment:
(a)
the term "eligible item(s)" means the item(s) set forth in the table in paragraph 4.2 of the 
Annex to this Letter Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Activities and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $100,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 
(a) of this Attachment.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures in 
accordance with the provisions of this Attachment.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account has been duly 
opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the 
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
The Recipient shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit into the 
Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the 
Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or 
amounts as the Recipient shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Attachment for 
the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested.  On the basis of each such 
request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.  All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Grant Account under the 
eligible item(s), and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient shall, at such 
time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence 
showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Attachment, the Bank shall not be required 
to make further deposits into the Special Account:
Page  10
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further withdrawals should be 
made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account;
(b)
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period of time 
specified in paragraph 5.1 (b) (ii) of the Annex to this Letter Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph in respect of the audit of the records 
and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Recipient of its intention to suspend in 
whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account pursuant to 
the provisions of paragraph 6.1 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant shall equal the equivalent of twice the 
amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawals from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Grant 
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Recipient.  Such further 
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this 
Attachment; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Recipient shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; 
or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an 
amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless 
the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding in the Special 
Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Recipient shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
