Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16820
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CYPRUS
SOUTHERN CONVEYOR PROJECT FOR WATER RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT
PHASE II (SCP II)
(LOAN 2914-CY)
June 24, 1997
Agriculture and Regional Development Division
Central and Southern Europe Departments
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit      Cyprus l'ound (E.C)
At Appraisal: US$ 1.00  =    C 0.47
LC 1.00  =   US$ 2.14
At Completion: US$ 1.0()0  =   £C 0 491s
£C 1.00  -=  lJSS 2.02
Annual Average
1988  £C I.00       US$ 2.14
1989  £C 1.00       US$ 2.102)
1990 £C 1.00       US$2.19)
1991  LC 1.00      U US$2. 1l
1992  £C 1.00       US$ 2.22
1993  EC 1.00      tJS$2.01
1994 £C 1.00       IJS$ 2.03
1995  £C 1.00       US$ 2.21
1996 £C 1.00        US$ 2.14
1997  iC 1.00   -US$ 2.02
WEIGHTS AND MEASlJRES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ARI              Agricultural Research Institute
CCB              Cooperative Central Bank
ERR              Economic Rate of Return
GOC              Government of Cyprus
ICR              Implementation Completion Report
LCD              Land Consolidation Department
LSD              Land Surveys Department
MANRE            Ministry of Agriculture, Natural Resources and Environment
M&EU             Monitoring and Evaluation tJnit
NWE              National Water Entity
O&M              Operation and Maintenance
ODA              Overseas Development Administration
PACs             Project Advisory Committees
PCR              Project Completion Report
PIU              Project Implementation Unit
POU              Project Operation lUnit
PPCC             Project Policy and Coordination Committee
SCCs             Cooperative Credit Societies
SCP              Southern Conveyor Project
TCCS             Telemetry and Central Control Systcm
WDD              Water Development Department
CYPRUS FISCAI YEAR
January I to December ' I
Vice President            : Johannes F. L,inn
Director                  : Kenneth G. Lay
Division Chief/Manager    : Michele de Nevers
Staff Member              : Joma M. Mohamadi



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CYPRUS
SOUTHERN CONVEYOR PROJECT FOR WATER RESOURCES
DEVELOPMENT - PHASE II (SCP II)
LOAN 2914-CY
CONTENTS
Preface
Evaluation Summary                                               i-iv
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT                         1
A. STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES                             1
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES                                      2
Water Resources Development                                       2
Domestic Water Supply Objective                                    3
Irrigation Objective                                               5
Other Physical Objectives                                          7
Institutional Objective                                            7
Environmental Objective                                            9
Economic Objective                                                10
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT                            11
Factors not Generally Subject to Govemment Control               11
Factors Generally Subject to Government Control                   11
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY                                         II
E. BANK PERFORMANCE                                               12
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE                                           12
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME                                          13
H. FUTURE OPERATION                                               13
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED                                            13
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CONTENTS (cont'd)
PART IH: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3: Project Timetable
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7:  Studies Included in Project
Table 8A: Project Costs
Table 8B: Project Financing
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
APPENDICES
A. Aide-Memoire
B. Borrower's Implementation Completion Report
C. Economic Re-evaluation
D. Project Implementation Data
E. Map - IBRD No. 203 79R



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CYPRUS
SOUTHERN CONVEYOR PROJECT FOR WATER RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT
PHASE II (SCP ID)
(LOAN 2914-CY)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Southern Conveyor Project
for Water Resources Development (Phase II) in Cyprus, for which Loan 2914-CY in the amount
of US$30.0 million was approved on February 23, 1988, and made effective on August 17, 1988.
The Loan was closed on December 31, 1996, one year after the original closing date.
Final disbursement was concluded on March 31, 1997, at which time a balance of US$2.9
million remained to be canceled. Cofinancing for the project, in the amount of US$57.2 million,
was provided by Kuwait Fund, EIB, Local Credit, UK grant and project beneficiaries.
The draft ICR was prepared by FAO/CP', on the basis of initial discussions in
Washington with Mr. J.M. Mohamadi, EClAR, Task Manager, and with Cypriot authorities
during a mission February 24 to March 12, 1997. The report is also based on material gathered
from the project file. The borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR by drafting its own
Completion Report (February 1997), by arranging all field visits and discussions with central and
regional officers of the various agencies involved in project implementation, and by providing
substantive comments on the mission's Aide-memoire.
Messrs. R. Suppa (Economist/Mission Leader) and M. Sandoz (Irrigation Engineer, Consultant).






- i -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CYPRUS
SOUTHERN CONVEYOR PROJECT FOR WATER RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT
PHASE II (SCP ID)
(LOAN 2914-CY)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
i.    Bank involvement in the water supply and sewerage sector in Cyprus was initiated in
1971 and included the following projects (i) the Nicosia Sewerage Project (US$3.5 million), (ii)
the Famagusta Sewerage and Drainage Project (US$1.9 million), and (iii) the Limassol Sewerage
and Drainage Project (US$16.8 million). As regards to agriculture, the Bank focused its lending
primarily on the development and more efficient use of water resources, and since 1974,
approved six projects including (i) the Paphos Irrigated Project (US$14.0 million), (ii) the
Pitsilia Integrated Rural Development Project (US$10.0 million), (iii) the Vasilikos-Pendaskinos
Project (US$1 1.0 million), (iv) the Fruit and Vegetable Export Project (US$6.5 million), (v) the
Khrysokhou Irrigation Project (US$16.0 million), and (vi) the Southern Conveyor Project for
Water Resources Development (Phase I) (US$27.0 million).
Project Objectives
ii.   The Southern Conveyor Project (SCP) has been implemented in two phases, Phase I and
Phase II. The principal objectives of the SCP were (i) to secure a safe domestic water supply for
four major population centers and adjacent villages, (ii) to provide irrigation water to maintain
agricultural production along the southern coast of the island and to extend irrigated agriculture
over additional area, and (iii) to take steps to improve cost recovery, enhance water use
efficiency and establish an integrated institutional framework for water resources management.
Additional implicit objectives included ensuring the mitigation of adverse environmental impact.
iii.   Project components assigned to SCP II to complement and complete those of SCP I
included: (i) the water resources development, consisting of the Dhiarizos diversion, (ii) the
irrigation development, consisting of distribution networks for four irrigation areas, (iii) the on-
farm development, (iv) the domestic water supply development, including treatment plants and
Nicosia conveyor, and about 20 rural water supply schemes, (v) the O&M and miscellaneous
equipment, and (vi) the technical services and training.
iv.   The project objectives and components realistically addressed the urgent needs of the
country in the area of water resources development. The scope and scale of the project was very
large for Cyprus, but the major infrastructure foreseen for the project was essential for water
security, and borrower commitments and implementing agency capabilities were seen to be
adequate. Because of the shift of development priorities towards domestic and commercial water



- 11 -
use, the scope of the irrigated agriculture expansion objective may have been too ambitious; also,
the institutional improvement objective may have been addressed inadequately.
Implementation Experience and Results
v.    Achievement of Objectives. Overall there was substantial achievement of the SCP's
domestic water supply and irrigation objectives. Achievement of both of these objectives
depended largely on implementation of major water resource infrastructure developments, all of
which are complete and operational. In addition, for domestic water supply, the water treatment
plants and conveyance systems, together with connections to city and village water supply
systems, are essentially complete and operational except for the Tersephanou water treatment
plant and Tersephanou-Nicosia conveyance system works; the latter are well advanced and
should be completed by the end of 1997. In the case of irrigation, development works
comprising piped conveyance and distribution network systems, land consolidation and farm
access roads were completed for 100% and 70% of the total SCP I and SCP II irrigation scheme
areas respectively; overall completion is scheduled for the end of 1999. Irrigation operations
were underway for several years in the larger scheme areas, within which considerable on-farm
development for high-value water-efficient irrigated agriculture occurred. With regard to the
SCP's institutional objective there was a partial achievement. The domestic water supply cost
recovery level remained satisfactorily at 100% of capital and O&M costs, but the irrigation cost
recovery level, for which the target was reduced to 38% of costs, as indicated in the Loan
Agreement, remained at 34%. High physical water use efficiencies were achieved throughout
the system. The environmental studies were completed and some recommendations are in the
process of being implemented.
vi.   Actual project cost is estimated at £C 76.2 million (US$156.2 million) or 95% of the
original estimate made at appraisal. With regard to the IBRD loan, final disbursement reached
90% of the original amount. The remaining US$2.9 million will be canceled. The current ERR,
re-estimated at completion, is 11.5%. The reestimated ERR differs from the appraisal estimate
of 14% mainly because of the delayed implementation of: (a) the Kiti, Parekklisha and Mazotos
irrigation schemes due to the shortages of local funds and the lower than expected utilization of
the irrigation investment of the Akrotiri scheme partly attributable to the recent drought years;
and (b) domestic water components. The number of direct beneficiaries relative to the domestic
water supply component are estimated at about 500,000 inhabitants, in line with SAR's
estimates. As regards the irrigation component, it is estimated that some 11,500 farmers would
directly benefit under the project, well above the SAR estimate of 4,500.
vii.   Sustainability. Overall sustainability of the project is considered likely. Technically,
design, construction and supervision of implementation of the project's infrastructure works have
been of high quality, O&M of components is generally satisfactory, and borrower commitment
to provision of sufficient long-term staffing, equipment and facilities for operation and
maintenance is assured. The project is economically viable, and there are no major
environmental difficulties to be overcome in order to ensure sustainability. With regard to
institutional, managerial and operational effectiveness, the expected establishment of a national
water entity should provide the needed framework for routine, systematic, efficient and equitable



- iii -
integrated water management. Finally, the social value of the project as an essential provider of
water to all users is high and will be a major incentive for satisfactory operation and adequate
maintenance in the long term.
viii.  Major Factors Affecting the Project. The overall effect of the current extended drought
situation on the project could be substantial but is basically unpredictable. Water rationing has
been applied over several years, and because of a long-term hydrological decline the prospects of
the project operating at design capacity currently seem slim. The ultimate level of project
benefits accruing to irrigated agriculture may be lower than foreseen, and the rate of growth of
irrigated agriculture benefits has already been negatively affected. Other factors that have
partially affected the achievement of the project's objectives include (i) government agency
performance in areas such as budgets and funding, tendering and procurement, and
institutional/operational arrangements, and (ii) external entity performance in some aspects of
institutional development and construction contracts execution/supervision.
ix.    Bank and Borrower Performance. Bank perfornance in supervision of
implementation was satisfactory. Supervision missions were carried out yearly, but this lower-
than-normal frequency was probably justified in view of the good capabilities and performance
of the implementing agency. The Bank's support was instrumental in helping to obtain approvals
for the eventually adopted and successful force account approach to irrigation scheme
implementation. Considering the number and complexity of the project components and
considerable progress on achieving project objectives, despite delays and slow progress on
institutional matters, performance of the borrower during implementation was satisfactory.
Difficulties encountered with tendering and contractual arrangements were eventually resolved
but with significant delays to the project schedule. Execution of works under force account,
considered satisfactory, was also extended due to inadequate funding. Insufficient attention to
institutional arrangements detracted somewhat from the borrower's performance but has not
notably affected implementation.
x.    Project Outcome. The project outcome is rated satisfactory. The project's domestic
water supply and irrigation objectives were substantially achieved. The institutional objective is
considered partially achieved, and the environmental preservation has been attended to
essentially, as indicated at appraisal.
Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned
xi.    Future Operation. Concerning the establishment of a National Water Entity to be
assigned to MANRE, more detailed formulation and definition of the entity's role,
responsibilities and functions is expected to occur during 1997, followed in 1998 by preparation
of the corresponding law and its submission to the Council of Ministers and Parliament. Actual
establishment of the entity is expected to occur before the end of 1999. Potentially important
follow-up areas in addition to water sector institutional reform include (i) system operation
studies, procedures and training, (ii) monitoring and evaluation arrangements, (iii) financial
management provisions and training, (iv) implementation of the computerized O&M data
processing systems, and (v) implementation of the environmental impact mitigation measures.



- iv -
xii.   Key Lessons Learned
(a)   The success of SCP II being implemented closely behind SCP I demonstrates that
follow-on projects should continue directly and without delay from the initial
project in order to (i) benefit from experienced staff and routine procedures
already in place, and (ii) avoid or minimize delay in achieving the objectives of
the combined project.
(b)   The unfavorable experience with deviating from the original Dhiarizos tunnel
construction concepts and methods shows that such action should be avoided
unless a thorough investigation and a full review of the proposed deviation by
independent experts is undertaken.
(c)   As the Limassol and Tersephanou water treatment plants were established under
multiple and turnkey contracts, respectively, a comparative study of
implementation experience should have been undertaken in order to gain valuable
insight into preferred contract practices for similar future developments.
(d)   Experience with this project suggests that quality problems under supply contracts
should be minimized through independent expert checks at manufacturers' plants.
(e)   The project used force account arrangements with good results for
implementation of the irrigation development works, indicating that this approach
can be effectively used for construction of irrigation distribution systems where
departments have adequate construction capability.
(f)    The land use conflict experienced under the project between irrigated farming and
tourism points to the need for thorough prior investigation of competing demands
for basic project resources.
(g)   The outcome of this project warrants the conclusion that institutional matters,
related particularly to project monitoring and evaluation, and also to operational
planning and water resources management, should be attended to at an early stage
of project development, possibly even prior to construction of major project
components.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CYPRUS
SOUTHERN CONVEYOR PROJECT FOR WATER RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT
PHASE II (SCP II) (Loan 2914-CY)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
1.       The Southern Conveyor Project (SCP) has been implemented in two phases, Phase I
and Phase II. The implementing agency is the Water Development Department (WDD) of the
Ministry of Agriculture Natural Resources and Environment (MANRE), Government of Cyprus
(GOC). The principal objectives of the SCP, applicable to both phases, were (i) to secure a safe
domestic water supply for four major population centers (Nicosia, Limassol, Larnaca and
Famagusta) and adjacent villages, (ii) to provide irrigation water to maintain agricultural
production in the Kokkinokhoria and four other areas along the southern coast of the island and to
extend irrigated agriculture over additional area, and (iii) to take steps to improve cost recovery,
enhance water use efficiency and establish an integrated institutional framework for water
resources management.
2.       Information on project components assigned to SCP I is contained in the SCP I
Project Completion Report (PCR) of May 1994. Project components assigned to SCP II were
intended to complement and complete those of SCP I, and included: (i) water resources
development, consisting of the Dhiarizos diversion; (ii) irrigation development, consisting of
distribution networks for four irrigation areas (Akrotiri, Parekklisha, Mazotos and Kiti); (iii) on-
farm development, providing credit for installation of on-farm irrigation systems and
establishment of fruit trees and greenhouses; (iv) domestic water supply development, consisting
of water treatment plants at Limassol and Tersephanou, a Tersephanou-Nicosia water conveyance
system, and about 20 rural water supply schemes; (v) operation and maintenance (O&M) and
miscellaneous equipment, providing supplies relating to the irrigation schemes; and (vi) technical
services and training, consisting of consulting services and study tours.
3.        Both the principal objectives and the specific project components realistically
addressed the urgent needs of the country in the area of water resources development. Water
resource availability in the areas served by the project remains critical, due to an extended
drought situation, but the major infrastructure foreseen for the project was essential for water
security. In the context of Cyprus, the scope and scale of the project was very large, but borrower
commitments and implementing agency capabilities were judged to be adequate. It is noted that
development priorities are shifting in the direction away from irrigation and towards domestic
and commercial water use; hence the scope of the objective relating to irrigated agriculture
expansion may have been too ambitious.



4.       In addition to the explicitly formulated objectives of the SCP, discussed above, there
were also implicit environrmental and economic objectives. The environmental objective was to
ensure the mitigation of adverse environmental impacts resulting from the project. The project
was planned to be implemented over a seven-year period, from late 1987 through 1994. Total cost
for the SCP II was estimated at US$ 164.0 million to be financed as follows: IBRD Loan
US$ 30.0 million, Kuwait Fund US$ 15.4 million, Export Credit US$ 25.6 million, Local Credit
US$ 18.2 million, Beneficiaries US$ 7.3 million and GOC US$ 67.5 million. The economic
objective of the project, as envisaged at appraisal, was to achieve an overall ERR of 14%.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
5.        Despite delay in implementation of project components as it was envisaged in the
SAR, the major part of the project's overall objective of: (a) collecting and storing unused water
from the southern catchment area of the island has been achieved; and (b) conveying it to areas of
demand for both domestic water supply and irrigation has been partly achieved and expected to
be fully achieved with completion of the remaining project works. Within the limits of natural
availability of water, there is no doubt about achieving project domestic water objectives while
there is uncertainty about achieving its irrigation objective fully. The project was generally well
prepared and the availability of detailed design and tender documents, together with the use of
reputable contractors and construction supervision were positive elements to contribute to
achieving the project objectives. The objectives of the major components and their degree of
achievement are discussed below. The role played by consultants and their performance is
described in paras 11, 15 and 16 and in para 2.21 of the attached WDD's report.
Water Resources Development
6.        The SCP II water resources development component, which is common to both
domestic water supply and irrigation objectives, is the Dhiarizos diversion. The purpose of the
diversion is to transfer an average flow of 21 MCM per year (about 65% of the total average
annual flow) from the Dhiarizos river to the Kryos river, for augmenting the Kouris river
catchment water resources. The flows are controlled at the Kouris dam, implemented under SCP
I. The diversion, whose design flow is 6.5 m3/s, consists principally of (i) an upstream 1.6 km
long, 1.6 m diameter, ductile iron, pressure flow pipeline, connected into (ii) a downstream 14.5
km long, 2.4/2.5/2.6 m variable diameter, concrete-lined, pressure and gravity flow tunnel with
intake and outlet structures. The tunnel characteristic of long length with small diameter is
particularly noteworthy, and is one of the world's longest one sided (excavated from one end)
tunnel that is located in a rather complex geological formation. The main variations from the
original scheme as presented in the SAR include: (i) the non-construction of the Arminou weir
and off-take structures on the Dhiarizos river, whose function will be taken over by storage dam
and inlet structures under a separate project; and (ii) the addition of drop shaft intake, lining and
valve installation works, complemented by diversion weir and pipe works under a separate
project, to allow for the future diversion of an average flow of 1.5 MCM per year from the
intermediate Khapotami river into the Dhiarizos diversion tunnel. Both of these changes will
serve to enhance the diversion's operational flexibility and reduce the potential for operational
conflicts with other users of the Dhiarizos river water resources.
2



7.       Implementation of the Dhiarizos diversion works started in early 1990, one year
behind schedule (Appendix D). After struggling with numerous problems caused by the
geological complexities on the site, which forced the contractor to repeatedly suspend the
excavation operations and spend time on providing support to the excavated section of the tunnel,
completion was declared in April 1995, but extensive grouting operations were needed during the
one-year maintenance period that followed. Issue of the final certificate, expected in 1997, is
pending completion of site reinstatement activities. Tunnel excavation, support and lining
concepts and methods submitted by the eventual contractor as a tender option differed from those
put forward in the tender documents. They were duly approved and adopted for the work, but
they do not appear to have been well suited to the geological conditions and special
characteristics of the diversion tunnel. They have reportedly contributed to delays during both
tender and construction periods, and have led to substantial claims that have now been referred to
arbitration. With regard to the final quality and expected performance of the diversion works,
implementation is considered satisfactory. Normal operation of the basic diversion scheme was
commenced for the November 1996 to April 1997 wet season, but only small proportions of the
design flow have so far been diverted. This is due to low flow conditions in the Dhiarizos river.
Temporary weir and control arrangements are in place at Arminou, pending completion of the
separate permanent headworks. Completion of the separate works for the Khapotami diversion
also remains outstanding.
Domestic Water Supply Objective
8.       Overall it is judged that there has been substantial achievement of the project's
domestic water supply objective as implementation of major water resource infrastructure
developments, domestic water treatment plants and conveyance systems and connections to city
and village water supply systems have been carried out under both phases of the SCP. The SCP I
components have all been completed and are in operation. Of the SCP II components, the
Dhiarizos diversion, a major component of the project for substantially enhancing water
availability for domestic water and irrigation, is almost complete and operational and its use at
full capacity will be possible with the completion of the headworks planned to be built by the end
of 1997. Also under SCP II, the Limassol water treatment plant and related main city and village
water supply system connections are essentially complete and operational, while the Tersephanou
water treatment plant and Tersephanou-Nicosia conveyance system works are well advanced and
are expected to be completed by the end of 1997. Finally, the SCP II technical services which
include construction supervision and short term specialists in support of the domestic water
supply objective were generally satisfactory. A review of SCP II domestic water supply
achievements by relevant project components is given below and schematically presented in Part
II, Table 5.
9.       Domestic Water Supply Development. The SCP II domestic water supply
development component comprises: (i) water treatment plants at Limassol and Tersephanou; (ii) a
pipeline conveyance system, including pumping station and balancing reservoir, to serve Nicosia
from the Tersephanou plant; and (iii) distribution pipelines and reservoirs to connect with town
and village water supply schemes in the Limassol area. These facilities are intended to supply a
future total of up to about 29 MCM of potable water per year to the Limassol, Larnaca and
3



Nicosia areas. The Limassol and Tersephanou water treatment plants have design capacities of
40,000 and 60,000 m3/d respectively, and provisions have been made for capacity expansions to
80,000 and 90,000 m3/d respectively. Processes at the plants include pre-chlorination, aeration,
coagulation/flocculation, clarification, filtration, post-chlorination, backwashing, treated water
storage and sludge drying; provisions have also been made for future ozonation and activated
carbon filtration. These characteristics are all similar to those presented in the SAR except for the
first-phase capacity of the Tersephanou plant (50,000 m3/d) and the provisions for future
ozonation and activated carbon filtration at both plants (not considered). The Tersephanou-
Nicosia conveyance system has a present design capacity of 63,000 m3/d, but it will be capable of
conveying a future flow of up to 78,000 m3/d if required. A 19 km lon1 pumping main conveys
flow from the pumping station at the Tersephanou plant to a 16,000 m balancing reservoir at
Dhali, from where a 17.5 km long gravity main conveys the flow to an existing service reservoir
at Nicosia. The mains are both 900 mm diameter ductile iron pipelines. A separate 1 km long 700
mm diameter ductile iron gravity main of 27,000 m3/d capacity connects the Tersephanou plant to
the existing service reservoir at Larnaca. It has been envisaged that desalination plants may in the
future meet a substantial portion of the Larnaca municipal water demand; this explains the
allowance for a potential extra supply of up to 15,000 m3/d from the Tersephanou plant to
Nicosia. All of this represents a modest and well considered upgrading of the system presented in
the SAR, which indicated a Tersephanou-Nicosia conveyance capacity of 40,000 m3/d and
pipeline diameters of 700 and 800 mm. Connections from the Limassol water treatment plant to
the existing main city service reservoirs are effected with a ductile iron pipeline system.
Distribution systems connecting to village water supply schemes west of Limassol comprise
asbestos cement pipeline networks feeding existing, or in one case, new village tanks. A total of 8
such connections have been implemented. Provision of comparable distribution systems to
villages in the Nicosia area is reportedly not required, so none are planned for implementation
under the project. The SAR had indicated that a total of about 20 village water supply systems
would be constructed in the Limassol and Nicosia areas.
10.      There have been some delays in implementing the domestic water supply
development component (Appendix D). Implementation of the Limassol plant commenced at the
end of 1989 and was completed about 3 V2 years behind schedule in mid 1994; a 2-year
maintenance period followed, and issue of the final certificate is still pending. A start was made
to implement the Tersephanou plant in mid 1991, but civil works did not commence until early
1995; completion is now expected at the end of 1997. Reasons for these delays include: (i) for
both plants, initial delays in GOC budget allocations and the addition of provisions for future
ozonation and activated carbon filtration processes; (ii) for the Limassol plant, quality control and
design/construction modification problems; and (iii) for the Tersephanou plant, civil works tender
rejections and resubmissions, followed later by labor and supplier strikes. The delays in starting
work for the Tersephanou-Nicosia conveyance system and the Limassol water supply scheme
connections were partly linked to the programming of the works in parallel with those of the
corresponding treatment plants. The Limassol scheme connections were largely completed soon
after completion of the Limassol plant, and the Tersephanou-Nicosia conveyor is on schedule for
completion at the same time as the Tersephanou plant. At the Limassol water treatment plant,
which has been operational for almost 3 years, there were some initial operating problems related
to computerized control systems; these have reportedly now been resolved. Responsible officials
4



have confirmed their satisfaction with the performance and quality of the plant, and with the ease
and flexibility of operational control processes. They have also indicated that maintenance
programs are being followed conscientiously. It is noted that the plant has so far been operating at
just over 20% of capacity, its minimum operating level. This is because local municipalities are
reluctant to abandon their previously developed and cheaper groundwater sources as long as these
remain suitable in terms of quantity and quality. Current indications are that treated water
purchases will increase significantly this year and will continue to increase thereafter.
11.      Technical Services for Domestic Water Supply. SCP II technical services related to
the domestic water supply objective included consultant services for construction supervision
assistance and the Dhiarizos diversion panel of experts. Supervision of construction was the main
area of consultant involvement in the project. There has been no major problem reported in this
regard, and the indications are that construction supervision has been generally effective and
satisfactory. To overview implementation of the Dhiarizos diversion a panel of experts was
formed. Members made numerous visits to the project and were effective and instrumental in
helping to resolve some of the more serious problems affecting implementation (para 8).
Irrigation Objective
12.      Irrigation Development. As in the case of the domestic water supply objective, it is
judged that overall there has been substantial achievement of the project's irrigation objective,
which depended largely on implementation of the major water resource infrastructure
developments that are now complete and operational. Achievement has also depended on
implementation of irrigation scheme developments for various irrigation areas, comprising piped
conveyance and distribution network systems, land consolidation, and farm access roads, carried
out under the SCP. In terms of physical implementation (Part II, Table 5), the SCP II irrigation
development component comprises infrastructure works for water conveyance to, and distribution
within, a gross irrigation area of 4,111 ha Part II Table 5 and Appendix D, Table 1) comprising
the irrigation schemes of Akrotiri (1,688 ha), Parekklisha (352 ha), Mazotos (615 ha), Kiti (1,206
ha) and Aradhippou (250 ha). The schemes are linked to, and served from, the main conveyor
pipeline system installed under SCP I. Also included is land consolidation in about half of the
overall service area, as well as farm access road networks in all of the schemes. All of the
irrigation development work has been undertaken directly by WDD, and by MANRE's Land
Consolidation Department (LCD) and Land Surveys Department (LSD) in the case of land
consolidation and farm roads, and this arrangement is to be considered satisfactory. Force account
was used for most of the work, but contracts are let for farm road works and may also be let for
some reservoir works. The remaining irrigation development work is being undertaken under the
same arrangement so far carried out. Taken together, the SCP II schemes at full development will
require a "normal" supply of water of about 15 MCM per year from the main surface water
system. At appraisal, the total area to be served by the SCP II was estimated at 4,335 ha. Reasons
for the differences between the originally planned and currently revised areas include: (i) land use
reclassification (e.g. from agricultural to urban or touristic); and (ii) improved estimates following
detailed surveys and design. As implemented, the principal irrigation infrastructure works
comprise (i) ductile iron or asbestos cement secondary conveyor pipelines leading to (ii) night
storage reservoirs and/or balancing tanks, (iii) asbestos cement or PVC pipe distribution networks
5



supplying (iv) irrigation unit head hydrants with controlled and metered outlets, and (v) PVC
farm-level pipelines terminating in (vi) valved and metered farm outlets.
13.       The main SCP I irrigation area development (Kokkinokhoria) is operational and in
use. The SCP II Akrotiri irrigation area development is also completed, operational and in use;
for the other smaller SCP II irrigation areas development work is either underway or has yet to
start. Development works have been completed for about 70% of the expected total SCP II
irrigation service area, and overall completion is scheduled for the end of 1999 (Appendix D). It
has been clarified that delays in implementation of the schemes have not been due to a lack of
capability within MANRE departments, and that the direct labor approach has been well suited to
this type of development work. The delays have mainly been attributed to low annual budget
allocations and to staff availability limitations. Implementation work in Akrotiri started on
schedule in January 1988, and the scheme finally became operational in late 1993, about 4 years
behind schedule. Irrigated agriculture has now been initiated over about 80% of the previously
unirrigated area, and irrigation water supply contracts currently in place correspond to about 65%
of the total area. The system delivers water on demand to users who are under contract and bound
(with prescribed penalties for transgression) not to exceed the allocations that are set annually. It
is noted that in recent years, due to prolonged and severe drought conditions, these allocations
have been set at levels well below the derived "normal" requirements. Farmers consulted have
expressed great satisfaction with the Akrotiri scheme facilities and service, even though the latter
is currently sharply curtailed due to the applied rationing. High reliability and good control of
supply, flexibility of timing and duration of applications, low wastage of time and water, and ease
of access, have all been cited by farmers as important positive characteristics of the scheme. For
the Pareklcisha and Kiti schemes, irrigation development work started at the end of 1993 or 3 and
4 years late respectively, and is currently about 70% and 55% complete respectively. Completion
in these areas is targeted for the end of 1998, about 6 years behind schedule. Implementation of
irrigation infrastructure works for the Mazotos scheme is not expected to start before 1998 or
about 7 years late. At about the same time it is planned to start works for the Aradhippou scheme,
which was added to the project subsequent to issue of the SAR. The final completion target dates
for the irrigation schemes are given in Appendix D, Table 2. As indicated in Appendix C, Tables
10 and 11, the projected area to be irrigated under the SCP is estimated at about 9,800 ha
representing an increase of 40% over the area of about 7,000 ha actually irrigated before the
project. This target, based on land already developed or planned to be developed for irrigation, is
in line with WDD projections of total irrigation water demand which would increase from 166
MCM in 1995 to about 200 MCM in the year 2000, and remain stable thereafter. No further
substantial land development is expected due to water limitation and priority for domestic use.
14.      On-Farm Development. Modem and high value on-farm development as described
in the SAR has occurred extensively in the areas serviced by the new irrigation developments.
Farmers who have needed short- and medium-term credit to fund this type of capital investment
have often been able to obtain it from Cooperative Credit Societies (CCSs), or from the
Cooperative Central Bank (CCB), and it seems that they are generally able to meet the
corresponding repayment conditions. Minisprinkler systems are particularly favored, and
trickle/drip systems are also in evidence; larger sprinklers are in use for pilot project irrigation of
grasses with treated effluent wastewater. In the previously unirrigated areas now being served by
6



the Akrotiri scheme, newly initiated permanent plantations, primarily of high value citrus crops
and vines, comprise about 85% of the cropping pattern; high value vegetables and flowers are
grown in the rest of those areas, often under low cover or in greenhouses and walk-in tunnels.
Once farmers commit themselves to participation in the project, they are seen to initiate intensive
and dynamic on-farm operations.
15.      Technical Services for Irrigation. SCP II technical services relating to
implementation of the Dhiarizos diversion have already been described. There was further SCP II
consultant involvement in support of the irrigation objective, through the execution of the treated
effluent reuse studies indicated in the SAR. The studies covered treated effluent reuse in the
Limassol area. Subsequently, and under separate projects, tertiary treatment works were provided
within and adjacent to the new Limassol sewage treatment plant, and a pilot effluent irrigation
scheme was built and is in operation. Corresponding research is being undertaken by staff of the
Agricultural Research Institute (ARI), and results to date are said to be positive and encouraging.
Implementation of a scheme for aquifer recharge in the Akrotiri area using the treated effluent is
also to be undertaken.
Other Physical Objectives
16.      Execution of an Ezousa river diversion feasibility study was provided for in the SCP
II technical services component. Since this study related to developments for the Paphos water
resources system, and since there was no linkage with the SCP, the study was not undertaken
under SCP II. It was in fact undertaken under another project, and subsequent implementation of
the scheme is underway. A rural sanitation study was executed under the project. Such a study
had not been envisaged at time of the SAR, but it was undertaken in response to an urgent need
for sanitary sewerage and solid waste disposal facilities for rural villages. GOC is said to be
planning to implement the study's recommendations.
Institutional Objective
17.      In the case of the project's institutional objective it is judged that there has been a
partial achievement. On the domestic water supply side, bulk water tariffs were unified during the
course of SCP I, and the cost recovery level has remained satisfactorily at 100% of capital and
O&M costs. On the irrigation side, the cost recovery target level was set at SCP II appraisal at
38% of the weighted average unit cost of water, and the actually achieved level is 34%. High
physical water use efficiencies have been achieved through loss reduction programs (domestic
water supply) and through installation of water-efficient distribution and on-farm systems
(irrigation), as well as through provision of the SCP I main conveyance pipeline system.
Participation of WDD professionals in the design, planning and construction of project
components has contributed to considerable capacity building in these areas. The Monitoring and
Evaluation Unit (M&EU) specified in the SAR was formed within MANRE during the SCP I
period, following the assignment of an engineer and an economist. However, it appears that the
unit did not function and has since ceased to exist. WDD advised that relevant data are all
available but that they need assembly, processing, analyzing and reporting. Undertaking such
7



tasks on a routine basis would be one of the functions of an effective M&EU, and the need for
such a unit does not seem to have diminished.
18.      Institutional Reform. An institutional development study carried out under SCP I
formed the basis for initial GOC discussions on the topic of water sector institutional reform. A
decision has been made in principle to establish a National Water Entity (NWE) within the GOC,
and its functions would include: (i) quantification and registration of the water resources, (ii)
issuing of licenses for water withdrawal and use, (iii) water systems monitoring and control, (iv)
planning and implementation of water sector developments, and (v) overall water resources
management and operations. Institutionally, the NWE will be assigned to MANRE, and the WDD
will assume the role of executing agency. Implementation of the reforms has yet to be initiated;
expected future actions in this regard are outlined in Section H.
19.      Project Organization (Implementation). The Project Implementation Unit (PIU)
arrangements as indicated in the SAR were adopted in a simplified form. The Director of the
WDD has acted as overall project manager and has been assisted by two deputy project managers,
one for engineering and the other for agricultural development activities. At a higher level, the
Project Policy and Coordination Committee (PPCC) for interagency coordination and the Project
Advisory Committees (PACs) for beneficiary liaison and advice have not functioned at all during
the course of SCP II. It was indicated that, with all of the relevant policies in place, and with full
regular reporting to all concerned parties, there was no need for these bodies. However, a broader
and more formalized consultation and participation process would probably have added some
goodwill value to the project. For components where government funds were allocated and
contracts were awarded or force account was used, implementation is generally considered to be
successful.
20.      Project Organization (Operation). For SCP system operations, responsibilities are
allocated according to the present WDD organizational structure. A separately identifiable Project
Operation Unit (POU) as envisaged at appraisal has not been instituted. It is further recorded that
the SCP operation center, including the Telemetry and Central Control System (TCCS), has been
set up at WDD headquarters in Nicosia, not at a central project location as originally intended.
Despite this change, performance of TCCS run by local technical staff is encouraging. Also,
there is no indication that the PPCC and PACs are to be reactivated for the project's operational
phase, contrary to SAR expectations. An operation study to analyze the SCP system, to consider
water management options, and to provide rules of operation for the conjunctive use of surface
water and groundwater, was foreseen but not carried out under SCP I, and was started under SCP
II. Efforts have focused on two areas: (i) improvement of aquifer models, and (ii) establishment
of a system operations model for the SCP system. The benefits in terms of net value added to the
previously existing modelling systems are so far less than expected. One of the reasons being the
late procurement of the required computer workstation. The originally envisaged analysis of
water resource systems, assessment of management options and derivation of rules for
conjunctive use operations are being carried out by the WDD in its effort to develop the current
approach to improve system operation and aquifer modelling, given that there is good potential
for eventual success.
8



21.      Financial Management. Routine accounting and auditing procedures have been
followed within WDD, and other tasks, notably the derivation of water tariffs, have been
executed. Provision of materials and equipment to support O&M and other miscellaneous needs
of the irrigation distribution networks was covered by a component of the SCP II. However, such
items are obtained and paid for from central GOC supplies and funds, and as a consequence it is
difficult to identify the expenses and allocate them to specific projects. It was confirmed by WDD
that materials and equipment needed for project support purposes were made available but that
procurement expenses were generally not assigned to the project. In the special case of computer
hardware and software systems to assist with and computerize O&M management, administration
and accounting tasks, procurement expenses have been separately accounted for and assigned to
the project. For these systems, needs were established and bid documents were prepared as
outlined in the SAR under the technical services component, and procurement is ongoing under
the project. WDD indicated that these systems would have been more usefully procured, installed
and made operational at the beginning instead of at the end of the project. Formal training in
system operations and financial management, to be imparted to senior engineers through study
tours, was envisaged and provided for at appraisal as part of a SCP II component. The training
was not undertaken due to GOC reluctance to use other than grant funds for this purpose. WDD
sources have noted that the projected training in these areas was and still is needed.
Environmental Objective
22.      Substantial progress towards meeting the project's environmental objective has been
made. Environmental assessment and management studies were executed under SCP II, and there
has been a reasonable amount of subsequent follow-up activity, which is expected to continue.
The main identified environmental impact of the SCP, caused by operation of the Kouris dam
constructed under SCP I, is a reduction of natural flood-season recharge of the Akrotiri aquifer.
The negative consequences of this could include (i) increased sea-water intrusion into the aquifer,
and (ii) reduced water levels in the Phasouri Marsh. The corresponding relevant recommendations
of the studies carried out under the project include (i) execution of further studies covering the
aquifer and the Akrotiri Salt Lake, to establish among other things the nature and extent, if any, of
a hydrological connection between the two, (ii) a pilot flooding operation and study for the
Phasouri Marsh, and (iii) implementation of formulated interim aquifer and marsh management
guidelines, to be updated later in accordance with further study findings. Recommendations
relating to remediation of spoil heaps resulting from construction of the Dhiarizos tunnel were
also made. The environmental studies were completed in mid 1992, and the above
recommendations have been partially implemented since then. Some recharging of the Akrotiri
aquifer, primarily to maintain groundwater extractions for municipal water supply, has been
effected by releases from the Kouris dam. Also, hydrant outlets connected to the Akrotiri
irrigation scheme were installed to allow for water releases into the Phasouri marsh, but current
drought conditions preclude their use. Finally, works to convey and apply treated wastewater to
the aquifer for recharge and irrigation purposes are programmed for implementation in 1997.
These measures may allow for some mitigation of the potential salt water intrusion and
groundwater contamination effects of the project, but they will not, as currently formulated and
applied, fully address the evidently serious lowering of water levels in the Phasouri Marsh. In
conclusion, restoration of the Phasouri marsh water levels appears to be the most important
9



currently identified environmental impact mitigation requirement. There are a number of potential
measures that could achieve this, including the use of treated effluent for direct recharge or
flooding. The concepts for these measures now need to be pursued towards implementation. It
does not appear that high priority has been assigned to this activity, due to an understandable
"people before birds" attitude, but advancement should proceed at least up to the point of
commitment of water resources, to allow for the possibility of some appropriate mitigation when
circumstances demand or allow.
Economic Objective
23.      Actual project cost is estimated at £C 76.2 million (US$ 156.2 million) or 95% of the
original estimate made at appraisal (Part II, Table 8A). Final overall disbursement includes:
IBRD US$ 27.1 million, EIB US$ 17.5 million, KFAED US$ 14.0 million, UK grant
US$ 2.3 million, project beneficiaries US$ 1.5 million, local credit US$ 22.0 million and GOC
contribution US$ 71.8 million (Part II, Table 811). With regard to the IBRD loan, final
disbursement has reached 90% of the original amount. The remaining US$ 2.9 million will be
cancelled. Depending on final settlement of outstanding claims relating to some project
components, the total final cost may increase slightly.
24.      Economic Rate of Return (ERR). The current ERR, reestimated at completion, is
11.5%. The recalculated ERR is based on actual expenditures incurred up to the end of 1996 and
costs to be incurred thereafter until the end of 1999, and an actual and updated projection of
benefits. Underlying assumptions about costs and benefits, and other information supporting the
analysis, are summarized in Part II, Table 9 and given in detail in Appendix C. The reestimated
ERR differs from the appraisal estimate of 14% mainly because of the delayed implementation of
the Kiti, Parekklisha and Mazotos irrigation schemes due to the shortages of local funds and the
lower than expected utilization of the irrigation investment of the Akrotiri scheme attributable to
the recent drought years as well as the delayed implementation of the Tersephanu water treatment
plant and related conveyance system to Nicosia. A sensitivity analysis has been carried out
taking into consideration an increase of project benefits by 20%. In such an event, the ERR would
increase to about 13%. Non quantifiable benefits include the tourism development and
implementation of a water tariff policy. This has contributed to increased government revenues
from public schemes, induce water conservation practices and cause farmers to shift production
patterns towards crops with high return to water, enhancing overall sector efficiency. The number
of direct beneficiaries relative to the domestic water supply component are estimated at about
500,000 inhabitants, in line with SAR estimates. As regards the irrigation component, it is
estimated that some 11,300 farmers would directly benefit under the project, well above the SAR
estimate of 4,500 (Part II, Table 9). Currently, WDD charges £C 0.065/m3 recovering about 34%
of the average unit cost of water delivery including depreciation. The Bank assisted in financing
most recent large-scale water resource development projects in Cyprus and the Loan Agreement
of the SCP stipulates that irrigation charges should cover 38% of the weighted average unit cost
of water. The financial analysis shown in Appendix C, Table 5, taking into consideration the
subsidized water charges, indicates the profitability of the most important crops currently
cultivated in the SCP irrigation schemes with net value of production ranging from about £C
700/ha for grapes to over £C 11,000/ha for vegetables. It is also estimated that on average, the
10



net value of production, in economic terms, would reach at full development some £C 2,160/ha
representing an increase of about 25% over the without project situation (Appendix C, Table 12).
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
Factors not Generally Subject to Government Control
25.      Recent hydrological assessments have shown that average precipitation and runoff in
Cyprus over the last 25 years have been significantly lower than previously. In the last several
years there has been a drought situation, with water rationing being applied in both domestic
water supply and irrigation subsectors, and the conditions seem to be worsening. Water allocation
priorities will favor the domestic water supply subsector, hence the ultimate level of project
benefits accruing to irrigated agriculture may be lower than foreseen. More immediately, the rate
of growth of irrigated agriculture benefits has already been negatively affected, due to the
rationing of irrigation water. The drought situation has also been blamed for the non-allocation of
water for environmental impact mitigation in the Phasouri marsh. Delayed implementation of
irrigation schemes has resulted not only from the desire to avoid subsequent water rationing in the
current drought situation but also, in some areas, from the shifting of landowner interests and
commitments away from agriculture and towards other economic activities such as commerce
(e.g. tourism) and industry. This shift is probably part of a natural and desirable trend in a
strengthening national economy.
Factors Generally Subject to Government Control
26.      The slow pace of implementation compared to the schedule at appraisal has, to
considerable extent, been due to GOC-controlled factors such as (i) budget allocations and release
of funds, (ii) tendering processes for construction contracts, and (iii) equipment procurement and
distribution procedures. Also of some concern, because of the potential impact on future project
performance and generation of benefits, has been the lack of substantive progress on institutional,
organizational and operational aspects. The irrigation water subsidy can be seen as a measure that
encourages agricultural production.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
27.      Overall sustainability of the project is considered likely. Technically, design,
construction and supervision of implementation of the project's infrastructure works have been of
high quality, and borrower commitment to provision of sufficient long-term staffing, equipment
and facilities for operation and maintenance seems assured. Economically, the project is viable.
Tourism sector growth and rising standards of living will be factors contributing to a greater
demand for domestic water and a consequent diversion of water away from irrigated agriculture,
which would also be especially penalized at times of drought like the present one. Countering this
to some extent will be an expected expansion in the use of treated wastewater for irrigation in
some areas, and a probable trend towards higher value cropping in others. Taken together, these
nsay represent a net movement towards higher value water use and hence rising overall cost
recovery levels, in which case the prospects for financial viability at project level are increased.
11



Environmentally there are no major difficulties to be overcome in order to ensure sustainability.
With regard to institutional, managerial and operational effectiveness, establishment of the NWE,
which may soon occur (Section H), should provide the essential integrated water management
framework within which sound operational policy assessments, decisions, applications and
evaluations can be made equitably, efficiently, systematically and routinely.
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
28.      The Bank was only marginally involved in the identification/preparation process of
the SCP, but participated actively in the discussions of major issues and the overall concept of the
project. The performance of the Bank at appraisal was satisfactory adopting a flexible attitude to
project design and the water resources needs of the country were well addressed. However, the
irrigation objective was over ambitious and the institutional objective was not adequately
emphasised. The Bank played a constructive role in emphasising to the Government the
importance of adequate cost recovery and has contributed to the timely start up of SCP II. The
role of the Bank in the cofinancing arrangement has been highly appreciated by the GOC. Bank
performance during supervision is also judged as satisfactory. At project completion a total of 9
supervision missions were carried out by the Bank (Part II, Table 13). This frequency, while
lower than normal, was probably justified in view of the good capabilities and performance of the
implementing agency. WDD sources indicate that the Bank's support was instrumental in helping
to obtain approvals for the eventually adopted force account approach for the implementation of
the irrigation component. Supervision was generally concentrated on the engineering aspects to
which it has made significant contributions. Bank staff has made attempts to draw the attention
of government to the low utilization of irrigation investment and need for reviewing the irrigation
development plan under the project, taking into consideration the above lower than planned
utilization, shortage of water and competing needs for water. In connection with improved
utilization of completed irrigation networks, Bank mission recommended utilization of an
improved tariff structure involving a fix charge. Bank has pursued with government institutional
matters stated in SAR and loan agreement including establishment of NWE, carrying out M&E
and completing the system operation study, but as stated below progress on these on institutional
matters was slow.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
29.      Considering the number and complexity of project components and considerable
progress on achieving project development objectives, despite delays and slow progress on
institutional matters, the Borrower generally performed satisfactorily. The feasibility study for the
SCP by Overseas Development Administration (ODA) was conducted with active participation of
the GOC staff. The study was the responsibility of the WDD which was assisted in this task by
consultants. A major contribution of the GOC was the successful mobilization of the WDD
engineering task force during SCP I and SCP II. As regards the SCP I, "the WDD completed
most of the project works ahead of schedule with efficiency and appreciable cost savings" and its
"performance on the project account works was highly satisfactory in terms of quality, timeliness
and costs" (SCP I - PCR). The role of the WDD under the SCP II is also judged satisfactory.
Difficulties encountered with tendering and contractual arrangements were eventually resolved
12



but with some delays to the project schedule. Execution of works under force account was also
extended, due largely to non-release of funds. However, the force account arrangement itself
remains appropriate for irrigation area developments. The Borrower did not perform well in
establishing the NWE and M&EU on time. The NWE remains to be set up and the M&EU,
established only in the later part of 1992, did not operate as required and was later dissolved. The
SCP II Loan Agreement stipulates that irrigation water charges should cover 38% of the weighted
average unit cost of water. At completion, the legal covenant concerning cost recovery for
irrigation water had not been complied with fully; the actual recovery rate was 34% of costs. In
the case of domestic water use, charges covered 100% of costs, which is in line with the Loan
Agreement stipulation.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
30.      As discussed in Section B, achievements relating to the project's physical (domestic
water supply and irrigation) objectives are judged to be substantial. This is consistent with the
SAR where higher priority was placed on achievement of the physical objectives. The
institutional objective is considered partially achieved as described in para 17. Environmental
preservation has been attended to essentially as indicated in the SAR, and the expected level of
economic returns is adequate. Finally, as discussed in Section D, project sustainability is
considered likely. As a consequence, the overall project outcome is assessed as satisfactory.
H. FUTURE OPERATION
31.      Expected future action on establishment of the NWE was outlined by WDD sources.
More detailed formulation and definition of the entity's role, responsibilities and functions would
occur during 1997. This would be followed in 1998 by preparation of the corresponding law and
its submission first to the Council of Ministers and then to the Parliament. Actual establishment
of the NWE could not be expected before 1999. There are no apparent commitments to act on
some of the other institutional improvement issues that may impinge on future project
performance. Potentially important follow-up areas in addition to water sector institutional reform
include (i) system operation studies, procedures and training, (ii) monitoring and evaluation
arrangements, (iii) financial management provisions and training, including water tariff
derivations, (iv) implementation of the computerized O&M data processing systems, and (vi)
implementation of the environmental impact mitigation measures.
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
32.      The key lessons learned are as follows:
(a) The success of SCP II being implemented closely behind SCP I demonstrates that
follow-on projects should continue directly and without delay from the initial
project in order to (i) benefit from experienced staff and routine procedures already
in place, and (ii) avoid or minimize delay in achieving the objectives of the
combined project.
13



(b) The unfavorable experience with deviating from the original Dhiarizos tunnel
construction concepts and methods shows that such action should be avoided unless
a thorough investigation and a full review of the proposed deviation by independent
experts is undertaken.
(c) As the Limassol and Tersephanou water treatment plants were established under
multiple and turnkey contracts, respectively, a comparative study of implementation
experience should have been undertaken in order to gain valuable insight into
preferred contract practices for similar future developments.
(d) Experience with this project suggests that quality problems under supply contracts
should be minimized through independent expert checks at manufacturers' plants.
(e) The project used force account arrangements with good results for implementation
of the irrigation development works, indicating that this approach can be effectively
used for construction of irrigation distribution systems where departments have
adequate construction capability.
(f) The land use conflict experienced under the project between irrigated farming and
tourism points to the need for thorough prior investigation of competing demands
for basic project resources.
(g) The outcome of this project warrants the conclusion that institutional matters,
related particularly to project monitoring and evaluation, and also to operational
planning and water resources management, should be attended to at an early stage
of project development, possibly even prior to construction of major project
components.
14



PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of objectives      Substantial    Partial   Negligible NotApplicable
Macro policies                   L           L           L
Sector policies                  L           L            l
Financial objectives             Li[1                    Li              I]
Institutional development                    E           Li          Eli
Physical objectives              [1          L                        Li
Poverty reduction                Ei          Li            ]         [M-
Gender issues                      i           i         L
Other social objectives            i         Li          Ei 
Environmental objectives        [E]          EC          Li          Li
Public sector management         Li          Li          Li          [m1
Private sector development       Li          Li          Li          [IR]
Other (specify)                  EL          L           Li           Li
B. Project sustainabilitv        Likdy       Unlikelv   Uncertain
E0          0 



Table 1: Summary of Assessments (cont'd)
HWhIY
C. Bank perfoance             satisfactory  Satisy  Deficien
0           0           0
Identification                             E mI
Preparation assistance                     [ ]
Appraisal                       m          [            Z
Supervision                     nI          m           o
D. Borrower perfom]ance         satisfactojy  SatisfactoQ    Deficint
0           0           0
Preparation                    nI          [-            ]
Implementation                 FI]                     F]
Covenant compliance                        I O         F
Operation (if applicable)       D               IF
lllghly                                 W~y
E. Assessmentofoutcome         satisfactory  Satisfactory  Insatifh   uneagti
0           0             0            C
0
ED  FE   FD   LI



Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title                       Purpose                Year of          Status
approval
Preceding operations
- Ln. 960-CY                              To provide essential irrigation     1974         Loan closed
Paphos Irrigation Project               infrastructure mainly for export                    1982
production and financing on-farm
investment.
- Ln. 1483-CY                             Development of irrigation and      1977          Loan closed
Pitsilia Integr. Rural Development Project    improving health services.                    1984
- Ln. 1658-CY                             To develop water resources for      1979         Loan closed
Vasilikos-Pendaskinos Project           irrigation and to reduce shortages                  1986
of urban water supplies in
Nicosia, Limassol and Lamaca.
- Ln. 1988-CY                             To improve fruits and vegetable     1981         Loan closed
Fruit & Vegetable Export Project        export; improve the utilization of                  1988
scarce water resources, farm                    PCR - 1991
productivity and employment
opportunities.
- Ln. 2279-CY                             To develop water resources for      1983         Loan closed
Khrysokhou Irrigation Project           irrigation on 2,000 ha in North-                  Dec. 1989
West Cyprus; intensify                          PCR - 1992
agricultural production and
increase agricultural export and
foreign exchange earnings.
- Ln. 2509-CY                             To strengthen and improve          1985          Loan closed
Agricultural Research and Extension     coordination among research and                   Dec. 1991
extension agencies.
- Ln. 2386-CY                             The first phase of a two-phase      1984         Loan closed
Southern Conveyor Project Phase I        development to harness the                      Dec. 31, 1991
Republic of Cyprus's last                     PCR - May 1994
substantial remaining surface
water resources, ensuring
adequate water supplies for
domestic use and for irrigation.
Following operations                      None



Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle                Date planned             Date actual/
latest estimate
Initial Preparation'                                                       September 1985
Preparation2                                                                 March 1986
Appraisal                                          November 1986            Nov./Dec. 1986
Negotiations3                                        April 1987          21-28 September 1987
Letter of development policy (if applicable)            n.a.                     n.a.
Board presentation                                    June 1987            23 February 1988
Signing                                               July 1987              6 May 1988
Effectiveness                                      November 1987            17 August 1988
First tranche release (if applicable)                    n.a                     n.a
Midterm review (if applicable)                           n.a                     n.a
Second (and third) tranche release (if applicable)       n.a                     n.a
Project completion                                  30 June 1995             30 June 1996
Loan closing                                      31 December 1995        31 December 1996
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ thousands)
FY89    FY90    FY91    FY92         FY93      FY94      FY95       FY96
Appraisal estimate             400      2,800    7,200    12,800    18,200    23,500    28,500    30,000
Actual                           -        -      4,375    10,493    14,234    21,182    24,229    27,1004
Actual as % of estimate          -        -       60.8      82.0     78.2      90.1      85.0       90.3
Date of final disbursement: 31 March 1997
The preparation of the SCP was initiated by the GOC in early 1978. The SCP I was appraised by the Bank in
April 1983.
2 In early 1985 the GOC decided to commence the preparation of the SCP II updating the feasibility report
completed in 1982. Initial and final preparation carried out with the assistance of the FAO/CP.
3  Negotiations on the terms of the Bank loan to the Republic of Cyprus for the project were held in Washington.
4 Including £C 916,456 (US$ 1,787,000) last withdrawal application (No. 15) dated 31 March 1997.



Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Key Implementation Indicators in SAR     Estimated          Revised /         Actual at ICR
in SAR          I Expected          (% Complete)
1. Water Resources Development
Dhiarizos Diversion
a) Arminou Weir - Length/Height           15m / 4.5m        Excluded          Nil
b) Pipeline - Length/Diameter             1.6 km / 1.6m     Same              Same (100%)
c) Tunnel - Length/Diameter               14.5 km / 2.5m    Same              Same (100%)
d) Outlet Structure                       I No.             Same              Same (100%)
2. Irrigation Development
a) Total Schemes - Number/GrossArea      4 No. / 4,335 ha    5 No. / 4,111 ha    I No. / 2,843 ha (70%)
b) Akrotiri Scheme - Gross Area           1,755 ha          1,688 ha          1,688 ha (100%)
c) Parekklisha Scheme - Gross Area       320 ha             352 ha            194 ha (55%1o)
d) Mazotos Scheme - Gross Area           660 ha             615 ha            Nil (0%)
e) Kiti Scheme - Gross Area               1,600 ha          1,206             961 ha (80%)
f) Aradhippou Scheme - Gross Area        Not included       250 ha            Nil (0%)
f) Land Consolidation - Total Gross Area  2,310 ha          2,452 ha          2,202 ha (90%)
g) New Farm Roads - Total Length          104 km            164 km            164 km (100%)
3. On-Farm Development
a) Minisprinkler Systems - Area           1,415 ha          Not quantified    Not quantified under
b) Trickle Systems - Area                2,760 ha           under the project;  the project;
c) Fruit Trees - Area Coverage           62%                farmers' initiative.  farmers' initiative.
d) Covered Vegetables - Area Coverage     15%
e) Greenhouses - Area/Growers            50 ha / 350 No.
4. Domestic Water Supply Development
a) Limassol Water Treatment Plant -
Initial Capacity / Final Capacity      40,000 m3/d /     Same              Same (100%)
80,000 m3/d
b) Tersephanou Water Treatment Plant -
Initial Capacity / Final Capacity     50,000 m3/d /     60,000 m3/d /      Same (75%)
90,000 m3/d       90,000 m3/d
c) Tersephanou-Nicosia Conveyor -
Pipeline Lengths/Diameters             29.4 km / 0.7m    19.0 km +         Same (55%)
+6.1 km / 0.8m    17.5 km / 0.9m
Dhali Balancing Reservoir              I No.             Same              Same (90%)
Pumping Station/System Capacity        40,000 m3/d       78,000 m3/d       Same (60%)
d) Village Water Supply Schemes          20 No.             8 No.             8 No. (100%)
5. Technical Services and Training
a) Construction Supervision Services      190 man-months    Same              216 m-m (86%)
b) Short-Term Specialist Services        35 man-months      Same              12 m-m (85%)
c) Trainees/Study Tours                  4 No. / 2 No.      Excluded          Nil / Nil



Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
I.  Key operating indicators in
SARJPresidents Report                Estimated                        Actual
Not identified at appraisal
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Study                     Purpose           |       Status    7          Impact
1. SCP II System         To provide a comprehensive   Continuing at WDD;  Purpose not achieved;
Operation Study       systems analysis, consider    technical assistance    SCP system not
management options and       completed in 1996    modeled successfully
provide rules of operation for                    with selected modeling
the conjunctive use of surface                    system
water and groundwater
2. Aquifer Modeling      To improve existing aquifer   Continuing at WDD;  Purpose not achieved;
Improvements          models                        technical assistance    potential for eventual
(included with above)                               completed in 1996    success with selected
model upgrade
3. Limassol Sewage       To assess development        Completed in 1993    Purpose achieved;
Effluent and Sludge   alternatives for use of treated                    implementation
Reuse Study           effluent                                           ongoing
4. O&M Computerized      To prepare bid documents for    Completed in 1996    Purpose achieved;
Data Systems Bid      computerized data processing                       limited scope; required
Document              systems                                            equipment purchased
5. Ezousa Diversion      To evaluate the feasibility of an   Excluded (completed  n.a.
Feasibility Study     Ezousa river diversion        under another
project)
6. Rural Sanitation Study   To review and develop a    Completed in 1994    Purpose achieved;
for the Republic of   strategy for rural sanitary                        intention to implement
Cyprus                sewerage and solid waste                           has been indicated
disposal
7. Environmental Study    To assess the ecology and water  Completed in 1992    Purposes achieved;
and Management Plan   balance of the Akrotiri salt lake                  recommendations for
for the Akrotiri Salt  and Phasouri marsh and to                         further studies and
Lake and Wetlands and  prepare an environmental                          environmental
Assessment of the     management plan to maintain or                     management measures
Environmental Impact  improve their ecology                              partially implemented
of the Proposed Water
Development Works in  To assess the environmental
the Limnatis, Dhiarizos  impact of proposed works in
and Ezousa Watersheds  three watersheds: Limnatis,
Dhiarizos and Ezousa.



Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal estimate (US$'000)      Actual/latest estimate (US$'000)
Local     Foreign     Total       Local        Foreign      Total'
costs      costs                  costs        costs
Item
A. Water Resources Development     22,332     32,717      55,049        n.a.         n.a.       36,780
B. Irrigation Development          18,308     15,522      33,830       n.a.          n.a.      32,987
C. On-Farm Development             15,906      8,266      24,172       n.a           n.a.      27,377
D. Domestic Water Supply           16,662     30,197      46,859       n.a.          n.a       54,196
E. O&M and Miscellaneous Equip.       96       1,819        1,915      n.a           na.         n.a.
F. Techn. Assistance and Training    353       1,857       2,210       n.a           n.a.        4,815
TOTAL                             73,657     90,378     164,035        n.a.         n.a.      156,155
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate (US$'000)       Actual/atest Estimate (US$'000)
Local      Foreign     Total        Local        Foreign      Total
costs       costs                   costs         costs
Source
A. IBRD                           n.a.        n.a.      30,000         n.a.         n.a.       27,107
B. Kuwait Fund                    n.a.        n.a.       15,400        n.a.         n.a        14,000
C. Export Credit                  n.a.        n.a.      25,600         n.a.         n.a.            -
D. EIB                            n.a.        n.a.           -         n.a.         n.a.       17,500
E. U.K. Grant                     n.a.        n.a.           -         n.a.         n.a.        2,270
F. Beneficiaries                  n.a.        n.a.       7,300         n.a.         n.a.        1,460
G. Government Contribution        n.a.        n.a.      67,535         n.a.         n.a.       71,818
H. Local Credit                   n.a.        n.a.       18,200        n.a.         n.a.       22,000
TOTAL                           73,657       90,378     164,035        n.a.         n.a       156,155
Estimated Project Cost at completion (1999). It includes actual costs up to the end of 1995 (£C 49.2 million) and
WDD's estimates for the remaining years. Details are given in Appendix C, Table 3 and WDD Progress Report
No. 1996/52, Tables 7, B 1.8 and B. 1.10.



Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Unit         SAR Estimate    ICR Estimate
A. Incremental Agricultural Production
- Citrus/Fruit Trees                                    Tons             50,300          44,300
- Vegetables                                            Tons            107,200          115,200
B. Direct Beneficiaries
(i) Irrigation
- SCP I                                          No. of Farmers       3,000            7,800
- SCP 11                                         No. of Farmers    1.000/1.500        3.500
- Total SCP                                                           4,500           11,300
(11) Domestic Water Supply                         No. of Inhabitants   495,000         495,000
C. Economic Rate of Return'
- For the project as a whole                             %               14.0             11.5
D. Net Incremental Benefits per ha
- Without Project (1996 prices)                         £C/ha             ...             1,736
- With Project (1996 prices)                           £C/ha              ...             2,160
Remarks: The economic benefits of the project comprise the net value of incremental agricultural production
(Appendix C, Table 14) for which economic prices, as indicated in Appendix C, Tables 6 to 8, have been used, as
well as the benefits deriving from the actual and projected domestic water supply as indicated in Appendix C,
table 2. The ex-post economic evaluation of the SCP as a whole assumes that, in the absence of alternative water
supply to the project area, pumping from existing private boreholes would have been inevitable, and would have
resulted in severe seawater intrusion. Hence, the without project situation would have witnessed a rapid
regression from irrigated to rainfed agriculture. The economic rate of return (ERR) is based on actual
expenditures incurred up to 1996 and costs to complete thereafter until 1999 (Appendix C, Table 3), and an
actual and updated projection of benefits for a total project life of 45 years. The actual and future water supply
from the SCP has been assessed at 33.8 MCM and 32.6 MCM for the irrigation and domestic use respectively in
line with the SAR target (Appendix C, Tables I and 2). Currently, farmers pay from £C 0.06/m3 to £C 0.07/m3
of water for irrigation. For the economic analysis water for irrigation has been costed at £C 0.2/m3 which
corresponds to the weighted average unit cost of all government irrigation schemes in Cyprus. Benefits from
domestic water supply have been derived by allocating an economic value of water of £C 0.6/mr3. This bulk rate
is in line with the cost of desalinised water for domestic use currently set at US$ 1.0/m3 (EC 0.5/m3).



Legal Covenant Report: Latest status of Covenant Compliance                                                                                                     OD 13.05 - ANNEX D5
ECA - Europe & Central Asia Regional 0                                                                                                                                        Page:  1
ECI - ECA: Country Department I                                                                                                                          Run Date: 06/13/97 at 18.00.05
EClAR - Agriculture & Regional Devip Opr
Form 590 Date: 07/23/1996
Project ID: CY-PE-8365    - SOUTHERN CONVEYOR II
Original      Revised
Covenant              Fulfill      Fulfill
Class(s)   Status      Dats         Date      Description of Covenant                                 Cozments
Agreement: LOAN Loan Number: [BRD -29140
Text Reference: Section 3.02
05                                              Engage engineering and other consultants on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Text Reference: Section 3.03
05           C                                  (i) Assign staff and recruit short-term                 The studies for operational planning of the
consultants to carry out project studies in             Southern Conveyor System and recharging of the
accordance with timetable agreed with the Bank,         aquifer are underway.  Other studies have been
(ii) implement recommendations resulting from the   completed.
studies, especially with respect to recharging of
Kokkinokhoria aquifer and control of groundwater
pumping.
Text Reference: Section 3.04
06                                              (i) Monitor and study ecology of Akrotiri Salt
Lake and water balance of Phasouri Marsh, and by
3/31/90 prepare environmental management plan to
maintain or improve their present ecology; (ii)
prepare draft TORs for the study by 7/31/88; and
(iii) implement the plan by 3/31/91.
Text Reference: 4.01(b)(c)
c01                                             Establish and maintain separate accounts for each
irrigation and water supply scheme, which will be
annually audited, and furnish Bank audit reports
and financial statements of project accounts not
later than 9 months after end of each government
fiscal year.
Status:
C    - Complied with
CD   - Compliance after Delay
NC   - Not Complied with
SOON - Compliance Expected in Reasonably Short Time
CP   - Complied with Partially
NYD  - Not Yet Due
(P gm
I-
0



Legal Covenant Report: Latest status of Covenant Compliance                                                                                                           OD 13.05 - ANNEX D5
ECA - Europe & Central Asia Regional 0                                                                                                                                              Page:  2
ECI - ECA: Country Department I                                                                                                                               Run Date: 06/13/97 at 18.00.05
EClAR - Agriculture & Regional Devlp Opr
Form 590 Date: 07/23/199
Project ID: CY-PE48365    - SOUTHERN CONVEYOR ll
original      Revised
Covenant               Fulfill      Fulfill
Class(g)   Status       Date         Date       Description of Covenant                                   Comments
Text Reference: 4.02
01                                                Not later than 3/31/90 Borrower shall establish
charges for irrigation water which shall be
sufficient to recover 38t of weighted average unit
cost of such water.
Text Reference: 4.04
01                                                Make budgetary allocations sufficient to cover any
shortfall in WDD's operating costs, debt service
and working capital requirements.
Text Reference: 4.05(a)(b)
Text Rfrne02                                                  Base bulk domestic on three-year average and take
into account any shortfall or surplus in required
revenue in previous year.
Text Reference: 4.07(b)(c)
02                                                Process water charge increases as follows:  (i)
starting 3/31/89, furnish Bank for its review and
comment proposed charges for irrigation and
domestic water to be charged in following year;
(ii) by Nov. 30 adopt charges and tariffs for the
following year, taking into account Bank's
comments; and (iii) by following March 31
implement revised charges and tariffs for that
year.
Text Reference: 4.07(a)
02                                                Review annually irrigation charges for both SCP
and non-SCP schemes in accordance with methodology
acceptable to the Bank.
C    - Complied with
CD   - Compliance after Delay
NC   - Not Complied with
SOON - Compliance Expected in Reasonably Short Time
CP   - Complied with Partially
NYI - Not Yet Due
CD
3



Legal Covenant Report: Latest status of Covenant Compliance                                                                                                     OD 13.05 - ANNEX DM
ECA - Europe & Central Asia Regional 0                                                                                                                                       Page:  3
ECI - ECA: Country Department I                                                                                                                         Run Date: 06/13/97 at 18.00.05
EClAR - Agriculture & Regional Devip Opr
Form 590 Date: 07/23/1996
Project ID: CY-PE-8365    - SOUTHERN CONVEYOR II
Original      Revised
Covenant              Fulfill      Fulfill
Class(s)   Status      Date         Date      Description of Covenant                                 Comments
Text Reference: 4.08(a)
02                                              Apply agreed water tariff system for domestic
water and review annually the bulk water tariffs
to ensure they are maintained at level which would
cover full o&M cost and working capital
requirements together with depreciation and
interest plus any loan; government also to ensure
water boards and village councils adjust regularly
their retail water tariffs to reflect bulk water
tariff inceases.
Text Reference: 4.08(a)
02                                              Take necessary measures to enforce payment of
irrigation and domestic water bills within 90 days
of their issuance.
Text Reference: 5.01
05                                              Maintain PIU, POu, PPCC and two PACs during SPCII
implementation.
Text Reference: 5.03(a)(b)
os                                              Maintain M&E unit within MANR staffed with at
least one economist and one engineer, to carry out
M&E activities and submit progress reports and
final report on completion of project.
Text Reference: 5.05
05                                              Provide an experienced financial manager by
7/31/88 to supervise WDDOs accounting.
Text Reference: 5.05(a)-(c)
03                                              Provide MDD sufficient funds to cover all project
maintenance and operation expenses.
Status:
C    - Complied with
CD - Compliance after Delay
NC   - Not Ccmplied with
SOON - Ccmpliance Expected in Reasonably Short Time
CP   - Complied with Partially
NYD - Not Yet Due
093
OQ a
I-
0



lqal Covenant Report: Latest status of Covenant Compliance                                                                             OD 13.05 - ANNEX D5
Full Text of General Covenant Classification                                                                                     Run Date: 06/13/97 at 18.00.05
Covenant Class
1 Accounts/audit
2  Financial performance/generate revenue from beneficiaries
3  Flow and utilization of Project funds
4  Counterpart funding
5 Management aspects of the Project or of its executing agency
6  Environmental covenants
7  Involuntary resettlement
8  Indigenous people
9 Monitoring, review and reporting
10  Implementation
11  Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation
12  Sectoral or cross-sectoral regulatory/institutional action
13  Other
8Q9:
m
080



Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement number and title              Describe and comment on lack of compliance
No deviation from applicable operational manual statements observed.
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of                       Planned                   Revised                    Actual
project cycle
Weeks         US$         Weeks         US$         Weeks         US$
Through appraisal          n.a.         n.a.                                  170.3        221.1
Appraisal-effectiveness    n.a.         n.a.                                   10.5         23.6
Supervision                n.a.         n.a.                                   60.3        159.4
Completion                 n.a.         n.a.                                    8.0         31.21
TOTAL                    261.2        603.8         n.a.         n.a.        249.1        435.3
ICR mission's estimate.



Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance rating
Stage of                           Number                  Specialized    Implemen-    Develop-
prOJeCt cycle          Monf             of       Days in     staff skills     tation       ment        Types of
year         persons     field      represented      status      objectives    problaes
Preparationi                March 1986      3           3           n.a.           n.a.         n.a.          n.a.
Preparation2               August 1986      1           5            IE            n.a.         na.           n.a.
Appraisal                Nov./Dec. 1986     8          22       IE, FA, E, CE      n.a.         n.a.          n.a.
Supervision:
June 1988      1          8            IE             I             I           M
2                       May 1989       2           7          IE, FA           2            2            M
3                  September 1990      2          11          IE, E            2            2            LC
3b3                   August 1991      I           3            IE            n.a.         n.a.          n.a.
4                      March 1992      1          10            IE             2            2            LC
5                  September 1992      1          14            IE             2            2           P,AF
6                   December 1993      I          11            IE             2            2         P, AF, EN
7                       June 1994      1          10            E              S            S        P, T, AF, LC
8                       June 1995      1           8            IE             S            S         P,T,AF,
EN,I
9                       June 1996      1           7            IE             S            S             I
Completion4            Febr./March 1997     2          17           E, IE-- 
CE: Civil Engineer; E: Economist; FA: Financial Analyst; IE: Irrigation Engineer.
S: Satisfactory; M: Management; LC: Compliance with legal covenants; P: Procurement; AF: Availability of funds;
EN: Environmental aspects; T: Training progress; I: Implementation of irrigation schemes.
X Bank staff that coordinated with the FAO/CP preparation mission. The Bank mission was engaged in the
supervision of SCP I and Vasilikos-Pendaskinos Projects. Three days have been allocated to the SCP II.
2 Also engaged in the Bank Water Supply and Sewerage Mission.
3 Partial Supervision: to review selected matters concerning the Dhiarizos Diversion Tunnel.
4 Carried out by FAO/CP.



APPENDIX A
Page I
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CYPRUS
SOUTHERN CONVEYOR PROJECT FOR WATER RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT
PHASE II (SCP II) (Loan 2914-CY)
AIDE-MEMOIRE
A. Introduction
1.    An FAO/WB Cooperative Programme mission comprising Messrs. R. Suppa
(Economist/Mission Leader) and M. J. Sandoz (Irrigation Engineer, Consultant) visited Cyprus
from 24 February to 13 March 1997 for the preparation of the ICR for the above project. The
mission held meetings with concerned officials of the Ministry of Agriculture, Natural Resources
and Environment (MANRE), the Planning Bureau (PB) and the Agricultural Research Institute
(ARI). The mission worked in close collaboration with the staff of the Water Development
Department (WDD) and the Department of Agriculture both of MANRE. Field visits, organised
by the WDD, were made to the various project sites including the Dhiarizos Diversion, the
irrigation distribution schemes, the domestic water treatment plants at Limassol and
Tersephanou, the Tersephanou-Nicosia Conveyor, and the Limassol village water supply
schemes. During its stay in Limassol the mission also visited the Limassol Sewage Treatment
Plant and adjacent effluent irrigation pilot project, the Akrotiri Salt Lake and the Phassouri
Marsh, and held discussions with staff of the district WDD and the Limassol Water Board.
Project beneficiaries in the Akrotiri, Parekklisha and Kiti irrigation schemes were also met.
2.    The mission acknowledges the cooperation and courtesy extended by the Government of
Cyprus (GOC) and its agencies. Special thanks and appreciation are due to Dr. G. Socratous,
SCP Deputy Project Manager, for providing comprehensive data and elaborating on the project's
performance and progress. Preliminary impressions and findings of the mission are presented
below and are subject to modification following detailed analysis.
B. Background
3.    After the final preparation which took place in March 1986, the SCP II was appraised in
November/December 1986 and presented to the WB's Board on 23 February 1988. The Loan
Agreement was signed on 6 May 1988 and became effective on 17 August 1988. The project was
the second phase of a two-phase development to harness the last substantial remaining surface
water resources in the Republic of Cyprus. The SCP's primary objectives were (i) to ensure
adequate water supplies to four major population areas and nearby villages, and (ii) to maintain
vitally important irrigated crop production in an area threatened by aquifer seawater intrusion
and extend irrigation in other selected areas. The project also aimed to rationalize further the
utilization of the country's scarce water resources through appropriate institutional reform and
the implementation of realistic cost recovery measures for both domestic and irrigation water. As



APPENDIX A
Page 2
designed at appraisal, the project included the following components: (i) the Dhiarizos diversion
works; (ii) the irrigation distribution networks for four schemes; (iii) the on-farm development;
(iv) the domestic water treatment works at Limassol and Tersephanou, the Tersephanou-Nicosia
conveyor and about 20 rural water supply schemes; (v) the provision of O&M and miscellaneous
equipment; and (vi) the provision of technical services and training.
4.    Total cost for the SCP 1I was estimated at US$164.0 million to be financed as follows:
IBRD Loan US$30.0 million, Kuwait Fund US$15.4 million, Export Credit US$25.6 million;
Local credit US$18.2 million; Beneficiaries US$7.3 million and GOC US$67.5 million. Actual
project costs and disbursements are presented in Section D.
C. Implementation Experience
General
5.    The project's development objectives were generally achieved and, in spite of delays
varying from two to four years, project implementation for the Dhiarizos diversion and the
domestic water supply components of the project can be considered satisfactory. Under the
irrigation development Programme, implementation at project completion remains seriously
behind schedule, recording an average completion of about 50%. In general, the delays relative
to the implementation schedule at appraisal have resulted from both late starts and extended
durations caused by various factors discussed below. The GOC, on 3 October 1995, requested
the World Bank to extend the closing date of the loan by one year. Considering the satisfactory
performance of the implementing agencies, and that the project's main objectives continued to be
achievable, the loan closing date was extended by one year, to 31 December 1996.
Implementation performance for each individual component is summarized below:
Water Resources Development
6.    The project's water resources development component is the Dhiarizos diversion. The
purpose of the diversion is to transfer an average flow of 21 MCM per year (about 65% of the
total average annual flow) from the Dhiarizos river to the Kryos river, for augmenting the Kouris
river catchment water resources. The flows are controlled at the Kouris dam, implemented under
SCPI.
7.    The diversion, whose design flow is 6.5 m3/s, consists principally of (i) an upstream
1.6 km long, 1.6 m diameter, ductile iron, pressure flow pipeline, connected into (ii) a
downstream 14.5 km long, 2.4/2.5/2.6 m variable diameter, concrete-lined, pressure and gravity
flow tunnel with intake and outlet structures. The tunnel characteristic of long length with small
diameter is particularly noteworthy. The main variations from the original scheme as presented
in the SAR include: (i) the non-construction of the Arminou weir and off-take structures on the
Dhiarizos river, whose function will be taken over by separate storage dam and inlet structures;
and (ii) the addition of drop shaft intake, lining and valve installation works, complemented by



APPENDIX A
Page 3
separate diversion weir and pipe works, to allow for the future diversion of an average flow of
1.5 MCM per year from the intermediate Khapotami river into the Dhiarizos diversion tunnel.
8.    Implementation of the Dhiarizos diversion works started in early 1990, one year behind
schedule. Substantial completion was declared in April 1995, but extensive grouting operations
were needed during the one-year maintenance period that followed. Issue of the final certificate,
expected in 1997 (2 years late), is pending completion of site reinstatement activities.
9.    Tunnel excavation, support and lining concepts and methods submitted by the eventual
contractor as a tender option differed from those put forward in the tender documents. They were
duly approved and adopted for the work, but they do not appear to have been well suited to the
geological conditions and special characteristics of the diversion tunnel. They have reportedly
been the major cause of delays during both tender and construction periods, and have led to very
substantial claims that have now been referred to arbitration.
10.   With regard to the final quality and expected performance of the diversion works, no
indications have been given to suggest that they are other than entirely satisfactory. Normal
operation of the basic diversion scheme was commenced for the November 1996 to April 1997
wet season, but only small proportions of the design flow have so far been diverted. This is due
to low flow conditions in the Dhiarizos river. Temporary weir and control arrangements are in
place at Arminou, pending completion of the separate permanent works. Completion of works
for the Khapotami diversion also remains outstanding.
Irrigation Development
11.   The irrigation development component of the project comprises infrastructure works for
flow conveyance to, and distribution within, a number of irrigation scheme areas. These are
linked to, and served from, the main conveyor pipeline system installed under SCP I. Also
included is land consolidation in about half of the overall service area, as well as farm access
road networks in all of the schemes. Taken together, the SCP II schemes at full development will
require a "normal" supply of water of about 15 MCM per year from the main surface water
system. Scheme location and area details are given in the following table.
Gross Irrigation Areas (ha)
Planned              Revised/      Completed
Irrigation                (SAR 1988)           Expected At    (ICR 1997)
Scheme                   _                    Full Develop.
Exist.    New    Total   New    Total      Total
Akrotiri              840      915   1,755    848   1,688        1,688
Parekklisha           80       240     320    272      352        194
Mazotos               20       640     660    595      615         -
Kiti                  390    1,210   1,600    816   1,206         961
Aradhippou            -        -       -       250     250
Total               1,330    3,005   4,335   2,781   4,111       2,843



APPENDIX A
Page 4
Reasons for the differences between the originally planned and currently revised areas
include: (i) land use reclassification (e.g. from agricultural to urban or touristic);
(ii) improved estimates following detailed surveys and design; and (iii) incorporation of
areas not previously included.
12.   The principal irrigation infrastructure works comprise (i) ductile iron or asbestos cement
secondary conveyor pipelines leading to (ii) night storage reservoirs and/or balancing tanks, (iii)
asbestos cement or PVC pipe distribution networks supplying (iv) irrigation unit head hydrants
with controlled and metered outlets, and (v) PVC farm-level pipelines terminating in (vi) valved
and metered farm outlets. The system delivers water on demand to users who are under contract
and bound (with prescribed penalties for transgression) not to exceed the allocations that are set
annually. It is noted that in recent years, due to prolonged and severe drought conditions, these
allocations have been set at levels well below the derived "normal" requirements.
13.   Irrigation development activities have been completed only for the Akrotiri scheme.
Implementation work in this area started on schedule at the end of 1987, and the scheme finally
became operational in late 1993, about 4 years behind schedule. Irrigated agriculture has now
been initiated over about 80% of the previously unirrigated area, and irrigation water supply
contracts currently in place correspond to about 65% of the total area. Farmers consulted have
expressed great satisfaction with the project facilities and service, even though the latter is
currently sharply curtailed due to the applied rationing. High reliability and good control of
supply, flexibility of timing and duration of applications, low wastage of time and water, and
ease of access, have all been cited by farmers as important positive characteristics of the scheme.
14.   For the Parekklisha and Kiti schemes, irrigation development work started at the end of
1993 (3 and 4 years late respectively) and is currently about 70% and 55% complete
respectively. Completion in these areas is targeted for the end of 1998, about 6 years behind
schedule. Implementation of irrigation infrastructure works for the Mazotos scheme is not
expected to start before 1998 (about 7 years late). At about the same time it is planned to start
works for the Aradhippou scheme, which was added to the project subsequent to issue of the
SAR.
15.   All of the irrigation development work is being undertaken directly by the WDD, and by
the Land Consolidation Department (LCD) and Land Surveys Department (LSD) in the case of
land consolidation and farm roads. Force account is used for most of the work, but contracts are
let for farm road works and may also be let for some reservoir works. It has been clarified that
the long delays in implementation of the schemes have not been due to a lack of capability
within MANRE departments, and that the direct labor approach has been well suited to this type
of development work. The delays have been attributed to low annual budget allocations, to staff
availability limitations, and to a slow evolution of genuine farmer commitments. Also, the
current extended drought has generated reluctance to complete schemes that may then not be
able to meet water demands.



APPENDIX A
Page 5
On-Farm Development
16.   Modern and high value on-farm development as described in the SAR has occurred
extensively in the areas serviced by the new irrigation developments. Farmers who have needed
short- and medium-term credit to fund this type of capital investment have often been able to
obtain it from Cooperative Credit Societies (CCSs), or from the Cooperative Central Bank
(CCB), and it seems that they are generally able to meet the corresponding repayment conditions.
Some qualitative impressions concerning irrigation technologies, cropping patterns and
cultivation techniques have been gained from farmer discussions and farm visits. Minisprinkler
systems are particularly favored, and trickle/drip systems are also in evidence; larger sprinklers
were in use for pilot project irrigation of grasses with treated effluent wastewater. In the
previously unirrigated areas now being served by the Akrotiri scheme, newly initiated permanent
plantations, primarily of citrus trees and vines, comprise about 85% of the cropping pattern; high
value vegetables and flowers are grown in the rest of those areas, often under low cover or in
greenhouses and walk-in tunnels. Once farmers commit themselves to participation in the
project, they are seen to initiate intensive and dynamic on-farm operations.
Domestic Water Supply
17.   The project's domestic water supply development component covers facilities to treat and
convey water for municipal use (domestic, institutional, commercial and industrial) from the
SCP I main conveyor pipeline system. It comprises: (i) water treatment plants at Limassol and
Tersephanou (Larnaca); (ii) a pipeline conveyance system, including pumping station and
balancing reservoir, to serve Nicosia from the Tersephanou plant; and (iii) distribution pipelines
and reservoirs to connect with town and village water supply schemes in the Limassol area.
These SCP II facilities are intended to supply a future total of up to about 29 MCM of potable
water per year to the Limassol, Larnaca and Nicosia areas.
18.   The Limassol and Tersephanou water treatment plants have design capacities of 40,000
and 60,000 m3/d respectively, and provisions have been made for capacity expansions to 80,000
and 90,000 m3/d respectively. Processes at the plants include pre-chlorination, aeration,
coagulation/flocculation, clarification, filtration, post-chlorination, backwashing, treated water
storage and sludge drying; provisions have also been made for future ozonation and activated
carbon filtration. These characteristics are all similar to those presented in the SAR except for the
first-phase capacity of the Tersephanou plant (50,000 m3/d) and the provisions for future
ozonation and activated carbon filtration at both plants (not considered).
19.   The Tersephanou-Nicosia conveyance system has a present design capacity of
63,000 m3/d but will be capable of conveying a future flow of up to 78,000 m3/d if required. A
19 km long pumping main conveys flow from the pumping station at the Tersephanou plant to a
16,000 m3 balancing reservoir at Dhali, from where a 17.5 km long gravity main conveys the
flow to an existing service reservoir at Nicosia. The mains are both 900 mm diameter ductile iron
pipelines. A separate short 700 mm diameter ductile iron gravity main of 27,000 m3/d capacity



APPENDIX A
Page 6
connects the Tersephanou plant to the existing service reservoir at Larnaca. It has been envisaged
that desalination plants may in the future meet a substantial portion of the Larnaca municipal
water demand; this explains the allowance for a potential extra supply of up to 15,000 m3/d from
the Tersephanou plant to Nicosia. All of this represents a modest and well considered upgrading
of the system presented in the SAR, which indicated a Tersephanou-Nicosia conveyance capacity
of 40,000 m3/d and pipeline diameters of 700 and 800 mm.
20.   Project connections from the Limassol water treatment plant to the existing main city
service reservoirs is effected with a ductile iron pipeline system. Distribution systems connecting
from there to village water supply schemes west of Limassol comprise asbestos cement pipeline
networks feeding existing, or in one case new, village tanks. A total of 8 such connections have
been implemented. Provision of comparable distribution systems to villages in the Nicosia area
is reportedly not required, so none are planned for implementation under the project. The SAR
had indicated that a total of about 20 village water supply systems would be constructed in the
Limassol and Nicosia areas.
21.   As with other project components there have been notable delays in implementing the
domestic water supply component. Implementation of the Limassol plant commenced at the end
of 1989 (1¼/2 years late) and was completed about 3¼ years behind schedule in mid 1994; a 2-
year maintenance period followed, and issue of the final certificate is still pending. A start was
made to implementation of the Tersephanou plant in mid 1991 (2V/2 years late), but civil works
did not commence until early 1995; completion is now expected at the end of 1997. Reasons for
these delays include: (i) for both plants, initial delays in GOC budget allocations and the addition
of provisions for future ozonation and activated carbon filtration processes; (ii) for the Limassol
plant, quality control and design/construction modification problems; and (iii) for the
Tersephanou plant, civil works tender rejections and resubmissions, followed later by labor and
supplier strikes. The comparable delays in starting work for the Tersephanou-Nicosia
conveyance system and the Limassol water supply scheme connections arose from the
programming of the works in parallel with those of the corresponding treatment plants. The
Limassol scheme connections were largely completed soon after completion of the Limassol
plant, and the Tersephanou-Nicosia conveyor is on schedule for completion at the same time as
the Tersephanou plant.
22.   At the Limassol water treatment plant, which has been operational for almost 3 years,
there were some initial operating problems related to computerized control systems; these have
reportedly now been resolved. Responsible officials have confirmed their satisfaction with the
performance and quality of the plant, and with the ease and flexibility of operational control
processes. They have also indicated that maintenance programs are being followed
conscientiously. It is noted that the plant has so far been operating at just over 20% of capacity,
its minimum operating level. This is because local municipalities are reluctant to abandon their
previously developed and cheaper groundwater sources as long as these remain suitable in terms
of quantity and quality. Current indications are that treated water purchases will increase
significantly this year and will continue to increase thereafter.



APPENDIX A
Page 7
Operation and Maintenance and Miscellaneous Equipment
23.   This component of the project, as outlined in the SAR, was intended to cover provision of
materials and equipment for operation and maintenance (O&M) and other miscellaneous needs
of the irrigation distribution networks. However, such items are obtained by GOC departments
and paid for from central GOC supplies and funds, with consequent difficulties in identifying
and allocating expenses to the project. It was clarified that equipment needed for project
purposes was available. In the special case of computer hardware and software systems to assist
with O&M management and administration, procurement expenses have been separately
accounted for and assigned to the project. These latter systems have only recently been ordered;
WDD sources have indicated that they would have been more usefully procured, installed and
made operational at the beginning instead of at the end of the project.
Technical Services and Training
24.   Technical services under the project covered consultant services for several studies and
activities including:
(a) Construction supervision assistance
(b) Panel of experts for the Dhiarizos diversion
(c) System operation studies and aquifer modeling
(d) Treated effluent reuse studies
(e) Preparation of bid documents for computerized O&M systems
(f) Institutional reform for water resources development
(g) Rural sanitation study
(h) Environmental studies (see Section E)
Corresponding performances and results can be considered satisfactory except in the case
of system operation studies and institutional reform activities (see Section F). Formal
training of engineers has not been undertaken under the project, due to GOC reluctance to
use other than grant money for this purpose. WDD sources have noted that the projected
system operations and financial management training was and still is needed.
D. Actual Project Cost and Disbursement
25.   Actual project cost is estimated at £C 76.2 million (US$153.6 million) or about 95% of
the original estimate made at appraisal. Final overall disbursement includes: IBRD
US$27.1 million, EIB US$17.5 million, KFAED US$14.0 million, UK grant US$2.2 million,
project beneficiaries US$1.5 million, local credit US$22.0 million and GOC contribution
US$69.3 million. With regard to the IBRD loan, final disbursement has reached 90% of the
original amount. The remaining US$2.9 million will be canceled. Depending on final settlement
of outstanding claims relating to some project components, the total final cost may increase
slightly.



APPENDIX A
Page 8
E. Environmental Impact
26.   The main identified environmental impact of the SCP works is a reduction of natural
flood-season recharge of the Akrotiri aquifer. The negative consequences of this could include
(i) increased sea-water intrusion into the aquifer, (ii) increased levels of aquifer contamination
from irrigated agriculture, and (iii) reduced water levels in the Phasouri Marsh. The
corresponding relevant recommendations of the environmental assessment and management
studies include (i) execution of further studies covering the aquifer and the Akrotiri Salt Lake, to
establish among other things the nature and extent, if any, of a hydrological connection between
the two, (ii) a pilot flooding operation and study for the Phasouri Marsh, and (iii) implementation
of formulated interim aquifer and marsh management guidelines, to be updated later in
accordance with the further study findings. They also included recommendations for remediation
of spoil heaps resulting from construction of the Dhiarizos tunnel.
27.   The studies were completed in mid 1992, and there has been a certain amount of follow-
up activity to date on the study recommendations. Some recharging of the Akrotiri aquifer
(primarily to maintain groundwater extractions for municipal water supply) has been effected by
releases from the Kouris dam. Also, works to convey and apply treated wastewater to the aquifer
for recharge and irrigation purposes are programmed for implementation in 1997. These
measures may allow for some mitigation of the potential salt water intrusion and groundwater
contamination effects of the project, but they will not, as currently formulated, fully address the
evidently serious lowering of water levels in the Phasouri Marsh. However, there seem to be
some relatively simple potential mitigation measures; efforts are now needed to select and apply
one of these. With regard to the Dhiarizos diversion tunnel spoil heaps, the recommended
vegetative cover has not been provided.
F. Institutional Performance
28.   Progress and performance with regard to the project's institutional and organizational
measures are summarized below.
(a) Institutional Framework for Water Resources Development - The SCP I
institutional development study was completed and has formed a basis for
GOC considerations concerning a national water entity (NWE). The current
most likely scenario is that agreement will be reached to assign all central GOC
water sector responsibilities to a single entity under MANRE; this entity would
effectively assume the present functions of the WDD as well as those
transferred from other government agencies. Implementation of any such
changes remains outstanding.
(b)  Project Organization (Implementation! - For management of SCP II
implementation activities, the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) arrangements
as indicated in the SAR were adopted in a simplified form. The Director of the
WDD has acted as overall project manager and has been assisted by two deputy



APPENDIX A
Page 9
project managers, one for engineering and the other for agricultural
development activities. At a higher level, the Project Policy and Coordination
Committee (PPCC) for interagency coordination and the Project Advisory
Committees (PACs) for beneficiary liaison and advice have not functioned at
all. It was indicated that, with all of the relevant policies in place, and with full
regular reporting to all concerned parties, there was no need for these bodies.
However, the mission feels that a broader and more formalized consultation
and participation process would have been of value during project
implementation.
(c)  Project Organization (Operation) - For subsequent system operations, it is
currently intended to allocate responsibilities according to the present WDD
organizational structure, without any separately identifiable Project Operation
Unit (POU). It is noted that the SCP operation center has been set up at WDD
headquarters in Nicosia, not at a central project location as previously intended.
Also, there is no indication that the PPCC and PACs are to be reactivated. The
mission feels that these features may reduce the prospects for efficient,
transparent and equitable management of system operations.
(d)  Cognjunctive System Operations - System operation studies and modeling
activities carried out under the project over a period of over five years do not
appear to have yielded significant analytical tools or results that could help
provide a sound technical basis for future operational decisions. Some
resolution of this matter is needed to ensure the effectiveness of future
operational planning and management. Suggestions arising from the mission
include: (i) continuation of the current approach and efforts to improve aquifer
modeling, given that there is good potential for eventual success; (ii) cessation
for the time being of ongoing main system modeling efforts, given that the
selected software package is apparently deficient and unsupported; and (iii)
engagement of experienced consultants to lead a study and subsequent phased
implementation not only of narrow system modeling aspects but also of the
broader and integrated technical, procedural and institutional water
management framework for system operations.
(e)  Financial Management - Provisions for financial management supervision as
outlined in the SAR have not been made, but routine accounting and auditing
procedures have been followed within WDD.
(f)  Monitoring and Evaluation - The Monitoring and Evaluation Unit (M&EU)
specified in the SAR was reportedly formed within MANRE during the SCP I
period, following the assignment of an engineer and an economist, but it
appears that the unit did not function and has since ceased to exist. The absence
of a centralized data repository for the project was keenly felt by the mission
and will no doubt adversely affect future attempts to evaluate project
performance. Implementation of an effective M&EU is again strongly



APPENDIX A
Page 10
recommended. According to WDD sources, relevant data are all available but
need assembling, processing, analysis and reporting.
G. Legal Covenant
29.   WDD charges irrigation water users according to metered quantities of irrigation water; it
proposes water rates to GOC for approval and the rates are then ratified by Parliament. Current
SCP irrigation water charges vary from £C 0.06/m3 to £C 0.07/m3, depending on the irrigation
scheme, and recover about 34% of the weighted average unit cost of water delivery including
depreciation. The Loan Agreement of the SCP II stipulates that irrigation water charges should
cover 38% of the weighted average unit cost of water. At completion, the legal covenant
regarding cost recovery for irrigation water had not been complied with. Charges for domestic
water use cover 100% of costs, in line with the Loan Agreement.
H. Project Results
30.   Project results can only be evaluated taking into consideration the SCP as a whole. Major
results have already been achieved with the completion of SCP I, under which water storage
capacity in Cyprus was increased by 70% with a significant quantity of water available to meet
domestic, industrial and irrigation requirements for about 9,700 ha in Kokkinokhoria and
Athienou. The SCP I was completed in 1992 and project outcome was considered satisfactory.
The SCP II is expected to be completed by the end of 1999, when the Tersephanou Treatment
plant and the Tersephanou-Nicosia conveyance - system will be fully operational. Under the
irrigation development Programme of SCP II some 4,100 ha are expected to receive water
through improved irrigation methods proven to be technically and economically viable.
According to the WDD, full development of the irrigation schemes cannot be expected until well
beyond the year 2000. Although with some delays, the main SCP objectives of securing a safe
domestic water supply and providing irrigation water will be achieved. Taking into consideration
the state of actual implementation of the various project components, overall project outcome is
presently considered satisfactory.
I. Project Sustainability
31.   Project sustainability may be defined in terms of physical works constructed, economic
activity supported and institutions created. Infrastructure works were designed and constructed
on a sound technical basis. Key installations have been well staffed for operations and are
adequately maintained by the WDD. Prospects are good that these installations will continue to
serve as designed through a normal life span. In terms of future economic activity, the expected
continued growth in water demand for domestic use, partly as a result of the rapid growth of the
tourism sector and the increase in living standards, is likely to increasingly restrict supplies
available for irrigation. This situation is further aggravated by the decreased average annual
precipitation of the last 25 years. However, under the pilot project for the utilization of municipal
wastewater for irrigation, highly satisfactory results have been recorded; project activities are
carried out by the Department of Agriculture of the MANRE and research on the use of treated



APPENDIX A
Page 11
sewage as a source of irrigation water continues to be carried out by ARI. In terms of
institutions, good progress has been made in creating administrative mechanisms to facilitate
adequate recovery of the operation and maintenance costs of providing water to both domestic
users and agriculture, with present cost recovery rates of 100% and 34% respectively. The
foreseen establishment of the NWE is expected to solve longer-term water management issues.
These developments indicate the likelihood of the project's sustainability.
J. Future Outlook
32.   Although implementation completion reporting is now being carried out, it is noted that
implementation of project works is still ongoing. Substantial completion of the major
outstanding construction contracts (for the Tersephanou water treatment plant and Tersephanou-
Nicosia water conveyance system) is expected within about one year, and a 2-year maintenance
period for the treatment plant will follow. Completion of outstanding irrigation scheme works is
scheduled to occur in 3 years time, although there may be further extensive delays in some areas.
Thus by the end of 1999 or early 2000 the project could be expected to be largely operational.
33.   In the present extended drought situation, and with the attractive alternatives to farming
posed by the expanding tourism sector, it is difficult to be optimistic about the prospects for
realizing the projected full-development benefits of irrigated agriculture. On the other hand, the
quality and convenience of the provided irrigation systems may prove to be a strong counter
incentive, and farmers committed to the schemes can expect satisfactory financial rewards. On
the municipal water supply side, once potential users with other supply options are satisfied that
water charges realistically reflect actual costs, the demand for project water should increase
rapidly. Finally, given that water demand in the SCP service region may already be reaching the
limits of the current water supply system, the future value of the project as an essential provider
of water to all users is assured.
K. Key Lessons Learnt
34.   Implementation of SCP II was commenced before completion of SCP I. The schedule
delays at the start of the project may have been due in large part to initial commitments of
available staff and funds to SCP I. On the other hand, the direct follow-on was undoubtedly
beneficial in that advantage could be taken of the established organization, experienced staff and
routine procedures already in place.
35.   With hindsight it seems clear that, for the Dhiarizos diversion, the decision to adopt
tunnel construction concepts and methods that deviated fundamentally from those developed at
the design stage was not beneficial. In general, if major project designs are well supported by
thorough investigations, well executed to a high level of detail, and fully reviewed by
independent experts, then there should be at best only limited scope given for later changes that
may be based on less well considered technical factors.



APPENDIX A
Page 12
36.   The two water treatment plants, which are very similar in most respects, were constructed
under two very different contract arrangements. A detailed review of implementation experience
with these two plants may provide valuable insights into preferred contract practices for future
similar works.
37.   It is noted that early proposals to contract out irrigation development works were rejected
in favor of the subsequently adopted force account arrangement. The flexibility of this
arrangement, which provides freedom from time and disbursement schedule constraints, was
well suited to the need for responsiveness to beneficiary concerns, and for adaptability to
changing conditions as implementation proceeded. While the duration of implementation of
irrigation schemes has been greatly extended, it is considered that the prospects for long-term
sustainability have been greatly enhanced.
38.   Institutional weaknesses, related particularly to project monitoring and evaluation, and
also to operational planning and water resources management, could beneficially have been
attended to at a much earlier stage of project development, preferably well in advance of
construction of major project components. Cyprus faces potentially severe long-term water
management problems, and the water sector is more than ever in need of efficient organization,
well-defined allocation of responsibilities, comprehensive and coordinated technical capabilities
and programs, and effective procedures for sound formulation, implementation and assessment
of system operation and development policies. In particular, more emphasis, perhaps through
imposition of loan disbursement conditions and greater involvement and responsibility on the
part of the WB or consultants, could usefully have been given to: (i) definition, set-up and
operation of the M&EU; (ii) assistance with, and acceleration of, the process of formulation and
implementation of the NWE; (iii) execution of more broadly orientated, more consultative and
perhaps initially less technically ambitious, system operation studies, leading to phased and
prioritized development and implementation of effective operational tools, system management
procedures and institutional organization; (iv) arranging for the timely installation and
implementation of computerized O&M data management processing systems; and (v) ensuring
that the needed training in system operations and financial management was imparted.
L. Follow-Up
39.   The mission will return to Rome on 13 March 1997. During the following three weeks it
will prepare the draft ICR which will be transmitted to the World Bank by mid April 1997. The
WDD has prepared a draft ICR, viewing the implementation experience from the borrower's
perspective. Since the document is less than ten pages, it is incorporated as Appendix B to this
report, in accordance with WB guidelines.



APPENDIX A
Page 13
List of Institutions/Persons Visited
Ministry of Agriculture Natural Resources and Environment (MANRE)
Mr. P. Aristotelous - Principal Administrative Officer
Dr. C.A. Christodoulou - WDD - Director
Mr. A. Georghiades - WDD - Assistant Director
Dr. G. Socratous - WDD - Head of O&M Irrigation Division
Mr. N. Tsiourtis - WDD - Head of Domestic Water Division
Mr. E.M. Kambourides - District Engineer - Limassol
Mr. N. Neocleous - Executive Engineer - Limassol
Mr. S. Aletras - Executive Engineer - Larnaca
Mr. C. Joannou - Hydrologist
Mr. A. Costantinou - Parekklisha Irrigation System
Mr. S. Aletraris - Engineer - Kiti Project
Mr. A. Eleftheriou - Senior Superintendent - Kiti Project
Mrs. M. Archimantridou - Economist (Agricultural Economic Section)
Mr. C. Erotodou - Economist (Agricultural Economic Section)
Mr. A. Gregoriou - Agricultural Department Limassol (Pilot Project)
Mr. A. Christou - Agricultural Department Limassol (Pilot Project)
Planning Bureau
Ms. E. Pandelakis - Senior Planning Officer
Ms. L. Kastanou - Planning Officer
Ms. L. Stylianou - Co-ordination Officer
Agricultural Research Institute
Mr. S. Papachristodoulou - Director
Dr. I. Papadopoulos
Water Board - Limassol
Mr. A.P. Markaris - Manager
Mr. B. Charalambus - Technical Services Manager
Mr. S.A. Metaxas - Financial Services Manager
Mr. Z. Smiljkovic - Project Manager SCP II
Mr. S. Perisic - Civil Engineer
Mr. I. Nenkov - Mechanical Engineer
Mr. M. Kojovic - Electrical Engineer
Sovereign Base Areas
Mr. A.N. Angelides - Area Officer Akrotiri



APPENDIX A
Page 14
Limassol Sewage Treatment Plant
Mr. H.O. Poulsen - Project Manager
Limassol Water Treatment Plant
Mr. Y. Papazoglou - Mechanical Engineer (O&M)



APPENDIX B
KYIIPIAKH  (     )  AHMOKPATIA
Minist of Agriculture
Natural Resources and Environment
Water Development Department
SOUTHERN CONVEYOR PROJECT
PHASE II
DRAFT IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Prepared by:                         Reviewed by:
Dr G. Socratous                      Dr C. A. Christodoulou
Senior Water Engineer                 Director
SCP, Deputy Project Manager           SCP Project Manager
February 1997



APPENDIX B
Page I
CYPRUS
SOUTHERN CONVEYOR PROJECT - PHASE II
(Loan CY-2914)
IMPLEMENTATION REVIEW
1.1   Project Objectives
The second phase of the Southern Conveyor Project includes:
1)    The diversion of the Dhiarizos and Khapotami rivers into the Kouris
reservoir, through a 14.5 Km long and 2.7 m in diarneter diversion tunnel.
2)    The construction of two water treatment plants, one at Limnassol and one at
Tersephanou. They will supply drinking water to the towns of Limassol, Nicosia,
Larnaca, Famagusta, Paralimni and Ayia Napa and to a number of villages around
these towns.
3)    The installation of the Tersephanou-Nicosia pipeline for the conveyance
of drinking water from the Tersephanou water treatment plant to the town of
Nicosia.
4)    The supply of drinking water to nine villages west of Limnassol.
5)    The irrigation of 3,909 hectares of land at Akrotiri, Parekklishia, Mazotos
and Kiti.
The major components of the SCP Phase II works are as follows:
a)    Civil works
b)    Development of domestic water supplies
c)    Land consolidation
d)    Agricultural (irrigation) development
e)    Environmental studies
f)    System operation studies
g)    Water Entity studies



APPENDIX B
Page 2
1.2   Civil Works
Civil works include the construction of the Dhiarizos diversion tunnel and the Khapotami
shaft, the construction of the Limassol and Tersephanou water treatment plants, the
installation of the Tersephanou-Nicosia conveyor, the installation of the primary
distribution conveyance system for drinking water to the villages west of Limassol and
the construction of the irrigation distribution networks.
All construction works were under the close supervision of the Consultants, Resident
Engineers and the Water Development Department (WDD) staff allocated to them.
Quality control measures included concrete and soil laboratories on site and continuous
supervision during all working hours; these measures yielded a very good standard of
finished work.
Several changes and modifications were made to the design of the works. It should be
emphasised, however, that none of these modifications affected the main objectives of the
Project. Most of these modifications were dictated by technical considerations either
because of new prevailing conditions or for the sake of achieving better functioning of
the works.
Concerning the construction period of the SCP Phase II, the project was initially planned
to be completed by the end of 1993. The completion date was then shifted to the end of
1995 hence the closing date of the IBRD loan. The Project is now expected to be
completed by the end of 1999. The reasons for the delay are the unexpected difficulties
in the construction of the civil works, the repeated cancellations of some of the major
tenders due primarily to legal reasons and the land consolidation slow progress of the
works.
1.3   Land Consolidation
Because of the land tenure problems in the areas to be irrigated, as well as the need both
to improve the infrastructure and facilitate the optimum design of the irrigation networks,
the implementation of land consolidation was considered essential.
Land consolidation is implemented in four SCP II schemes on a total area of 2202 ha out
of 3909 ha of total irrigated land. In three out of the four schemes the land consolidation
works are still underway. Land consolidation's contribution is substantial towards the
reduction of fragmentation, the construction of rural roads, the improvement of plot
shape, the reduction of the cost of irrigation networks, etc.
1.4   Development of Domestic Water Supplies
In developing the domestic water supplies the water treatment plants of Limassol and
Tersephanou were planned. The Limassol water treatment plant was put in operation in



APPENDIX B
Page 3
1994. The Tersephanou water treatment plant is still under construction and is planned to
start operation early 1998.
In connection with the construction of the two treatment plants two conveyors were
planned to transfer the treated water from the treatment plants to the consumption centers.
Thus the 2.5 Km conveyor from the Limassol water treatment plant to the Limassol
Water Board's storage reservoir in the outskirts of the city, was completed. The 36.1 Km
conveyor linking the Tersephanou water treatment plant with the Nicosia city via Dhali is
still under construction. It will be put in operation early 1998.
The civil works were undertaken by private contractors under the close supervision of the
Consultants, Resident Engineers and with the full support of Water Development
Department staff allocated to them.
It is anticipated that with the operation of the two new water treatment plants the water
supply of the major towns of Nicosia Larnaca, Famagusta and Limassol, will be
continuous and without any restrictions, except of course in the years of serious drought.
1.5   Agricultural Development
The second phase of the Southern Conveyor Project envisages the installation of
advanced irrigation systems at 3909 hectares of land in the areas of Akrotiri,
Parekklishia, Mazotos and Kiti.
The Akrotiri irrigation system was put in operation in 1994. The Kiti and Parekklisha
irrigation systems are under construction and they are planned to be put in operation late
1998. The Mazotos irrigation system will follow in 1999.
1.6   Environmental Studies
1.6.1  Akrotiri Salt Lake
The Akrotiri Salt Lake is a natural depresion which receives its water from direct rainfall
and runoff and from non made channels originating from the Akrotiri wetlands and from
the new harbour area.
The Environmental impact assessment carried out by Balasha-Yalon in association with
Phaedhonos consultants concluded that the construction of the Kouris dam had no direct
effect on the salt lake.
1.6.2  Akrotiri Wet Lands
This area is known to locals as the Livadhi area.  The marshes are the natural
groundwater discharge area of the western part of the Akrotiri aquifer.  The



APPENDIX B
Page 4
environmental Impact Study carried out by Balasha-Yalon in association with
Phaedhonos consultants concluded that the marshes do not receive water from the Kouris
river directly. Thus there is not direct impact on the wetlands from the cessation of
Kouris river streamflows downstream the Kouris dam. However the new groundwater
and surface water management arrangements for the region affect the amount of
groundwater naturally discharged into the wetlands. The latter form a very important
ecosystem and all possible measures must be taken to mitigate the impact. Provisions
were made to release water (when available) into the wetlands through outlets of the
existing irrigation network. In order to have another sourse of water for the wetlands
arrangements have been made to secure the necessary funds through the development
budget to connect a pipeline of about 800 metres to the existing Yermasoyia - Polemidhia
irrigation networks.
1.7   System Operation Studies
These studies were carried out with the technical assistance of the United States Bureau
of Reclamation. The progress was initially slow owing to the lack of the necessary
special computer workstations. Because of these difficulties a six-month extension of the
study was requested and agreed by both parties concerned.
The study is now at its stage of implementation. No wide use of the model developed has
yet been attempted. Expectations are high on part of the WDD Operation personnel that
the model, once operational, will help them in their everyday work.
1.8   Water Entity Studies
The project provided for a study to review the existing organization and management of
Cyprus' water resources and to determine and recommend the appropriate structure for an
entity to be responsible for the development, management and allocation of said
resources. The study was undertaken by Rofe, Kennard and Lapworth of UK, Consulting
Engineers in association with the Southern Water Authority.
A proposal for the establishment of such an Entity was formulated by the Ministry of
Agriculture and Natural Resources and Environment (MANRE) and submitted to the
Council of Ministers for action. A special Ministerial Committee was formed to study
the proposal and will soon sumbit a report to the Council of Ministers for final decision.
The final form of the Entity will be a Government Body with enlarged responsibilities
covering all aspects of water. This Body will function under the Ministry of Agriculture,
Natural Resources and Environment.



APPENDIX B
Page 5
2.    INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE
2.1   Water Development Department
The main executive body of the project during its implementation, operation and
maintenance is the Water Development Department of the Ministry of Agriculture,
Natural Resources and Environment with the assistance from other Government
Departments.
As required by the lending agencies a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) was established
within the WDD for the management and supervision of all construction works under the
project. In charge of the Project Implementation Unit was the Project Director assisted
by two Project Managers one for Engineering and the other for Agricultural matters. The
Unit was also supported by engineering consultants. Considering the volume of the work
the PIU has performed well. Furthermore all other organisational arrangements proposed
for the SCP and required by the lending agencies (Project Policy and Coordination
Committee, Project Advisory Committees etc) have been also set up and proved to be
rather satisfactory. The summoning of these committees proved to be somehow difficult
due to the varied and many commitments of their staff members.
Budgetary control both from within and from other Government Departments (Ministry
of Finance, Planning Bureau etc) was effective and accounting satisfactory.
Overall there will be a slippage of up to about 4 years in achievement of commissioning
of the major project components. The reasons for the delay are given in para 1.2.
The performance of WDD has been quite good due to the previous experience gained in
implementing major multi-contract water supply and irrigation projects. WDD complied
with all the covenants agreed upon at negotiations except for the financial covenant
concerned with increasing water charges periodically, which has only been partially
complied with.
The successful completion of Phase I and as of to-day of part of Phase II of the Project, is
due primarily to the close cooperation between a great many Government Departments,
Semi-Government Departments, Authorities and individuals. These include the Ministry
of Agriculture, Natural Resources and Environment, Ministry of Finance, Planning
Bureau, Tender Board, Auditor General, Department of Agriculture, Agricultural
Research Institute and many others.
2.2   Consulting Engineers
Consulting Engineers were employed to assist WDD in the effective implementation of
the project and had a key role in the design and supervision of the project works.
Expatriate Resident Engineers were provided on a full time basis during implementation



APPENDIX B
Page 6
and periodic visits were made by Head Office staff as necessary. The Consultants
provided technical and administrative back-up as necessary and issued Final Certificates
and Maintenance Certificates but most other functions of the Engineer were carried out
by the Resident Engineers.
The performance of the Consulting Engineers has been satisfactory. The Consultants
carried out their responsibilities rather well. Furthermore the panel of experts for the
Dhiarizos Diversion proved particularly helpful in appraising the design and construction
changes because of the new geological conditions encountered during excavation.
2.3   Private Contractors
2.3.1  Civil Works - Main Contractors
The project Contractors have performed satisfactorily and the quality of their work is of
very good standard.
The delays observed were generally not attributed to them, but to unforeseen conditions
e.g. bad weather, poor undrground geological conditions etc. Claims and variations were
generally settled based on the existing rates or amicably except in the case of Dhiarizos
Diversion whereby the contractor asked more than 100% of the initial contract sum as
extra work.
2.3.2  Civil Works - Supply Contractors
All significant supply contracts involving electromechanical equipment, pumps, pipes
and fittings, valves and flowmeters were awarded to foreign contractors, and their
performance has been satisfactory. Minor supply contracts were awarded generally
locally but overall the level of local participation was reasonable in relation to the skills
and manufacturing capacity available in the island.
2.4   Direct Labour Organisation of the WDD
A very significant contribution towards the implementation of the project was made by
the direct labour organization (DLO) of the WDD (Force Account), especially in the
construction of the irrigation distribution networks.
Over the last 20 years the DLO has gained a great deal of experience in pipeline and
water retaining structure construction and have consistently achieved an excellence of
workmanship, programme performance and economy. This experience has been fully
exploited in the case of the Southern Conveyor Project.



APPENDIX B
Page 7
2.5   World Bank
The performance of the Bank has been excellent while the good working relationship
between the Bank and the Government of Cyprus (GOC) was a factor that contributed to
the success of the Project. During Project preparation and appraisal the Rank provided
all the support needed while the Staff Appraisal Report was an excellent source of
reference for both Bank and PIU during project implementation. Supervision missions
were always useful and helpful and were carried out at about the right intervals. Mission
members were experienced and well briefed. The head of the mission was always the
same person and thus a close friendly relationship was developed between the mission
and the SCP managers.
3.    ECONOMIC RE-EVALUATION
The water provided by the SCP produces benefits to both the agricultural and domestic
sectors. The economics of the system have not been evaluated by us because:-
a:    The Department is planning to undertake such a study after the Project
is fully completed.
b:    The procedure is very complex and we did not have the time to
complete such a study.
c:    Instead it was agreed that this study will be carried out by FAO/CP
responsible to prepare the implementation completion report from the
Bank's perspective.
4.    CONCLUSIONS
The second Phase of the Southern Conveyor Project has generally been executed and
completed successfully so far. The Project size, scheduling, complexity and design were
appropriate and well-conceived. The targets and goals envisaged at appraisal stage have
been substantially achieved and the project is beginning to yield satisfactory results in
both the domestic and irrigation sectors.
Definitely, the benefits will be drastically increased once the Phase 1I works are
completed. This is expected to be achieved by the end of 1999.



CYPRUS: Southem Conveyor Project for Water Resouces Development, Phase II (SCP 11) (Loan 2914-CY)
Appendix C: Economic Re-evaluation
Table 1: Annual Irrigation Supply (Actual and Projections)
From SCP (in MCM)
Year    |  Akrotiri        Akrotiri     Parekklisha     Mazotos          Kiti      Kokkinokhoria    Athienou    Aradhippou        Total
1988          9.59            -              -             -            0.91            7.00            -             -           17.50
1989          10.78           -              -             -            0.99           12.82            -             -           24.59
1990           8.38         2.94            -              -            2.60           14.22            -             -           28.14
1991           7.64         0.04            -              -            0.31            0.66            -             -            8.65
1992          2.78           1.29           -             0.29          0.30            7.60            -             -           12.26
1993           2.92          2.20            -            0.45          0.60            7.52            -             -           13.69
1994           2.16          2.61            -            0.52          1.09           11.45           0.28           -           18.11
1995           3.02          3.38            -            0.78          1.37           15.70           0.22           -           24.47
1996           3.00          3.00            -            0.60          1.30           14.00           0.50           -           22.40
1997           3.50          3.40            -            0.80          1.40           15.10           1.00           -           25.20
1998           3.00          3.80          1.30           0.80          1.40           15.70           1.80           -           27.80
1999           2.00         4.50           1.30           0.80          4.00           16.00           2.10           -           30.70
2000           1.00          5.00           1.30          2.00          4.70           16.40           2.10          0.80         33.30
2001           0.50          5.30           1.30          2.00          5.30           16.40           2.10          0.80         33.70
2002            -            5.30          1.30           2.20          5.70           16.40           2.10          0.80         33.80
Source: WDD. Progress Report No. 1996/S2 - SCP II.
fDz



APPENDIX C
Page 2
CYPRUS: Southem Conveyor Project for Water Resouces Development, Phase 11 (SCP 11) (Loan 2914-CY)
Appendix C: Economic Re-evaluation
Table 2: Annual Domestic Water Supply (Actual and Projections)
From SCP 11 (in MCM)
Year            Limassol       Nicosia       Larnaca       Famagusta    Mari lndustr.     Total
1988                -            0.4           0.6            0.6            -             1.6
1989               -             0.8           0.7           0.8             -             2.3
1990               -             1.0           1.5            1.7            -             4.2
1991                -            4.7           1.4            1.5            -             7.6
1992                -            0.2           0.1            0.1            -             0.4
1993                -            4.2           0.9            1.3            -             6.4
1994               2.5           3.6           1.2            1.9            -             9.2
1995               3.5           4.0           3.5            3.0           1.0           15.0
1996               5.0           2.2           3.0           2.2            1.0           13.4
1997               8.8           2.2           1.0            1.0           1.0           14.0
1998               9.2           5.2           4.8            0.7           1.0           20.9
1999              10.1           6.1           5.0            1.2           1.0           23.4
2000              11.1           6.9           5.1            1.6           1.0           25.7
2001              11.7           7.4            5.2           1.7           1.0           27.0
2002              12.3           7.4            5.3           1.9           1.0           28.2
2003              13.0           7.2           5.4            2.1           1.0           28.7
2004              13.7           8.7           5.6            2.3           1.0           31.3
2005              14.3           9.1           5.7            2.5           1.0           32.6
Source: WDD. Progress Report No. 1996/S2 - SCP 11.



CYPRUS: Southern Conveyo" Project for WMcr Resouces Development, Phase 11 (SCP 1I) (Loan 2914-CY)
Apopeaix C: Economic Re-evhluation
Table 3: SCP - Total Project Cost Estimste by Source of Finance
(USS'OOG)
191       I195       1986       1987       19M        19819    199         1991"      199"2    1993       1994       1995        1996       199        1 19       199       Total
A. QiM
- IBRD                  -         1,240     2,825      7,501      8,016      1,083     2,970        865        --                              -                                          -        24,500
- EIB                   -          -        4,400     15,500      8,900      5,500       -          -          --.                                                   ---                           34,300
- KFAED                 -          -          -        3,100      2,500      1,200      1,000       -        1,200                                                                                 to,0    ----1,100
- Chartered W.LB        -          -          -          -         992        941        237        530        -          --                                                   --2,700
- UK gat                -                                512        574       136         55         23        -                                                                                    1,300
- Project bene.                    -          -          -          200       300        400        540        --                              -----1,440
- GO0C's contrib.     2A1M      19.768    49A455    14,243    4A402          6-937    1.3A4       7233f    AA2Z        5i06        206       2,055        665                                     13426
Sub-total SCP 1    7.156     21,008     56,680    40,856    25,584      16,097     15,006      9,191      6,072      5,065     3,165      2,055        665       ---                          208,600
B.S,EJ1
-IBRD                   -         -          -          -          -          -        3,370      3,216      5,062     2,586      4,133      3,696      3,257      1,787       -                  27,107
-KFAED                  -          -         -                                          637        252        -        2,305      2,470      1,764      5,717       855        -14,000
-EIBI-                             -         -                                          -          -          -               -                -       11,123     6,095       282                 17,500
-UK granlA-                        -         -                                         1,032       -221                  885        132       -                                -                   2,270
-Project benef.                                                                                    -                     -          300       400        400        360        -                   1,460
-GOC's contzib.         -80                  230        317      2,490      3,840      6.537     10,598    12,512     10,023      6,033      7,178    (3,909)    10.290     4,054       1,545     71,818
Local credit                                                                                                                   - -  -       027 -6 028 54.,425__22 _000
Sub-total SCP 11                 80       230        317      2,490      3,840     11,576     14,066     17,795     15,799    17,588     19,065    22,616    24,812       4,336      1,545    156,155
Grand Total           7,156     21,088     56,910    41,173    28,074      19,937    26,582      23,257     23,867     20,864    20,753     21,120    23,281    24,812       4,336      1,55    364,755
Source: WVDD. Progress Report No. 1996/S2.                                                                                                                                                       t
rrt
Inctuding withdrawal application Na.15 for an amount ofEC 916,456.                                                                                                                          (-4



CYPRUS: Southem Conveyor Project for Water Resouces Development, Phase 11 (SCP 11) (Loan 2914-CY)
Appendix C: Economic Re-evaluation
Table 4: Operation and Maintenance Cost of Main SCP Infrastructure
(Current £C'000)
Year               SCP       | Dhiarizos Diversion'  TersephanonWT        Limassol WTPr      DWS Conveyance    Village Water Supply          Total
1988                 34                -                    -                                                                                   34
1989                127                -                    -                                                                                  127
1990                218                -                    -                                                                                  218
1991                382                -                    -                                                                                  382
1992                461                -                    -                                                                                  461
1993                483                -                    -                    -                   -                                         483
1994                507                -                    -                   117                  -                                         624
1995                533                -                    -                   169                  -                                         702
1996                560                -                    -                   189                  -                      -                  749
1997                700                50                   98                 230                   -                     53                1,131
1998                700               180                  200                 250                  82                     53                1,465
1999 onwards        700               180                  298                 270                  82                     53                1,583
Source: WDD up to 1996 - From 1997 onwards mission's estimates (see notes).
Including Kouris dam and main conveyor: from 1997 estimated at 1% of total capital costs of Cf 70,000,000.                                     X t
2  Estimated at 1% of capital costs of £C 18,000,000 from 1999 onwards.                    
3  Estimated at 3.5% of capital costs of £C 8,500,000 from 1999 onwards.                                                                            ,,
4  Estimated at 3.5% of capital costs oft£ C 7,700,000 from 1999 onwards.                                                                            >
5  Estimated at 1.05/% of capital costs of £C 8,200,000 from 1999 onwards.
6  Estimated at 2.5% of capital costs of £C 2,100,000 from 1999 onwards.



CYPRUS: Southern Conveyor Project for Water Resouces Development, Phase II (SCP 11) (Loan 2914-CY)
Appendix C: Economic Re-evaluation
Table 5: Net Value of Production per ha by Crop in Financial Terms (SC/ha)
Potatoes              Melon &               Vegetables              Decidous        Grapes         Citrus       Cereals        Alfalfa
Spring         Winter      Watermelon         Open        Greenhouses   Fruit Trees      (Sultana)
Seed/Transplant                       824            458             400            676           1,815            -              -             -             30            -
Fertilizers                           220            220             148            313             559           156              90           190           48              52
PlantProtection(incl.weeding)         269             190            130            334           1,866           360             186           317           10              55
Irrigation'                           170            200             215            250             300           400             150           450           -              500
Mechanization                         328            474             248            285           1,982            94            275            143           -              206
Material                              264             161            -              350           5,317           150             100           150           31             107
Hired Labour                          567            263             450          1,040           4,851           477            868          1,200           26             200
Other                                  128             88            130            310           2,906            163             68           291            8              65
CropInsurance                         222             155            -              -               -              197             77           161            8             -
Interest on Operating Capital        ......J6      ...-...                        JA                          .......24
Total Production Costs            3,068          2,262          1,816          3,703          20,438          2,091          1,896         3,042          169           1,243
B. nuBmnm
Farm-gatePrices                       163             182            180            330             350           230             171           115         141.5             70
Yield(tiha)                            40              25             34             45             150            24              15            40           2.04            30
Gross Value of Production            6,520          4,550          6,120          14,850         52,500         5,520           2,565         4,600          308           2,100
C. Net Value of Production              3,452          2,288          4,304          11,147         32,062          3,429            669          1,558         139             857
D. Water Requirement Im'Lha)            3,400          4,000          4,300           5,000          6,000          8,000          3,000         9,000                       10,000
Source: MANRE - Agilcultural Department
eQ 'u
rDt1
'-I
50% of the total water requirement is provided by the SCP, the rest from pumping (roundwater). Total cost is estimated at £C 0.05/rn3 (average cost of water e
considering water supplied from SCP at £C 0.065/rn3 and from groundwater at £C 0.03/rn).



APPENDIX C
Page 6
CYPRUS: Southern Conveyor Project for Water Resouces Development, Phase 11 (SCP II) (Loan 2914-CY)
Appendix C: Economic Re-evaluation
Table 6: Economic Price of Potatoes'
(Export Parity Price)
(F/ton)                 (f£C/ton)
Cif UK (1996/97)                                   350
Marketing Expenses                                  20
Freight and Port Handling                           73
FOB Cyprus                                         257                       2112
Packing                                                                     -22
Internal Transport                                                          - 3
Administrative Expenses                                                     - 4
Financial Costs                                                             -24
Crop Insurance                                                              - 5
Price Stabilization Fund and Reserves                                       - 
Economic Farm-gate Price                                                     150
Financial Farm-gate Price3                                                   166
Conversion Factor (Economic/Financial)                                        0.90
Based on data provided by the Potato Marketing Board.
2  Exchange rate: £C I = £ 1.22.
3 See Table 5: Weighted average considering that 85% of total potatoes Cyprus exports are spring potatoes.



APPENDIX C
Page 7
CYPRUS: Southern Conveyor Project for Water Resouces Development, Phase 11 (SCP 11) (Loan 2914-CY)
Appendix C: Economic Re-evaluation
Table 7: Economic Price of Citrus Fruits'
(Export Parity Price)
Lemons             Mandora             Oranges
......................................  (C/ton).
Cif Europe                                       382                515                 311
Freight                                           58                 48                   46
Insurance                                          1                   1                   I
Port Expenses                                      2                   2                   2
Packing Material                                  35                 46                   39
Labour                                            45                 32                   24
Internal Transport                                 7                   5                   7
Administration                                    22                  23                  22
Financial Charges                                 13                  13                  13
Other Expenses                                    11                  15                  10
Profit                                            19                 26                   16
Price Ex-packing Station                         180                315                  141
Transport to Farm                                 10                  10                  10
Losses and Commission                             18                 32                   14
Economic Price at Farm-gate                      152                273                  117
Weighted Average                             ....................................... 1402................
Financial Farm-gate Price                                           115
Conversion Factor (Economic/Financial)                                 1.22
Based on data provided by Agroproducts Co-op Marketing Union which accounts for the 40% of total citrus
export in Cyprus.
2 Assuming: 20% lemons, 10% mandora and 70% oranges.



APPENDIX C
Page 8
CYPRUS: Southem Conveyor Project for Water Resouces Development, Phase 11 (SCP 11) (Loan 2914-CY)
Appendix C: Economic Re-evaluation
Table 8: Economic Price of Wheat
(Import Parity Price)
1996       1      2000                2005
.................................. (US$/ton) .
Projected Price in 1990 Constant'            187.2             125.4               119.7
MUV Index                                    116.4             109.6               123.4
Projected Price in 1996 Constant            217.9              137.4               147.7
Freight and Insurance                        35.0               35.0                35.0
Price Cif Larnaca                           252.9              172.4               182.7
................................... .(£C/ton) .
Price Cif in Local Currency'                 126.5              86.2               91.4
Port Handling Charges and Storage3           19.0               12.9                13.7
Transport to Market                           3Q0                3 0                 3.0
Price at Market                              148.5             102.1               108.1
Transport Farm to Market                       5.0               5.0                 5.0
Farm-gate Price Economic                    143.5               97.1               103.1
Average Farm-gate Price Economic                                114.6
Farm-gate Price Financial                                       141.5
Conversion Factor                                                0.81
WB: Commodity Prices and Price Projections (November 1996).
2  Exchange Rate: £C I = US$2.0.
3  Estimated at 15% of Cif Value.



CYPRUS: Southem Conveyor Project for Water Resouces Development, Phase 11 (SCP 11) (Loan 2914-Y)
Appendix C: Economic Re-evaluation
Table 9: Net Value of Production per ha by Crop in Economic Terms (EC/ha)
Potatoes            'Melon &             Vegetables            Decidous       Grapes        Citrus       Cereals      Alfalfa
Spring       Winter      Watermelon        Open       Greenhouses   FruitTrees    (Sultana)
A. Production Costs
Seed/Transplant                     824           458           400           676           1,815          -             -             -            30
Fertilizers                         220           220           148           313            559           156            90           190          48             52
Plant Protection (incl. weeding)    269           190           130           334           1,866          360           186           317          10             55
Irrigation'                         680           800           860          1,000          1,200        1,600           150         1,800          -           2,000
Mechanization                       328           474           248           285           1,982           94           275           143          -            206
Material                            264           161            -            350           5,317          150           100           150          31            107
Hired Labour                        567           263           450          1,040          4,851          477           868         1,200          26            200
Other                               128            88           130           310           2,906          163            68           291           8            65
Crop Insurance                      222           155            -             -             -             197            77           161           8           -
Interest on Operating Capital        76            53            95            145           842            94            82           140          _8
Total Production Costs         3,578          2,862         2,461         4,453         21,338        3,291          1,896        4,392         169          2,743
B. Gross Revenues
Farn-gate Prices                    1472          1643          180            3103          330'          230           171           1404        114.65          70
Yield (t/ha)                         40            25            34             45           150            24            15            40           2.04          30
Gross Value of Production         5,880         4,100          6,120        13,950         49,500        5,520         2,565         5,600         234          2,100
C. Net Value of Production           2,302          1,238         3,659         9,497         28,162        2,229           669         1,208          65           (643)
D. Water Requirement (m2Lha)         3,400         4,000          4,300         5,000          6,000        8,000         3,000         9,000          -          10,000
Source: MANRE - Agricultural Department.
I         ~~~~3 (Dt-'
At £C 0.2/mr  which corresponds to the weighted average unit cost of all government irrigation schemes.               
2 See Table 6.
Based on Fob export prices.                                                                                                                                      C
4 See Table 7.
See Table 8.



CYPRUS: Southern Conveyor Project for Water Resouces Development, Phase 11 (SCP 11) (Loan 2914-CY)
Appendix C: Economic Re-evaluation
Table 10: SCP: Net Irrigated Area by Irrigation Scheme
Land Use Before Project
Crops              Kokkinokhoria I Athienou   I  Mazotos   I  Akrotiri                Parekklisha            Kiti           Aradhippou              Total
................... ..................................................................(ha) ................................
A. Irrigated Crops
Vines                             -                -              -              200               -                  -                  -                   200
Citrus                           170                3             35             250               25                100                 20                  603
Olives                            30              25              -               30               10                -                   10                  105
Fruit Trees                       -               -              -                50                5                 20                 -                    75
Alfalfa/Forage Crops              -               -               -              -                 -                 -                   -                    -
Potatoes:
- Spring                      3,000              -              -                25               10                200                 10                 3,245
- Winter                       1,400             -              -                20               -                 100                  5                 1,525
Melons                            -               -               -               20               -                  30                 -                    50
Tomatoes - Greenhouses            -                       -              -                -                 -                  -                   -
Other Vegetables                 900              -                5             250               30                 40                                    .225
Sub-total                   5,500              28             40              845              80                 490                 45                 7,028
B. Dryland Crops
Cereals                        3,900              80            610              720             240                 810                180                 6,540
C. Total Cultivated Area           9,500            108            650            1,565              320              1,300                225                13,568
o  M



CYPRUS Southern Conveyor Project for Water Resouces Development, Phase 11 (SCP II) (Loan 2914-CY)
Appendix C. Economic Re-evaluation
Table 11: SCP: Net Irrigated Area by Irrigation Scheme
Land Use at Full Development
Crops             Kokkinokhoria I Athienou   I  Mazotos   I  Akrotiri              Parekklisha           Kiti          Aradhippou             Total
......... .       .      .........................................................................................    ..............................................(ha)
A. Irrigated Area'
Vines                            -               -              -             250               -                -                  -                  250
Citrus                          544               3            45             300               35               150                30                1,107
Olives                           40             25             -               52               15               -                  10                 142
Fruit Trees                     -                -             -              100               10                30                -                  140
Alfalfa/Forage Crops             -               58           200             200              70                150               140                 818
Cereals
Potatoes:
- Spring                     3,600                            60              60              60               400                25                4,205
- Winter                     1,100             ...            35              28              30               240                10                1,443
Melons                            5               6            50             120              40                 50                10                 281
Tomatoes - Greenhouses           12              -             30              40              ...                10               ...                  92
Other Vegetables                637              16           130             350              60                 70                                 1,263
Sub-total                  5,938             108           550            1,500            320              1,100              225                9,741
B. Dryland Crops
Cereals                       3,462              -            100              65              -                200                 -                3,827
C. Total Cultivated Area         9,400             108           650            1,565            320              1,300              225                13,568
As projected by WDD.



APPENDIX C
Page 12
CYPRUS: Southem Conveyor Project for Water Resouces Development, Phase 11 (SCP 11) (Loan 2914-CY)
Appendix C: Economic Re-evaluation
Table 12: Net Value of Agriculture Production
Area                   Net Value      Total Net Value of Production
Crops                         (ha)                 of Production              (£C'000)
Without Project'   With Project'     (£C/ha)3      Without Project  With Project
Vines                           200              250              219              43.8             54.8
Citrus                          603             1,107           1,208             728.4          1,337.3
Olives                          105              142            2,229             234.0            316.5
Fruit Trees                      75              140            2,229             167.2            312.1
Forage                          -                818             (643)             -              (526.0)
Potatoes:
- Spring                     3,245            4,205            2,302           7,470.0          9,680.0
- Winter                     1,525             1,443           1,238           1,888.0          1,786.4
Melons                           50              281            3,659             183.0          1,028.2
Tomatoes - Greenhouses          -                 92           28,162              -             2,590.9
Other Vegetables              1.225             1.263           9,497           11.633.8        11.994.7
Sub-total                   7,028            9,741                           22,348.2        28,574.9
Cereals                       6.540             3.827             65              425.1            248.8
Total                      13,568           13,568                           22,773.3        28,823.7
As detailed in Table 10.
2  As detailed in Table 11.
3  Based on the analysis given in Table 9.



CYPRUS Southern Conveyor Project for Water Resouces Development, Phase 11 (SCP 1I) (Loan 2914-CY)
Appendix C Economic Re-evaluation
Table 13: Calculation of Investment and O&M Costs
Invest. Costs            Invest. Costs                                            O&M costs
in current terms Exch. Rate in current terms Cons. price index  Inflators   Invest. Costs   In current terms  Constant 1996
Years    US$ (000) 1/   Annual 2/ C. Pounds (000)   1990=100 3/         const. prices 1996 C. Pounds (000) C. Pounds (000)
1984           7,156     1.7033      4,201.26            81.6      1.59        6,680.00             0             0
1985          21,088     1.6396     12,861.67            85.7      1.51       19,421.13             0             0
1986          56,910     1.9374     29,374.42            86.7      1.50       44,061.63             0             0
1987          41,173     2.0784     19,809.95            89.1      1.46       28,922.53             0             0
1988          28,074     2.1423     13,104.61            91.9      1.41       18,477.50            34            48
1989          19,937     2.0201      9,869.31            95.7      1.36       13,422.27            127          173
1990          26,582     2.1962     12,103.63             100      1.30       15,734.72           218           283
1991          23,257     2.1556     10,789.11            105       1.24       13,378.49           382           474
1992          23,867     2.2188     10,756.72           111.9      1.16       12,477.79           461           535
1993          20,864     2.0058     10,401.83           117.3      1.11       11,546.04           483           536
1994          20,753     2.0327     10,209.57           122.8      1.06       10,822.15           624           661
1995          21,120     2.2071      9,569.12            126       1.03        9,856.19           702           723
1996          23,281     2.1407     10,875.41           129.8      1.00       10,875.41           749           749
1997          24,812       2.02     12,283.17           129.8      1.00       12,283.17          1131          1131
1998           4,336       2.02      2,146.53           129.8      1.00        2,146.53          1465          1465
1999           1,545       2.02        764.85           129.8      1.00          764.85          1583          1583
1/ As given in table3.
2/ Central Bank of Cyprus
3/ IMF: Intemational Financial Statistics (March 1997)
OQ e
z



Econom (2)
Table 14: SCPII - Economic Rate of Return
( Pounds '000) _
Sensltivit Analysis
Investment O&M       Total         Net Agricultural Benefits    Domestic 4/ Total Incremental  Balance      IRR   Total Incrementa  Btalance    IRR ane
Years   Costs 1/  Costs 21  Costs  W/O Proj. 3/ With Proj.  Incremental Water Supply    Benefits                          Benefits (+20%)
1984    6,680.00            6,680      22,773      22,773         -                           -         (6,680)    11.45%            -        6,680)      13.2%
1985   19,421.13           19,421      21,807      22,773        966                         966       (18,456)                   1,159      (18,262)
1986   44,061.63           44,062      20,842      22,773       1,931                       1,931      42,131                     2,317      (41,744)
1987   28,922.53           28,923      19,876      22,773       2,897                       2,897      (26,026)                   3,476      (25,447
1988   18,477.50      48   18,525      18,91 1     22,773       3,862         960           4,822      (13,703)                   5,787      (12,739)
1989   13,422.27     173   13,595      17,945      23,061       5,116        1,380          6,496       (7,099)                   7,795       (5,800)
1990   13,534.72     283   13,818      16,980      23,349       6369         2,520          8,889       4,929                    10,667       (3,151)
1991   13,378.49     474   13,852      16,014      23,637       7,623       4,560          12,183       (1,669)                  14,620         768
1992   12,477.79     535   13,013      15,049      23,926       8,877         240           9,117       (3,896)                  10,940       (2,072)
1993   11,546.04     536   12,082      14,083      24,214      10,130       3,840          13,970       1,888                    16,765       4,682
1994   10,822.15     661   11,484      13,118      24,502      11,384       5,520 1_6,904               5,421                    20,285       8,801
1995    9,856.19     723   10,579      12,152      24,790      12,638       9,000          21,638      11,059                    25,965       15,386
1996   10,875.41     749   11 ,624     11,187      25,078      13,891       8,040          21,931      10,307                    26,318       14,69
1997   12,283.17    1,131   13,414     10,221      25,366      15,145        8,400         23,545      10,131                    28,254      14,840
1998    2,146.53    1,465    3,612      9,256      25,654      168399       12,540         28,939      25,327                    34,727      31,115
1999     764.85    1,500    2,265       8,290      25,943      17,652       16,320         33,972      31,708                    40,767      38,502
2000        -      1,500     500        7325       26,231      18,906       17,700         36,606      35,106                    43,927      42,427
2001               1,500    1,500       6,359      26,519      20,160       18,480         38,640      37,140                    46,368      44,868
2002               1,500    1,500       5,394      26,807      21 ,413      19,200         40,613      39,113                    48,736      47,236
2003               1 ,500    1 ,500     4,428      27,095      22,667      19,500          42,167      40,667                    50,601      49,101
2204               1 ,500    1 ,500     3,506      27,383      23,877      21,060          44,937      43,437                    53,924      52,424
2005               1,500    1,500       2,497      28,824      26,327      21,840          48,167      46,667                    57,800      56,300
2006               1,500    1,500       2,497      28,824      26,327      21,840          48,167      46,667                    57,800      56,300
2007               1,500    1 ,500      2,497      28,824      26,327      21,840          48,167      46,667                    57,800      56,300
2008  _     -      1,500    1,500       2,497      28,824      26,327       21,840         48,167      46,667                    57,800      56,300
2009     .         1,500    1,500       2,497      28,824      26,327      21,840          48,167      46,667                    57,800      56,300
2010               1,500    1,500       2,497      28,824      26,327      21,840          48,167      46,667                    57,800      56,300
2011               1,500    1,500       2,497      28,824      26,327      21,840          48,167      46,667                    57,800      56,300
2012               1 ,500    1,500      2,497      28,824      26,327      21,840          48,167      46,667                    57,800    -  56,300
2013               1,500    1,500       2,497      28,824      26,327      21,840          48,167      46,667           I        57,800      56,300
2014               1,500    1,500       2,497      28,824      26,327      21,840          48,167      46,667                    57,800      56300
2015               1,500    1,500       2,497      28,824      26,327      21,840          48,167      46,667                    57,800      56,300
2016               1,500    1,500       2,497      28,824      26,327      21,840          48,167      46,667                    57,800      56,300
2017               1,500    1,500       2,497      28,824      26,327      21,840          48,167      46,667                    57,800      56,300
2018               1,500    1,500       2,497      28,824      26,327      21,840          48,167      46,667                    57,800      56300
2019               1,500    1,500       2,497      28,824      26,327      21,840          48,167      46,667                    57,800      56,300
2020               1,500    1,500       2,497      28,824      26,327      21,840          48,167      46,667                    57,800      56,300
2021               1,500    1,500       2,497      28,824      26,327      21,840          48,167      46,667                    57,800      56,300 1
2022               1,500    1,500       2,497      28,824      26,327      21,840          48,167      46,667                    57800       56300
2023               1,500    1,500       2,497      28,824      26,327      21,840          48,167      46,667 _                  57,800      56,300
2024               1,500    1,500       2,497      28,824      26,327      21,840          48,167      46,667 _                  57,800      56,300
2025               1,500    1,500       2,497      28,824      26,327      21,840          48,167      46,667                    57,800      56,300
2026               1,500    1,500       2,497      28,824      26,327      21,840          48,167      46,667                    57,800      56,300
2027               1,500    1,500       2,497      28,824      26,327      21,840          48,167      46,667                    57,800      56,300
2028               1,500    1,500       2,497      28824       26,327      21,840          48,167      46,667                    5 57,800    56,300
1/ Based on data pravided in Table 3 converted in C Pounds and exp ressed in Contant 1996 pnces b using deflators given in table 13.                                                  z
2/ Details are given in Table 4 converted in constant 1996 pnces by using deflators as given in table 13..                         I                            
3/ Based on estimates indicated in Table 12.
4/ Quantities of water for domestic use are given in Table 2: an economic pnoe of CP 0.6/m3 of water has been used. |_ ____X
Page 1



APPENDIX D
Page I
Appendix D: Project Implementation Data
Table 1: SCP II Gross Irrigation Scheme Areas (ha)
Irrigation                Planned                    Revised/Expected        Completed
Scheme                 (SAR 1988)                  at Full Development      (ICR 1997)
Existing  |   New    |  Total          New     I   Total          Total
Akrotiri             84                       1,
0          915         755          848        1,688          1,688
Parekklisha          80                       3
240          20         272          352            194
Mazotos              20                       6
640          60         595          615
Kiti                 39                       1,
0        1,210         600          816        1,206           961
Aradhippou
250         250
Total             1,3                       4,
30        3,005         335        2,781        4,111          2,843



APPENDIX D
Page 2
Table 2: Status of Physical Implementation: SCP II
SAR Estimate           Revised      |  Expected Data
lI                                      I  of Completion
A. Water Resources Component
1. Dhiarizos Diversion (Overall delay: 2 years)
Project Start                    October 1988       15 January 1990
Completion                        End 1993            April 1995          April 1997
Maintenance Certificate          I year: 1994          Mid 1996            Mid 1998
11. Limassol W.T.P. (Overall delay: 3.5 years)
Project Start                     Mid 1988          28 October 1989            -
Completion                        Mid 1991          November 1994
Maintenance Certificate           Mid 1993             Pending            April 1997
111. Tersephanou W.T.P. (Overall delay: 5.5 years)
Project Start (Civil Works)       Mid 1989             Mid 1991
Completion                        Mid 1992           January 1997          End 1997
Maintenance Certificate           Mid 1994           January 1999          End 1999
IV. Tersephanou-Nicosia Conveyor (Overall delay: 5.5 years)
Project Start                     Mid 1989           4 March 1996              -
Completion                        Mid 1992          November 1997
Maintenance Certificate
V. Limassol Village W.S. (Overall delay: 2.5 years)
Project Start                     Mid 1989             Mid 1992
Completion                        Mid 1992             End 1994
B. Irrigation Schemes
1. Akrotiri (Overall delay: 4 years)
Project Start                    January 1988        January 1988              -
Completion                        End 1989             End 1993
11. Parekklisha (Overall delay: 6 years)
Project Start                    January 1991          End 1993
Completion                        End 1992             Pending             End 1998
III. Mazotos (Overall delay: 6.5 years)
Project Start                    January 1991            n.a.             Early 1998
Completion                        Mid 1993               n.a.              End 1999
IV. Ijii (Overall delay: 6.5 years)
Project Start                     Mid 1989             Mid 1993            Mid 1993
Completion                        Mid 1992             Mid 1996            End 1998
Source: WDD.



CYPRUS. Southem Conveyor Project for Water Resouces Developmnt, Phase 11 (SCP 11) (Loan 2914-CY)
Appendix D Project Implenientation Data
Figure 1: Implementatlon Schedule
A    y      IYear         1987    1988  j 1989    1990    1991         1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999
A yurs  12 314 1121314 1121314 112,314 123 412314112 31  4112 314 11 23 14 112,3 14 12 31411121314
Dhiarizos Diversion &-
Khapotami Diversion                                                                                       NM
Akrobri Irrgation System                    son
Kiti Irngation System                                                                            ME=      mm
Parekklisha Irrigabon System
Mazotos Irrigation System
Aradhippou Irrigation System
Land Consolidation
Limassol Water Treatment Works
Tersephanou
Water Treatment Works _O__M _1|1 |
Tersephanou - Nicosia Conveyor
Village Water Supply
Environmental Studies
System Operabon Studies
Water Entity Study           .  _                                  -                 -
LEGEND                                                                                                                                                           m  tO
Planned Constructon Period                        C=      '   Expeted GoAnctructia Period         e        Actual Construction Period
(Source IBRD SAR No. 6649. CY, Jan., 1988, p 96)                                                           (End Substantial Completion Date)






18RO 203791R
- ,raneOn  Sea                                       3                                                    NICOSIA                              33'3Cr
LA'A                                                                                                                     Fa mgusta
wI _ ,  _  _  _                      ~~~~~~~~ SERVKCE ESERVOIR\S\                                                                                                   
-35'                                                                           $                                                                      /                                                                            -
T\EPHAEPNO WATER
iFEAfMENT WORKS
KHHIPOrJT WATEP
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TI  EATMENf WCORKS                                                                                                                                                   C  YP  RU  S
j.AN SCEPVPP OPERAIONA'
->   )   | oNLarnoca                SOUTHERN CONVEYOR PROJECT
,, %- NWa a  '-                                                                                                                                                        PRINCIPAL FEATURES
OiAFO KTtaMITNOSs°   t                                                                                     <T7AMNWRS                 ^:       >T
DMERSON ~ ~ ~ ~  ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~0421Vasilikos-Peridaskinos    Southern conveyor
Project (VPP)             Project (SCP)
Existing                                  Phase I       Phase S1
j +~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Toi-,                                                                                                    51        <       andK                -                           CflStflJCbOijl
,   _  wNV,   .                                   Reservoirsc and Dams          ;                                 _  D
-q ''.  ,     y'   -                                    Main Conevore
.  1                            .\ .SS-PEsVASKIsES                                                         Transmission Mains                                     ----*---         ---
TREATMENT WOIKS  AL       - -     °o                         -                                                Treatment Woaks                        3                                0
--                                              -Q .vASLK_ ,                                       Pumorrng Stations
( N '.   ;g  \        .r-~-U      -         |                   \C ECTON MANW                                                  Aquier Works                                           A
PAREKKULNAI-NOR
MA NDLS RIAL                                                Moin Storage Tanks                                           0             0
. D E,'aoPMtWOE                                                   Irrgated Areas
--   _   \,    . ><    "   Limassol                                                                        Salt Lakes
C.;  -  .     AiROIt                           -                                             '             _A  iV                                           Prvers
Present Ceasefire Une ----
.   r?AKHCNv/PHASOUM                          .                                                             Mclor Towns         0,2
Akr,' 40501;                                                                                                     U.K. Sovereign Base Afecs
sh pn d-l      sowiv   KF- r .I W.d SonL-G cu
or .CwPb of ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~33'                                                                                                      33.30-
-   -  I                                                                                                                                                                                  AS'llll 1994~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ARt1W









IMAGING
Report No.           16820
Type:      ICR



