Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
e. . Al           / L/4 - C/
Report No. 6649-CY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CYPRUS
SOUTHERN CONVEYOR PROJECT
FOR WATER RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT
(PHASE II)
January 28, 1988
Country Department IV
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
Agriculture Operations Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIALENTS
Currer.cy Unit                          Cyprus Pound (EC)
US$1.00                                 £C 0.467 (Cyprus Pound)
£C 1.00 = mils 1,000        =           US$2.14
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System                           British/US System
1 hectare (ha)                          2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)            =           0.62 miles
1 meter (m)                             3.28 feet (ft)
1 cubic meter (m3)          =           35.21 cubic feet (cu ft)
I metric tone (m ton)       =           0.984 long ton (ton)
I MCM                                   1 million cubic meter
MAIN ABBREVIATIONS
ARI        Agricultural Research Institute
CCB        Cooperative Central Bank
CCS        Cooperative Credit Society
CPMB       Cyprus Potato Marketing Board
DAO        District Agricultural Office
DOA        Department of Agriculture
EEC        European Economic Community
ERR        Economic Rate of Return
FEEAP      Fourth Emergency Economic Action Plan
ICB        International Competitive Bidding
KIP        Khrysokhou Irrigation Project
LCB        Local Competitive Bidding
LCD        Land Consolidation Department
lcd        Liter per capita and day
MANR       Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources
MOF        Ministry of Finance
MCI        Ministry of Commerce and Industry
O&M        Operation and Maintenance
OED        Operations Evaluation Department
ODA        Overseas Development Administration of the UK
PAC        Project Advisory Committee
PCC        Project Control Center
PIP        Paphos Irrigation Project
PIU        Project Implementation Unit
POU        Project Operation Unit
PPCC       Project Policy and Coordinatior Committee
KIP        Khrysokhou Irrigation Project
SCP        Southern Conveyor kroject for Water Resources
Development
SCPI       Southern Conveyor Project for Water Resources
Development (Phase I)
SCPII      Southern Conveyor Project for Water Resources
Development (Phase II)
VPP        Vasilikos-Pendaskinos Project
WDD        Water Developnment Department of MANR
GOVERNMENT OF CYPRUS FISCAL YEAR
.Jantuarv 1 - Decemhbr 31



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
CYPRUS
SOUTHERN CONVEYOR PROJECT FOR WATER
RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT - PHASE II
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:     Republic of Cyprus
Amount:       US$30 million
Terms:        Fifteen years, including three years grace, at the standard
variable interest rate.
Project       The project is the second phase of a two-phase development to
Description:  harness the Republic of Cyprus' last subst-ntial remaining
surface water resources. The Southern Conveyor Project's
primary objectives are (i) to ensure adequate water supplies to
four major population areas and nearby villages, and (ii) to
maintain vitally important irrigated crop production in an area
threatened by aquifer seawater intrusion and extend irrigation
in other selected areas. The project also aims to rationalize
further the utilization of the country's scarce water resources
in Cyprus through appropriate institutional reform and the
implementation of realistic cost recovery measures for both
domestic and irrigation water. Project components presently
under construction under Phase I include (a) the Kouris dam
(115 MCM); (b) a main conveyor (110 km) and connecting
pipelines; (c) a pressurized irrigation network for 9,125 ha;
(d) a terminal reservoir; and (e) a project control center. The
proposed Phase II would supplement Phase I through the following
components: (a) the Dhiarizos diversion works, including a
tunnel (14.5 km) to convey additional water into the Kouris
reservoir; (1-' irrigation distribution networks for 4,335 ha;
(c) domestic water treatment works at Limassol and Tersephanou,
the Tersephanou-Nicosia conveyor and about 20 rural water supply
schemes; (d) on-farm development through medium-term credit;
(e) provision of O&M and miscellaneous equipment; and
(f) provision of technical services and training.
Benefits      The SCP would directly benefit nearly 0.6 million domestic water
and Risks:    consumers and 4,000 farmers.  As with all projects involving
major civil works, the principal risks are cost increases and
implementation delays. The ruajor risk is associated with
unanticipated geological conditions in the construction of the
Dhiarizos diversion tunnel. However, the sensitivity analysis
indicates that cost overruns and implementation delays on this
component will only have a minor impact on the economic
viability of the project. No other major risks are foreseen.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be usd by reclpiehis only In the perfonnance
of their offcial dutis. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoration.



Estimated Prolect Cost:
Component                              Local      Forein      Total
-----(US$ million)…
Water Resources Development            15.9        23.4         39.3
Irrigation Development                 15.3        13.1        28.4
On-farm Development                    12.8         6.6         19.4
Domestic Water Supply                  13.7        24.7         38.4
O&M and Miscellaneous Equipment         0.1         1.6          1.7
Technical Services & Training           0.3         1.5          1.8
Base Cost                              58.1        70.9       129.0
Physical Contingencies                 10.3        13.5         23.8
Price Contingencies                     5.3         5.9         11.2
Total /a                             73.7        90.3       164.0
/a Exclusive of taxes and duties from which public projects are
exempt.
Financing Plan:
Local     Foreign      Total
-(US$ million)-___
Bank                                               30.0        30.0
Government                             53.5        14.0        67.5
Kuwait Fund                             2.9        12.5        15.4
Export Credits                         -           25.6        25.6
Local Financing la                     10.0         8.2        18.2
Beneficiaries                           7.3         -           7.3
Total                                73.7       90.3        164.0
/a    Cooperative Central. Bank and Cooperative Credit Societies.
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank Fiscal Year
1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996
-      -- - -- ---- -  (US$ Million)-----------
Annual         0.4      2.4     4.4      5.6     5.4      5.3      5.0     1.5
Cumulative     0.4      2.8      7.2    12.8    18.2    23.5    28.5    30.0
Economic Rate of Return:  141 (for Phases I and II)
Map: No. IBRD 20379 Southern Conveyor Project - Principal Features



REPUBLIC OF CYPRUS
SOULTHERN CONVEYOR PROJECT FOR WATER
RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT (PHASE iI)
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Chawter                                                                  Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
I.   INTRODUCTION
II.    WATER RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT AND MANAGEMENT
A.   Water Resources Development . . ..  . . . .  . . . . .    1
B.   Water Resources Management  . . . . . . . . . . . . .        2
C.   Government Objectives . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    3
III.    AGRICULTURE AND IRRIGATION
A.   Agriculture in the Econoimy  . . . . . . . . . . . . .    3
B.   Agricultural Production   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    4
C.   Agricultural Exports  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    4
D.   Export Marketing  ..................                        5
E.   Agricultural Credit         ........... .                   5
F.   Agricultural Policies and Programs  . . . . . . . . .    6
G.   Bank Involvement in Agriculture and Irrigation  . . .    7
The Fruit & Vegetable Project  ...... . . . . .    7
The Agricultural Research and Extension Project           7
IV.    DOMESTIC WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE
A.   Water Supply and Sewerage Services  . . . . . . . . .    8
B.   Cost Recovery Policies  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    8
C.   Bank Involvement in the Domestic Water Supply
and Sewerage Sector      tr     ....                        9
V.    THE SOUTHERN CONVEYOR PROJECT AREA
A.   Location and Basic Infrastructure . . . . . . . . . .    9
B.   Population Projections  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   10
C.   Soils and Climate . . .  . . . . .  .   . *   . . . . . .   10
D.   Water Resources . . . ................    11
This report is based on the findings of a Bank appraisal mission, which
visited Cyprus in November/December 1986, comprising Messrs. W.A. van Tuijl,
M.W.L. Pease, F. Scaduto-Mendola, G. van Santen, M.A. Zelaya (Bank) and
J.K. Post, W. Wittke and N.W. Trac (Consultants).



Chater                                                                  Page No.
V.    THE SOUTHERN CONVEYOR PROJECT AREA (continued)
E.   Agriculture and Irrigation  . . . . . . . . . . . . .   11
Agricultural Use of Land. ........ ...    11
Land Tenure and Farm Size  .9.99......    11
Existing and Potential Irrigation Development  .   12
Present Crop Production  . . . . . . . . . . . .   12
Labor Availability . . . . . . . . . ......    12
Agricultural Research  . . . . . . . . . . . . .   13
Extension Service  .                                 13
F.   DomesticWater Supply................    14
Existing Facilities and Service  . . . . . . . .   14
Water Demand . . . . . . . . . . . . * * . . . .   14
VL    THE SCP AND STATUS OF SCPI IMPLEMENTATION
A.   Overall Objectives  .............   ...                    15
B.   SCP Components at Full Development  . . . . . . . . .   16
C.   SCP Cost and SCPI Cost and Financing  . . . . . . .        17
D.   SCPI Status of Implementation . . . . . . . . . . . .   17
VIL    THE PHA HSE   PROJECT (SCPI)
A.  General . . . . . .9.   .     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    18
Project Rationale and Objectives . . . .  . . . .   18
Project Scope  . .............. .                    18
B.   Detailed Features .       ..................    19
Water Resources Development  . . . . . . . . . .   19
Irrigation Development . . . . . . . . . . . . .   19
On-Farm Development  . . . . . . ........            20
Domestic Water Supply  9                             20
O & M and Miscellaneous Equipment  . . . . . . .   21
Technical Services and Training  . . . . . . . .   21
C.   Water Supply and Demand .a ..............    .   22
D.   Status of Engineering ...................    23
E.   Implementation Schedule    ...............    23
F.   Cost Estimates           ...................               23
G.   Project Finan cing .. ................    25
H.   Procurement ....... .                                      26
I.   Disbursement  ..   . .    . . . . . . . . . . . .   .   27
J.   Environmental Impact  .... . . . . . . . . . . .   .   28
VII1.    ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMN
A.   Study for Institutional Framework for
Water Development   .. .. . .. .. . .. .. . .    28
B.   Project Organization  9          * .  . .    . . o o  .    29
Organization During Project Implementation . . .   29
Organization During Operation Stage  . . . . . .   31
C.   Conjunctive Operation of SCP and VPP Systems
and Project Aquifers  9                             31



Cbauter                                                               Page No.
VIL     ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT (continued)
D.   Accounts and Auditing .   . .. . . .. .... ... .    33
E.   Billing and Collections . . . . . . . ..  . . . . .  .  33
F.   Monitoring and Evaluation . .a. . . . . . .. . . . .  34
IK.    PROJECT BENEFrIS. ECONOMIC EVALUATION,
FINANCIAL ANALYSIS, AND JUSTIFICATION
A.   Agricultural Production . . . .. .. .. . . . . . .   34
Crop Yields  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   34
Incremental Production. ............   35
B.   Prices in Agriculture . . . .   ..   ....               35
C.   Marketing . . . . . . . . . . *                         36
D.   Farm Incomes  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  37
E.   Project Beneficiaries . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  38
F.   Cost Allocation for Domestic and Irrigation
Water Use . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . *. . . .*   38
C.   Cost Recovery Policy  ................   38
H.  Water Costs  .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  38
I.   Irrigation Water Charges. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  39
J.   Domestic Water Tariffs  . . . . . . . . . . . .. . ..   41
K.   Processing of Water Charges Increases . . . . . . . . . 42
L.   Financing Plan of WDD's Investment Program  . . . . .  43
M.   Future Financial Performance  . . . . . . . . . . . .  44
N.   Project Justification . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  44
0.   Economic Rate of Return and Sensitivity
Analysis  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   * * .   45
P .  Other Benefits  . . . . . .   . . .. . . . . .. . . . .  45
Q.  Budget and Balance of Payment Impact  . . . . . . . .  45
R.   Project Risks . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . .  .   46
X.    AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION



CbaDter                                                      PeNo.
ANNEXES
Annex 1 - General Data
T-1 Revised Cost Estimates for SCPI . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  49
T-2-5 Cost Estimates - SCPII  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50-53
T-6 Estimated ScLedule of Disbursements ... . . . . . . . . . .  ..    54
T-7   Present  Land  Use    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  55
T-8 SCP Water Supply and Demand .D.a.n...................   .  56
Annex 2 - Domestic Water SuPPly Data
T-1 Population Projections  . ..   ........  . .  .    ...........    .  57
T-2 Water Demand Projections   .     ..........   . .........  .58-59
T-3 Water Demand and Supply Projections . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60-61
Annex 3 - Economic Analysis
T-1  Irrigation:  Net Return per M3 of Water, Phase II,
at Full Development  . ....      ..........   4444444.. ........... .  62
T-2 Irrigation: Net Return per M3 of Water, Phase I
(Kokkinokhoria), at Full Development   . . . . . . . . . . . . .  63
T-3 Incremental Benefits and Costs, Phase I and Phase II-1987 .. .* .   . 64-65
T-4 Sensitivity Analysis, Overall Project . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  66
T-5 Selected Data, Farm Models  ...         ...................         67
T-6 Determination of Economic Costs of Water  . . . . . . . . . . . . .  68
T-7 Cost Allocation . .o o. . .. . . .. .   . . . . . . . . . .   * .  .  69
T-8 Financial Rent Recovery Indices  .o............. ...                70
T-9 Total Cost Recovery Index, Irrigation Component . . . . . . . . . .  71
Annex 4 - Financial Data
T-1 Structure of Retail Water Tariffs 4  *... .  ..          .......  72
T-2 Total Domestic Water, Projected Income Statements ...   . . . . .. .  73
T-3 Total Domestic Water, Projected Sources and Applications
of  Funds  . . . .. . . .  .        . *  .  .  .  . o  .  .  . o . . o   .... ..   74
T-4 Total Irrigation, Projected Income Statements . o . .   . . . .   . . .  75
T-5 Total Irrigation, Projected Sources and Applications of Funds       76
T-6 Total Water Development Department (WDD), Projected Income
Statements    . . . . . .   . . ..   o  o  4  *  * .   4.   4  *.  o   4  *  4  *  4  4  *  77
T-7 Total Water Development Department (WDD), Projected Sources
and Applications of Funds  o o           .. .. .                78
T-8 Total Water Development Department (WDD), Projected
Balance Sheets . . .    . 4 * * 4    * * * * 4 * 4 *  * * 4  .   79
Annex 5 - Basic Assumptions for Economic Analysis  . . . . . . . . . . . 80-81
Annex 6 - Assumptions Used in Financial Projections  .. . . . . . . .   . 82-83
Annex 7 - Action Plan  . .  *  *.  *  .  . o. .o.   . . .. .   . . . . . . 84-85
Annex 8 - Terms of Reference . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 86-89
Annex 9 - Environmental Impact . . .. . . . .o  . .o   . o .o.  . ..o  . . 90-92
Annex 10 - Documents in Project File o . .o.   . .   o.. . .   .  . . o o . . o93-94
4



Chapter                                                                Page No.
CHARTS
C-1 World Bank - 31023:4  Schematic Diagram for SCP System . . . . . .   95
C-2 World Bank - 31023:3  Implementation Schedule  . . . . . . . . . .   96
C-3 World Bank - 31023:1 Project Organization Chart - Construction Stage 97
C-4 World Bank - 25462  Project Organization Chart - Operation Stage  .  98
MAP
IBRD 20379    Southern Conveyor Project - Principal Features



REPUBLIC OF CYPRUS
SOUTHERN CONVEYOR PROJECT FOR WATER
RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT (PHASE II)
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. INTPODUCTION
1.01     The Southern Conveyor Project for Water Resources Development
(Phase II) is the second phase of a two-phase development project to exploit a
major portion of the remaining water resources in the Republic of Cyprus.
1.02     Preparation of the Southern Conveyor Project for Water Resources
Development (SCP) was initiated by the Government of the Republic of Cyprus in
March 1978, with assistance from the Overseas Development Administration (ODA)
of the United Kingdom. The study was carried out in two stages. Stage one,
the prefeasibility study, concentrated ca appraising the viability of
alternative investment options, while under stage two, the feasibility study
was prepared. The study was the responsibility of the Water Development
Department (WDD) in the Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources (MANR).
WDD was assisted in this task by consultants. The Bank participated actively
in the discussions of major issues and the overall concept of the project.
The feasibility study was completed in July 1982. The first phase project
(SCPI) was appraised by the Bank in April 1983, and a loan of US$27 M was
granted to the Government in March 1984. SCPI is now under implementaticn and
is expected to be completed in 19S9. In early 1985, in order to pursue
uninterruptedly the development efforts undertaken during SCPI, the Government
decided to commence the preparation of the second phase project (SCPII). As
part of this effort, the 1982 feasibility report was updated by WDD with the
assistance of the FAO/World Bank Cooperative Programme.
-. WATER RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT AND MANAGEMENT
A. Water Resources Development
2.01     The average annual precipitation in Cyprus amounts to about 4,500
million cubic meters per annum (MCM/a) of water on the entire islandZ Surface
evaporation and evapotranspiration account for about 3,550 MCM/a. An
estimated 350 MCM/a infiltrate the ground, resulting in about 600 MCM/a net
surface runoff. Most of the groundwater resources have already been
developed, and many aquifers are overpumped. Prospects of further development
of minor aquifers are limited. Therefore, surface water is assuming more
importance as the source of water for development. Presently, it is estimated
that about 175 MCM/a of surface water are utilized for agricultural and
domestic ujes, whilc the remaining 425 MCM/a are lost to the sea during floods.
2.02     The total storage capacity of reservoirs in Cyprus is 173 MCM,
including the storage capacities provided under the recently completed
Vasilikos-Pandaskinos Project (VPP) and the virtually completed Khrysokhou
Irrigation Project (KIP) (para 3.12). This provides an average water yield of
116 MCM/a, of which about 12 MCM/a is being used for domestic water supply and



the rest for irrigation. The groundwater schemes provide about 20 MCM/a for
domestic water and 270 MCM/a for irrigation. Total storage capacity of Kouris
and Akhna dams, nearing completion under SCPI, will add another 120 MCM. By
1989, the total storage capacity will reach 293 MCM, thus harnessing a
substantial part of the surface runoff of the Government-controlled areas.
2.03     The area under irrigation in the Government-controlled area of Cyprus
is about 53,000 ha (including the VPP), of which about 10,000 ha is under
systematic surface irrigation, about 25,000 ha irrigated from boreholes and
about 18,000 ha under spate irrigation. With the expected completion of KIP
in 1988, the total surface irrigated area would increase to about 55,000 ha.
2.04     Presently, shortages of water for domestic and irrigation use are
becoming increasingly acute. The major cities of Nicosia and Larnaca are
already experiencing severe shortages of water; and it is expected that
another major city, Limassol, as well as the area of Famagusta, will be faced
with severe shortages before the end of the decade. Tourist development along
the coast is also increasingly constrained on account of water shortages. As
to irrigation, depleted groundwater resources threaten highly profitable
potato export from a major production area in Kokkinokhoria (para. 8.16). If
no additional surface water supplies would be made available before the end of
the decade, salt water intrusion into this aquifer would render the area
permanently unsuitable for agriculture.
2.05     Other water resources with future development potential include the
recycling of treated sewage and desalinization of brackish or sea water.
Based on projected water demands for Nicosia, Larnaca and Limassol towns, the
potential sewage volumes have been estimated to reach 38 MCM/a by 2000 and
43 MCM/a by 2010. Reuse of treated sewage for irrigation of agricultural
areas would thus enable additional fresh water resources to be used for
domestic consumption. Desalinization of sea water is presently being done
only on a small sca)e by private enterprises, and is not yet economic on a
larger scale.
B. Water Resources Management
2.06     The existing management of water resources in CypruAs is fragmented at
both the policy level and at the upper levels of execution and administration.
The ultimate body with responsibility for water resources management policy is
the Council of Ministers. The most important ministries involved in policy
making are: (i) the Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources (MANR),
which is the mai.. ministry for policy making as regards water resources
development works; (ii) the Ministry of Interior, which is the main ministry
concerned with the legal aspecta of water resources planning, development and
management; and, to some extent, (iii) the Ministry of Finance; (iv) the
Ministry of Commerce and Industry; and (v) the Planning Bureau. On the
execution and administration levels, the following government departments and
agencies are the most important: (i) the Department of Water Development
(WDD) of the MANR, which plans, designs, constructs and maintains the physical
works and also delivers water to municipalities, villabes, irrigation groups



- J -
etc.; and (ii) the District Officers of the Ministry of Interior, who have the
legal authority concerning the development and control of irrigation and
domestic water supply projects and exercise power as chairmen of the District
Water !soards, Project Water Committees, Municipal Water Boards, Irrigation
Divisions and Village Water Commissions. Thus, there are two predominant
chains of command: the first, a technically oriented chain through the MANM
responsible for the execution of projects, and the second, an administratively
oriented command through the Ministry of the Interior. As a consequence of
this institutional proliferation, there are many instances of inadequate
planning and duplication of effort. Despite efforts to rationalize existing
legislative and institutional arrangements related to water resource
management, there has been little real progress so far (para. 8.02).
C. Government Objectives
2.07     In view of the foregoing, the Government of Cyprus has placed water
resource development among its highest priorities. The Government's
objectives are: (i) optimal utilization of the scarce water resources, with
first priority given to domestic water supply; (ii) development of available
fresh water resources in order to maintain a continuous and safe water supply;
(iii) improvement of water conservation practices and maintenance of an
adequate tariff structure to discourage wastage and high water consumption;
(iv) introduction of sewerage and sewage treatment enabling recycling of
treated sewage for irrigation; and (v) improving the country's institutional
framework for the planning and management of its scarce water re,sources. The
latter is being addressed through a study to examine the merits of undertaking
certain institutional reforms (para. 8.01).
MI. AGRICULTURE AND IRRIGATION
A. Agriculture n the Economy
3.01     Agriculture continues to be one of the foui main sectors of the
economy, although its relative importance has gradually declined during recent
years, reflecting the growing importance of tourism, financial services and,
to a lesser extent, manufacturing. In 1985, it contributed about 8.22 to GDP
at market prices, provided 20.12 (about 42,850 persons) of total employment,
and generated some 282 of export earnings compared with 162, 221 (about 45,000
persons) and 43f respectively, in 1976. In 1985 agricultural imports were
valued at about £C 113.5 M (US$219.6 M) of which EC 19.1 M (US$36.9 M) were
re-exported.   Agricultural exports totalled EC 70.6 M (US$136.26 M) in 1985,
a reduction of 23% compared to 1984, but preliminary data for 1986 and the
first six months of 1987 indicate that exports expanded by 101 and 25%
respectively. Measured against the high growth rates of tourism (11.7%
annually between 1976 and 1985), financial services (9.71) and manufacturing
(6.6X), growth of the agriculture sector at constant prices has been quite low
at about 1.42 per year, or about 7.51 at current prices; it contributed only
2.21 toward total growth of ")P during the past de ade. It continues,
however, to employ a substantial number of people--about one-fifth of total
employment. Employment in agriculture, however, should be interpreted
carefully. Small land holdings and proximity to towns allow people to engage
in more than one occupation, resulting in substantial part-time farming
(para. 5.12).



- 4 -
B. Agricultural Production
3.02     During the past three years, about 70% of sector value added was
generated by crops, 20% by livestock activities, and the bal,.nce by fisheries,
hunting and forestry. Though irrigated crops occupy only about 18% of the
total agricultural land area, they generate about 75% of value added in crop
production, the balance coming mainly from rainfed cereal and grape
production. Annual production of fruits and vegetab)les with export potential
has increased significantly since 1976, especially lemons, grapefruiits and
mandarins. Potato production has remained virtually constant. Development of
Cypriot agriculture, notably of potato production, is severely constrained by
scarcity of irrigation water supplies. Even under favorable external
conditions and Government policies, long-term sector growth at constant prices
is not likely to exceed 1% annually; growth of crop production will depend
mainly on the expansion of the irrigated area, expected to increase by about
2% per year for the next eight years. Such increase, however, is not likely
to result in a corresponding gain in value added because the real costs of
inputs are likely to increase considerably. Although there is scope for
productivity increases, corresponding value added increases are expected to be
relatively modest. Rainfed cereal, wine and livestock production are heavily
subsidized; it appears undesirable to continue to maintain all such
subsidies. With subsidies reduced or eliminated, some subsectors would
substantially decline. Finally, production growth in some subsectors in which
Cyprus has a comparative advantage (vegetables) might not result in
corresponding increases in value added because of marketing constraints.
C. Agricultural Exports
3.03     Agricultural exports play an important role in the cypriot foreign
exchange earnings; in 1985, they accounted for 11.1% of all foreign exchange
earnings, or 28% of domestically produced exports. The most -:.mportant
commodities in value terms are potatoes, citrus, grapes and wine. The value
of vegetable exports, which increased steadily until 1981, has stagnated due
to the loss of the small but significant Arab markets and the relative low
priority accorded to exports to the European Economic Community (EEC).  Potato
exports earned 12.5% of foreign exchange earnings in 1976; this decreased to
5.1% in 1985, although in current value terms exports increased by 400% since
1976. Citrus exports increased by 300% over the same period. Exports of
table grapes and vegetables have been relatively less successful; their export
value has declined slightly since 1979. Wine exports declined by 40% since
1983.
3.04     Since 1980, export prices of most horticultural commodities, citrus,
potatoes and grapes, rose only moderately in currant terms and stagnated or
decreased in real terms; only unit values of vegetables registered anI
increase, about 20%. Significant increases in future sector export earnings
will depend on Cyprus' ability to shift exports to products which it can
produce efficiently and market effectively. While no increase in potato
export volume or prices is envisaged, Cypriot producers will need to continue
to adjust varieties to demand from different European markets. Future exports
of grapefruits and other citrus will heavily depend on Cyprus' ability to keep
net production costs at competitive levels, despite increasing irrigation
water charges, possibly by reducing the current substantial trading margins.



- 5 -
For vegetables and exotic fruits, increases in exports will depend on the
country's ability to develop effective marketing channels while reducing
domestic prices (paras. 3.07 and 9.10).
D. Export Marketing
3.05     Part of Cyprus' agriculture was developed to prod ce specific fruits
and vegetables for the United Kingdom (UK) market. UK's entry into the EEC
resulted in Cyprus' loss of preferential entry into the UK market. Interim
policies were replaced in 1978 by the Speciel Commonwealth Preference for
Cyprus, which stipulated preferential tariffs fer a variety of horticultural
crops. The UK continues to be the main market for Cyprus' horticultural
products; modest diversification to other European countries is in progress.
3.06     Cyprus has concluded with the EEC the second stage of a full customs
union agreement. The second stage comprises two phases, the first of ten
years and the second of five. During the first phase of stage two,
outstanding tariffs will be eliminated in equal annual steps. During phase
two, an annual increase of 5% of existing EEC import quotas for selected
horticultural crops is envisaged, notably for table grapes and new potatoes.
Adjustment of reference prices and new tariff concessions for selected crops
have also been agreed upon.
3.07     The main problem facing Cypriot exports of agricultural products
concerns the need to optimally adjust to the European trade regime and some
limitations imposed by the customs union. This calls for strong market
orientation, and quick adjustment to country specific demands. The EEC import
regime designates specific periods in which lower tariffs are being applied
for specific products. The EEC reference price system dictates that, in order
to avoid the imposition of countervailing charges, Cyprus should aim at the
upper end of the market, with strong emphasis on quality and reliability.
Present marketing structures for some agricultural exports appear weak,
notably for vegetables and grapes. Exports of citrus, which are predominantly
handled by a few large exporters, and of potatoes, handled effectively by the
Cyprus Potato Marketing Board, are much better coordinated. Efforts to
address the marketing problems of table grapes and vegetables under the rruit
and Vegetable Export Project (Ln. 1988-CY) have not been effective, in large
part because of the absence of the necessary vertical integration of
production by the many relatively small farmers and the relatively high
domestic prices caused by strong seasonal demand and limited supply
(paras. 3.13 and 9.10).
E. Agricultural Credit
3.08     Institutional credit for agriculture is mainly provided through the
village-based Cooperative Credit Societies (CCSs) and the Cooperative Central
Bank (CCB). Short- and medium-term credit requirements are generally provided
by the CCSs, of which there are about 50 in the project area. CCSs have
generally substantial liquidity. Deposits are earning between 4% and 8%
interest depending on the size of the deposit and the maturity. Loans to each
member, secured by collateral, are limited to £C 1,000 for up to three years
at 9% interest. Usually several members of a family are members of the
cooperative, increasing the limit a family is able to borrow.



- 6-
3.09     The CCB is an apex financing bank for its shareholders: marketing,
supply and credit cooreratives. The bank also lends to individual farmers,
who approach the bank individually or through MANR under specific schemes.
Loans, which are limited to £C 7,000 for group loans, and EC 2,000 for
individual loans, have a grace period of up to five years and carry an
interest rate of 9X. The CCB has severe financial problems mainly caused by
insufficiently scrutinized lending for large, unviable projects of marketing
and production cooperatives. In 1980, the Government replaced the bank's
senior management, strengther,ed control over the bank by the Cyprus Central
Bank, forced many cooperative shareholders to sell off part of their assets,
and improved the institutional and operational framework of the bank.
Meanwhile, the Government is providing temporary financial assistance to CCB,
pending a decision on the forn; which the Government's final financial
assistance will take. CCB's financial position is improving, and it is
expected to fully satisfy the demand for loans for on-farm development under
the proposed project (paras. 7.08-7.10). However, it is expected that farmers
will increasingly turn to the CCSs for their credit needs, because of CCSs'
easier loan processing procedures.
3.10     The farmers (about 1,000) participating in SCPII will require
medium-term rredit to finance on-farm irrigation, planting of orchards and
construction of greenhouses. It has been assumed that 75% of the investments
will be financed through medium-term loans, the balance being met through
equity financing.  Incremental prOuction costs will be financed partly by the
beneficiaries (initially 5C%, increasing to 70X) and partly through the CCS
system. Medium-term credit requirements are estimated at £C 8.5 M
(US$18.19 M). It is reasonable to assume that the estimated credit
requirements will be met as needed.
F. Agricultwrl Policies and Programs
3.11     The Government's agricultural policies under the first three
Emergency Economic Action Programs since 1974 were, in the main, directed at
the development of irrigation. They aimed at increasing domestic food
production, expanding exports of horticultural crops and satisfying the demand
of a growing local market, fuelled particularly by a rapidly growing tourist
industry. Nearly 7,900 ha of land have been brought under irrigation out of
12,000 ha projected, while exports have increased. The Fourth Emergency
Economic Action Plan (1982-86) aimed mainly at increasing the quantity,
improving the quality and reducing the costs of food production (notably,
exportable horticulture produce), and raising agricultural incomes by further
expanding irrigation and increasing the efficiency of water and land use,
reducing the agricultural trade deficit and consolidating land ownership. The
plan stressed the need for strengthening agricultural extension and resealch.
The 5-Year Plan now under preparation (1987-1992) emphasizes the need for
continuous modernization and adaptation of horticulture activities.
Relatively high labor costs and continued low unemployment in the Greek
section of the country will dictate the need to focus on those crops in which
Cyprus has a comparative advantage and which facilitate part-time farming
practices. Although the role of the agricultural sector has declined, its
increasing symbiotic relationship in terms of satisfying tourism consumption
and providing part-time employment and its importance in earning foreign
exchange dictate continued efforts to maintain and improve production
efficiency in this sector.



G. Bank Involvement in Agriculture and Irrigation
3.12     The World Bank has, so far, focussed its lending to agriculture in
Cyprus primarily on the development and more efficient ase of water res3urces,
to increase .abor productivity, and to achieve a more equitable distribution
of economic growth among sectors. The Paphos Irrigation Project (PIP)
(Ln. 960-CY, US$14 M), started in 1974 and completed in 1982, provided
essential irrigation, land consolidation and infrastructure for agricultural
production, and assisted in financing on-farm investments. The 1981 Project
Performance Audit Report considers the project successful, and there were no
major problems during implementation. The Pitsilia Integrated Rural
Development Project (Ln. 1483-CY, US$10 M), started in 1977 and completed in
1983, provided nroductive and social infrastructural investments for the
poorest regions of Cyprus. The 1986 Project Performance Audit Report
considers the project successful. The Vasilikos-Pendaskinos Project (VPP)
(Ln. 1658-CY, US$11 M), started in 1979 and was completed in 1987. It
developed 1,160 ha for irrigation and reduced shortage of domestic water in
Nicosia, Larnaca and ramagusta. The Fruit and Vegetable Export Project (Ln.
1988-CY, US$6.5M), started in 1981, was intended to complement previous Bank
investments in the sector by providing credit and technical assistance and
strengthening marketing arrangements for promoting exports of fruits and
vegetables, but it has not yet been fully effectivz in achieving its
objectives. The Khrysokhou Irrigation Project (KIP) (Ln. 2279-CY, US$16 M)
will provide irrigation on about 2,100 ha in Western Cyprus; construction
started in 1984 and is expected to be completed early in 1988. The Southern
Conveyor Project for Water Resources Development (Phase I) (Ln. 2386-CY,
US$27.0) started in late 1984 and is ongoing (paras 6.07-6.11). The latest
project undertaken so far, the Agricultural Research and Extension Project
(Ln. 2509-CY, US$7.0 M) was declared effective in March 1986, but
implementation has been delayed as a result of Government's decision to
restructure the project (para 3.14).
The Fruit and Vegetable Export Project
3.13     The Fruit and Vegetable Export Project was originally designed to
help increase production and export of fruits, vegetables and wine through a
line of credit and technical assistance to implement a comprehensive export
strategy. As relatively high interest rates and bureaucratic procedures
caused farmers to search for al:ernative credit sources, the project was
restructured in 1985 limiting the line of credit to specific investments:
on-farm development, wineries, and vegetable cooling facilities aimed at
larger farmers and industrialists. Funds for on-farm development, which had
been substantially reduced, have now been fully committed, and demand for
loans is increasing. A credit for one winery has recently been granted. The
government has recently started a multimedia promotion campaign and test
marketing operations. Delays in the marketing promotion component were caused
by an extensive dialogue between all parties concerned about the role of the
government in fruit and vegetable marketing, and the need for alternative
marketing arrangements. That discussion has led the Government to give more
importance to market forces, while showing a willingness to assist the farmers
to organize longer term arrangements with exporters.
The Agricultural Research and Extension Project
3.14     The project, which became effective in March 1986, aims primarily at
strengthening and improving coordination among the institutions involved in



- 8 -
providing research and extension services within the MANR. A Project Unit and
an Agricultural Research and Extension Council are to be established; the
former to coordinate project execution and the latter to formulate national
policies and priorities for research and extension with a subcommittee to
develop and superv 3e resultant programs. The Extension Section of the DOA is
to be redefined and given a clearer role in t'he coordination of national
extension programs, while research facilities are to be expanded. Project
implementation has been delayed because MOF has required that MANR make
substantial reductions in the infrastructural and staffing aspects ei the
project and reduce total costs by about 50%. This has been accomplished by
eliminating subcomponents for fisheries and livestock, reducing the civil
works program for research and extension components, and reducing staff
recruitment both for research and extension components. While this will
constrain the scope of extension activities it is believed that staff levels
will permit provision of fully adequate services to irrigated areas which will
be given priority. Following approval by Parliament of the revised
recruitment plan and the 1988 budget for the project, implementation is
expected to begin in early 1988.
IV. DOMESTIC WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE
A. Water Supply and Sewerage Services
4.01     Most of Cyprus' urban and rural areas are provided with p4ped water
supply. Water quality is good and generally meets WHO standards for drinking
water. However, since Cyprus has a water shortage, water rationing is often
resorted to in years with below average rainfall. This water scarcity,
together with the high cost of developing the few remaining water resources,
have induced a general awareness, in both Government and Water Boards, of the
need for conservinp water by reducing inefficiencies. These measures,
together with those of tariff increases for full cost recovery, have resulted
in a comparatively low per capita water consumption.
4.02     Nicosia is the only city with sewerage and sewage treatment
facilities. In the remaining urban centers, excluding major hotels, which
have on-site sewage treatment package plants, sewage is disposed of in situ
through septic tanks and percolation pits or retained in holding tanks for
eventual disposal on land at designated areas. Although sewec;t systems have
been designed for Limassol and Larnaca towns and a feasibility study carried
out for Ayia Napa and Paralimni tourist areas, implementation of these
projects now appears to be experiencing extensive delays (para. 4.04).
B. Cost Recovery Policies
4.03     The Government eliminated its subsidies to bulk domestic water in
1981.   Under Loan 2386-CY, WDD agreed to unify bulk water tariffs in the
project area as soon as SCPI would be completed. WDD advanced implementation
of a unified tariff to November 1, 1985, except for some small isolated
systems. Retail water tariffs are regulated by the Water Supply Law of 1951,
which requires Water Boards and Village Water Commissions to set their rates
at levels sufficient to cover all operating costs and debt service. Water



- 9 -
Boards' and Village Water Commissions' retail water tariffs d::fferentiate
among domestic, commercial and administration, hotel and ind-actrial, and ships
customers; except for ships, these tariffs are progressive according to
consumption. Annex 4, T-1 shows the retail tariffs for the Water Boards of
Nicosia, Larnaca and Limassol. The progressive tariffs support Government
policies aimed at ensuring affordability for the less affluent domestic
customers (who account for about 60% of domestic consumption), while creating
an incentive for water conservation among the high consumers. WDD reviews
annually the bulk domestic water rates and proposes tariff increases through
the MANR to the Council of Ministers for approval. The Water Boards and
Village Water Commissions submit their proposed retail water rate increases to
the Ministry of Interior. The Ministry of Interior, after canvassing the
views of other Ministries and of the Committee on Retail Prices (composed of
representatives of the public and private sectors), makes recommendations to
the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, which in turn makes recommendations to
the Council of Ministers. Since May 1, 1985, retail water rates are subject
to ratification by the House of Representatives (Law No. 51/85 of May 31,
1985).
C. Bank Involvement in the Water Supply and Sewerage Sector
4.04     Bank involvement in the water supply and sewerage sector was
initiated in 1971 and has so far included the following projects: (i) Nicosia
Seweraae Project (Loan 729-CY, US$3.5 million, signed April 5, 1971); (ii)
Famagusta Sewerage and Drainage Project (Loan 730-CY, US$1.9 million, signed
April 5, 1971); and (iii) Limassol Sewerage and Drainage Project (Loan
2411-CY, US$16.8 million, signed May 31, 1984. The first two projects
provided for sewage collection and disposal fracilities and were well advanced
when the events of 1974 took place. The Famagusta project was suspended while
the Nicosia project was successfully completed in 1980. The 1981 Project
Performance Audit Report for the latter project recognized the institutional
development resulting from the project. The Bank loan for the Limassol
Sewerage and Drainage Project (Ln. 2411-CY) was cancelled on Government's
request in March 1987 due to disagreements between the local and central
governments over a firm financing plan and difficulties with the selection of
a site for the plant.
V. THE SOUTHERN CONVEYOR PROJECT AREA
A. Location and Basic Infrastructure
5.01     The SCP area covers Nicosia and about 150 km of the southern coastal
strip (map IBRD 20379). The area is located in the administrative districts
of Limassol, Larnaca, Famagusta and Nicosia and is well serviced by roads,
harbors and airports. The four areas proposed for irrigation development in
SCPII, totaling 4,335 ha, are scattered along the main conveyor alignment.
2121Cp9



- 10 -
B. Population Projections
5.02     Based on the 1982 Census of Housing, the total project area
population was then about 435,000, which represented about 752 of the total
population in the Government-controlled part of Cyprus, including the
Turkish-Cypriot population in Nicosia and F2rmagusta. Of this population about
323,000 resided in Nicosia, Limassol, and Larnaca, and about 112,000 lived in
rural areas. In addition, there are those residing in the two UK Sovereign
Base Areas and foreign tourists. Tourist population in the project area is
concentrated in the coastal towns of Limassol and Larnaca and in Ayia Napa
Improvement District; such seasonal population increase varied from about
300,000 in 1982 to over 600,000 in 19F and 1985 and is projected to increase
to about one million by 2010.
5.03     Population projections for the SCP area have been based on annual
population growth rates of 1.6% for 1982-1990; 1.1% for 1991-2000, and 0.7%
for 2001-2010; they are presented in Annex 2, T-1, and summarized below:
Table 5.1: POPULATION PROJECTIONS"a
(in'000)
SCP      SCP        SCP       Cyprus        SCP as a
Year   Towns   Villages   Total        Total        % of Total
1982    323        112       435        577             75
1990    367        126       493        624             79
1995    387        134       521        646             81
2000    408        141       349        670             82
2010    438        151       589        713             83
/a       Includes Turkish-Cypriot population in Nicosia and Famagusta, which
is estimated to represent about 127 of the total population in the
project areas.
C. Soils and Climate
5.04     The water table is generally well below the soil surface and
artificial drainage is not necessary. The selection of project irrigation
areas has been directed towards the most suitable land, and despite the need
to delineate reasonably compact blocks for irrigation, Class I and II lands
account for 73X. Given good management, all land classes suitable for
irrigation have reasonably good fertility, i.e., are capable of producing
sustained high yields for a wide range of crops. The principal nroblem is
trace element nonavailability associated with a calcareous reaction. Except
Parekklisha, which has undulating terrain, the project area is generally level
or only slightly sloping.
5.05     The project area has an extreme Mediterranean climate characterized
by two main seasons--hot dry summers from June to September, and rainy winters
from November to March. The climate is influenced by the Troodos Massif. The



- 11 -
average annual precipitation increases with elevation up the south western
windward slopes of the mountains from less than 500 mm at the coast to nearly
1,200 mm on the peaks. Frosts are rarely severe except in isolated pockets,
but can seriously jeopardize the production of early vegetables and potatoes
in certain years. The planting of windbreaks is a necessary practice,
particularly for vegetables and tree crops, in view of the quite strong winds
that occur.
D. Water Resources
5.06     The catchments located in the western part of the project area have a
surplus of water, while those in the eastern part are much drier and
experience water deficit. The most important catchments in the project area
are the Kouris, Dhiarizos, Khapotami and Yermasoyia catchments, totaling
610 kM2, with a combined mean annual runoff of 143 MCM, of which some 65 MCM
will be available to the SCP.
5.07     Within the project area, there are three major aquifers, each
extending over an area in excess of 40 km2 (Akrotiri, Kiti and
Kokkinokhoria), and seven other recognizable aquifers, ranging in extent from
1 to 30 km2. The water balance of several of these aquifers is precarious,
with sea water intrusion gradually increasing; the Kokkinokhoria aquifer is in
a particularly dire situation due to overexploitation. For this reason, in
order to substitute groundwater with surface water without delay, absolute
priority was given in SCPI to the conveyance of water to this area, even
though it is located at the extremity of the main conveyor.
E. Agriculture and Irrigation
Agricultural Use of Land
5.08     In the low lands the main differentiation relates to water
availability. There are four basic categories of land use: (i) rainfed
croppinp. principally of cereals and tree crops; (ii) seasonally irrigated
cropping. often in rotation with rainfed crops usually including potatoes and
vegetables; (iii) perennially irrigated orchards, mostly citrus and some table
grapes; and (iv) fallow. Specialization in the production of irrigated crops
already occurs in many areas, notably Kokkinokhoria (spring potatoes) and
Akrotiri (citrus). Livestock plays a significant role in the lowlands, but is
increasingly concentrated in specialized units. Present land use in SCP is
shown in Annex 1, T-7.
Lad Tenure and Farm Size
5.09     Farm holdings throughout the project area are generally small and
fragmented. The average size of holdings benefitting from irrigation is
2.4 ha in Akrotiri, 3.7 ha in Kokkinokhoria, and 9.1 ha in the
Kiti/Mazotos/Parekklisha areas. Without irrigation, these farms are usually
too small to provide a livelihood to a full-time farming family. Families are
reluctant to sell the land they own; people taking up employment outside the
sector usually continue part-time farming, or lease out small plots to other



- 12 -
farmers. Absentee ownership is increasing. In irrigation programs land
consolidation measures are increasingly adopted. The number of farmers
directly involved in the project is about 4,000, 9% of the total number of
farmers in Cyprus, of whom about 3,000 are in Kokkinokhoria, 280 in
Kiti/Mazotos/Parekklisha, and 720 in Akrotiri.
Existing and Potential Lrrigation Development
5.10     Since 1966, a number of irrigation schemes have been developed, or
are in the process of being developed along the SCP alignment. The most
important ones are (map IBRD 20379): (i) The Yermasoyia-Polemidhia project,
irrigating some 2,000 ha west of Limassol in the Trakhoni-Phasouri area;
(ii) The VPP, recently completed with Bank assistance (Loan 1658-CY)
(para. 3.12); (iii) The Kiti Project, a surface irrigation system of concrete
canals, supplied from Kiti reservoir and commanding 660 ha. The reservoir now
principally provides groundwater recharge, while the canal system has fallen
into disrepair and has been completely abandoned; and (iv) The Kokkinokhoria
Irrigation System (9,125 ha), presently being implemented under SCPI
(para. 6.07). Additional irrigation potential in other coastal areas exceeds
20,000 ha. At full development of SCP, there will be sufficient water to
irrigate only about 3,000 ha of this. The selected areas for development
under SCPII include the Akrotiri, Parekklisha, Mazotos and Kiti areas. Parts
of these areas are already irrigated at present: 840 ha in Akrotiri by
groundwater and spate irrigation and 80 ha, 20 ha and 390 ha by groundwater in
Parekklisha, Mazotos and Kiti, respectively.
Present Crop Production
5.11     Rainfed cropping under existing farming practices consists mainly of
cereals interspersed with tree crops. Rainfed farming in the project areas of
Akrotiri, Parekklisha, Mazotos and Kiti accounts for 52%, 60% and 692,
respectively. The principal crops on irrigated lands are vegetables, tomatoes
and citrus, and artichokes in the case of Kiti. In Kokkinokhoria, spring and
autumn grown potatoes account for 74% of the agricultural area.
Labor Avaiabiity
5.12     Part-time farming is of major significance in Cyprus.  The last
agricultural census (1977) showed that 54% of all agricultural workers had an
additional off-farm occupation, though in most cases they continue to reside
in their villages. For most of these part-time farmers (94%), off-farm
employment represents their main occupation. The principal factor encouraging
this trend is the system of land inheritance which results in ever decreasing
units. The practice of "renting-in" is commonly practiced by full-time
farmers to provide an economic unit relative to labor and capital
availability. Relatively few women are employed off the farm and,
consequently, women now provide the majority of the agricultural labor force.
This requires a special response from the agricultural extension service if
improved technologies are to be promoted, and is provided for under the
Agricultural Research and Extension Project (paras. 3.14 and 5.16).



- 13 -
Agricultural Research
5.13     Facilities for undertaking agricultural research are reasonably
developed and are concentrated in the Agricultural Research Institute (ARI) at
Athalassa near Nicosia. There are two renearch substations especially
concerned with irrigated agriculture--the 26 ha Akhelia Horticultural Research
Station near Paphos and the more recently established 7 ha site at Ziyyi near
Larnaca, developed in conjunction with VPP. At these stations, applied
research focuses especially on citrus and other fruit trees and vegetables.
5.14     ARI is well managed and is the only organization in Cyprus authorized
to conduct agricultural research. There are currently 40 professionals and 73
technicians employed at the institute. However, ARI is overextended and needs
modernizing to address the challenges of the future, particularly the
production of borticultural products destined for export to the highly
sophisticated and competitive markets of Europe or to markets in the Arab Gulf
countries. This need will be addressed through the Agricultural Research and
Extension Project (para. 3.14).
Extension Service
5.15     Extension services are provided by the DOA which operates out of six
District Agricultural Offices (DAOs) located in Nicosia, Agros, Paphos,
Limassol, Larnaca and Famagusta with a staff complement of 129 professionals
and 263 technicians, about half of whom in each category being stationed in
the field. DOA has subdivided the six districts of the country along
administrative boundaries into a total of 32 agricultural extension "beats"
and has assigned a general agricultural extension officer to each one of these
beats. They report to the Senior District Agriculture Officer of their duty
station and are, to a large degree, dependent upon Subject Matter Specialists
stationed in the districts and at headquarters for technical assistance and
advice.
5.16     Under the Agricultural Research and Extension Project (para. 3.14)
the role of extension will be redefined. Regulatory and statistical
activities of the extension service will be reduced, permitting it to focus
more specifically on its role as a channel of communication between farmers
and research. Additional staffing needs will be met by limited additional
recruitment and reorganization and reassignment within MANR to fill already
established positions. Greater emphasis will be placed on training staff as
communicators to meet the needs of farmers. These needs are affected by such
phenomena as (i) the large proportion of farmers who run their agricultural
holdings as part-time operations which results, firstly, in their availability
to receive extension advice being limited to evening time and, secondly, in
the dominance of women in the day-to-day running of holdings and the need for
extension to adjust its communication practices to this fact; (ii) the
increasing sophistication of Cypriot farmers calling for an appropriately
responsive extension service; (iii) the need for whole farm planning as
against advice on a commodity basis; (iv) the expansion of irrigated
agriculture; and (v) the demands of increasingly competitive markets, calling
for rapid changes in production practices. In the longer term, however, it is
foreseen that an increasing role for the private sector must develop to meet
the needs of farmers for high level technical advice on specific crops and
production situations.



- 14 -
F. Domestic Water Supply
Existing facilities and Service
5.17     IBRD Map 20379 sbows the main sources of existing water supply.
Generally, the project area is served by springs, boreholes and surface water
reservoirs developed by the WDD. There are only two water treatment plants
(Khirokitia and Kornos) which treat waters from reservoirs; these systems are
well-operated and maintained.: Virtually all the population in urban and rural
areas is served by piped water supplies. The water supply service in Nicosia
and Larnaca has for some years, particularly during the summer season, been
intermittent; the Limassol water supply system which has been plentiful is now
approaching its maximum production capacity.
Water Demand
5.18     The per capita urban area water demand projections are based on the
assumption that household consumption will increase about 1% p.a., from 130
liters per capita per day (lcd) in 1982 to 160 lcd in 2010, which is
reasonable when compared to a projected annual 4% growth in GNP.  The
industrial and commercial water consumption averages about 16% of domestic
water consumed and is estimated to increase at a rate of 2.3% per year.  The
;'unaccounted-for water" is assumed to decrease gradually from the present
level of about 252 to about 20% by 2010, in view of the ongoing measures taken
by Water Boards to reduce it. Water consumption for tourism is added
separately and is assumed to remain constant at 500 lcd. In rural areas, the
household water consumption, which also includes small commercial and
industrial consumption, has been assumed to vary from 105 lcd in 1982 to 145
lcd in 2010. Unaccounted for water in these areas is low and is assumed to
remain constant at about 16% of demand, which is reasonable. These per capita
water demand projections are shown in the table below:
Table 5.2: PER CAPITA WATER DEMAND
Per Capita Water Demand (lcd)
1982     1990      2000     2010
1. Urban Areas
(Nicosia, Larnaca and Limassol towns)
- Household                               130       140      155       160
- Industry/Commerce                        20        25       30        38
- Unaccounted for                          50        55       55        52
Total Demand              200       220      240       250
2. Rural Areas
(Nicosia, Larnaca and Limassol villages)
- Household                               105       120      135       145
- Unaccounted for                          20        24       27        29
Total Demand              125       144      162       174
3. Famagusta Area
- Household                               125       140      155       160
- Unaccounted for                          25        28       30        32
Total Demand              150       168      185       192



- 15 -
5.19     Projections through the year 2010 of domestic, tourist and industrial
water demands for the SCP area, i.e., Nicosia, Limassol, Larnaca and Famagusta
areas are given in Annex 2, T-2. A comparison of total projected water
demands in the SCP area and corresponding sources of supply, including SCP
sources, are given in Annex 2,T-3. Projected water demands, but excluding SCP
sources of supply, are summarized below:
Table 5.3: PROJECTED WATER SUPPLY AND DEMAND~&A
Projected Water    Non-SCP Water    Supply
Year       Demand             Supply         Deficit
…M___---_-----------MCM/a…------------
1982        34.4               30.9            3.5
1986        38.1               38.1            _ /b
1990        45.1               33.6            11.5
1995        49.8                25.9          23.9
2000        54.4               26.0           28.4
2005        57.9                26.0          31.9
2010        60.9                26.0          34.9
La For Nicosia, Limassol, Larnaca and Famagusta Areas.
/b VPP Project is placed in service.
5.20     These figures show that in 1986, when the VPP project is
commissioned, t:here would be an adequate supply only for a short period and
deficits from 1990 onwards are consist.-it'y large. Deficits up to the year
2000 can be met with the SCP; deficits be)ond the year 2000 will require other
sources of supply.
VI. THE SCP AND STATUS OF SCPI IMPLENMEATION
A. Overall Objectives
6.01     SCP, when fully developed, will collect and store unused water from
the southern catchment areas of the island, and convey it to areas of demand
for both domestic water supply and irrigation. In total, SCP will provide an
incremental water supply of about 65 MCM/a.
6.02     The main SCP objectives at full development would be:
(i)    to secure a safe domestic water supply, until at least through
the year 2000, for the four areas of major population
concentration (Nicosia, Limassol, Larnaca and Fa.nagusta) and
adjacent villages, which together, represent about 75% (435,000)
of the present population of the Greek part of the island, and
is projected to increase to 83% (589,000) by 2010; water will
also continue to be provided to the Turkish Cypriots in Nicosia
and Famagusta, whose consumption is estimated at 12% of total
consumption in the project area;



- 16 -
(ii)    to provide irrigation water to maintain the present agricultural
production on a gross area of 9,125 ha in Kokkinokhoria and
1,330 ha in four other areas along the southern coast of the
island, and also to extend irrigated agriculture on about
3,000 ha gross; and
(iii)    to implement policies and take institutional measures to improve
overall cost recovery through increased revenues, to further
enhance the efficient use of both domestic and irrigation water,
and to establish an integrated institutional framework to ensure
the efficient use of water resources and the uniform application
of policy measures.
6.03     During the 1983 appraisal of the SCP, it was decided to implement the
project in two phases. The justification for phasing was two-fold. First,
since the net marginal product of domestic water is higher than that of
irrigation water, phasing the investments in accordance with the build-up of
demand for domestic water assists in maximizing the economic return of the
full project. Second, phasing allows the large overall investment of about
US$340 million to be stretched over a longer period.
B. SCP Components at Full Development
6.04     The SCP, at full development, will be comprised of the following
components implemented under SCPI and SCPII:
Development
Phase
(i)    Kouris reservoir (gross storage capacity 115 MCM);             SCPI
(ii)    Dhiarizos diversion, conveying water from the
Dhiarizos river to Kouris reservoir;                         SCPII
(iii)    main conveyor, a 110 km long pipeline, including a
connection with the VPP;                                      SCPI
(iv)    Akhna terminal reservoir (gross storage capacity
5.8 MCM);                                                     SCPI
(v)    pressurized irrigation distribution networks:
(a) 9,125 ha in Kokkinokhoria                                 SCPI
(b) 4,335 ha in Akrotiri, Parekklisha, Mazotos and Kiti;  SCPII
(vi)    domestic water supply works, composed of:
the Limassol and Tersephanou water treatment
plarnts, Tersephanou-Nicosia water main and pumping
station, and about 20 village water supply schemes; and   SCPII
(vii)    central control system.                                        SCPI
6.05     The staff appraisal report for the SCPI lists, as one of the
components of the SCP, a tertiary sewage treatment plant at Limassol as a
source for additional water supply for irrigation. It was anticipated that
this plant would provide tertiary treatment to the effluent of the Limassol
sewage treatment plant, which the Bank agreed to finance in May 1984 as part
of the Limassol Sewage and Drainage Project (Loan 2411-CY). However, this
project has been delayed considerably due to the Government's inability to
secure a site for the sewage treatment plant. Government has decided to
cancel this loan (para. 4.04); hence, there is no need for a tertiary
treatment plant for the time being.



- 17 -
C. SCP Cost and SCPI Costs and Finan¢ein
6.06     The full SCP requires an implementation period of about ten years.
The total SCP cost, including physical and price contingencies, is £C 169.0 M
(US$341.7 M), of which £C 74.2 M (US$150.3 M) represent local cost and
£C 94.5 M (US$191.4 M) foreign cost. An updated cost estimate for SCPI is
given in Annex 1, T-1. SCPI is estimated to cost about US$178 M equivalent
upon completion (of which, about US$101 M in foreign cost), about 10 less
than the 1983 appraisal estimate of US$202 M, largely due to a reduction in
the cost of Kouris dam, from US$72 M at appraisal to US$41 M. The Bank is
contributing about 27b (US$27 M) toward the foreign exchange cost of SCPI; the
Bank loan is being used for the Kouris Dam (57X) the Akhna nam (92) and
consultants (34%). Cofinancing was secured for the remaining foreign costs:
the European Investment Bank is contributing about 271 (US$24 M), and the
Kuwai. Fund 11% (US$10 M), while suppliers' credits (US$28 M) will account for
the remaining 322.
D. Status of SCPI Implementation
6.07     Overall, progress with SCPI  implementation is satisfactory.
Disbursements on World Bank Loaa 2386-CY (US$27.0 M) for SCPI amounted to
about US$11.0, or 41% by November 30, 1987. Most project components are
expected to be completed either on schedule or earlier (Chart C-2). The only
exception is the Kokkinokhoria irrigation scheme, which will. be delayed by
about eight months because the Government decided to extend the irrigation
distribution network from 5,125 ha to 9,125 ha, although the area actually
irrigated in any one year will remain at 5,125 ha. The ptrpose of this change
in scope was to (i) distribute the benefits from irrigation to a larger number
of beneficiaries; and (ii) protect all lands with permanent crops (citrus)
from destruction because of a deter'-orating aquifer (para. 8.16). However,
the total water supply to the area will remain unchanged so that, on average,
otnly about 60% of the area will be irrigated.
6.08     By November 30, 1987 both the Akhna Dam and the maiu conveyor had
been substantially completed. At that time the Kouris Dam had been completed
for about 75% and initial filling of the reservoir had started. The
Kokkinokhoria irrigation networks are under construction and first irrigation
water deliveries in this area are scheduled for spring 1988; full completion
is scheduled before the 1990 irrigation season.
6.09     One existing village and 77 ha of neighboring agricultural land will
eventually be inundated by Kouris Reservoir, affecting 53 families. The
Government's resettlement plan includes (i) detailed survey and evaluation of
lands and property; (ii) construction of a new village with all necessary
social infrastructure; and (iii) provision of agricultural land for irrigation
and livestock. The settlement plan appears adequate and well managed and its
execution is on schedule. The new village has practically been completed and
most affected families have already been resettled. The distribution of new
land is still on-going. Total Government expenditure per family for new house
construction and provision of land will average about £C 45,000.



- 18 -
6.10     The implementation of some of the institutional aspects of SCPI is
delayed, such as the study to determine appropriate institutional reform for
water development and management (para. 8.01).
VII. THE PHASE II PROJECT (SCPU)
A. General
Project Rationale and Objectives
7.01     In 1983, it was decided, in view of the large investment and lengthy
construction period involved, to implement the SCP in two phases. Neither
phase, however, can be considered in isolation, either technically or
economically, as distinct from the complete SCP. The SCPII, therefore, would
complement the investments being made under SCPI in order to achieve the
overall objectives of the SCP (para. 6.02). As the Kouris dam and main
conveyor will be able to commence water deliveries in 1988, timely
commencement of the complimentary infrastructure under SCPII is of the utmost
importance, in order not to endanger the economic viability of the overall
project. Realizing this, the Government and the Bank had, therefore, already
agreed during negotiations for SCPI to start implementation of SCPII no later
than December 1987. Given the satisfactory physical progress of SCPI
(para. 6.08), and especially since some of the main components are ahead of
schedule, it has become urgent to make preparations for the financing and
implementation of SCPII.
Poject Seope
7.02     The proposed project would be the second phase of the SCP and would
consist of the following main components:
(i)    water resources development, consisting of the construction of
the Dhiarizos diversion, conveying water from the Dhiarizos
river through a pressurized pipeline (1.6 km) and tunnel
(14.5 km) to the Kouris reservoir;
(ii)    irrigation development, consisting of the construction of
pressurized irrigation distribution networks in the Akrotiri,
Parekklisha, Mazotos and Kiti areas, covering a gross area of
4,335 ha;
(iii)    on-farm development, including provision of on-farm irrigation
systems and establishment of fruit trees and greenhouses through
medium-term credit;
(iv)    domestic water supply, consisting of the Limassol and
Tersephanou water treatment plants, the Tersephanou-Nicosia
water main and pumping station, and about 20 rural water supply
schemes;
(v)    operation and maintenance and miscellaneous equipment; and
(vi)    technical services and training, consisting of consulting
services and study tours.



- 19 -
B. Detailed Features
Water Resources Development
7.03     The yield of the catchment area upstream of Ko'uris reservoir would
not be sufficient to supply the total SCP demand. Therefore, water would be
diverted from the adjacent Dhiarizos river basin to che Kouris reservoir. Out
of an annual average flow in the Dhiarizos river of about 32 MCM, some
20.5 MCM would be diverted from November to March.
7.04     The Dhiarizos diversion would comprise of:  (i) the Arminou weir with
off-take structure on the Dhiarizos river (15 m long and rising 4.5 m above
the river bed); (ii) a 1.6 km long ductile iron pipeline, 1.6 m in diameter.
connecting the Arminou weir off-take with the tunnel entrance; (iii) a 14.5 km
long concrete-lined tunnel of 2.5 m diameter; and (iv) an outlet structure
through which water would spill into the Kryos river, a tributary of the
Kouris river.
hTi*ation Development
7.05     Prolect Areas.  The four areas proposed for irrigation development
cover a gross area of 4,335 ha, of which some 1,330 ha are already irrigated,
mostly from groundwater, but in Akrotiri also through spate irrigation. The
existing irrigated areas are uniformly spread out, in small patches, over the
project areas. The proposed irrigation network will, therefore, cover the
entire gross area delineatee, i.e., the existing irrigated areas plus the new
areas to be irrigated, which are now rainfed.
Table 7.1: PROJECT AREA DETAILS
Existing              New                  Total
Irrigation          Irrigated             Areas                Project
Scheme              Area                to be                 Areas
Irrigated
-----ha (gross)-        ---
Akrotiri                840                 915                1,755
Parekklisha             80                  240                  320
Mazotos                  20                 640                  660
Kiti                    390               1,210                1,600
Total        1,330                3,005                4,335



- 20 -
7.06     Irrigation Infrastructure.  Each irrigation scheme will be connected
to the main conveyor pipeline through one or more conveyor branches supplying
a total of 11 night storage reservoirs which will store the conveyor flow
during the night. From these reservoirs, water will be distributed to the
farms during 16 hours of daytime. Each reservoir will also act as a pressure
balancing tank and desilting basin. From the reservoirs, pipe distribution
networks will deliver water under pressure to hydrants at the head of the
irrigation units. The pipes used in the network will be of asbestos-cement
(AC) for diameters of 150 mm and larger and of PVC for diameters smaller than
150 mm. Each hydrant will have one to four outlets, each outlet serving one
irrigation unit. Each outlet will be provided with a filter, flow limiting
device, flow meter and pressure regulator. Delivery to the farm plots, not
exceeding 2.5 ha and, at maximum, three per irrigation unit, would be through
a farm outlet, connected to the hydrant through a farm line of PVC pipe.
Also, each farm outlet will be provided with a water meter. The irrigation
network of SCPII will be designed to deliver water on demand.
7.07     Land Consolidation and Farm Roads.  Out of the 4,335 ha covered by
the project, 2,310 ha (532) are planned to benefit from land consolidation.
Initial contacts have shown a favorable response from the 14 villages
concerned. The remaining areas would not be consolidated due to the presence
of Turkish-Cypriot properties and/or tree plantations. In the consolidated
areas, about 74 km of new farm roads would be constructed; and in the
nonconsolidated area 30 km; these 5 m-wide roads would be surfaced with gravel.
On-Farm Development
7.08     On-farm Irrigation Systems.  The establishment of on-farm irrigation
systems and the other two elements of this component (paras. 7.09 and 7.10)
represent investments to be undertaken by the farmers themselves, with the
assistance of loans to be provided by the CCB and CCSs (para. 8.09). Mainly,
two modern irrigation systems would be used for water application on the
farms. About 1,415 ha are expected to be provided with minisprinkler systems,
and about 2,760 ha with trickle systems. The selection of the system to be
used would be left to the farmers and as advised by the extension service.
Generally, these systems are comprised of polyethylene pipes with
minisprinklers or drippers.
7.09     Planting of Tree Crops.  The establishment costs of fruit trees and
covered vegetables (low tunnels) have also been included in the project costs
for on-farm development; these crops will cover about 622 and 15Z,
respectively, of the total irrigated area.
7.10     Greenhouses and Walk-in Tuxuiels.  Given the success of the greenhouse
component under the Fruit and Vegetable Export Project (Ln. 1988-CY), the
project will promote the establishment of 50 ha of greenhouses. Two types
will be included:  (i) greenhouses of approximately 1,000 m 2, and (ii) high,
walk-in plastic tunnels of the multispan type, constructed of galvanized iron
pipe. This type of investment package will be made available to about 350
growers.
DomesUc Water Swply
7.11     Water Treatment Plants.  The Limassol water treatment plant will be
sized to produce, initially, 40,000 M3/day with provisions for expansion to



- 21 -
80,000 M3/day. Similarly, the Tersephanou water treatment plant will be
sized for an initial capacity of 50,000 M3/day with provisions for expansion
to 90,000 M3/day. Both plants will be provided with aeration, flocculatika,
coagulation, sedimentation, filtration, disinfection, filtered water
reservoir, and filter's backwash water recovery system.
7.12     Tersephanou-Nicosia Pipeline and Pumping Station.  The pipeline will
convey water from the Tersephanou water treatment plant to Nicosia and will
consist of 29.4 km of 700 mm diameter and 6.1 km of 800 mm diameter ductile
iron pipes, a balancing reservoir at Dhali, and a booster pumping station
sized to deliver about 40,000 M3/day.
7.13     Village Water Supply Schemes.  A total of about 20 village water
supply schemes will be constructed in the Nicosia District and the Limassol
District. These systems will be supplied from the SCP domestic water supply
systems at Limasso' and Tersephanou-Nicosia pipeline, and will consist of
small size asbestos-cement and PVC pipes and accessories, and distribution
reservoirs where required.
o & M and MisceUaneous Equipment
7.14     The project will provide equipment for the operation and maintenance
of the irrigation distribution networks in the SCP, VPP and KIP (including
vehicles, motorcycles, heavy equipment, and computer systems) and some
materials and equipment for the Land Consolidation Department.
Technical Services and Training
7.15     Technical Services.  Provision is made in the project for consultant
services as follows:
(i)    assistance in construction supervision.  The related costs for
preparation of detailed designs and bid documents are being
financed from Loan 2386-CY for SCPI. However, the consulting
services (about 190 man-months) required for construction
supervision would be financed under the project. Such services,
to be provided under the existing contract with Energoprojekt
(Yugoslavia), would include the provision of a resident engineer
and tunneling engineer for the Dhiarizos diversion, a resident
engineer for the irrigation works, and engineering services for
the water supply components; and
(ii)    short-term specialists (about 35 man months) for the panels of
experts for the Dhiarizos diversion and the system operation
studies (para 7.16), and to assist the WDD with: (a) improving
the existing mathematical models for the project's aquifers;
(b) undertaking studies for the reuse of treated sewage;
(c) preparing a bid document for supply of computers, software
and training in O&M data processing and computerized customer
billing and collection; (d) preparing a feasibility study for
the Ezousa river water diversion; (e) implementing institutional
reforms for better water development planning and management;
and (f) technical expertibe required for specific, yet
unforeseen, implementation problems.



- 22 -
The average costs of the short-term consultants, to the extent they are not
covered under the existing consultants' contract, were estimated at about
US$18,000 per man-month, including fees, overheads, international travel and
subsistence. Assurances were obtained during loan negotiations that the
engineering and other consultants would be engaged on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank.
7.16     Panels of Experts.  Assurances were obtained during negotiations that
two panels of experts would be retained: (i) a panel to inspect the tunnelling
works for the Dhiarizos diversion at least twice a year in view of anticipated
difficult geological conditions along the alignment of the tunnel and provide
advice on design and construction methods, and; (ii) a panel to assist WDD
with the system operation studies (paras. 8.15 - 8.18).
7.17     Training.  Two senior engineers of WDD associated with SCPII are
scheduled to visit southern Europe to study, inter a'ia, automated system
operation and financial management. Two other senior engineers will visit the
USA to study system management and, in particular, the conjunctive use of
surface water and groundwater.
C. Water Supp!y and Demand
7.18     The following table summarizes the water balance for the SCP:
Table 7.2: SCP WATER BALANCE FOR 'NORMAL" YEAR
(in MCM/a)
supply                                 Demand
Kouris Reservoir:                        Domestic Water Supply:            26.2
Kouris River                   43.0    lndustrial Water Supply:           2.0
Dhiarizos Diversion            22.0    Irrigation:
Polemidhia Reservoir              5.0      Kokkinokhoria                   17.5
Akrotiri Aquifer                 10.0      Kiti, Mazotos, Parekklisha    10.6
Akrotiri                       11.3
Trakhoni-Phasouri                12.4
80.0                                     80.0
Further details are provided in Annex 1, T-8.  The above water balance
includes the Trakhoni-Phasouri area adjacent to the Akrotiri irrigation
scheme, and also the Polemidhia reservoir, which partly supplies this area.
The Trakhoni-Phasouri area, upon completion of the Kouris dam, will face a
reduction in its groundwater supply from Akrotiri aquifer (from 10 MCM/a to
6 MCM/a), and will therefore receive, in addition to its supply from the
Polemidhia system (increased to 5.0 MCM/a), supplementary water from the
Kouris reservoir (1.4 MCM/a). Annex 1, T-8 takes into account the likelihood



- 23 -
that, during dry years, the water supply to the irrigation areas may be
restricted. This applies in particular to the growing of summer vegetables
and groundnuts. The SCP supply to meet domestic water demand (26.2 MCM/a) has
been kept constant for the year 2000 and beyond in anticipation of other
projects that would make additional resources available for domestic water
supply.
D. Status of Endneering
7.19     Bidding documents for the Limassol water treatment plant have been
issued. Draft bidding documents for the Tersephanou water treatment plant and
revised final designs and bidding documents for the Dhiarizos d5version are
under preparation, as well as draft final designs and bidding documents for
the Akrotiri irrigation scheme. Designs for the Kiti, Mazotos and Parekklisha
schemes are available on the feasibility study level. Final designs and
bidding documents for the Tersephanou-Nicosia pipeline and pumping station are
being prepared by WDD.
E. Inplementation Schedule
7.20     SCPII is scheduled to be implemented over a seven-year period, from
late 1987 through 1994. The bidding documents for the Dhiarizos diversion are
scheduled to be issued early 1988, and the construction contract is
anticipated to be awarded later in the year. The implementation of the
Akrotiri irrigation scheme was started late 1987. The implementation of the
Parekklisha, Mazotos and Kiti irrigation schemes is scheduled to commence one
to three years later, in vi:ew of local funding and staff constraints. The
contract for the Limassol water treatment plant is expected to be awarded by
mid-1988. Construction of the Tersephanou water treatment plant, the
Tersephanou-Nicosia conveyor and the village water supply works are scheduled
to commence mid 1989. In view of the guarantee periods for the various items
of equipment financed by the Bank, final payment from the Bank loan may extend
into 1995. The implementation chart of the project works is shown in chart
C-2. Assurances were obtained during loan negotiations that key project
activities will be implemented according to the Action Plan shown in Annex 7.
F. Cost Estimates
7.21     Cost estimates for SCPII are based on the quantities of work for each
component computed by the consultants or WDD, and were reviewed during
appraisal. The unit costs were based on detailed cost analysis and
information obtained on similar works recently tendered in Cyprus and adjusted
to represent January 1987 price levels. A fact.or of 10-152 was generally used
for physical contingencies for various civil works components, depending upon
the level of design and the complexity of construction works, except for the
Dhiarizos diversion, where, in view of uncertainties in geological conditions
and planned tunneling methods, a contingency factor of 301 was used. Price
contingency estimates assume an increase in local currency costs of 21 per
annum (based on expected domestic inflation), and in foreign exchange costs of
32 in 1987, 1% from 1988 through 1990 and 3.52 thereafter. Total costs thus
estimated are £C 76.( M (US$164.0 M) including physical and price
2121Cp23



-24-
physical and price contingencies. The foreign exchange component has been
estimated at £C 44.2 N (US$90.3 M), or 551 of the total costs. Tre project
costs are free of taxes and duties, as these are not levied on goods and
services destined for public projects. The cost estimates are sumuarized
below, and shown in detail in Annex 1, T-2-5.
Table  7.3:   PROJECT COST SUMMARY
CYPRUS
SMOTHERN CONVEYOR PROJECT - SECOND PHASE
PROJECT COST SUWMARY
tCL '000)                (LUSS '000)                     Z Total
-- ~ ---- ~                                - ~ -- - - - - ------ IZ Foreign Base
Local  Foreign Total     Local  Fa,eign  Total    Exchanse    Costs
A. WATER RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT
i. DHIARIZOS DIUERSION                      7P447  10.911  18,358   154946  23.363   39.310           59        30
-        ---   --      --   -- -----     ----- -------
Sub-Total VATER RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT          7U447  10,911  18.358   15.946  23,363   39.310            59       30
B. IRRI6ATION DEVELOPMENT
1. AKROTIRI IRRIGATION SCHEME               34193   20764   5.957    6.938   5,918   12.756           46        10
2, PAREtKLISHA IRRIGATION SCHEME              751     635   1,387    19609   1,361    24970           46         2
3. MAZOTOS IRRIGATION SCHEME                14220     916   2,136    2.612   1.962    41574            43        4
4. KITI IRRIGATION SCHEME                   2,011   1.774   31785    4,306   3,798    9.104           47         6
-       ---   --- ……                             …        -       …-   --
Sub-Total IRRIGATION DEUELOPIENt               7,175   6,090  134264   15364  13.040   28.404             46       22
C. ON-FARM DEVELOPMENT                         5.968   3.101   9r069   12779   6,641   19P421             34       15
D. DOMESTIC VATER SUPPLY
1, LIMASSOL VATER TREATMENT PLANT           1,709   34139   44928    3,831   6t722   10.553           64         8
2. TERSEPHAOU VATER TREATMENT PLANT         1t586   31724   5.310    3.397   7,974   11.370           70         9
3. TERSEPHANOU - NICOSIA CONVEYOR           1.408   3,784  S5193    3,016  8S103   11,119             73         9
4, VILLAGE WATER SUPPLY                     1.598     919   2,517    3.422   1,968    5.389           37         4
Sub-Total DOMESTIC WATER SUPPLY                64381  11.566  17,948   13,665  24,767   38.432            64       30
E. 0 AND M AND MISCELLANEOUS EQUIPMENT            39      744     783       84   1S593    14677           95        1
F. TECHNICAL SERVICES AND TRAINING               134      703     837      296   1,506    1.M             84        1
Total BASELINE COSTS                            27.144  33.115  60.259   58,125  709910  129.034            55      100
Physical Contingencies                        4,797   6,296  11,093   10.273  13,482   23.754           57        18
Price Contingencies                           2.494   20758   5.252    5.340   5.907   11246            53        9
Total PROJECT COSTS                             34.435  42,169  76,604   73,737  90,298  164.035            55      127
-- -    -- -    -- -- - -- --      - -- - --  -      - -- - --    -; 5  -a   -- --  -: -- - -- - --: : - - - - - - - - -------_:  -::|.: _   :- -_
Beceeber 29, 1987  12:09
212 Cp24



- 25 -
G. Proiect Finaneng
7.22       The Republic of Cypr-s will be the borrower for loans required to
finance the project. A World Bank Loan of US$30.0 M is proposed to finance
part of the foreign exchange component, estimated at US$90.3 M equivalent.
The Government has negotiated a loan with the Kuwait Fund for US$15.4 M
equivalent. Export credit, totalling US$25.6 M is expected for the financing
of the Limassol Water treatment plant, equipment for the Tersephanou water
treatment plant, pipes for the Tersephanou-Nicosia conveyor and irrigation
equipment. On-farm development would be financed through local medium-term
credit and farmers share in the cost of farm road construction (para 8.09).
This would leave a balance of about US$14.0 M to be provided by the Goverrnment
in foreign currency and US$ 53.5 M equivalent in local currency. The
financing plan is as follows:
Table 7.4: SCPII FINANCING PLAN
I    I Kuwait i txport | Local   B Benefi- |
Project Element                      IBRO   fund   Credit  Credit  ciaries  Government  Total
i   --------------- uSS million ------_illion-_-_-_-_
1. Dhiari2os Diversion
Civil Works                    26.0                                       26.3      52.3
2. Irri*ation Develomnt 
Imported Pipes                          1.5                                         1.5
Equipment                               -       5.1                                 5.1
Civil Works                        *   5.0                       1.3       17.5     23.8
3. Qn-farm Deyl Qment
Equipment & installation                               18.2      6.0               24.2
4. Limassol Water Treatment Plant                    8.0                         3.2     11.2
5. Tersennanou Water Treatment Plant
Equipment                                       S.5                        -        5.5
Civil Works                            4.5                                 2.1      6.6
6. Tersenhanou - Nicosia Conveyor
Imported Pipes                                  6.0                                 6.0
Equipment                               1.6                                         1.6
Civil Works                             2.2                                3.7      5.9
7. Villaae Water SuOD1V
Equipment                                       1.0                                 1.0
Civil Works                                                                S.0      5.0
8. Q&B and Miscellaneous Eguinment    2.0    -       -        -        -         -        2.0
9. Land Acauisition                                                              2.8      2.8
10. Technical Services & Trainina    2.0    0.6                                           2.6
11. EnDa & Suetrvision                                                          6.9       6.9
Total        30.0   15.4    25.6    18.2       7.3      65.5    164.0
o19SC/1



- 26 -
H. Procurement
7.23     The proposed Bank loan of US$30.0 M would be used for the financing
of the foreign cost of the Dhiarizos diversion, O&M and miscellaneous
equipment, technical services and training. Procurement of these components
will be carried out in accordance with the current Guidelines for Procurement
under World Bank Loans.  Domestic preference will apply to goods manufactured
locally. The Bank-financed consultants will be recruited according to the
BankIs Guidelines for the Use of Consultants.  Bank-financed contracts and
procurement arrangements are included in the following table, which provides a
procurement plan for all SCPII elements (figures include physical and price
contingencies). The Bank-financed contract for the Dhiarizos diversion and
contracts exceeding US$350,000 for equipment will be subject to International
Competitive Bidding (ICB), and bidding documents will be sent to the Bank for
prior review. Civil works contractors interested to submit a bid for the
Dhiarizos diversion have already been prequalified. Contracts for equipment
below US$350,0000 may be subject to Limited International Bidding (LIB).
Assurances on the above procurement procedures were obtained at negotiations.
Table 7.5: PROCUREMENT PLAN
(in US$ M)
PROJECT ELEMENT                      ICB    LIB    LCB   Other  Total
1.  Dhiarizos Diversion             52.3                         52.3
(26.0]                      [26.0)
2.  Civil Works
(a) Irrigation                                12.0   11.8   23.8
(b) Village Water Supply                       5.0           5.0
(c) Tersephanou Water Tr. Plant                6.6           6.6
*d) Tersephanou - Nicosia Conveyor             5.9           5.9
3.  On-farm Development                                   24.2   24.2
4.  Limassol Water Treatment Plant  11.2                         11.2
5.  Equipment Tersephanou Water
Treatment Plant                5.5                          5.5
6.  Irrigation Equipment             5.1                          5.1
7.  Imported Pipes
(a) Irrigation                   1.5                         1.5
(b) Tersephanou - Nicosia Conveyor  6.0                      6.0
8.  Equipment Tersephanou - Nicosia
Conveyor Pumping Station              1.6                   1.6
9.  Equipment for Village Water Supply      1.6                   1.6
10. O&M and Miscellaneous Equipment  1.5    0.5                   2.0
[1.5]  (0.5]                (2.0]
11. Land Acquisition                                       2.8    2.8
12. Technical Services & Training                          2.6    2.6
(2.0]  (2.01
13. Eng. & Supervision               -                     L 6.9    6.9
Total        83.1    3.1   29.5   48.3  164.0
(27.5]  [0.5]         (2.0] (30.0]
Note: Figures in brackets are the respective amoun;.; flhiaed by the Bank.
0398C/2



- 27 -
7.24     The civil works to be carried out for the irrigation schemes are
small and scattered works, and will have to be carried out in phases and in
farmers' fields. These works will, therefore, be carried out partly by force
account and partly through Local Competitive Bidding (LCB) procedures that are
considered appropriate; such procedures were also adopted in Kokkinokhoria.
Village water supply works are also scattere.d over isolated areas and the
civil works contract for the Tersephanou water treatment plant and the pipe
installation contract for the Tersephanou-Nicosia conveyor would be too small
to attract international contractors. These works would, therefore, also only
be suitable for LCB. In the case of SCPII, however, LCB contracts would not
be financed by the Bank. The installation of on-farm equipment would mostly
be carried out by the farmers themselves. The procurement of civil works,
equipment and services financed by other financiers will be done following
their respective procurement procedures.
I. Disbursement
7.25     The proposed Bank loan of US$30 M would be disbursed as follows:
Loan Allocation       % of Expenditures
Category                   (US$ million)           to be Financed
1.   Civil works for the                     24.5         50X
Dhiarizos diversion
2.   Equipment & Materials                     2.0        100% of foreign
expenditures and of
local expenditures
ex-factory, and 80%
of local expenditures
for imported items
procured locally
3.   Technical Services & Training            2.0         100%
4.   Unallocated                               1.5
Total                   30.0
7.26     Disbursements would be against Statement of Expenditure (SOE) for
eligible expenditures under contracts valued at US$350,000 equivalent or
less. Supporting documentation for these would be retained by WDD and made
available for review by the Bank during supervision. The annual audits of the
project accounts would include a separate opinion on the disbursements made
under the SOE procedure. All other disbursements would be made against normal
documentation submitted to the Bank.
7.27     In order to expedite project execution, a Special Account would be
opened at the Central Bank of Cyprus (or any commercial bank acceptable to the
Bank) with an authorized allocation of us$500,000. The documentation of
replenishment requests would follow the same procedures as in para. 7.26. In
It 1Cp27



- 28 -
addition, monthly bank statements of the Special Account would accompany
replenishment requests.
7.28     An estimated schedule of disbursements is given in Annex 1, T-6.  The
Bank's historical disbursement profiles for Cyprus were considered in the
preparation of this schedule. It is anticipated that the loan will be
disbursed in eight years. This compares to a 93% level of disbursements in
the historical profile and appears justified as the SCPII is a continuation of
the ongoing SCPI. The proposed closing date of the loan is December 31, 1995.
J. Environmental Imaot-l'
7.29     Two areas of ecological importance are the 11 km2 Akrotiri Salt
Lake near the mouth of the Kouris River and the adjacent Phasouri Marsh
(20 ha). The Akrotiri Salt Lake is an important resting place for migratory
birds (mainly flamingos) in fall and spring. Rainfall and surface runoff are
the main sources for the lake's water supply. There is some direct
contribution from the Kouris River during high river flows, but this is very
limited. The lake is also continuously recharged with groundwater, and this
will continue after the construction of the Kouris dam. The effect of the
Kouris dam on the water balance of the Lake is therefore expected to be
small. There appears to be scope for ecological improvement of the Akrotiri
Salt Lake; the relatively simple measure of discharging seawater into the lake
is likely to increase considerably the production of brine shrimp, the main
source of food for the flamingos; brine shrimp is also very valuable for
aquaculture. The Phasouri Marsh is important for breeding birds; its
botanical value lies in the occurrence of four species of orchids. Any
effects on the Marsh as a result of the Kouris dam will be mitigated under the
project. This may be accomplished through rather simple measures such as
(a) artificial supply with groundwater, and/or (b) control of drainage water
outflow. Additional studies are needed to verify the above proposals.
Assurances were obtained during loan negotiations that the Government, through
its Fisheries Department and WDD, would (a) monitor and study the ecology of
the Akrotiri Salt Lake and the water balance of the Phasouri Marsh and, by
March 31, 1990, prepare an environmental management plan to maintain or
improve their present ecology; (b) prepare draft terms of reference for the
study by July 31, 1988; and (c) implement the plan by March 31, 1991.
Vm. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Study for Institutional Framework for Water Resources Development
8.01     The Government of Cyprus, being aware of the inefficiencies resulting
from dispersion of responsibilities in water resources planning and management
(para. 2.06), had agreed, in a covenant under Loan 2386-CY for SCPI, to
undertake a Bank-financed study to review the merits of establishing an
integrated national water entity, which would be responsible for the
development and use of all water resources in Cyprus, including the SCP. It
was intended that such an entity, or alternative institutional reform
1/    See Annex 9 for details



- 29 -
measures, would also cover all functions related to sewerage, and sewage reuse
and disposal. The Loan Agreement for SCPI (Section 3.03) required the
Government: (i) not later than July 31, 1984, to start a study to review the
existing organization and management of Cyprus' water resources, and to
determine and recommend the appropriate structure for an entity to be
responsible for the development, management and allocation of said resources;
(ii) not later than June 30, 1985, to exchange views with the Bank on the
findings and recommendations of such study, and draft instruments required for
the establishment of the entity and for the definition of its powers,
organization and functions; and (iii) to take all measures necessary for the
establishment of the entity not later than December 31, 1985, taking into
account the Bank's views.
8.02     Due to delays in reaching agreement on suitable terms of reference
and administrative delays, the study was started only in September 1987. The
Government has established a Review Committee composed of the following
members: the Permanent Underseeretaries of the Ministries of Finance, of
Interior and of the MANR, and representatives of the Attorney General and the
Planning Bureau. This committee will meet once a month to discuss with the
consultants the progress of the study. In addition, each of the above
ministries and offices has assigned an official to assist the consultants on a
daily basis. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the Government
would (i) complete the study on the institutional framework for water
resources development by June 30, 1989 and exchange views with the Bank on the
findings and recommendations of the study and on the draft instruments
required for the establishment of the water entity or for an alternative form
of institutional reform, and (ii) thereafter, take all measures necessary for
the establishment of the water entity or undertake satisfactory alternative
reforms, taking into account the Bank's views. The key decisions to be
undertaken with respect to the study are included in the Action Plan (Annex
7); the institutional reforms are scheduled to be undertaken during 1990 and
1991.
B. Project Organization
8.03     The following organizational arrangements were agreed for SCPI,
which, at a later stage, could readily be integrated into a newly created
entity or other organizational structure, as the case may be.
Organization During Project Implementation
8.04     An adequately staffed Project Implementation Unit (PIU) has been
established within the WDD of the MANR for the implementation of the SCP
(Chart C-3). This unit is responsible for all project construction works and
has been operating since mid-1984. On-farm works will be designed and their
construction supervised by the Department of Agriculture of MANR. The Project
Director in charge of the Project Implementation Unit is the Director of WDD,
who, for SCPI, is assisted by two project managers, one for Kouris dam and one
for the main conveyor and Kokkinokhoria irrigation networks. They are, in
turn, assisted by expatriate consultants.



- 30 -
8.05     For SCPII, the project manager for Kouris dam will also become
responsible for the Dhiarizos diversion; he will be assisted by a deputy
project manager. The project manager now in charge of the main conveyor and
the Kokhinokhoria irrigation networks will also become responsible for the
additional irrigation networks and the water supply schemes, for which purpose
he will be assisted by two deputy project managers. The PIU will also be
assisted by the consulting firm appointed in November 1985 under SCPI to
prepare the detailed designs and bidding documents and to supervise all SCPII
construction works.
8.06     In order to coordinate the activities of the PIU with those of the
other departments involved, a high level Proiect Policy and Coordination
Committee (PPCC) was set up in 1984 under the chairmanship of the
Director-General of the Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources. Other
members of the Committee are the Directors-General of the Ministries of
Finance, of Interior, of Commerce and Industry, the Planning Bureau, and the
Director of WDD, who acts as Secretary. PPCC reviews the annual programs of
work and progress in project execution and coordinates the activities of the
implementing agencies. It meets as and when necessary.
8.07     In addition, two Project Advisory Committees (PAC) were established
in 1984, to advise the Project Director on domestic water supply affairs
(PAC-DWS), and on affairs related to irrigation in Kokkinokhoria (PAC-IRR).
The PAC-DWS is chaired by the Director of WDD and includes the District
Officers for Famagusta, Larnaca, Limassol and Nicosia. The PAC-IRR is also
chaired by the Director of WDD, and includes the District Officers for
Famagusta and Larnaca, the District officers of WDD and of the Department of
Agriculture, and three farmers' representatives.
8.08     Assurances were obtained during loan negotiations that (i) the PIU,
PPCC, PAC-DWS and PAC-IRR will be maintained during SCPII implemuentation, and
(ii) the PAC-IRR will be expanded to include the District Officer for Limassol
and farmers' representatives from the Larnaca, Limassol and Famagusta
districts.
8.09     On-Farm Development and Farm Roads.  On-farm irrigation systems, tree
crops, greenhouses and walk-in tunnels would be financed for the farmers by
the CCSs and the CCB (see paras. 3.08-3.10 for particulars of credit
arrangements). The Agriculture Extension Service will provide assistance for
layout and design; installation would mostly be carried out by the farmers
themselves. Farm road construction in areas where land consolidation will be
implemented will be the responsibility of the Land Consolidation Department;
half of the cost of these roads would be paid by the farmers. In areas where
land consolidation will not be implemented, farm roads construction will be
the responsibility of the Department of Agriculture and the full cost will be
borne by the Government.
8.10     Land Consolidation.  Land consolidation is planned to be carried out
on 532 of the project area by the Land Consolidation Department (LCD), which
has gained considerable experience in this activity in other irrigation
schemes such as the PIP and, most recently, in Kokkinokhoria. Consolidation
can be implemented in case the majority of the land owners are in favor and
own more than half of the total registered value of the affected area. The
process involves the establishment of Land Consolidation and Valuation
Committees at village level, comprising appointees from several Government



- 31 -
departments ar well as elected representatives of the owners. Measures are
based on a redistribution of ownerships in which the value of the properties
is taken into account. Any Government land in the area may also be allotted
to the farmers during the process of consolidation. In addition, land
holdings of less than two donum (0.27 ha) owned by absentee owners are
acquired for redistribution. Government covers all administrative and
planning expenses as well as 50% of road construction costs, while the owners
are charged with the remaining 50% road costs plus the value of any extra land
allotted to them through the scheme; the owners' share of the costs may be
paid in yearly installments, amortized over ten years, including a two-year
grace period, at a 72 p.a. rate of interest. All plans are published and may
be subject to objections, with owners applying to the civil courts as a last
resort.
Organization Dming Operation Stage
8.11     Under SCPI, a Project Control Center (PCC) was built at Khirokitia.
The three-floor building will be shared by the Agricultural Services, the VPP
Operation Service, and the future SCP operation center.
8.12     A Project Operation Unit (POU) is being set up within WDD, and will
be integrated into the Water Entity (para. 8.01) upon its establishment. This
unit, located in the PCC, will be responsible for the operation and
maintenance of all facilities constructed under the VPP and the facilities
constructed under both phases of the SCP. Its responsibilities also include:
(i) the billing and collection of all irrigation charges and all bulk domestic
water charges related to the facilities constructed under the VPP and the SCP;
and (ii) the establishment and maintenance of a separate accounting system for
the joint operation of such facilities. An assurance was obtained during
negotiations that the Project Operation Unit will be maintained during SCP II
implementation.
8.13     The same Project Policy and Coordination Committee (PPCC) and Project
Advisory Committees (PAC) described above will continue to function during the
operation stage. PPCC, in addition to the functions described, will be
responsible for rationalizing water allocations and charges and ensuring the
timely availability of Government funds for the operation and maintenance of
project works.
8.14     Operation and Maintenance of the Irrigation and Road Networks.  The
irrigation network, which is conscructed as a pipe system, needs relatively
little operation; flow control is mostly by automatic hydraulic control
requiring minimum attendance. The main operational activity will be the
monthly reading of the water meters at the hydrants. This will be the duty of
water guards, each serving about 500 ha. The maintenance of the irrigation
network will be undertaken by the WDD with machinery leased from the Public
Works Department and the private sector. The maintenance of the farm roads
will be undertaken by the villages.
C. Conjnmetive Operation of SCP and VPP Systems and Project Aquifers
8.15     Three main groundwater aquifers are located in the SCP area, the
Kokkinokhoria, Akrotiri and Kiti aquifers, of which the Kokkinokhoria aquifer



- 32 -
is by far the largest. The total combined storage capacity of these aquifers
is much larger than the storage capacity of Kouris reservoir, which is an
indication of the potential that these aquifers have in bridging critical dry
periods through groundwater pumping. In wet years, surplus water could be
recharged into these aquifers. The Loan Agreement for SCPI called for a study
that would lead to detailed rules of operation for the conjunctive use of
surface water and groundwater. So far, no progress has been made with this
study, mainly due to shortage of staff in WDD.
8.16     Tt.s Kokkinokhoria aquifer is in a dire situation, due to
overexploitadion over the last 25 years. Not -ore than 15% to 20% of the
original storage capacity is left, groundwater levels have dropped
considerably, and this has caused seawater intrusion. Under the SCPI, it had
been agreed to monitor the Kokkinokhoria aquifer and implement contingency
plans in the event that salt water intrusion would be approaching safety
thresholds. WDD has monitored the water levels in 100 observation wells. It
has also completed a field survey, during which information was collected on
pump capacities, electricity consumption, well yields, water quality, etc.
The survey revealed that the number of wells has doubled since 1979, although
total abstraction has been reduced by about 502 to less that 10 MCM/a. The
Government has further implemented the "The Water Conservation Special
Measures Law" in the immediately threatened part of the Kokkinokhoria area,
which enables WDD to control about one-third of the area's total extraction
through pumping licenses and regulation of annual withdrawals. However, as no
alternative water resource was available to the farmers, it has been difficult
for the Government to limit abstraction rates. The situation should improve
considerably from 1988 onwards, when SCP water will become available,
including surplus water for aquifer recharge. Aquifer recharge could be
accomplished through existing wells, or by means of recharge ponds. These
aspects will now be studied as part of the proposed system operation study
(para. 8.15).
8.17     In contrast to the Kokkinokhoria aquifer, groundwater extraction in
the Akrotiri aquifer has been well managed. All wells here are metered and
total groundwater abstraction is carefully controlled. The relatively small
Kiti aquifer was already overpumped in the early 1960s, which resulted in the
deterioration of the groundwater and the abandoning of the wells; in the last
few years, groundwater conditions have reached an equilibrium. Mathematical
groundwater models exist for the Akrotiri, Kiti and Kokkinokhoria aquifers.
These models were developed for planning purposes and will be refined to make
them suitable for groundwater management. A major objective would be to
minimize the losses of fresh water to the sea.
8.18     In future, in order to optimize the conjunctive use of surface water
and groundwater, the Government should have strict control over the pumping of
groundwater. Such control should avoid over-exploitation of the aquifer on
the one hand, and waterlogging on the other. In principle, various
institutional, technical, financial and legal options are available to control
grcundwater pumping. These options will be considered as part of the system
operation study. The draft terms of reference for the above-outlined study
are included in Annex 8. Assurances were obtained during loan negotiations
that the Government would (i) assign staff and recruit short-term consultants
(para. 7.15) to carry out the project studies in accordance with a timetable
agreed upon between the Government and the Bank, and (ii) implement the
recommendations resulting from the studies, especially with respect to
recharging the Kokkinokhoria aquifer and the control of groundwater pumping.



- 33 -
D. Accounts and Auditing
8.19     WDD maintains its accounts within the framework of its recurrent and
investment budgets. Consolidation of all budgetary proposals is the
responsibility of the MOF, with final approval requiring legislative action.
WDD maintains a manual system for commitments and for cost accounting. Due to
the large number of items covered in the data to be compiled by WDD for each
irrigation and domestic water supply scheme, these manual accounting
procedures are very cumbersome. SCPII includes provision of the purchase of
microcomputers and software as well as the provision of training to automate
the accounting system.
8.20     WDD's accounting unit is short of qualified personnel and has
difficulty in providing management with the information necessary to run the
department's operations. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that
the Government would provide an experienced financial manager by July 31, 1988
to supervise WDD's accounting and to be particularly responsible for:
(i) financial planning and calculation of required domestic and irrigation
water tariffs; (ii) customer billings and collections; and (iii) recording of
capital and operating expenses.
8.21     WDD's accounts will continue to be audited annually by the office of
the Auditor General of the Ministry of Finance, whose accounting and auditing
procedures have proven to be adequate under SCPI and other Bank-financed
projects. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that Government would
establish and maintain separate accounts for each irrigation and water supply
scheme, which would be annually audited, and furnish to the Bank audit reports
and financial statements of the project accounts not later than nine months
after the end of each Government fiscal year.
E. BillinO and Collections
8.22     WDD's customers are billed on a rotating basis every two months. WDD
directly bills and collects revenues from the cities for water sold in bulk;
Irrigation District Officers at the regional level bill farmers in accordance
with their consumption and collect the revenues which they transmit to the
Treasury. Although assurances were received for SCPI under Loan 2386-CY that
WDD's accounts receivable would be reduced to 90 days, billings and
collections continue to be slow and need to be improved: for instance, as of
December 31, 1985, WDD's accounts receivable"' for bulk water from domestic
water boards and villages amounted to about 6.3 months, and for irrigation
water from farmers, about 7.7 months. The domestic water boards, in contrast,
had an acceptable level of receivables for retail water supply on December 31,
1985 (Nicosia 3 months, Limassol 1 month, Larnaca 0.6 months). SCPII includes
the purchase of microcomputers and software for use both at WDD's headquarters
and for project offices in SCP, VPP and KIP to speed up the process of
1/  After deduction of outstanding balance for non-Government controlled areas
in Nicosia and Famagusta for which no collection can be anticipated under
the present circumstances.



- 34 -
billing and collection. Reconfirmation was obtained during loan negotiations
for SCPII that the Government would take the necessary measures to reduce
WDD's accounts receivable to 90 days.
F. Monitoring and Evaluation
8.23     This activity will be carried out by a Monitoring and Evaluation Unit
in MANR, which is still to be set up under SCPI. Routine records will be kept
on project actions, progress, programs, budgets, and financial data to
evaluate the effects of the project and to monitor its progress against the
project implementation schedule. The Monitoring and Evaluation Unit will
periodically submit progress reports to the concerned financing agencies
through MANR as well as a final report on completion of the project which will
include an ex-post economic and technical evaluation of the project as it was
actually implemented. The maintenance of a Monitoring and Evaluation Unit,
staffed with at least one economist and one engineer, was reconfirmed during
loan negotiations for SCPII.
IX. PROJECT BENEFITS. ECONOMIC EVALUATION.
FINANCIAL ANALYSIS AND JUSTIFICATION
A. Agricultural Production
9.01     Typical size farm holdings have been taken to demonstrate the impact
of expanding irrigation practices in the project area. Farm budgets have been
prepared for farms of 0.95 ha and 6.55 ha in Akrotiri; for farms of 1.2 ha and
14.5 ha in Kiti, Parekklisha and Mazotos and for farms of 1.25 ha and 6 ha in
Kokkinokhoria.
9.02     Yield assumptions have been based on actual yields being achieved by
large- and small-scale farmers, and on MANR on-farm trials. Vegetable yields
have considerable potential for expansion as constant feed fertigation
practices (constant application of nutrients through the irrigation system)
become better understood by farmers producing winter vegetables under
plastic. Appendix 1, Table 1 of the Project File shows on-farm trial results
and indicates the potential for improvement.
9.03     In all the proposed irrigation areas there is sufficient experience
of irrigated cropping to have confidence in the capacity of farmers to achieve
high yields. In grapefruit, for example, yields of 100 tons/ha have been
recorded on commercial farms while in Kokkinokhoria 50 tons/ha is usual in
late spring potatoes. The problems tend to lie, not so much in production per
se but in product quality and in timing production to match demand. Principal
limiting factors to production are marketing and therefore reliability of
farmgate price, and labor and water. The recommended cropping pattern for the
project areas is shown in the Project File, Appendix 1, Table 2. Crop yields
estimated for the SCPII compared with other recent projected and recorded
yields are shown in the Project File, Appendix 1, Table 3.
Crop Yields
9.04     The rate of yield inciease assumed for perennial crops is shown in
the Project File, Appendix 1, Table 4. In the case of citrus, age at



- 35 -
production maturity will depend upon a number of factors including:
management, especially water management; whether seedlings were budded in the
nursery or the field (nursery budded is likely to reach maturity earlier); and
whether tree thinning is carried out (not a common practice in Cyprus), in
which case maturity will be later but ultimate yields higher. In the case of
annual crops, since there is a quite widespread understanding of irrigation
techniques by farmers within the project area, it is possible that projected
yields may be achieved immediately. Nevertheless, to reflect the inherent
problems of installing a new irrigation system, some phasing of yield
potentials for annual crops has been made as shown in the Project File,
Appendix 1, Table 5.
Ineremental Production
9.05     The impact of the project in terms of increased production is
considerable. Only in the case of barley (5,800 tons) and dryland tree crops
(400 tons) is there a decline in production resulting from changes in cropping
patterns. For the principal crops grown, incremental production is projected
to increase as summarized in Table 9.1. The actual production pattern could
substantially differ from these projections (which are based on current
production patterns); lower vegetable prices might cause a relative increase
in citrus production (para. 9.10).
Table 9.1: ANNUAL INCREMENTAL PRODUCTION AT FULL DEVELOPMENT
Crop                              (tons)
Lemons                               18,500
Grapefruit                           14,900
Mandarins/Oranges                    11,700
Winter vegetables (covered)          39,000
Summer vegetables (uncovered)        62,700
Table Olives                          5,200
Artichokes                            5,500
B. Prices in Ariculture
9.06     Historically, some farmgate prices for horticulture crops have
demonstrated substantial variation, mostly caused by major price movements in
export markets. Price instability also reflects sensitivity of prices to
delays in crops reaching maturity, thereby missing the low tariff window of
the EEC. For the financial and economic analysis, both farmgate as well as
export prices (FOB) have been considered. In all instances it was assumed
that Cyprus' position regarding EEC import tariffs would not change. The
successful conclusion of a customs union with the EEC might increase farmgate
prices somewhat; however, the combined effect of Spain and Portugal joining
the EEC and the customs union is difficult to predict. The prices tabulated
in Table 9.2 are expressed in 1987 values, and the producer prices shown are
identical to those applied in the financial analysis. Different margins
between farmgate and FOB export prices reflect unequal export marketing costs
as well as differing shares of produce destined for export relative to their



- 36 -
total production. Vegetable prices adopted for the summer and winter
categories represent the weighted average export price of about 10 different
vegetables reduced by 20%, to reflect the impact of increased production on
domestic prices. Potato exports will continue to account for more than two
thirds of the project's gross value of production. Although farmgate prices,
notably for potatoes, have been quite volatile, there is no indication of any
long-term trend and the farmgate prices adopted appear conservative.
Table 9.2: PRODUCE AND EXPORT PRICES
Farmgate Price                  Export Price
US$/ton      £C/ton             US$/ton    £C/ton
Potatoes (Spring)               228          120                257        135
Potatoes (Autumn)               219          115                247        130
Vegetables (covered)            333          175                627        330
Vegetables (summer)             219          115                380        200
Lemons                          209          110                494        260
Grapefruit                      124          65                 247        130
Oranges                         238          125                 -- 
Onions                          209          110                912        480
C. Marketing
9.07     Potatoes constitute SCP's major export commodity, but SCP will not
generate any increment relative to the present situation, as SCP water will
essentially replace depleted groundwater resources. Incremental production of
citrus (37,000 ton) and vegetables (34,930 ton) will be quite substantial at
full production compared to total national production (in both cases 31% of
1985 production). Approximately 70% of expected overall incremental project
output might be exported, the balance being destined for domestic consumption.
9.08     A considerable number of fruit and vegetable marketing studies are
available, which deal mainly with the EEC market. All studies are cautious
about future growth prospects for EEC fruit and vegetable imports from
nonmember countries. The studies agree that, wherever feasible, export
production should be shifted toward higher priced products, and aim at the
high quality segment of the market. There is a consensus that export
opportunities for grapefruit and early vegetables currently appear better than
average. Because full production will be achieved after the year 2000, for
which no demand and supply analysis is available, any elaboration of market
prospects, particularly beyond the year 2000, would be unrealistic.
9.09     The Cyprus Potato Marketing Board organizes and coordinates all
production and exports of potatoes, and appears to adjust efficiently
production to demand, to be well managed, and to be an effective and
aggressive exporter. The Board is successfully diversifying its markets
beyond the dominant UK market. Citrus is exported by a number of traders, but
over 702 of the product is handled by three large-scale exporters, who have
been increasingly effective in coordinating marketing efforts.



- 37 -
9.10     The future of vegetable exports is difficult to predict.  Present
vegetable production (113,000 m ton in 1985) might increase by over 1002 as a
result of SCP and other projects currently under construction. Current
exports are small (about 15,000 m ton), but are expected to increase
substantially. Some 15 exporters currently export about 30 varieties of
vegetables. Vegetable exports require long-term supply contracts with foreign
buyers and punctual, frequent shipments. Cypriot exporters therefore need
time-bound supply contracts with individual farmers. Unfortunately, farmers
have been defaulting on such contracts when priees in the local market were
more favorable, particularly during the peak tourist season. The most likely
scenario is that increased vegetable production would decrease local prices,
causing farmers to be more disciplined in fulfilling their contractual
obligations with exporters.
9.11     In case vegetable exports would not be successful, farmers might
decide to focus more on citrus or potato production. Grapefruits and lemons
from Cyprus have an excellent market in the EEC and exports could be expanded
substantially. Cyprus has unlimited EEC tariff quotas for citrus. However,
since citrus production is financially less profitable than that of
vegetables, this second scenario is less likely. But at this time, it is
certainly not possible to predict the future product mix of vegetables and
citrus.
D. Farm Incomes
9.12     Details of the six farm models for Kokkinokhoria (SCPI), Akrotiri and
Kiti/Mazotos/Parekklisha are given in Annex 3, T-5 and in the Project File.
Basic assumptions used in the models for Phase II are:
(i) smallholders will develop early covered vegetable rotations, which
will yield quick income increases, while intensifying the use of
mainly family labor;
(ii) medium-size farmers will increase the existing area of citrus
(particularly grapefruit, mandarins and oranges) and various other
promising perennial crops (aprIcots, artichokes). The increases
in annual irrigated crops will be relatively minor because of
their high demand for labor;
(iii) the average family labor available is 500 labor days per year.
The analysis shows that, without the project, the net value of crop production
in the SCPII area would fall marginally in small farms and by over 30? in
larger farms due to increasing water shortages and declining water quality.
In the SCPI area, water shortages would completely eliminate potato production
in Kokkinokhoria within five years if SCP would not be implemented. Net value
of produ'tion is expected to rise by 33% for the smallholder farms in the
project area, by 42% for the larger farms in Kiti/Mazotos/Parekklisha as they
are presently cultivated with rainfed cereals. The lowest increase in net
farm income is in the medium size holdings in Akrotiri, which are currently
specialized in citrus. Returns to water for most citrus varieties are low,
and water charges in the tuture will be considerable, compared to present
payments. However, substantial further increases in productivity appear
feasible. On-farm employment opportunities will increase considerably in the
project area; returns to labor, which are presently reasonably satisfactory,
will only increase moderately. However, the share of total farm income earned
on the farm will increase considerably.



- 38 -
E. Project Beneficiaries
9.13     The total number of direct beneficiaries from irrigation is about
3,000 families or 15,000 persons in the Kokkinokhoria area. About 852 of
these depend on SCP; without it they would not be able to continue irrigated
crop production. In the SCPII area about 1,000-1,500 families (5,000-7,500
persons) will benefit from SCP irrigation water.
9.14     By 1991, about 500,000 inhabitants or about 762 of the Greek-Cypriot
population, and the Turkish-Cypriot population of Famagusta and Nicosia will
benefit from domestic water supplied by SCP.
F. Cost Allocation for Domestic and Irrigation Water Use
9.15     Cost allocation of jointly used facilities of this dual purpose
project has been made using the separable costs/remaining benefits method.
The major parameters for this method used data generated by the economic
analysis of this project (paras. 9.41 to 9.43). For the purpose of joint cost
allocation, costs and benefits were discounted at 92 using a 45-year project
life; of the joint costs 50% has been allocated to irrigation and 502 to
domestic water supply (Annex 3, T-7).
G. Cost Recovery Policy
9.16     The SCPI introduced a cost recovery policy for both domestic and
irrigation water which aims at rationalizing use of SCP and non-SCP water and
increasing overall government revenues. Cypriot law stipulates that, for the
purpose of computing cost recovery in irrigation, system capital and O&M costs
must be discounted at a rate not exceeding the legal maximum interest rate.
The current rate is 9% p.a. In view of this requirement, all irrigation cost
computations in the following paragraphs are based on a 9% p.a. discount rate
which is currently equal to the opportunity costs of capital.
H. Water Costs
9.17     The application of the joint cost allocation percentages,
(para. 9.15), to the capital costs of the SCP yields the following water cost
estimates, expressed in 1987 values. For details see Annex 3, T-6.
Table 9.3   DISCOUNTED UNIT COST ESTIMATES
(EC/m3; rounded figures)
Capital and O&M Costs
at 9% p.a.---
Domestic Water                      0.33
Irrigation Water                    0.30
All Water                           0.31
2121Cp38



- 39 -
I. Irrigation Water Charges
9.18     The Government Waterworks Law of 1929 provides the basic legislation
for irrigation water use and charges. Since May 1, 1985, irrigation water
charges are subject to ratification by the National Assembly. Responsibility
for enforcement of the law is with the Waterworks Committees (under the
chairmanship of the District Officer) or with the WDD; these organizations are
also responsible for the assessment and collection of water charges.
According to the law, the irrigation water charges shall normally not be more
than 40% of the weighted average cost of the water. Only in cases of heavy
Government expenditures on given waterworks, these charges may be increased to
65%.
9.19     Since June 1987, farmers in public schemes are charged rates which
are on average £C 0.039/m3, or 33% of the combined capital and O&M costs of
the systems. The low water charges in the early 1980s and the ease with which
certain crops could be marketed led to a selection of crops of which some have
a relatively low return to water.
9.20     Irrigation schemes in Cyprus are grouped into three categories:
(i) small operational irrigation schemes; (ii) large non-SCP irrigation
schemes; and (iii) SCP. The first category includes nine schemes, all
operating and with a combined output of 14 MCM p.a. at full capacity. The
large non-SCP irrigation schemes are: PIP (32 MCM p.a.), already in operation;
VPP (7.5 MCM p.a..), recently completed; and KIP (19 MCM p.a.), still under
construction. SCP is expected to commence operations in 1988 and would have
ultimately 34 MCM p.a. available for irrigation
9.21     Under Loan 2386-CY, the Government agreed to recover at least 401 of
the weighted average unit cost of water produced by the small operational
schemes: this relatively low rate of cost recovery was accepted, on the
grounds that construction of these schemes had involved some participation of
private investment. Under the same loan, it was agreed that cost recovery for
SCP and the large non-SCP schemes would be 652 by their third and sixth years
of operation, respectively. Table 9.4 shows the evolution of cost recovery
rates since 1983 for the projects which were operational by the end of 1986:
Table 9.4: OPERATING IRRIGATION SCHEMES -
AVERAGE ANNUAL COST RECOVERY SINCE 1983
Small Operational            Paphos Irrigation
Irrigation  Schemes                 Scheme
Ln 2386-CY                   Ln 2386-CY
Covenants   Actual           Covenants   Actual
…_    __-- a--- -
1983                        -        19                   -        19
1984                       28        21                  40        26
1985                       35        25                  45       29
1986                       40        28                  50        28
1987                       40        31                  60       30



- 40 -
9.22     The Government has substantially increased water charges in the
1980s. In 1979, the average rate was only about £C G.01/m3; by November
1984, it reached £C 0.037/m3, thus nearly tripling in real terms over a
six-year period. However, since 1985 when irrigation water charges became
subject to ratification by the National Assembly it has become very difficult
for Government to raise the water charges. The first rate increase since 1984
was granted only in June 1987 and this fell short of the requirements under
Loan 2386-CY. The underlying reasons for this were that cost recovery in
Cyprus is already high compared to other countries in the Region and in the
world at large and that a recovery requirement of 651 of the sum of O&M and
capital costs would place Cyprus in an unfavorable position vis-a-vis its
competitors in EEC markets. In addition, it may be noted that (i) the
standards of operation and maintenance in Cyprus are high and water use is
very efficient; (ii) the crop mix presently practiced is more a function of
demand and ease of marketing than of water cost (except perhaps for
grapefruit), and thus there is little risk that less-than-full cost recovery
would adversely distort crop selection; (iii) no severe distortions in social
equity or fiscal discipline are observed in Cyprus and the country's
progressive income tax system ensures that the income earned by irrigation
farmers is properly taxed; and (iv) in the case of the SCP, 100% of O&M and
capital costs are already being recovered for the domestic water supply
component; this guarantees a minimum cost recovery on capital costs of 50% for
SCP since the allocation of costs between irrigation and domestic water supply
is 50/50.
9.23     In view of the above it was decided to agree to Government's request
to modify the existing covenants under Ln 2386-CY and assurances were obtained
that the Government will recover 38% of the weighted average unit cost of all
irrigation water by March 31, 1990, that is for the small operational schemes,
the large non-SC! irrigation schemes as well as for the SCP. Thus, overall
cost recovery for the SCP, through both irrigation and domestic water charges,
would then reach about 701 compared to about 851 required previously. The
agreed recovery rate of 381 of the weighted average unit cost of irrigation
water will, by 1990, be equivalent to a 100% recovery of 0&M costs and a 261
recovery of capital costs.
9.24     Annual Review of Water Charges. In order to ensure that water charges
are adjusted for inflation, existing assurances under Loan 2386-CY were
reconfirmed, ensuring that all water charges for both SCP ana nc SCP schemes
will be reviewed annually in accordance with a methodology acceptable to the
Bank.
9.25     Irrigation Subsidies.  Even with full implementation of the existing
cost recovery covenants, the Government will have to provide WDD substantial
grants to subsidize the losses incurred in the operation of the current and
proposed irrigation schemes. Total annual irrigation grants would amount to
£C 12.0 million (US$25.7 million) by 1995 (see Annex 4, T-5), equivalent to an
annual subsidy of approximately EC 522/ha. However, the irrigation schemes
which have been completed or are under construction would generate substantial
incremental net income, estimated at £C 1,200-1,600/ha (after incremental paid
labor); assuming a marginal tax rate of 351, the tax revenues are expected to
increase by about EC 500/ha or a total of over £C 10 M, thus nearly offsetting
the irrigation subsidy.
2121Cp4O



- 41 -
J. Domestic Water Tariffs
9.26     The existing and proposed water supply systems for the Nicosia,
Limassol, Larnaca and Famagusta areas and the SCP and VPP, which will be
interconnected, are considered as one integrated operational unit for which a
unified bulk water tariff would be applied. The remaining systems, which
represent less than 52 of the total supplies of bulk water, would continue to
have their own individual tariffs. Under Loan 2386-CY, the Government agreed
to set water tariffs according to the following principles:
(i)    for both project area and nonproject area domestic water supply
schemes, the Government would review annuall, the bulk water
tariffs to ensure that they are maintained at a level which
would cover at least the full O&M costs including appropriate
contingencies to cover working capital requirements together
with depreciation and interest plus any loan and Government
advances repayments in excess of depreciation. Government
advances would be amortized over 40 years at an interest of
9% p.a.;1' and
(ii)    the Water Boards and Village Councils would adjust regularly
their retail water tariffs according to the same cost recovery
policy; the annual bulk water tariffs' review would include
comparisons with and consideration of long run marginal cost of
providing bulk water.
These assurances were reconfirmed during negotiations for SCPII. An
additional assurance was obtained that, in order to avoid large year-
to-year fluctuations in the bulk domestic water tariff, tariff adjustments
will be based on a three-year average covering the fiscal year under
consideration and the two subsequent fiscal years and will take into account
any shortfall or surplus in required revenue in the previous year.
9.27     With respect to bulk rates, the Government has been able to comply
until now with the relevant cost recovery covenants in Loan 2386-CY.
Table 9.6 shows the evolution of bulk tariffs and annual average revenue over
the period 1982-1986:
1/    No Government equity contribution is involved.  Instead, to ensure full
recovery of costs, all Government contributions towards the project
would be considered as advances to be amortized in the above defined
terms.



- 42 -
Table 9.6: BULK WATER TARIFFS AND ANNUAL AVERAGE REVENUE - 1982-1986
Average Revenue        Authorized /b                Date of
Required /a Actual       Tariff/MA                    Tariff
(ECIiT)            Rate (EC) % Increase          Increase
Year
1982   0.096       0.106      0.109        127              3/82
1983   0.118       0.142      0.184         69              9/83
1984   0.163       0.181
1985   0.133       0.185
1986   0.148       0.185
1987   0.208       0.217      0.217         21              6/87
/a   Based on full cost recovery: O&M plus the larger of depreciation
or debt service.
/b   Tariff applicable to Nicosia Water Board.  Tariffs to other Boards
were slightly different.  All tariffs were unified in November 1985.
9.28    The above increases in the domestic water tariffs more than
covered the costs as defined in the agreement for Loan 2386-CY. The last
bulk water tariff increase became effective in July 1987. This water
tariff will be sufficient to meet WDD's cost recovery objectives through
1988. For the period 1988-1995, required bulk water tariff increases are
projected to be on average about 9% per year in current terms.
K. Proeessing of Water Charges Increases
9.29    In view of the rather difficult and lengthy procedures in Cyprus
to process proposals for water charges increases, additional assurances
were obtained during loan negotiations that the Government will each year
(i) not later than March 31, starting with March 31, 1989, furnish to the
Bank for its review and comment proposed charges for irrigation and
domestic water to be charged in the following year; (ii) not later tian
November 30, adopt the charges and tariffs for the following year, taking
into account the Bank's comments, and; (iii) not later than the following
March 31, implement the revised charges and tariffs for that year.
Z121Cp4Z



- 43 -
L. Financing Plan of WDD's Investment Progm
9.30        WDD's sources and applications  of  funds statements are given  in Annex 4.
Those for the SCPII disbursement period (1984-1994) are summarized below:
Table 9.7: SOURCES AND APPLICATION OF FUNDS (1984-1994)
Water
Supply  Irrigation    Total  Total         z
…---- CL Million ---          US  N
Requirements
Investments                     79.72      119.39   199.10  426.07       81
Capitalized Interest             8.05        7.61   15.66   33.51         6
Capitalized Headq. Admin. Exp.   13.32      16.94   30.26   64.76        12
TOTAL REQUIREMENTS        101.09      143.93  245.02  524.34       100
--_:__   --nx   9&:_3_  __a::s =   ==-Zans
Sources of Funds
Internal Cash Generation        81.87       35.72   117.59  251.64       48
Less:  working capital           4.22        3.09    7.31    15.64        3
Debt Service             77.65      130.11  207.76  444.61        85
Net Internal Cash Generation    -0.00      -97.48  -97.48  -208.61      -40
6overnemnt Grant (Irrigation)    0.00       97.49   97.49  208.63        40
Borrowings
nERD Loans (SCP I & II)         13.49       14.03   27.52   58.89        11
Other Loans                     42.79       55.08   97.87  209.44        40
Government Advances             44.81       74.81   119.62  255.99       49
Total Borrowings               101.09      143.92  245.01  524.32       100
TOTAL SOURCES OF FUNDS    101.09      143.93  245.02  524.34       160
9.31        During  the SCP  implementation period,  total  financing  requirements
would be provided as  follows:  (i) borrowings,  broken down  into Government
advanLes  (49%), various  foreign  loans  (401),  and  the IBRD loans  for SCPI and
II (11X); and (ii) Government grants (401) to offset the negative internal
cash generation (40X) of the irrigation component. This financing plan
supports the Government and WDD's cost recovery objectives. Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that the Government will provide all local fund
requirements for the implementation of SCP II including possible cost overruns.
2121Cp43



- 44 -
M. Future Financial Performance
9.32     Projected financial statements for WDD appear in Annex 4, T-2-8.
Financial assumptions have been summarized in Annex 6 and a detailed computer
printout for each domestic water supply and irrigation scheme is shown in the
Project File. WDD's investment program for SCPI is estimated at EC 92 M
(US$197 M), in current value, and that of SCPII at EC 66 M (US$141 M)"'.
The overall SCP program is estimated at £C 158 M (US$338 M), with 46% invested
for domestic water and 54% for irrigation facilities.
9.33     WDD's revenues from domestic water supply are expected to grow from
£C 2.6 M in 1984 to £C 16.9 M in 1995 (current terms),2' while its operating
expenses before depreciation and interest would grow from £C 1.6 M to
£C 2.9 M, leaving a gross margin sufficient to cover all of its projected debt
service and working capital requirement. After project implementation (1995),
its operating ratio would be 34%, while its debt service coverage ratio would
not drop below one (1).
9.34     WLD's irrigation revenues, which have been planned to meet a 38%
irrigation cost recovery objective, would grow from £C 0.8 M in 1984 to
EC 12.9 M (current terms) in 1995. After deduction of its operating expenses
which, during this period, would increase from EC 0.8 M to £C 4.1 M, the
irrigation component would generate a gross margin covering 25% of its debt
service in 1988, 36% in 1992, and 371 in 1995. During loan negotiations,
reconfirmation was obtained from the Government that it will make budgetary
allocations sufficient to cover any shortfall in WDD's operating costs, debt
service and working capital requirements.
9.35     Overall, WDD's operations would generate a gross margin covering 54%
of its debt service in 1988, 65% in 1992, and 64% in 1995 (Annex 4, T-7),
while the Government grant would represent 17%, 27%, and 33% of sources for
those same years. Since WDD's revenues for irrigation water are deposited at
the Treasury, assurances were obtained at loan negotiations that the
Government will provide WDD sufficient funds to cover all project maintenance
and operation expenses.
N. Project Justification
9.36     The cost of the project is very large relative to the country's
economy, and Bank participation in SCPI funding has assisted in obtaining
cofinancing. Bank participation in SCPII will enhance the implementation of
cost recovery measures for both domestic and irrigation water, of vital
importance to Government finances and promotion of water conservation, as well
1/   Excludes investments in on-farm development.
2/   Based on a required tariff to recover O&M costs plus the higher of
depreciation or debt service.



- 45 -
as the chance of implementation of institutional reform needed for improved
water resources planning, development and management. The SCP constitutes the
most appropriate solution towards meeting Cyprus' water needs at present.
0. Economic Rate of Return and Sensitivity Analysis
9.37     Because of considerable sunk costs in SCPI, the marginal net benefits
of the completed project will substantially exceed those of SCPI. Since the
economics of either SCPI or SCPII alone cannot be determined meaningfully,
only the economic rate of return for the full project has been estimated. The
basic assumptions for the economic analysis are shown in Annex 5.
9.38     About 50% of all benefits are due to sales of domestic water, and
about 32% are attributable to maintaining potato exports. The balance of the
benefits (18%) is on account of additional fruit and vegetable exports of
SCPII. Potato exports are a relatively risk free enterprise, although annual
price variations can be substantial. Prices of additional fruit and vegetable
exports cannot be predicted with confidence a decade from now, and a decline
in real export prices, over and above those assumed in the present analysis
(about 12%), cannot be ruled out. However, the proportion of total benefits
which is susceptible to a decline appears modest.
9.39     Based on the analysis of Annex 3, T-3 and the assumptions made in
Annex 5, the ERR of the full project has been estimated at 14%. The
sensitivity analysis (Annex 3, T-4) shows that increases of investment and O&M
costs of 50% would reduce the ERR to 10%. A 20% decrease in benefits would
reduce the ERR to 12%, while delays of benefits by 3 years would cause the ERR
to drop to 11%. In addition, switching values for key variables have been
calculated. For example, only a decrease of benefits by more than 34%, or an
increase in costs by more than 60% would cause the ERR to be below the
estimated opportunity cost of capital (9%). If farmers would select to grow
citrus instead of vegetables, net returns to water in the SCPII area would be
reduced from £C 0.40/m3 to £C 0.30/m3; if potatoes would be selected,
returns to water would be EC 0.36/m3.  The ERR of the SCP would then be
reduced by 1.4%, or 0.7%, respectively.
P. Other Benefits
9.40     The implementation of a water tariff policy for SCP and non-SCP
water, initiated during SCPI, is expected to: (i) significantly increase
government revenues from public schemes, (ii) induce water conservation
practices, and (iii) cause farmers to shift production patterns towards crops
with high returns to water, enhancing overall sector efficiency.
Q. Budget and Balance of Payment Impact
9.41     During the 1987-1993 construction period of SCPII, the average annual
expenditure will be EC 20 M. With 100% of foreign costs assumed as financed
from external borrowing, the internal budget requirement will be about £C 8 M
annually. This is about 0.6% of GDP, and represents about 7% of central
2121Cp4S



- 46 -
government expenditures. As explained in para. 9.24, the Government will also
earn substantial additional revenue of the order of £C 10 M annually.
covenants.
9.42     Foreign exchange amounts to be borrowed to finance SCPI and II (about
US$220 M) represent about 24Z of 1985 external debt of US$933 M outstanding.
Peak repayment will be of the order of £C 38M per year, or 20% of the debt
service burden in the without project situation. The additional debt burden,
however, will be totally covered by the continuing potato exports and
increases in fruit and vegetable exports. It is estimated that, if SCP were
not implemented, exports would decline for all time by an average of £C 16 M
per year (US$30.4 M). In addition, incremental fruit and vegetable exports
are estimated at £C 6 M annually (US$11.4 M).
R. Project Risks
9.43     As in all civil work contracts, the principal risks concern costs and
delayed benefits. Increased costs, associated with delays in execution, could
reduce the project's ERR. However, the project has been well prepared and the
availability of detailed design and tender documents, together with the use of
reputable contractors and construction supervision, will make it possible to
proceed smoothly with project implementation. The only major risk associated
with project implementation a- 'cost, concerns unanticipated geological
conditions in the construction of the Dhiarizos diversion tunnel. As
indicated in the sensitivity analysis (para. 9.39), cost overruns and time
delays in this component will only have a minor impact on the economic
viability of the project. No other major risks are foreseen.
X. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
10.01    During negotiations the following main agreements already included in
the Loan Agreement for SCPI (Ln. 2386-CY) were reconfirmed for SCPII:
(a)    Government will maintain the PIU, POU, PPCC and two PACs during
SCPII implementation (para. 8.08);
(b)    Government will establish and maintain separate accounts for
each irrigation and water supply scheme, which will be annually
audited, and furnish to the Bank audit reports and financial
statements of the project accounts not later than nine months
after the end of each Government fiscal year (para. 8.21);
(c)    Government will take the necessary measures to enforce payment
of irrigation and domestic water bills within 90 days of their
issuance (para. 8.22);
(d)    Government will maintain a Monitoring and Evaluation Unit within
the MANR, staffed with at least one economist and one engineer,
to carry out monitoring and evaluation activities and submit
periodically progress reports and a final report on completion
of the project (para. 8.23);



- 47 -
(e)    Government will review annually the irrigation charges for both
SCP and non-SCP schemes in accordance with a methodology
acceptable to the Bank (para. 9.24);
(f)    Government will apply the agreed water tariff system for
domestic water and review annually the bulk water tariffs to
ensure that they are maintained at a level which would cover the
full O&M cost and working capital requirements together with
depreciation and interest plus any loan and Government advances
repayments in excess of depreciation. Also the Government will
ensure that the Water Boards and Village Councils adjust
regularly their retail water tariffs to reflect bulk water
tariff increases (para. 9.25); and
(g)    with respect to WDD's irrigation operations, the Government will
make budgetary allocations sufficient to cover any shortfall in
WDD's operating costs, debt service and working capital
requirements (para. 9.34).
10.02    Existing cost recovery covenants for irrigation water under Loan
2386-CY were modified and assurances were obtained that Government will
recover 38% of the weighted average unit cost of SCP and non-SCP irrigation
water by March 31, 1990.
10.03    During negotiations the following additional assurances were obtained:
(a)    Government will engage engineering and other consultants on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank (para. 7.15);
(b)    Government will retain two panels of experts: (i) one panel to
inspect the construction of the Dhiarizos diversion tunnel and
provide advice on construction methods and design, and; (ii) one
panel to assist the system operation studies (para. 7.16);
(c)    Government will implement the project according to an agreed
action plan (para. 7.20);
(d)    Government will (i) monitor and study the ecology of the
Akrotiri Salt Lake and the water balance of the Phasouri Marsh,
and, by March 31, 1990, prepare an environmental management plan
to maintain or improve their present ecology, (ii) prepare draft
terms of reference for the study by July 31, 1988, and
(iii) implement the plan by March 31, 1991 (para. 7.29);
(e)    Government will (i) complete the study for the water entity by
June 30, 1989; exchange views with the Bank on the study's
findings; and (ii) take all measures to establish the water
entity or undertake alternative igstitutional reform, taking
into account tbe Bank's views (para. 8.02);
(f)    Government will (i) assign staff and recruit short-term
consultants to carry out the project studies in accordance with
a timetable agreed upon between the Government and the Bank, and
(ii) implement the recommendations resulting from the studies,
especially with respect to the recharging of the Kokkinokhoria
aquifer and the control of groundwater pumping (para. 8.18);



- 48 -
(g)    Government will provide an experienced financial manager by
July 31, 1988 to supervise WDD's accounting (para. 8.20);
(h)    Government will base the bulk domestic water tariffs on a
three-year average and, take into account any shortfall or
surplus in required revenue in the previous year (para. 9.29);
and
(i)    Government will process water charges increases as indicated in
para. 9.29; and
(j)    Government will provide WDD sufficient funds to cover all
project maintenance and operation expenses (para. 9.35).
10.04    Agreements having been reached on the above conditions, the proposed
project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$30 million to the Republic of Cyprus
for a term of 15 years including three-year grace at the standard variable
interest rate.
212l Cp48



CYPRUS
SOUTHERN CONVKYOR PROJECT (Phase II)
Revised Cost Estimate for SCPI - Mlarch 1986
(EC million)
U I l r    *s8                l s              19               29$t             l 8               Z@g_"I 
.        Total     I  "I       I ta..i _  I total Leal- 6.es Total to"s   _   .em Total     _ 4P f0tIe l    6m,.t i total
i l a                      6.    2.4   19.39 *      .o  2.95  1.f  3.06  6.69 2.22 6.t3  6.35 *.13 3.22  6." f .9   0.6           S.    _  _5
Wl Cawepe (mel.
VP? CooatleUel             5.   21.1  2.96        d lal    lo 1965) 5 .30 5.93  1.3 1.98 9o.?6  12.12 8.98 6.61  1.03  -    -   _    _    _       _
_   ggjsep                 0.    0.9   9.40  _           _   _                  0._6 0.3 O.0.? 0.32 0.61  0."   _    _          _    _ 
u"i.oemmtsaa Inaput.       0.    *.   16.96  _    _        _    _    _           .59  9."9  3.06  3.12 3.31  1.03 2.25 1.98  6.19  0.16  -    0.
Tea98s *qufrw theta
ose ta rp                  ....  ....  ....
ateoul   lireltal nlat   0.95  2.1  3.96  -    _           _    _    _      _   0.02 G.9   0."6 O."9  9.96   .63 0.U - 0.9   0. " 
projet Control aCt t       0.O   0.    0.8  _    _         _    .    _      _    _    _       _   0.02 0.93  O."  0.05 0.28  0.33  _    *
tmw 46"att21              0S.6"   9.66  9.9  0.#2               .0?   .66  5.3 I.55   _    2.55  .1n - * .I _ _              _ _ 
la Coaalidatta            0.60   -    0.60               -              -    -    -          -   0.30  -    0.30 0.30  -    0.30  -    -         -
&*ai. Uaildis  & a S lP.l1   0.69  0.25  9.06  -    _      -   0.12 0.25  0.31 033           0.33 0.26  -    0.20 0.16  -    O.96   _    _        _
*    2.50  .139  3.69 0.90  0.02  0.t2 0.22 0.66  0.6."  O."  0.29  0.90 0.90 0.30  1.0 O."6 0.35  t.01   _                 _
Cosa                    36}.63 61.06 0.69 0.91  9.42  2.39 1.36 19.12  6.68 9.6  IT.09   .3  I.99 13.98 25.n7 6.30 3.6   7.15  0.16  -    0.76
Cos netl eae             2.65  2.67  5.t9  -    -        -    -    -      -   0.65  9.2?  2.92 9.09  S.12  2.2. 0.43 0.35  O."8 0.08  -    0.06
ota                     31.26 69.60 6t.06 0.9?  1.62  2.39 1.36 1*.2  10.U 10.30 9. 1  29.46 13.06 6.30   .36 4.73 3.60  6.53 0.BO   -    0.04
lee Caets_ees              2.66  2.92  5.36          -       -    -    -        0.31 0.6   0.99  9.20  I.5   2.t7  0.16 0.70  1.04 0.19  -    0.69
39.2 52.72 92.U 10.9?  1.62  2."  1.36  t.92  6.66 90.61 9.t6   3o."  6.26 5.66  .,2 5.4?  .50  9.91  1.03  -    *.03
g0- 5 t6*.1  06.92 971.65 * 0  2.61  6 06 296 96.3   ?.. 1 .22  .66    .90 .5  9.66   .26  .96 9.00 19.96  2.06             2.06
I  I                     -PI-             -           -     -          -       -       1  -"
Price Contingencies:   Local . 61; foreign respectively, 7.21 for 1986, and 6.81 for 1981 and 1988.
Physical Contingencies: Kouris Dam 102, Main Conveyor 51, Akhna Reservoir 151, other components 101.
I-4.
V/     EC million 0.127 for 1990 have been added to 1989 budget.                                                                                        C
2/      Includes Halassa village relocation and Acquisition of Limassol Springs.
3/      Includes Ormdihia SCP offices, vehicles and equipment. relocation CYTA transmission lines and various SCP    ' x
items.                                                                                                                                             A
4/      Includes supervision of contractor by WDD, Panel of Experts, consultants related to Kouris Dam.
5/     US$ rates:   1.70 for 1984,  1.65 for 1985 and 2.00 for 1986 and onwards.



-50-                                     Annex I
Table T-2
CYPRUS
"7    a-'"   SOUTHERN CONVEYOR PROJECT (Phan 1)
&ouImem md Vehices
_Od  of Id Ud. CM
3m cu s s
4-ad~~ o  " VO"                 3  . .  .A . 14 64                               I "tf   au. 11.       MA
LS   .3              346       01   -   .           .   WI      0. 1*.      MAs 
--       - ______        __  _m --__                        __              _ _
I.--
1..~~~~~~~~~~S                                                                       L:    JI10          a
t. tw~0  _  tll ta.4
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                   "      *a tt@*-   U"-t4 -t-   t't   tW
--~~3gs                 ,n   . 3  _ 3. ...........3    4 . . . .40.  -  - -  -   -  -         33.7U.3    .3 1
ueuinbs    t '              .33...........         S.4    .3.33.4LJ.. ..  .                   1 4.914    .a
: 4* t- as                      *g* - -*   ..........   30             34..         1         394v--             43243    -  v
ul. _                       .3.1                     35*  .   s s w  + * . *  ..Lo I........  a   * .     ...    .   .4  .5 4 M  t
stonM_US,      _         IS   * 3*3               -    3       -U.?                     to.,   W      .74   *wr
& wadooftoutwo                                                    -      -     - -
_     .                            .  .
_-                      U   * .2 *        .3 -      - -  t.1 s.                   ~      *     s    ' X4 . . . . .  'L  M   t o
_~~~~~~~~~~L                 .    .   .     .   .     .  Jo  qu                          W     t  4 -     s t**
am                      U        .1t   * . . .  .       -   t                                      4.9    *9 3.
M440s3 SW___                                      10.9.149.9   3634_3_  _   _1_._
*Alpt      _  usuut"            *I    "    -                                         -a        s          - WA
3. ftewsikm 
_m"                     U t*Ad.5 *34.. -.....                                                             -  -e*
m                                                                                      W      U- 8U .*    - 4   *  4.29.  44  74
SW  *t@ swu-  - m                                             . 3914.£3.,                       6  33     * 337.tlF et4+   
4.u~S W 33___________                                 _1.    _ ~  _ 
Ls             a.s  - .                     -         -.              4. 4S      . 43.4
Uj   *1.35:                  I          M ..   .1.73.   W3140.6    .33
_ _ U  *3         .33 *.4.3 -                          -  *  -am   -.37
U *. .3  .4                                        .1...3. 3,4 ..4 .                L
_- _                    U   -    2. -                 10        st-*-s         X 345.          3.4.        #.97
au                                 .  .  .  .  .3. *4                                  WA      13. M -* 
h1o                     U          *..  I3 --.3.
so    a _ wt1_ D4                                                                                            U 4-*-              **l t    t. * I
m _ * s o * * @ v w  U-  I l. .3                                      *3 04.3   W4 U                       403.3
.  .  .   .  .   .         4       6     .34u    7464.                      . 36
U   *3.                 ~      ,eg36.3        ..               36s     344      -   -4
cui3~~~~~~~~s  U   -3.is..                     36~~~~~~~~~~~ 21  64..       ..   .     37.4"A  *A334
b.t9m                   U   v S.-                     3 * - -  -  t 7,    .4 . tC  .    .  ...43." - -4
_     __d&WW UMM          'A                                     36-  -  & -  -  -  --        - "t. t     -4 4  4
tS _" am Mm             kz
_s t v s        -UA W    14-t bo   % .         7
|_S|*__  *,  *  * * * *  *  * -  -           -  X~~~~~~~~~4 t3   14   WM-         ,LI*4*L- -  UJLd
amw mh M u
e.-  343.3*3-6-.-  . . .  9 ...........w-S 4)  23.  0.w-  4    .  14 +t.
-3  .                     .   .......                    .      .   0a .43. 33.3  .t   ......... ,,,    5.  3  - s
__U_~~~~ -  -S2 ---s -  -t  -z                                                            -
_ t                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~* lt3.3433. -Jtt$    *    .37.  3419. 3.6  34tt   3
bmtw 3.1033



Annex 1
Table T-3
CYPRUS
SOUTHERN CONVEYOR PROJECT (Pbase 1)
Technial Services and Training
3r*_  OF toas, XLw) C
~~gotats                   L~oU) a
out          (CaI. Ma  I
gat P  U                                        Do   2 n   4 to    .t   t.ti.tu tows    todTo
a. _m CM
kltm~~~~~ inoZsito stdes a   mtw  mee osia gist U) - o  I  e   -              *        t                   6K 10  -N                   33S
M g          tal Not tot e2                                                os -  -..                           2  to       5345          .5*
Morte ,te a7 stuos                                                                                             I  a-    27
Wmss. t                                                                              , t    ,  ,       *  * I.2    -                     * m7.2
Old ue   btvoetio _a to 05 ats 11 - I w -) -moota -um  bile -) gIoti   a             3 .         .S   30                   7- 5
F  hUid  sf6 ta in" tjs -g  Ia                                                   .     - 3    .3  to   -7.2                          -     .
tW_e HI ina wAtU ggdgm                                                     so        *  2a  I  -.  .  .          3 t      13.A    -      .  133
Ut uts OlotIlst             a t                                                           2  1    .  . .       3           74    -          77,5
t atl  tO a1         tn                                                                                                      74A    -      -    A 74
pal tt Set   twl                                                                            t *  * 2  2  I     6  10  It           0U4   le*4-UL
iat        3                                                              . -  * U     12  212    U         2.542  2W-3 . .3        3W46
f0who                                                                                       I  aa  * *  t22-2     5 2      9  .7-1.6        544
fad"         di, nUa a    -    1a  3 12a 2  2 a                                                                n  22.       .  U6 34     . 4794
et. Isl 4et t.dt t "                                                       a *          a  a -a m un     -.4 2.5          7        .2   .j Us
6*1deot eel    p                                                                     .t         2 *     3  2  .- .   2.5   .7  3.3       .  D.
C. NW 1
tiil i &se 42 pal    3 Ws g. b                              -  -  -  -  -.2 2 2                                            2. W     -        3.7
les) ti Ua 32 g , 3 5, sum)                                               fp   -  -  2  -  -  -  -  -   2  3.5            Ui4    -          3U
l-tdO   1    NM                                                                                                             3.6    *          3.6
tsid        cm¢ -2    2.24w.
m omm m
Mel                                                                                                                          441.15, 394       539,
I . 5  1033



Annex 1
-52-                                                   Table T-4
CYPRUS
SOU lllN CONVEYOR PROJECT (Phase E)
Summary Aceounts b% Projewt Comoent
llitU ~      ~         (i  '000) 
5113                                                               NISIICEC    i 9W9
am                                                                    =Wm amlim U1EV3
tinll  n I_   _      a    _ *_._ _
-Et     ------------  .-.----- --         ---                       LIM=     TU
NSIS  tili       Jt   l        ltlO  klllFiill                VARR;i    tBtBt   llEllt  IIIC09L           AnR 85t #A     1 TU D
DSoTIRI  MOT=93J     IIIERTSWII                          STIT       ST WIISE TIIUE VAS Nt  f M W                 TECUIIES L
I=fa   US            i       mii   sons  KwLoWIN   KW1   KwI    CM"IO   Lit   mpmn    ?MJMNI
1. IMIIEIWI CllS
A. CIMVL
--..-_.-._
1.si^WCtil                          18.332       3o3          176       221         a9                                            525      79
2. PVE SllY  N.0.                        -        695         23I        337                     -                                        95              *            -
S. .I  ED PItWWLt                        -        272         103         33        295          -                              2,435
i. m UlDi A Y11ff                                             313        525        690          *115                                      a00
S. ELM           NM                                                        -          -          .                     . _                                -
6.e FM1 UOM 3  L                         -        254         13         200        464
7. FM fi   l1m.  Am                               3,"         1t     m     5        174                               - *
0.11 OllEtL 3                                     127          D7         35        51           -                                  -       -             -
kTtl CIL  NM                           131353      440          9m        1475      2.632           *.9U    li,
*. fllB4t
1.        i ajlp                         -        352          23                                -                                595      1                          --
2.n   M     W*                                    422         in         I77        374                     -                      32
3.It EOmUPEt                             -        544         123        20         427               -        --                         41             0
4* SUI31WI  113118                                              .                                                                           -
5. iUUWI13                                                                                                                                              2 -  -     -  -  -  -  -
6. -Cm-                                                         - -        -          -               -            -             -                       45           -
e wA                 L -                                              -  -  -                                                 = -  *  - -  
160- LAS  19                               1- 33                 277        36         01           -         -                       27     431          73
C. WAW  T36361  - -                                             '                                   -     4.34       1.0°' '
D W10 11l                                   *        28           15       15          40           *       47          60          594      E5.
E. ON - FM  mm1
1 Otgn ltsUwr  NAm
-  dvSirLmiUs an-VW440                                                                                  .                                -
F.  'StiM    t   sb-2-                                          - -                  -        3,029                   -
-                                                                          ---   =  - _
fS*-oU0   - tO                                                                                                                -              -             -U
3.  3llUTIS                                 *          -           -         -                                                        -       *             -35
N.43531           I   2 1 1 1                        39           9         140       261           -       211        23           229     116
-                                             .... -_                       _-..    -_ --
towl  _MUMI CM1                           13           .; .57     1.317     2136      3J735        96        4.923     5.310         5.113   2.517          25           w
1tol SLIE  am                              13.         t4w7       1.A7       21U        3.735 JM    9w        4.9       52311         5.193   2.517                       337
'   aC1aof.cin                           13.5         6l3         163       236        45        1.254       73        m             779     37             73 
Prie Cswiu                               1. y         29         1to         219       232         965       292        43           344    1i5                         69
foul   ECt    3                              .0        693                   25.61      4.526      11.23      1         6560          6,315   30             34         1,032
fag,   fg3h                             15.321      3.203         79       1135       2.113      3.311     I83M       *.m          4.2     110t           11I          so
'An      2  17  107



Annex I
-53-                                               Table T-5
CYPRUS
SOUTHERN CONVEYOR PROJECT (Phase II)
Summary Accounts by Proiect Component
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .                                                                 _ . ........... _.
87        39          0                              40            6   so   89   9    91   92    3 n4 Tn u:
a. mis    E   WT
1. 3alIM  2152                            94  2911   3069   4.o4   3           S.32 33 2W      23   23S7     201   6383   6571  10.243  12.63  S11,4  6.99   S0    3.0W
S    tot el mi  6 l     5         T           942 1   3.069 4.70    3.695   5.33  3.363  25  3.t7M             -21   6.33    631 :0.2 12 .T2   1124 6-I. 99   23    5.49
L 132511 MYCLOPIS
t. MWiRl          TIUU Km0                204  2413   2472   1,s2         204                       6W-       433   5.96   35M     :3          43                    -   H4o84w
2. P4A35        MOM   I E                               -         341     6*      3ee S       - -     700                -             642   1.723   1.260      -    -     3
3.1 SI9II  tww          mm                -                       a    b2is       7t4  -            2#645 -                              -}3e3    2#11    106              344   w
4. nrs s      stM  OM                       *      . n707   1f0 3 a2              462      -    - Mue4                   3   3.63    3.4     1.39      969 9S*                91
M.*4tal 1t33t31   *Il                        204  2.615   4.310   3.851   2.933   1,614       -       15.799      4     5.9   9.376   6.24    6.235   3.864                  33.831
C.  -44    -61031                                           7YU   11sa    3.816   4,850      -       I                         I*-  s.6   m 3.5   8171  10.33      -    -  24e;
a. Smc VA= MY1.
1. LIuM      VA       hT    W             43n 1ne77   1.52   1.912    901           1      -35      5S9      1t.2   2.3e    J3.6   4094   1930          74            *
2. tVim   OMi  TlTlill  HT FM                     71   1364  I1.14   2*216   1,41         9     *-    132   29920  3U3M   40745   29143    02    -   :4446
3. uiiWImi *     III          I             -      *   3461   1746        592     216    100        6 313                    7.640   3726 13273 W      462    214    -   13MM2
4. VIL     NM13 r                           -    6t2    .23       943     234             -         3,04         -   1,332    2.43   2.2       12         *      -    -   605.
&IttA4o3u1 NE C MU3191?t                     473  1n770   7417    434  3944            5 251 14    - 21.        1.2   3,790  1.739    Ml  6.445   2.6W0    415    -  46.7
t. e NO IS I           _ICAA    l T             -    7S1      16     11s       2 2            -          394        -   1.609      34    246       26                    -     .715
F. ?OW m    l     =  me tmi                    -     SJ    m         231     174     13      99    -    .03         *    204      43      49      373      l      213    -   2::;
totl "      lCT OS                             71  0,212  16340  17277  16.776  132   3561  23   76,604   1I.   17,5   34,986  36,993.924  2,63  7.0   54  164.3
btci_t 29. IW97 12:07
2070C



-54_                           Annex 1
Table T-6
CYPRUS
SOUTHERN CONVEYOR PROJECT (PHASE E)
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IBRD Fiscal
Year and Semester              During Semester               Cumulative
-US$ Million---)
1989
1st                            0.2                         0.2
2nd                            0.2                         0.4
1990
lst                            1.2                         1.6
2nd                            1.2                         2.8
1991
1lt                            2.1                         4.9
2nd                            2.3                         7.2
1992
1st                            2.8                        10.0
2nd                            2.8                        12.8
1993
lst                            2.7                        15.5
2nd                            2.7                        18.2
194
1st                            2.7                        20.9
2nd                            2.6                        23.5
1996
1st                            2.5                        26.0
2nd                            2.5                        28.5
1996
1st                            1.5                        30.0
Closing Date: December 31, 1995.
2070C/S



Annex 1
-55-                           Table T-7
CYPRUS
SOUTHERN CONVEYOR PROJECT (Phae U)
Present Laud Use in Proiet Area
Phase I                             Phase II
Kokkinokhoria        Akrotiri        Kiti-Mazotos
Parekklisha
(ha)  (%)           (ha)  (S)        (ha)  (2)
I. Dryland Crops
- Cereals                 3,910   44            636   36       1,590   62
- Others                      -   -              81    5          113    4
TOTAL                   3,910   44            717   41       1,703   66
II. Irrisated Crops
- Citrus                    175    2            317   18          172    7
- Other Orchards             30    -            364   21         142    6
- Potatoes                4,400   49              -    -           -    -
- Winter Vegetables         455    5              96    5         83    3
- Summer Vegetables         445    5             68    4         219    8
TOTAL                   5,505   61            845   48         616   24
III. Fallow
Total Cultivated:        9,200  102          1,193  111       2,261  110
Total Area       :       8,960  100          1,755  100       2,580  100



soTuEM CUVETO  POenn" (PHAS III
s1p eatr    ANa and  m,id/
(in OX)
Ye  aIrj0a    Inusic  Klble- wons ui  TOTAL  Kheuris    late  .koitflm                ULSls*flai-Dmsi    ris  Inut
rI at    Morsi& ra Vmn-              VWa    AMIuw  Aqifer   dii.              Osficit -  ity                tion    nial
low5   *5       2.0      4.0 .11.6         20.2   20.4      -5.7      5.2      6.0    27.9    +7.7    100          2.6      4.1     2.0
3t0g   2.6      2.*     32.9      14.1     32.0   31.6      40.2      8.4      5.0    45.2    *12.4    100         3.6     W5.      2.0
Is"9   6.4      2.0     19.7      17.3     45.4   42.0      -e.g      8.6      5.0    54.8    +9.4    lee          6.4     25.5     3.0
1991  11.4      2.0     15. 1     17.7     46.2   43.0      -1.0      5.0      5.0    54.      *12.5    t00       11.0     21.3     2.0
1992  18.4      2.0     19.5     20.7    40.6   42.0        -.0.      9.0      5.0    55.2   .13.4    100         18.4     26.7     2.0
1393  19.5      2.0     16.7     22.1     60.3   63.4 ~' -0.9         9.2      5.0    76.7    .16.4    100        19.5     27.3     2.0
1994  21.1      2.0     15.6     24.2     65.9   66.6       -0.9      9.4      5.0    52. 1    .16.2    100       21.1     31.3     2.0
1996  22.5      2.0     20.,    27.5       12.0   75.0      -0.0     *9.6      5.0.-  00.5   +16.0    100         22.5     36.8     2.0
1996  23.2      2.0     20.2     26.7      72.1   74.2      -0.9      9.6      5.  6. 1 o I    .16.0    100       23.2     35.4     2.0
1997  24.0      2.0     20.4     28.0      74.4   71.9      .4.9     10.0      5.0    66.0   +11.6    100         24.0     36.9     2.0
1990  24.7      2.0     20.4     28.6      78.7   72.5      -1.0     10.0      5.  066.8;    1.31.    100         24.7     37.5     2.0
1999  25.5      2.8     15.7     25.5      71.7   60.5      *1.1     10.0      5.0    76.6    .4.9    l00         25.5     32.0     2.0
200   26.2      2.0     13.4      27.0     0.6   57.5       4.1I     10.0      5.0    72.4      *.3.    100       .26.2    20.9      2.0
2041  26.2      2.5     17:9      26.7     72.8   72.6      -4.5     10.0      5.0    52.5    -20.3      72.0     26.2     12.5      2.0
2002  26.2      2.0     190       28.5     75.7   78.7      48.?     30.       5.0    85.       49.3    100       26.2     36.0      2.0
2003  26.2      2.0     17.4      26.5     72.1   67.0      48.9     10.0      5.6    81.1    .9.0   1in          26.2     32.4      2.0
200   26.2      2.0     20.4      26.4     77.0   71.6      40.9     10.0      5.0    85.7    .0.7    100         26.2     37.3     2.0
200   26.2      2.0     19.0      20.      75.2   69.6      -1.0     30.0      5.0    83.5      48.3    300       26.2     35.5      2.0
200   26.1      2.0     13.9      28.4     70.5  60.3       .3.2     10.0      5.0    75.5    .5.0    100         26.2     30.8      2.0
2007  26.2      2.0     14.5      28.5     71.5   61.6      46.2     10.06     5.0    76.4    .4.9    100         26.2     31.5      2.0
200   26.2      2.0     15.0      27.8     71.0   43.1      40.2     10.0      6.0    57.9    -13.1      52.0     26.2     38.2      2.0
200   26.2t     2.0     14.6      28.1     70.9  56.6       40.1     10.0      1.0    09.5      -1.4     98.0     26.2     29.5      2.0
lots  26.2      2.0     17.5      27.0     72.7   65.       -4.1     10.0      5.0    76.0    +3.3    100         26.2     33.0      2.0
2011  26.2      2.0     20.4      27.4     76.0   G.1       -0.9     10.0      5.0    52.2    46.2    100         26.2     36.3      2.0
2812  26.2      2.6     15.3      27.5     71.0   55.9      *3.1     10.0      5.0    77.0      G.6.    100       26.2     31.3     2.0
lo13  26.2      2.0     18.6      25.11    75.2   69.8      -4.2     10.0      5.0    00.6    .5.4    100         26.2     35.5      2.0
2014  26.2      2.0     19.5      27.1     74.8   66.2      4.64     30.0      5.0    00.4    .5.6    100         26.2     36.1      2.0
2035  26.2      2.0     16.6      26.7     71.5,  62.5      -1.0     10.0      5.0    76.8    .5.3    300         26.2     31.8      2.0
2016  26.2      2.0     20.7      27.6     76.5   67.$      40.7     10.0      1.0    51.6      4S.     100s      26.2     36.8      2.0
2017  26.2      2.0     15.9      25.3     75.4   66.       40.9     10.0      5.0    00.31    *4.9    100        26.2     35.       2.0
se18  26.2      2.0     18.6      27.5     74.3   65.       40.9     10.0      5.0.   79.2    .4.0    100         26.2     34.6      2.0
2019  26.2      2.0     16.1      27.2     73.5   64.5      -1.0     10.0      5.0,   78.5      *5.01   100       26.2     33.5     2.0
202   26.2      2.0     14.4      27.3     69.9   49.6      *3.1     10.0      5.6    67.7    -2.2       96.5     26.2     28.0     2.0
2021  26.2      2.0     13.2      27.1     68.    22.0      40.2     10.0      5.0    36.8    -31.7      53.7     26.2     26.6     2.0       -
202   26.2      2.0     17.5     25.2    '1.2   59.7        -4.2     10.0      6.0    70.4    -3.0       94.0     26.2     36.7     2.0      g
2023  26.2      2.0     13. 1     26.7    .8.0   54.5       4.3I     10.0      5.0    72.9    .4.9    100         26.2     28.3      2.0
Mo dified results of the simalation of the systtm operation carried out by the EOB cmuster (last run: 3 June 198661.O
3/ For SCP only.
31 Th Irrigation iemas vary ia relation to 0) the real annual ET crop. calculated by the model (escot for the 2.000 ha In Trakchoni -Phasouri ;
(ii) Possible shortage instructions (restfriction on mwmual crops) "nforced at thek beginninog of the irrtgation Season (eOxcet for the
Trakhioni-Phusouri steal.
4/ The hiarians river starts to be diverted.
aht3cti



-57-
Annex 2
Table T-1
CYPRUS
SOUTHERN CONVEYOR PROJECT (PHASE 11)
Pouulation P!ectiona'
('1000)
1982    1985    1990    1995    2000    2010
SCP?' Towns:
Nicosia-Greek-Cypriot                124     130      141     149     157    169
-Turkish-Cypriot                 41      43      46      48       51     55
Total                           165     173     187      197     208    224
Limassol                             107     112     122      129     136    145
Larnaca                               36      38      41       43      45     49
Famagustal'                           15      16      17       18      19     20
Sub-Total                       323     339     367     387      408    438
SCP VillaRes:
Nicosia Area                          42      44      48       51      54     57
Limassol Area                         12      12      13       14      15     .o
Larnaca Area                          21      22      24       25      26     28
Famagusta Area                        37      38      41       44      46     50
Sub-Total                       112     116     126      134     141    151
Total SCP Pooulation:
Greek-Cypriots                    379     396     430     455      479    514
Turkish-Cypriots                   56      59      63       66      70     15
Total                           435     455     493     521      549    589
Cyprus Population (Greek/Cypriots)  525      539     564      584     605    643
SCP Population (Greek/Cypriots)
As a percent of total              72      73      76       78      79     80
1/   Based on data as approve by the 8tatistics and Research Departments of
the Ministry of Finance.
Population Growth Rates Assumed:    1982-1990   1991-2000    2001-2010
Cyprus                            0.91        0.71          0.61
SCP Area                          1.61        1.1          0.7S
2/  SCP refer to areas covered by the Southern Conveyor Proj. (Map IBRD 20379)
3/   Estiiated population for Famagusta, which is located in the Turkish/
Cypriot part, but which is provided with water under the project.



a IENOW it OLOI IE
WKv_
now
-M - -am   -tm   -1911-
pw                                                                          Iml- ow
I"  "emft& uw =&lks, hw  :ro- 'Oto   liltre-C Wt  w- 0,054 Tow "*Ov,-c t, W'd ""- SW
wt     Me                      4tim todA Tdot We =    I"
bww son"                              8=          I=                                Ilmol       semi
we  'NW"  It v Saw$   6'                                 le", ft"W             11 21
ti v  31  It                                             It v  so  ti v  St  ti E-e  it
ISCISIA MD 41
anda City   I#  n tLi  Iff  X 12.4  ll  b 12.1  In   t   In  n 131  to  is lLt  m   n 14.3  m   n "A  it  le Its*
"a ullqn       0  13       46         ft                  a  a  L   46  41                                  0
LS                    LLI  1!                 LS              4!  4! 2L. ti   a              Li
743 W   7,L-9 34-  Vs 'W   Vi W   -Z' 'W   Vi W   V.# W   75 W   3Z
U=  Ott,  tl  2  1.8  0   14               1                                                         3                      co
I     ti      31    18  16 US  1,11  n  LI  I   N  f-I  10  It 9.3  III  It 9.  ItZ    9.1
%I SW         L       6           46                                4, L6  13  Q  U   Is  a  0.6  t3    4.1
L                                              .6                                1.1
St         Lt                     Li
I  - :  :   I.,  -  -   OR
Si                                                                 : 1.6
astm               Lt                                Lt          1.0
bb-*Ad  -Wo    1D.)  m     12.0  US    IL2  54    li4 'iV    ITO  0      IL2  III    Mil In    13.6  m      14.2
umm m
ISM= eig,          L   I  g  LI  g  I  1.1        11          n  ZA  St  N  LO  30  R  3.1  0  N  L2            LS
4!     3!    4!   1.  2!    4!   1-1  n  0    1.1  I.S
L                                              .6         U           II         Li
Nwi CWdd bW                                                -  -  -   -  -  -   -  -  -                          Lo
bi,Ukol   9    4.1  V      4.2  S      CS  AS    4.4 'W      4.$  U      4.7  9      4.1  63     vi  a      1.3
me
1.                                 2                                  s   II    n
Fpqou witem                                            1  3!  1!
TIM  ,     8  I       I  a   I  I                                                           4!     u       I!
gm                                               0.3
-a    -43  W       4.6 3-5     4.1  V     LI  2       Lt  SB
WI"     a      4.1  a      4.1  a                                                                           LS
WIL   4a    34.4  M      3L2  M      $LI  4S     VA  462   3LI  470   39.1  4m     0.3  46    42.9  4is   OLS
lWoMm"M ausom'smo,". ch, sKUme tv AN* be pWtim so abod FAW
10 'Ir 0
144



0
cej
co co                    owoe            lm
-                             m.             m.             m_        _      m       _m   mm        m      m
Cw       in s           us   s          u me.          mg :   :ss es                        t's     :s  Ar                  TMwi
C'S  S             69   VI         0    319      a9   (1         I9   99        99             a    11        al     PPt-M
C.  I, I  il 
VI 16 u   9   Vj u  7                                                                     : III  :
ait   OlI                Ill          £9 U  -                                     I       go-   t-4      a      POW"
36  U    @*C    ~~~~~~~55   5                  ic   I  69   i       r P     i*S  9     i*  99   I5
g.s           t  aee       :                        a at 
ni       is     . cv    i      s        w    r          s uiCS                      is   nt        us  :*s        us      _ n
Vs  -          I - -       t _-Ft -    -    R- -   -    Fs- -              ,                        -     F-   -            aqutsism
, I'                                    I    Cl ;     'l                                   t
@t  59914l 991 fo    f a t                       tI    -    1-t                 I   U,   L&  I           6i !  I   ast       a lII
NW u I
Va  iusl            la so a i      u s            mOK  1s,6      at   ret1     ta   em                               PI"-" 
*   -    no                                       I *    s z.  - :  .   t
.*                                                                    * 51
I't  8£1994     6, ICI~I    i"Ik                   i      s       U     ilE      i 
501      te 5   U                            u1t te 9W  I  -3I
_~~pwpu                   pu.u        _u  .ss    __    __ _    _un _in    _    _ 
I ~ ~   ~     ~ ~ a  .,L    p   i.'J   .                  .     n' .n' .i .    .JS .   .     -         -    -   - - gI_
ad---       s*  t  -    *-        -.
-U -;z --- C4 -;Z  -"                                           P ---  -        -  -  IM - nm ww 1  -  -    -    -  1 -on,
sum~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ It I-Ntl - I d4



-60-                                                                    Annex 2
Table 3
Page 1 of 2
VW       .                  -                      SOS?                             USC!                                       Yora    UUSCTota
530lern  .3                                            -             ea   toholers                                                       miw   tta
T.S.  ris               r                                                 Ir*aq         Iu
59.       :4.3      3.3    1.2    0.9    5.O         -                            10.9      3.4     55.7       LI0   2,9    2.7    4.5           -   55.1
5It3      54.9      9.0    5.7    0.5    4.5                                   5.0IL        4.5     52.0       LO0    LI    2.7    4.4           *   IL.0
5904      55.3      9.4    5.3    0.3    LI9                                      551.5     3.5      52.       LO    LS0   2.5    4.9            -   12.4
to.       55.1      LS3   5.4    LS    3.4l          *                             : .4     LS3       2.4      2.0    5.4    1.4    4.4               12.4
5934      I4.       L.0    5.5             4.3    5.9    0.3    7.           *   54.5                52.       2.0    5.9    3.5    5.5            1.9tL
193       14.4      3.0    5.1      *      4,3    1.9    0.3    7.5          *   14.4                55.2      2.0    1.9    1.5    LI.3             51.2
5993      51.0      LO    1.1              4.3    5.9    1.2    1.9          *   11.0        *       3.4         *    5.9    5.0    3.5            3. I4
5Ig9      57.2      3.0    5.5             4.835..9 19    Li5                  7.213.4                           *    lo9    5.0    LI7               13.4
5990      ILI.5     3    .055              4.35.91Li39.0                     *5ILI           *       4.2         *    lo9    2.i    9.5          .514.2
5991      533         O 3 .05.             4.3     5.94.2I4.9              L 2  16.3         -      s..          *      -2 49.                 2.4   14.3
5992      53.9      5.9    54       *      4.4    5.9      *      4.3      4.    53.9               54.7                              9.5      5.2.  54.1
5993      19.5      L 3  .055              4.451.9         -     4.3       4.59.5                    54.                -       -9.5           5.4514.9
1994      19.1      1.0    5.5             4.      1.9     -      6.5      4.9   59.1               IL53.                             9.       LI   15.2
5995      59.9      5.0    5.5             4.4    1.9      -     LS5       7.3   59.9                55.5               *       *      .5      4.0   55.5
203       32.2      5.      5.5            4.0    5.9      *       .7      9.432.2                   W 4                *       -9.5           7,3546.3
2pq       25.5      3.O    5.5             4.3    5.9      *      4.7      7.3   20.        2.9       7.9                             9.5      3.4   17.9
20        24.3      L 5   .0 5             4.0    5.9      -      4.       4.5    3.9      5L9       13.7               *           9.5         9,253I
SI 1attlaly, not Grkttia 1.3, astd slug59,wlv asO 4w 3mm 11.tJ.



b W                Ls i     m        --u u  LS 1                                                         - __   _    i
- Li   M           -  LAl  0.1   4.3  ILI   L2   4.                                                     Li -_r Su
111    a         LOLIt                     L           LO  Li-m i  a~uM ILS,  U1   li31   4.lam-A Mi
-      LI    -     Ls_Li    -           46L          U   465      LI          3.0    .    .    .    .  .        - 3_-*  -    V0A1-
E    4       -    1.91.                                  LO         Li                     U   Ls -.    -.24.1    .611.4
118    41   Li     IA   L      -  L  .9             LI .J   463  Lt   Lt             .      .  L*_    .  .       _  V.    .  11.  SL
1i    Ls    -      LO  L            -   pi   49           Si .      Li    -   pt    -    -    -    -  -    L3JU                     Iii                   a a
nu    4.'  -       IS   1      -    -1.       0?    454.91.20.102    3.               -    -  -       - -      -u.        un  sa wJ
1      LS    -     " L.L       4   L -              L    .   LI  LI4SO U  4 . I 01 5  -    -    ^       -      3-. a10   n. 65 
11| L'   Ls        Ls    -  U    U    1.                   .u       L3         0.     l  Li  LO  II   -    UA -16    . -   -  *z
m      u     *    Ls   .  -         -.u LO   1    -    4.04.91.10.1        -   5.                  - -    -      .5.L      -1n.35.
lE     41    -t   1.   Li    -    -4.?         -    4.3.1190.              -   5.     -    -    -    - -         -3        -11.3.
li     0.1.        IA  1. a    *-   -6.6            * 11.94.2.             *   0.1    -1.L   L0       --       0*.t1    -955.0
W      4.          Ls .    aL -         a    .9    -    643.   2 L         -   0.9  L  -.   LO  t.  -    as *.1            -9.4 5.
193    4.1.        1.4         *   LI-   .     -    4.1114.34.5            *-   .1 -      6.41.0      --       4.45.?      -  953.4
S      &.5LO       L0.1   IA   LOs  .               1.1    -1 L  1.1           W4.1. 4.11LO  SU -                3. -ILI     1 Li -  La
l      VA   Ls     1.4    -Ls   Ls   11    -    713  -LI          1.       -   9.91 24.0 LO  4U - -    Su4                 -  LS  IIJ
lI    3S1  1.      1-    *  a.51.01.           -    6.    *    .26.       -   0.1   1.41.1a.01L   -    3.15.               -1.10.2
lI     a.1.        1.0    -4.31a01.            -    6.    -6.16*.1         -   0.01at  a11a   Il.t-    5.15.1              -  1.0.
a9  1.1.        1.0    -0.     LI   1.    -    6.    -  wJ6.3          -   a.60.1022                       3.5.         -  1.13.
1W  0.1.        1.    -1aaL .4   L I  4.4    -    1 .04.0.1.           a   3.1.1.1.1                 -    3.5.          -  1.15.
.00           IA  -  6 a.010.             -    1.11IJ .01.1           *   9t.94.4          LI  81.-    5.5.1.1.3.
Nl    1.11.O       L.s    -LS   u L    9 -          1.9  Si     '4 1.9        .0.99.0.41 LO 01   -    5. 25               LO 91 13.
0
oWN



m               wUTt-                                  ZZ      "T
In  _       ww          N-                       Mr-                  fir          r    warn
gL361                                                       "It   rn                   mot    Ut           too       9        w a         `*
In         on          M's   K n                          t9w_        "D ot  "got       TM
u   Tr    -                  -    -   w-  f- r
Om~~~" n szz                                                          "O         ag         m       nzs 
to" ~      ~       o          *@"        "1                         we        I s       to                              I -
,3i 6st                      --          --        --      --                 63O      tat)       13       1                  Om
c   $lot                     as    _     P      _ _t    9                                         lo       Is          Pon t
5~'vr    ,s. isw                '-          --        61t    611 .               II)      Eli)       -        £5-4
1w,   SI'                                                                                                                 I  zu   zng"*1  _
:s~e   i su@-ei -                                               *3       V       X tea      m           u       u                mini*
P555        "     1   iS                         ms    i             041f     a                 sun
*                631*   1616       zult   955            --             61i          1(3       5           (II13 tWl "65                         63              _
"lEo  s-rs       guts   oli             1      '       5            hi       to          lt5t        563  On**    sit          a
666 * 1 1e *1's   ut                  --             SO            --        u1          63         63   666        *I        65 n              16
C14 *        + n "O   Go'       as    ti'                          on            u         at           at         n    fall ^s   11s        lb      co ma
wi.   use  sm's   so     -              £13           63       15           193        63   maSOt      ats
"goll   ml(6    1651.1   061                         "61           161.      LI           i1n        -9   SS&*$      as3       a3            s165S
1111   m61       1s    "O -l                         *51           o1l       as           1         --   smogl    so9   _                  nS w
1*6  K136    *16   4131                - 933                       u(        "6           as        -      11*      6          au
4t6   3916       6wl       (11 1- ,9                               31 o t11 t-                               *    61 s ets
maa(it a m )  WW    I5om
_t_1 6 1108 16 _6   *J     . ,! _   s



cv's
sAIMIIE  cISStvEY  P96JECT (PHASE tl)
Irrigation: fet fStwrn per as of woter. Phane I (Kokkicakhorta) at Full Ovelw0oont
IWint. a         "out. a
Yield        Prie         ross                                               Plant       _E nir             1apair                   net
tla                l                Sadl     F rtlir        bser  blnhc    ftnIU          11xzzSLm          Turwls          taa MLIP
__---    - --.----------------------- ------- tCAke ----------- - -------------- - ----------- --
Poatoe  (Sprins)   Ut.             12i       3.04      412          217            30)            1OA             16               --            96     2.622
Potates (Atuma    2 .              115       3,2       44           Su              So              7             1S               --           734     1.426
Fodder              IS.*           IN        1.6        20          2U             23s              --             gO              --            76     1.347
We. (Ceored)        40.5           In        7.617     341          141            10O             247           Ig            1.275         1.121     2.982
We. (SPan)          48.6           115       552        St          122            116              76            I"O              --         1.161     3.64
aneioesarrats       2.0            II$       3.36       125         117            271              91            10i              --          14      2.477
Citrus              45.6           1M        4.960       --        1"              4"             136            148              --         1.476     2.94
PoFttoes (SPrin)       0.744         3.2o0               3,0t         6.167
Potates (^|Xin)        0.232         5.N00                 400          571
IoFd~r                 S.14          9.100                   2s          34
Ve. (Covered)           1.092        2.730                  575       1.714
Woe. (Open)            0.499         7.690                  t75       1.440
miens/Cartots           0.54         4,550                   25          62
Citrs                   0.46  ,       .47                    96         236
Witb pre4ect     4.530       10.224
Without prei  t     SLSilQ        J  t
est InCrAMetal Valu                    9.639 tUC
_mal use of WSter                         19.6 Ohl
Net Value               a 0.0  teJa
1/ Area slibtly adJusted 'A available supply of water (19.6 e3lyear) at full den lopm_t. assuming no moter shortage.
/ U t Value IC t2/a. bmsAJ an ae.i 1c (border) price of barley.
* ~~~~.1W
aaa~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~as~~~~~~~~~~Sj



3...     ..         3  2 8    ... 1a1 82 0         Ja .    5 '  551 
'0!S!si.                                 ....... I... }^      tf           .
..........I                   I     ,,
I                                                                      }
13             '''  ...........         *......    ...s'              .      '     w
.        ..         . . ..                 . . . . . . . . .
.4 s.x   s;   ............   ............. .      .. -w'
:4    4:,..US  H........s ... . ..S.:... . .                    :..
*     _  .               .          :9          
.t vgas*  . .. ......... s                 . .   ...   .
*5    #:ig.s 2::3383*81..33  a *-*               -.1...        3:gaX    '91 XX 
.     r***s   t',                  *0
*.    .                             , 
3:828 _:!23333 .                                          2:3;!    ' 0  g' *'
*g $' tos ~~~. . . . . . . . .            -.'. . ..   . '| i
*             .     ..   ..
10 I   _,ev        'E                                    
:4  :  ss :........ ,H~   ',,,,,,.,                                          ...... *9@  -t i .
,:  ,~ :3.8:3:  .                                            ..         . 3
.~~~~~~           ~            9 ,,,,  .-". 
i  S.!S2.::.                          .        i33't.|
3g    _**..*: l o 
*-  ~** .. .                        -                       W o -S
.~~~~~~~~~~~32   .    . .                          .. .        .3.3
53             2      . :                         . _            ..3**    
8         323s    .   .:       .      ...  *;; .........    f
* I     **..   '                       *, ,3t$                            ' f
s: g:::!S .H.3:883**  I* '''''
s*    gs28 ig .        ,      ,,  .............. , . ;         " |        s
C^1
xeuv                                                             0
*                    -   '       :



:0                                                                      x   No        I wj   1,11  ,,  
U                                          ......            a   N .       I
is2~~~~
0:28ts ~~~ ~~ .......    .   .....
s  _j,,^s    ,i..........**.. .........
-  -  *                                je***   lP- 1     ;
.3 l|"t.t.,,,,,,    ................. ..............                   sii 
gg~~~..                 .  .  .  .      .s t' .... ......'*gst,i,Snl
I:-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
.X  £.g"S      . ..    i. ...... ...............                       got     9X    
3s 3  _'.-     . ..9....-..  .,..............                          1
*v S9 ...                                   ...............
*        9.                                  I2                         ..t     ~*..i.........     ...........
*        '          'i                        i             ,,,9s                     X   
iP $'%^2$....... .......!i 
VM$    l@|g2S ........@@||§*§*t**+ 2':g a ..
3     3:3323 .      :..... ....            . . ..                              
*                                                                  I~~~~~~~~PP
E XUUV   .         .                         s                           9
s3       ,S4        9,                                                   -j"         ,
332 .v                             .                      * .1                    .
*          99                                                                9
E X@.u8   33 



mmuim   awwmm  Poo=EC MAsE U
Senstttvtv Asl)sts, Overl  Project
ULIS          up 101     UP sm      ami|    MC"1D  DOM-=     OWL=        LA sr  I MMR    ^l 2 YEARS  LAGAMARtSS 
CTOT             14.292   15.612    16.09       20.595     12.933       11.526       6.8C2         12.752       11.574        10.633
UP 10           13.50    14.292    15.493    18.942       11.706       10.467       6.060         11.722       10.655         9.84?
WP 20            12.001   13.162    14.292    17.S30       10.802        9.556       5.360         10.830        9.908         9.156
UP 501            9.556   Me.M5      11.526    14.292       8.516        7.428       L.682          8.725        8.050         7.487
DOSe 109         1.756    17.180     18."69    22.56       14.292       12.79        7.797         13.956       12.604        11.537
DOWN 20S         17.530    19.081    20.595    24.948      15.936       14.292       8.911         15.393       13.820        12.596
KIW us0          26.345   28.534    30.670    36.810       24.0"        21.781      14.292         22.210       19.417        17.367
LAb I YEA        --        -         --         --                      --          --             14.292       12.752        11.574
LAb 2I US        - -       --        --         --         --           --          --             --           14.292        12.M52
LABS 3 YEAS      --        --        --         --         --                        ____                                     14.292
I-3X



I^ 
1199 ~ ~ ~    ~         ~        ~        ~        ~       ~       ~       *$ Va  21t  *,go  I'l  09                 Am""
e'S 13SJM _s 10  SA n
ow        ocs      33        -nI'     g4s         *3                        e's t-t             eu          sw                         ,,133) JEIsSt
s le             -        I                  a's            t                                s                                           AR-- -- - -_    ojl
(Lt      -*- '       -                                           9I          -s- 1-1-                                                    h *I  1
Ole           Olt                 Ile S       I'            as          s        Ile       Il          I's        Ile t*ns    eIJ18.14UPa.
a's  a's  gle     gle~-le  SIF~lU
---   -    0 -- -  £- i-  -                                       -- -  -e - - -  t-  -- --   J--
q-iet     0 t-      -W R-    -                             --         t     -a as     se                    s_            _b-
a         se        ci O-s              ac        s' ---         -          o         o1s r-e __                        se            ueswgm       --
s0           @ ~cs      u-       c-        te        i.         as *     *      -i        t-t       vs        s-s         as         as    sa.m ,*a
c-I,      3-53     a-1       soe       st-        5t             ISi        te        cs-        s-c        a:         1i    *          w wJ"$1uJ--
_-----------------------. 351--------_
ni335  - .i3r  55*11W        IU
.5m



-68-
Annex 3
T-6
CYPRUS
SOUTHERN CONVEYOR PROJECT (PHASE DI)
Determination of Economic Cost of Water
FULL ECONOMIC COST
ITEM                               DISPLAY VARIABLES      DISCOUNTED VALUES AT
92
£C million
A. Average Water Cost
(1)  Total project costL'            CTOT                  146.3
(2) Cost of on-farm works
and greenhouses                                       -6.4
(3)  Cost of water at meter          (3)-(l)-(2)           139.9
Water Volumes Delivered                                  MO3
(4)  Domestic & industrial           DWST+INDU             204.7
(5)  Irrigation phase I              IRRWC1                159.0
(6)  Irrigation phase II             IRRWC2                110.6
(7)  Total volume                    (7)-(4)+(5)+(6)       474.3
(8)  Water volume at meter           (8)=(7)+0.95          450.6
£C/m3
(9)  Average cost of water            (9)-(3)I(8)             0.310
B.  Irrigation Water Cost                                     £C million
(10)  Cost of irrigation component  CIlTOT                  82.9
(11) Cost of on-farm works and
greenhouses                                          -6.4
(12) Cost of irrigation water
at meter                                             76.5
Mm3O
(13) Irrigation water volumes
delivered                     (13)=(5)+(6)          269.6
(14)  Water volume at meter          (14)=13x0.95          256.1
£C/m3
(15)  Cost of irrigation water        (15)=(12)/(14)          0.299
C.  Domestic and Industrial Water Cost                        £C million
(16) Cost of domestic and
industrial water component   CDITOT                  63.4
(17)  Domestic and industrial                              Mm3
water delivered at meter      (17)-(4)xO.95         194.5
£C/m3
(18) Cost of domestic and
industrial water                                       0.326
1/ Based on COSTAB economic values.



-69-
CYPRUS                             Annex 3
SOUTHERN CONVEYOR PROJECT (PHASE II)                   T-7
Cost Allocation (EC '000)
Domestic
Irrigation       Water          Total
1.1  Project Costs to be Allocated
1.1.1.  Construction Costs                                         101.280 '
1.1.2.  Annual O&M                                                    1,584 4'
1.2  Project Benefit                         79,870        81,920        161,790 J'
1.3  Alternative Costs
1.3.1.  Construction                    59,960        52,470       112,430 3'
1.3.2.  Annual O&M                         809           755
1.4  Separable Costs
1.4.1.  Construction                    22,800        14,940        37,740 £'
1.4.2.  Annual O&M                         654           570                '
1.5  Discount Rate:  9%
1.6  Project Life:  45 year
1.7  Construction Period:  9 years
1.8  Factor to convert annual costs
into present worth: 5.850
2.1  Costs to be allocated
2.1.1.  Construction                                               101,280
2.1.2.  O&M (1.1.2 x 5.850)                                          9,266
TOTAL (1.2)                                             110,546
2.2  Benefits                                79,870        81,920        161,790
2.3  Alternative Costs
2.3.1.  Construction (1.3.1)            59,960        52,470       112,430
2.3.2.  O&M (1.3.2 x 5.850)              4,732         4,417         9,149
TOTAL                       64,692        56,887        121,579
2.4  Justifiable Expenditure
(2.2 or 2.3)                            64,692       56,887        121,579
2.5  Separable Costs
2.5.1.  Construction Costs (1.4.1)    22,800          14,940        37,740
2.5.2.   O&M (1.4.2. x 5.850)            3,826         3,345          7,171
TOTAL                       26,626        18,285         44,911
2.6  Remaining Justifiable Expenditure
(2.4 - 2.5)                             3S,066       38,602         76,668
2.7  Percentage Distribution                    502           50%           1002
2.8  Remaining Joint Costs
2.8.1. Remaining joint constr. costs
(2.1.1. - 2.5.1.)              31,770        31,770         63,540
2.8.2. Remaining joint O&M costs
(2.1.2. - 2.5.2.)               1,047         1,048          2,095
TOTAL                       32,817        32,818         65,635
2.9 Total Allocated Costs
2.9.1. Construction Costs
(2.5.1. + 2.8.1.)              54,570        46,710        101,280
2.9.2  O&M (2.5.2. + 2.8.2.)             4,873         4,393         9,266
TOTAL                       59,433        51,103        110,546
1/  Total project costs - price contingencies and farm development costs,
(table c)(project file)
2/ See Economic Analysis NPU data (bl, b2).
3/  See tables A and B, (project file).             4/  £C 834,000 for irrigation.
5/  See table D, (project file).                    6/  See tables E & F, (proj. file).



cms
WMUTIW CMMVEYOR POJECT PNAE 11
Financial Rent Recovery
(annual data at full development)
Phase I                                          Phase II
Kokkinnkhoria                           Akrotiri                     Kitiflazotos/Parekklisha
SlI Fanm   Iedfu                      Sme Fann  all Fanj   Hedium Si2e Fann  Small Iha      Lare Fanm
---------------------------------------------(IC  000)---------------------------------------------
1.  Inc. Value of Prod.                         4.5               15.4                 2.7              11.7                 2.6            52.8
2. Inc. Cash Prod. Costs
(inel. water costs)                       0.8                 4.0                O.S               3.7                  0.9            18.0
S.  Incr. Net Cash Income                                                                                                                                      I
(1nel. water costs)                        3.7               11.4                2.2               8.0                  1.S            34.8              4>
4.  Depreciation                                0.1                0.1                 0.0               0.8                 0.2             2.1               1
S.  Family Labour         .                     1.1                 1.8                0.6               1.3                  .S             9.7
6.  Nanagement/Risk LA                          0.7                2.3                 0.4               1.6                 0.3              7.0
7.  Interest and return on capital              0.1                0.1                 0.0               0.2                 0.0             2.9
8.  Return to land Lb                           0.0                0.2                 0.0               0.2                 0.0             OS
9.  Inc. Rent/Surplus                           1.7                6.9                 1.2               3.9                 0.5             12.6
10. Inc. Rent as % of Inc. Income (9:3)         46%                60%                SS%                49%                 30S             36X
11. Inc. Water Cherges                          0.9                2.9                  .3               4.7               no increase      12.7
12. Financial Rent Recovery Indices (11:9)   M3%                   42%                25%              over 100%              .A.        over 100%
13. Inc. Farm Income (3-11)                     2.8                8.5                 1.9               3.1                 1.7            22.1
L& 20% of not cash income
Lb  IC 3S/ha
Source: Farmod data
2122Cp28
0
ED



-71-
Annex 3
T-9
CYPPRUS
SOUTHERN CONVEYOR PROJECT (Phase ED
Total Cost Recovery Index, Irrigption Comp_at
Opportunity Coats of Capital
92
Present worth of capital and O&M costs (EC M)                    76.5
Annual financial equivalent (EC M)                                7.0
Total amount of water delivered
(discounted) (Mm')                                            256.1
Annual equivalent (Mm')                                          23.5
Incremental water charges in SCP area (EC M)                      4.5
Total cost recovery index (2)                                    64
Source: Annex 3, Table T-6



-72-
Annex 4
T-1
CYPRUS
SOUTHERN CONVEYOR PROJECT (Phae U)
Structure of RetaU Water Tariffs for Tbree Water Boards
(As pr December 31, 1985)
in s3
for 4 NmIthi                   Nicosia                            Larnaca                            Liusol
Doosntic                         ------------ tatl C
20                                 7                                  4                                  3
40                                11                                  8                                  4
40                                t8                                 14 
100                                34                                 28                                 11
120                                49                                 39                                 14
160                                G1                                 47                                 24
200                               113                                 95                                 38
Couurci a
:90                                2t                                 93                                 6.
400                                40                                170                                120
600                                60                                240                                too
900                                80                                350                                240
1000                               100                                440                                330
Industrial
1900                               190                                930                                640
2000                               200                               1000                                7OO
2500                               240                               1175                                900
3000                               280                               1350                               1100
4000                               540                               1700                               1500
5000                               440                               2150                               1900
10t000                               40                               400                                3900
Nicocia                           Larnaca                            Lismasol
Avrage   Water Sold 11            Awrag.  Iater Sold                 Average   later Sold
Tariff --- … --                                     Tariff- ------ -----           ------
ICJ8         I NCI       I        £C/d         l NCQ       I         £CI.s        IN C
onmtic                  0.33        4.0        S?          0.314       1.9       7N           0.131       5.2        81
Comecial                0.408        0.3        4          0.372       0.2         8          0.114       0.4         4
Industrial              0.449       0.4         9          0.3n        0.4        14          0.080       0.8        13
Total                   o.m         4.9       1OO          0.32i       2.5       100          0.125       4.4       100
u|ua        m        aam                     amas s                        gaus            sea
1_/ bdgeted for 199



Annex 4
T-2
CYPRUS
SOUTHERN CONVEYOR PROJECT (Phase II)
TOTAL DOMESTIC WATER
Projected Income Statements
(EC '000)
Fiscl Yw               aW  31.        1984   IM     16   3W7   38    19M  1990 39    199               93 1   99 M   9
- ktul -
bdI  WKt. Volmn IthS                 16.22  1l.4S  17.69  25.10  29.53  31.5  32.38  37.40  39.83  41.36  43.08  44.70
Ysas Tariff (Clt/iol                 16.30  13.21  14.79  20.84  21.11  27.31  44.08  34.56  38.16  42.92  38.06  37.79
W96111 EWIND
Bdk latW  Sale                      2,644  2,450  2,617  5,232  6,233  8,617 14,272 12,96 15,201 17,751 16,398 16,82
PUATINB 11919
Mhgn                               233    275    361    361    383    383    432    483    507    515    525    U4
Energy                           1,08   1,167          1,038    m    1,004  1,041    714    921    933    956    984
>Cacals                              15     24     51     56     60     61     U      88    126    134    144    154
Purct   ofIbtwr                     3      103     92    81      77     73    69 65  6 1             57     53   49
uIntmnte                           123    fit    171    179    199    205    285    386    413    447    455    465
Adunistratim   Local Lml           24      23     27     29     34     35     4       48     68    100    155    253
AUhluistrationm   hudartus          68      68     83    91    10    144    18    260    330    35    42          480
su-Towt                              1,639  1,772  1,582 1,36  1,856 1,90   2,135  2,044  2,425  2,541  2,713  2,29
hwiciatim                              313    319    598    650  1,S18  1,550  1,561  1,960  2,730  2,780  2,800  2,816
Total Operating lap.                 1,952  2,091  2,180  2,486  3,374  3,455  3,696  3,94  5,155  5,341  5,513   4745
lbt Operating Ina                     69      358    43?  2,746  2,859  5,162 10,576  9,021 10,046 12,410 10,985 11,147
Intarst                                 3    40    503  1,304  1,324  3,503  4,86  4,662  5,465  7,721  7,351  6,983
lot I n                                 10    (92)   (66) 1,442  1,536  1,69  5,679  4,360  4,911 4,68   3,534  4,263
-        -      -      -~   =m   3* to     88*guam ina    m u    aaux  auau  233
bintl  IAtiot                          62      72     60     35     30     22      15     16     16     14     17    17
Opratln bttl t                         74      85     13    48      54     40     26      30     34     30     34     34
Oli0/Il
170c



-74-                                               Annex 4
T-3
CYPRUS
SOUTHERN CONVEYOR PROJECT (Phase E)
TOTAL DOMESTIC WATER
Proiected Sources and Apolication of Funds
(£C '000)
Fiscal 1w  nWing Dhcoder 31J          1994  I5       191       1931  IS1     190   9   I90   1SW71  I  1993 1M94   195
8001W   a  FIND                           -- ktu   -
Inttnot liWC"
kt Oratiq  Jnct                        692    U5      437  2,744  2,159  5,162 10,576  9,021 10,04412,410 10,885 11,147
praclatiul                             313    319    599    650  1,518  1,50  1,561  51,060  2,730  2,710  2,800  2,314
total lota  swc.o                    1,005    67  1,035  3,39   4,3J        6,71212,137 10,0U  12,71  15,190 13,5 13,3
3Onwot 8rants                            (5)     0     (0)     0      t0)     0      0       0      0      0      0       0
hirsivip
Propos    ilS LoaSCP      11             0    236  1,901  1,5U  2,0N4  3,305  1,737  1,395   712    389          24       0
Otbir Loss   17  t  ll                    0    116  7,361  6,001  7,174  6,833  4,191  3,242  I,2        909  "           0
So. Abeam  SCF 1I 11                 2,044  4,752  1,173  7,307   183       359  4,394  3,901  2,560  1,370    7S9    909
Lom OftbProjKsts                     2,139 1,91  1,022         0      0       0      0      0       0      0      0       0
Son. AventU  litbh    r Poj ets       1,649  1,592    547    70     649    6        46    W       891    WI  1,058  1,129
Totl Sorruimp                        5,033  3,663 18,568 15,616  9,013 11,186 11,129  9,336  6,032  3,69  1,939  1,91
MTAIL      t   F FlM                 6,933  9,340 19,603 19,012 13,450 17,39  23,266 20,218 13,37 18,350 15,U4 15,901
WPLICATI        I a  AfM
Capital  apmditu'
Proposwe   P  ot Sp  I* 11            1,760  4,715 16,013 33,020   ,871  9,530  3,999  6,97   3,3   1,957    123          0
Capitulihd taltentestBl  1   11         24    142    638  1,417  2,012    479    812    913    615         2      0       0
Capital t pE itCemthProjects   3,220  2,759    640   1V              0       0      0      0       0      0      0       0
Capitlid Wtorlt Oth Pfrojets            173    304    31       o              0      0      0       0      0      0       0
topitalited  ma*uwtus 3.id-
nistrative bpm                      650    743   8I9      WI  1,113  1,111  1,318  1,375  1,52t 1,701  1,815  1,938
Total Capital bpa tw                 5,3   0,663 10,568 15,616  9,013 11,16 11,129  9,336  6,062  3,6     1,939  1,938
lKres (decruase) Prki  Caital   305   143)  (194)   748    561    4517  1,471    122)   66    138   (253)   13
lkbt suvica
Intarnt                                383    450    503  1,304  1,324  3,S03  4,36  4,662  5,4U5   ,721  7,J51  6,383
Auortiati                              312   3n       726  1,344  2,492  1',52  5,763  6,342  6,635  4,132   ,592  6,941
Total bht brvice                       65    845  1,229  2,648  3,816  6,25 10,646 11,004 12,100 14,453 13,943 13,024
TAL WJICATIINT P  FU1l               6,333  9,340 19,603 19,012 13,450 I7,39   23,266 20,21818,805  18,850 15,624 15,901
2070C



75                                                  Annex 4
T-4
CYPRUS
SOUTHERN CONVEYOR PROJECT (Phase II)
TOTAL IRRIGATION
Proiected Income Statements
(EC '000)
Fisa  Yar  ndiagq Dcea     31t         194    199      9S      17    19         19        19  I9  9      92    1S3    199    I35
- ktual -
hlk albt.VeY l   IW )                 21.21   23.97   26.38   31.9     43.41   61.63   77.25   80.64   95.20   96.53  102.72  108.92
Averap Taiff ICot/a)                   3.79    3.79    3.34    7.14    8.23    6.96    9.36    9.62    9.91    9.       10.07   10.12
WM8TIB If _tES
Balk later Balm                         805      09   1,012   2,285   3,59    5,521   7,247   7,754   9,438  9,643  10,345  11,024
228     258     334     30      647     79       913     963   1,038   1,230   1,320   1,386
EWp                                  361     373     26      241     33      43       564     625     665     65      655      64
-^hsscals                              0       0       0       0       0        0       0       0       0       0       0        0
Pvcbas of btor                         4       0       0       0       0        0       0       0       0       0       0        0
Maitace                              121     116    200      240     445     53      6D       703     7       905   1,026   1,071
Whldetrations Loa   LLel              19      18     I1       21      25       30     3X       51      72     107      165     269
Aministratiu       a Ilarwtrs         93      S      III     137     165     217      29      366     469     353     62       704
1ito1t.                                 825     859     98   1,019   1,615   2,068   2,464   2,72a   3,062   3,452   3,7tO   4*
Dqrec.atiu                              691     691   1,016   1,121   2,594   2,624   2,670   3,m    4,347   4,4'  4,444   4,478
Toeta 4ratial   ps.m                  1,716   1,750   1,96    2,147   4,16    4,62    5,    6,100   i,409   7,661   6,234   6,51
llt IOWatio Ins                        1911)  164)   (956)    138    1573)   629   1,912   1,64   2,02    1,730   2,111   2,463
Inter                                 2,60   3,2,7   3,62   4,360   4,416   7,6)7  10,369  10,135   9,7    11,926  11,41?  10,623
lht IKcas                            13,595)14,081 14,576) (4,242) 14,99) 16,76) (6,457) 18,4811 17,nl1)10,146) 19,306  16,360)
.                          m. msmm mm *,s,                  , _  _ 
krkltat WA                              102              9 4             45       371 4           35      32      36      37       37
Opsratiog 3tio  t                       213     192     tH       9      116       8       74      79      78      t2      s0       78
OIIIIJ8



-76-                                                            Annex 4
T-5
CYPRUS
SOUTHERN CONVEYOR PROJECT (Phase II)
TOTAL IRRIGATION
Projected Sources and ApDUcation of Funds
(EC t40)~)
FIsctl VW  eudiop IK"brus      l1i    I934    3935    3914    3937    3935    3939    1990    39  3I92    19 I         99      1M
Imp  F FUM                             -kttual-
lnteal Ibuns
W1  gw'at)g Inew                      1911)   31)   194)   133    (73)   829   1,912   1,64Y   2,029   3,130   2,111   2,463
DWKiltie                               Pt1   91t   1,018   1,125   2,554   2,42    2,97   3j,     4,347   4,409   4,444   4,413
total lItwl horcn                      (20)    so       64   1,26   1,930   3,453   4,733   5,021   4,37    4,10    ,555   6,"o
nwetd  Brats                         3,301   3,312   4,412   5,519   6,730   3,345  13,005  12,19   11,78   14,13   13,203  12,024
Borrmiup
Pr_p o  I Lou SW  1 I   11               0     310   2,04    1,51   2,333   3,425   3,717    ,35       7M2     3        24       0
Othlr lm  SP I   i                       0     126  7,97    4,244   7,192   7,037   4,111  3,242   1,829       90       53       0
So. iA*n SE  I III                  2,7    5,10"  10,234  35,39    3,2    3,37   4,914   4,455   3,440   1,7"   3,254   1,297
Lam lthr Pojts                       4,232   5,832   3,94    1,30        0       0       0       0       0       0       0       a
on.  lnO thr Prjects                 2,557   3,39    3,139   3,7     3,267   2,916    322      4 34    5    3   2      4100    641
oled Ieras1imp                       9,166  13,323  27,378  3,43  17,1"0  14,774  11,707   9,"7   4,599   3,5    1,7   1,3
tMAL'in fit     IM                  12,534  17,135 31,854  5,57   25,5   2,574  29,44  27,5W0  24,759  23,931  21,4   3,933
IClATIh W FIM
Pros  Project       1                1 13  '770   4,745  1,,"7  20,976  10,793  30,4    3,99    4,977   3,9   I,7       123      0
Captditall   ltot w   I a 11            22    131  I59   1,492   2,22          445     7        4      91       33)    (34)    (351
Capital Etapituern 0th Proeat    4,399   ?,332   6,339   4,47    2,590   2,200         29        0       0       0       0       0
CepItalulsdItrstflt PrOjeJKt             0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0
Capitalite Hb uarters sioimI-
uistratli  trpeu                    974   1,115   3,423   1,50    1,533   1,,74   3,40    1,711   1,3    1,711   I,3      1,913
totol Cital   _ t                    9,16 13,323  2,37   2,493  37,3    14,774  31,2?   9,47   4,599   3,4              3,   1,93
lJae    (iscrtm) brkiq bfftal  1l101   130)  (424)   364    904                335      44     253 1    94    200      323    220
Mt  ervice
lters                                2,434   3,237   3,422   4,3e0  4,4,   7,437  10,34   30,33   9,750  11,9    11,417  30,32
bertitue                               19          1 3,271   2,35    3,440   3,44    4,914   7,43   7,334   3,20   3,013   1,"I
t.t) got Slerino                     3,4    3,992  4,90    4,73    7,354  11,263        3     757   17,4   20,125  19,435  1,754
tMtAL UI TIIE U ilO      l          32,534  37,335  31,354  35,57   25,95   26,574  29,4947,12  24,1    23,931  21,694  20,933
*mm sem                   -  mx  m8" mm* mom   - 8= m m~ mm
bbt Srdvic  Ceweprp mT      )        4.03    0.91   0.01   0.39    0.25    0.31   0.23         .V    0.3    0.33    0.34    0.37
001111m
2070C



-77-                                                         Annex 4
T-6
CYPRUS
SOUTHERN CONVEYOR PROJECT (Phase II)
TOTAL WATER DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT (WDD)
Projected Income Statements
(EC '000)
fiscal  at mbtl hconw 315             194    5"5    193       M9       9      19       9"0    99      5992    5                  199S4    5
hikS lts  Valme   3)                 37.4   42.42   44.07   51.09   72.94   93.5   509.63   13.04  15.03  157.07  145.30  153.62
Stagp twifU  fit/JSS                  9.21    7.92    3.23   13.17   13.47   15.57   19.    17.52   10.25   19.3?  15.34   13.57
IFITISB IIE
559 Me  $davi                        3,449   3,359   3,29   7,517   9,329  14,13   21,5318 20,60  24,39  21,392  26,743  27,916
i"                                  461    533      695     741   5,O35   5,17    1,345   1,445   1,544   1,745   I,345   1,92
b                                 5,U4    1,540   1,02   1,279   1,327   1,497   1,625   1,339   1,511   1,591   1,6U0   1,63
baitsb                               155     24      51      56      40      61      67      U      126      34     144     154
Poibm  of 4    W                     93     103      92      35      77    7n        69       5      61      57      53      49
lltua                               243     227     371    419    644       7       913   5,039   1,211   1,352   1,45   1,56S
4dIU iAt FrtooLKItdS S               43      U       46      51      59      d       s3      99     540 207    321   522
hnsiOit'els Umiurtwn                    16    2     193    22        74     360     44      64      B9      92    1,,09   1,14
M-letd                               2,463   2,U1    2,530   2,B5    3,471   3,973  4,59   4,M        ,40   6,013  6,133   7,
osr.iet.                             5,204   ,2lt0  1,616   5,77    4,071   4,174   4,41   5,232   7,076   7,19   7,24   7,2N
-lteS   it1q  iEgass                 3,7   3,111  4,146   4,63    7,542   3,47   9,03   50,05  12,364  13,22  13,74    4,307
Xt 96attig  lScs                     4215   (4321   1557) 2,334   2,26   5,995  12,43   10,675  12,075  14,19   12,996  53,9
Sit-a                                3,067   3,667   4,1*       5,634   5,70   1,121  55,26  54,196  15,215  19,647  13,76   17,716
let    m                            43,t2U   14,50) 14,6@    2,05) 13,4545 15,1,2  12,7M134,1211 13,1*) 55,457) 55,71`  14,097
*m              =~  =m                  *m==mm sm                      u ~sn mm
Ulegs btat  t                           75      7B      71      1       35    2J        21      23      22      22      24      25
u atiol ltil                           106     514     14       62      77 n    U       42      0       S           3  51      51
2070C



Annex 4
-78-                                                                   T-7
CYPRUS
SOUTHERN CONVEYOR PROJECT (Phase U)
TOTAL WATER DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT (WDD)
Projected Souces and Application of Funds
(EC '00)
FiKcI Vw  mlq Dect       r 313        1934    11    139      1397    3933    19        990    19H    132    I99       I994    19 
__m3-                                           -       -- - -ktual-
interl Sarce
kt opat3n  Iscee                      (239)   (482)  M1D?  2,384   2,266  5,"9   12,438  10,675  12,011  14,39   12,19   13,69
WrKiitIN                             3,204   1,210  1,64    ,11   4,073   4,174   4,431  5,M2   7,074   7,139   7,244   7,2"4
Total l1tr        h                     M       122   3,09    4,62   6,357  10,15   4,99  35,907  19,153  21,31   20,240  20,93
ev       t Bahte                     3,3   3,2  4,412   5,333   4,136   8,345  3,0015  12,7  3113,785  14,31V  13,203  12,024
Pt tpo o tooan  I           I  E it      0     59    3,9%2   3,104   4,2   6,730  3,574   2,770   1,54         m         4       0
Ote Lon V  1 1 3I                        0     242  13,3"0  12,245  35,066  13,373   3,32   6,484   3,64    1,313       113      0
-So. "IVW"t m 1I  11                 4,422   9,341 17,971  22,100   2,3      1,77   9,310   3,32   4,020   3,165   2,43   2,104
LOWsttur er      te                  4,313   ,1m        4,937   3,50     0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0
he.  "VWc    Oter Projects           *.2t   3,43    3,46   4,50   3,934   3,452   3,590   1,417  1,431   I,5           ,639   I,M
ta brrmle                           14,9    21,93   45,94   44,109  26     25,962  22,A3   39,033  32,631   7,315  3,615   3,676
TOTA.=U1   OF F1                    139,37  2,525  51,457  54,539  39,400  44,472  52,760  47,13  43,617  42,A33  37,33   36,03
CaICtal IIOF FMIt
Pr _e  Project  P 1 3 1              3,530   9,440  34,970  33,99  3M,AO1    9       1,993  13,914   7,874   3,914    244        0
Cptdulli Interet UP I I it              46      M 27    1,290   2,909   4,3    924   1,5"   1,932   3,5        (313)    (34)   (33
Cpitl bplEta             Oth PrujeKts    9,619  50,091   4,M    4,44   2,540   2,200   290      6        0       0       0       0
Capitdel    l*au t ttl Froects         I7n     304     373       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0
t pitalledi    hepartere Uini-
uletratlve  Pape                  I,      1,35    2,321   2,50   2,47   2,052   2,95    3,037   3,2135  3,432   3,64   3,911
Toa  Cpital lpu ltua                14,999  21,936  45,94   44,109  26,263  25,942  22,063  19,0   12,61   7,315  3,311   3,374
Ikre     der ) l         4 C ta          0     29     463)  3,01 31,466        92   2,061      129   1,270    93        d      346
it orvice
ltt                                  3,07   3,47   4,325   5,4   5,740  3,321  13,244  14,79  13,215  139,47  13,76  17,706
lhertilmtet 1,131   1,370   2,009   3,702  5,932   6,m   12,5 1133,1  34,451  14,9   34,31  34,32
Total llt lervice                    4,113   4,337   4,329   9,334  33,472  27,533  27,843  2,577  29,666  34,53   33,37   32,59
-       -                -…__ __ _ _ 
TUL Wt3 tWIS OF FM                  I9,37  2U,5   531,7  54,59   39,400  44,412  52,766  47,7   43,631  42,331 3,33   34,w
-~  Gmamma        -=              -    mamaso   mamma   ama.  -x   mama.. OM             =on
idt  lwice Csweu   ti(3.              0.24    0.135   0.18    0.50    0.54    0.5     0.41    0.56    0.46    0.62   0.41    0. 4
2070c



_79-                                                          Annex 4
T-8
CYPRUS
SOUTHERN CONVEYOR PROJECT (Phase U)
TOTAL WATER DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT (WDD)
Projected Balance Sheets
(EC '000)
FigKs) VW  msnfll Cukr 3,3           5934   IN1    1593    IN?    ItN        1      590 1991    592    59I3M   194    19
Fial kUts
Iro  Fied buts                     94,72 1 1,752 lU,  204,717 233,030 256,92 281,13 300,845 313,542 320,7 324,729 33,61
Lis Actumelated bpreltAm            4,98   6,093   7,714  9,492  13,513  l7,77  22,10  27,400  $4,4"  41,6  41,910  54,203
Total bt Fie   ust                 "9,1 ,14  54,944 197,275 219,441 241,23  259,440 27341  79,04  2,19,1  275,32 2n,405
Coub                                  37   57   979 92454442                         573  49           9 3332   274   m
orlvob                               3w2      910    907   1,319   2,457   3,535   5,38   5,170  4,10   4,84    4,464   4,979
Itwtwiu                               129    15       2tl    2       32      402    49254            Ml    7         812    35
Iotd aCrat Asst,s                   1,360   1,432   2,097   3,041  3,35   4,55   4,444  4,249   7,22    7,9     7,774  6,154
TOTAL 93113                        91,206 12,9ts,04  200,312 2M,322245,30 202,10  279,710 31,29 237,114 2,397 33,521
sum1 m uusn
Eqity
coital                             3,734  31,734  3,734  3,74X X3,   38,736 3,74  3I,73X  3,73   33,73   38,734  31,1
suoest $rat Irtotieal               3,=    1,194  11,40   17,424  24,204   2,54   4,554 3,352  70,1317  4,274  97,47 109,31
atold dEwoiq                        53,235) 17,4135552,0M7 4,07355519,331)23,461)126,236)3O,35391t33,4995313,95) (44,735(431,"4
Tt*l Euty                         x33   31,"4  X3,2    41,213 44,609  417,325 53,2  44,729 75,M34,054  95,49 ",412
hbt LWTVn Mbt
IiI Lou         I a It                  0     5    3,534  5,414   3,99,W3  54,609  14,45   17,23   54,604  15,1"  53,04   10,354
Mte LM            I Ie 0    242  15,52  23,4 93,32  44,479 44,98  42,57337,71   31,103  21,93n  12,4
bumt Uvwo   V  1 S I1               4,422  14,32  32,253 54,5   57,343 3l,3    U,54  75,2U5  0,317   2,712  34,510  91,
LO Ot ir PrjecS                    11,477  2n,3n  23,1"   24,W   22,021  19,23  5,502   3,U67  10,43   1,792   5,4U2   3,352
feewrostm ho         Ote ProjKts 3,524  35,554  35,032 39,478 43,05  44,323 47,557  41,43  49,73 W,    12,01  53,370
Total ht li-Te     t               3,03  70,007 52,255 5,423   533,479 192,74 597,316 59,065 137,70  517,72 16,907
CWawt ULIlltlt
k.t   "pIt                            79   5,173  2,N17    ,320   1,155   1,3l  5,07         841    473    25         Is       0
pt les                               3SP      411    304    354    366    403    440    373    443    445    452    4U0
Clet  litin                         1,170   2,04   3,72   5,92   4,39   12,5   13,751 154,41  14,932  14,411  54,32  14,142
Tol Cort Liiities                   2,343   3,594  4,55  3          7,t   14,314  15,353  15,15  1 5,        29   55,339  55,202
TOTAL lTY I LIU"II1T1              9n,20 42,09  1V,041 200,315  222,322  5,20 24,104 219,710 34,23  237,114 23,7 230,521
bt Eqst Ratio                        0.54    0.6     0.75    0.73    0.79    0.79   0.77    0.75    *.72    0.9    0446   L.3
2070C



-80-
Annex 5
Page 1 of 2
CYPRUS
SOUTHERN CONVEYOR PROJECT (PHASE II)
Basic Assumptions for Economic Analysis
1.       In the absence of alternative water supplies to the Kokkinokhoria
area, pumping from existing private boreholes is difficult to control, and
will result in severe seawater intrusion. Hence, the without-project
situation would witness a rapid deterioration from irrigated agriculture to
rainfed agriculture. The economic benefits attributable to the about 17 MCM/a
made available to the SCPI area is, therefore, equal to the net economic value
of the irrigated crop less the net economic value of the rainfed crop. The
incremental benefit per unit of water supplied is about £C 0.50/m3 (1987
prices) (Annex 3, T-2).
2.       Much less certainty exiats for the crop production relative to
SCPII. Its irrigation benefits are more distant, and many changes in
production and marketing can be expected, meanwhile. The net incremental
benefit per unit of water consumed has, therefore, been based on the average
benefits of the present cropping pattern (Annex 3, T-1). This amounts to
EC 0.40/mr  (at 1987 prices).  Adjustment of the cropping patterns and the
slow productivity increase of newly planted perennial crops have been taken
into account by increasing the net benefits per m3 of irrigation water from
EC 0.15/m3 to EC 0.40/m3 over the first seven years of the project.
3.     - All benefits have been calculated in constant 1987 values.
Investments in public enterprises are exempt from taxes and duties; there are
no reasons to assume that shadow exchange rates are different from the market
rates. Tradable production inputs in the project area carry no subsidies,
hence market prices approximate economic values. Border prices of tradable
outputs were derived from time series in Cyprus (potatoes), the Bank's
commodity price data (citrus) and EEC import prices (vegetables), suitably
adjusted (vegetables) for expected decreases in prices. The economic wage
rate was assumed to correspond to the actual wage structure; there is
virtually no structural unemployment.
4.       The benefits from domestic and industrial water can be approximated
in three ways: (i) through an analysis of the consumers' willingness to pay;
(ii) by assessing the costs of developing-the next alternative source of
supply; and (iii) by estimating the benefits of the next alternative use. The
estimate for (ii) would indicate the highest level of what the value of
domestic and industrial water could be, while (iii) would provide the low
limit. Using water for irrigation (the best alternative use) would give a
weighted average return to water of about £C 0.45/mr (Annex 3, T-1-2). The
costs of developin an alternative source of water (desalinization) would be
at least £C 1.00/i . The demand/price relationship for domestic water
slopes steeply, at least up to a point where water is no longer required for
essential purposes. Many residents. of Nicosia currently drill shallow wells
3070C



Annex 5
Page 2 of 2
in their gardens, at a cost of about £C 0.30/r3. During times of severe
shortages, residents are willing to pay up to EC 10.00/m3 for small amounts
of drinking water. Hotels along the coast regularly pay EC 1.00/m3 when
municipal water supply is rationed. A survey carried out in 1983 indicated
that customers experiencing modest water shortages would be willing to pay
EC 0.48/m3 for additional supplies (1987 prices), while consumers faced with
a 502 cut of present municipal supplies indicated they were willing to pay
EC 1.08/m3 (1987 prices). With domestic water supply in Nicosia and some
other major cities already restricted during most of the summer and autumn, it
was judged that a bulk rate of EC 0.60/m3 would adequately reflect the
consumers' future willingness to pay for domestic and industrial water.''
5.       Alternative projections for domestic demand indicate that the highest
expected possible increase in retail tariffs could cause demand to decline by
about 151. The water not used for municipal use could partly be stored behind
dams, or be used for irrigation. The net decrease in overall project benefits
would be, if this were to happen, about 1.5X.
6.       The analysis is based on a 45 year project life.  Specific
investments were assumed to be replaced, when necessary, at the end of their
useful life. No salvage values were input.
1/       Given the social importance of an adequate water supply of quality
drinking water, the estimated benefit is conservative,because it
ignores social benefits. TLe estimate is equal to the SCPI appraisal
estimate at 1987 prices.
2070C



Annex 6
-82-                         Page 1 of 2
CYPRUS
SOUTHERN CONVEYOR PROJECT (PHASE II)
Assumptions Used in Financial Projections
1.       Operating Revenues
Revenues from water supply and irrigation tariffs over the
projection period are assumed to meet the Loan 2386-CY finacial covenats, i.e
domestic water supply tariffs would be sufficient to cover operating expenses,
the higher of debt service or depreciation, and working capital requirements.
Irrigation tariffs for all schemes would be set to recover the following
percentages of the weighted unit cost: 352 in 1988, 371 in 1989 and 38% in
1990 and the following years.
2.       Operating Expenses
Wages have been inflated at 2% p.a. and chemicals at 31 p.a.
during the period 1987-1995. In addition, salaries have been increased by 3b
per y -r representing a productivity bonus. Assets were depreciated on a
straight line basis. Interest during the construction period has been
capitalized.
3.       Sources and Applications of Funds and Balance Sheet Statements
Government advances include advances to the WDD investment
program as well as advances on WDD's debt service to various lenders during
the projects' implementation period. It was assumed that: (i) the Government
advances on debt services would be capitalized during the implementation
period; and (ii) the advances on debt services would be amortized in forty
equal installments at a 91 interest rate per annum.
The onlent proceeds of the Bank loan of US$30 million are
assumed to carry an interest rate of 7.72% p.a., a commitment charge of 0.75S
on the undisbursed balance and would be repayable over 15 years, including a
three-year grace period. Other loans for the project are assumed to be made
by the Kuwait Fund (US$15.4 million, interest rate 5.51, amortization 16
years, including 6 years grace period) and the Suppliers' Credit (US$55
million, interest rate 8%, amortization 10 years, including 6 months grace).
All Government advances carry an interest of 91 p.a., and are amortized over
40 years.
2070C



-83-
Annex 6
Page 2 of 2
Inventories are estimated at the equivalent of 6 months of
supplies for maintenance and chemicals. Accounts receivable were assumed to
represent an average of about three months of total sales. Cash on hand was
estimated to be equal to two weeks of operating expenses and of local capital
expenditures. Suppliers represent the provision for retention money which was
estimated to represent about 152 of total proceeeds.
The values of the existing irrigation and water supply schemes
are provided for at their aggregated historical costs in 1986. The net value
of the existing schemes at CL 38.7 million in the opening balance of 1984 has
been treated as equity on the assumption that the systems would be transferred
to the Water Entity free of charge. The project assets were not reevaluated
and the following depreciation rates were used:
Civil works                             2.52
Mechanical and Electrical Equipment   5.0
Dams                                    1.01
Irrigation networks and pipes          2.51
207,c



-84-                              Annex 7
Page 1 of 2
CYPRUS
SOUTHERN CONVEYOR PROJECT (PHASE II)
Action Plan
Action to be
Action To'Be Taken                     Taken by                         Taroet Dates
1. Institutional Framework for Water
Resources Develooment I Management
(a) End of Phase I study                       MANR, WOO                    February. 1988
(b) Government decision on Phase I             Council of Ministers         November, 1988
study & start of Phase U1
(c) End of Phase It study                      MANR, WED                        I/
(d) Government decision on Phase II            Council of Ministers         September, 1989
(e) Submission of proposals &                  Ministry of the Interior   December, 1989
legislation to House of
Representatives if necessary
(f) Undertake institutional reforms            Republic of Cyprus           1990 - 1991
2. Water Charces
For the Year 1989 for Dnmestic Water
And for the Year 1990 and Beyand far
both Domestic Water and Irrication
Ca) Review bulk rates for d'mestic             MANR. WOD                        l/
water supply & trrigation water
charges & submit proposals for
increases, if any, to concerned
Ministries and Water Boards and
the Bank.
(b) Submit proposals for bulk rates for        MANR, WDD                    June of the
domestic water supply & irrigation water                                preceeding year
charges to Council of Ministers & with
copies to concerned Water Boards
(c) Submit proposals for bulk and retatl    Ministry of the Interior   September of the
water tariffs for domestic water supply                                 preceeding year
& irrigation water charges to House
of Representatives
(d) Enactment of bulk and retail water         Republic of Cyprus               1/
tariffs for domestic water supply
& irrigation water charges
(e) Inplement new charges                                                       l/
1/   See Loan Agreement for Actual Date
2070C



-85-                     Annex 7
Page 2 of 2
Action to be
Action To Be Taken                              Taken by                 Tareet Oates
3. Proiect Staff and Consultants
(a) Assign staff to car!y out project studies               WOo                   September. 1988
(b) Recruit short-term consultants for:                      WOO                  October. 1988
(i) system operations studies
(ii) aquifer simulation &
management
(iii) aquifer recharge studies
(iv) sewage water reuse studies
(v) O&H data processing & comn-
puterized customer billing
collections
(c) Recruitment of panel of experts for the                  woo                  June. 1988
Ohiarizos tunnel
4.  Water Resources Develaoment
Award of contract for Ohiarizos                              WOo                  July. 1988
diversion works
8.  irrigation Development
(a) Implement Akrotiri Irrigation Scheme           WOO. Land                      December 1987 to 1989
(b) Implement Parehlisha Irrigation Scheme         Consolidation Dept.,           January 1991 - December 1992
(c) Implement Mazotos Irrigation Scheme            Department of Agriculture    January 1991 - June 1993
(dl Implement Kiti Irrigation Scheme                                              June 1989 - June 1992
6.  Domestic Water Supply
Award of contracts for
(a) Limassol Water Treatment Plant                          WOo                   July 1988
(b) Tersephanou Water Treatment Plant                        Woo                  July 1989
(c) Tersephanou-Nicosia Pipeline                            WOo                   July 1989
7.  Studies
(a) (i)  System operation studies                              WOo                  October 1988 -
(ii)  Aquifer simulation & management                      WoO                   December 1989
(iii)  Aquifer recharge studies                            wOO
(iv)  Sewage reuse studies                                 WOo
(b)   Honitor and prepare management
plan for Akrotiri Salt Lake and
Phasouri WH-sh                                 WOO; Fisheries Department          1/
8.  Financial Hanagement
(a) Appoint Financial Manager                      WOO. Accountant General            1/
(b) Issue bid document for hardware.                        WOO                   January, 1989
software & training
(c) Implement computerized billing 8                        WOo                   June 1989 - June 19"0
collection systems
9. Oneration and Maintenance
(a) Issue bid document for hardware.                         wOo                  January. 1989
software & training
(b) Implement computerized O&M data                         WOO                   June 1989 - June 1990
processing systems
1/   See Loan Agreement for Actual Date
2070C



-86-
Annex 8
Page I of 4
CYPRUS
SOUTHERN CONVEYOR PROJECT (PHASE II)
DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE
A. SCP System Opleration Studtr
1.       The study would be carried out by WDD staff with the assistance of
short-term consultants.
Obletives of the Study
2.       The study would provide a comprehensive systems analysis of the SCP
system, consider in detail various management opdions and provide detailed
rules of operation for the conjunctive use of surface water and groundwater,
while aiming at an optimum use of SCP's water resources and the bridging of
critical dry periods by groundwater pumping; specifically, the study w;uld
consider recharging the Kokkinokhoria aquifer and the various institutional
technical, financial and legal options to control groundwater pumping.
dw   o Work
3.       The systems analysis would include the following components of the
SCP and their interrelationships:
(i)    Resource Subsystems:  Dhiarizos diversion and Kouris reservoir,
Akrotiri aquifer, Polemidhia reservoir and Polemidhia aquifer,
Yermasoyia reservoir and Yermasoyia aquifer, Pareklisha,
Mazotos, Kiti and Kokkinokhoria aquifers, VPP integration,
and-for future operations-treated sewage of Limassol and
Larnaca.
(ii)    Demand Subsystems:  Irrigation demands in Akrotiri, Pareklisha,
Maxotos, Kiti and Kokkinokhoria; domestic and industrial demands
of Limassol, Khirokitia and Tersephanou, including rural water
supply and VPP integration; and
(iii)    Water Conservation Subsystems (storage by artificial recharge)
of Akrotiri, Kiti and Kokkinokhoria aquifets using SCP water
and/or Limassol and Larnaca treated sewage in the future.
4.       The study would review, updato and analyze the performance of the
above-mentioned various subsystems.
5.       Detailed studies would be carried out to investigate the technieal
and economic feasibility of recharging the Kokkinokhoria aquifer with SCP
water. Also, the reuse of treated sewage of Larnaca and Limassol for recharge
into the Kiti and Akrotiri aquifers would be studied in detail.



-87-
Annex 8
Page 2 of 4
6.       The mathematical models for the Akrotiri, Kiti and Kokkinokhoria
coastal aquifers will be refined and improved, with the aim to make them
better tools for groundwater management.
7.       The study would consider the various options for control of
groundwater pumping, in order to avoid overexploitation of the aquifers or
waterlogging of agricultural land. The various institutional, technical,
financial and legal options will be considered.
B. Terms of Reference for the Short-Term Consultants
SCP System Chmeration (13 man-months)
S.       Four consultants will be recruited who will work jointly in a panel.
The panel would provide expertise in water resources system analysis,
agricultural economy, geohydrology and microcomputer software.
9.       The panel would assist WDD with (i) the preparation of a detailed
work program at the start of the study and the setting up of a
multidisciplinary team within WDD to carry out the various studies; (ii) the
design of the system operation model, including the establishment of data
requirements and the preparation of cost, benefit and optimixation functions;
(iii) the formulation of detailed rules for system management and operation;
(iv) the selection of appropriate computer hardware and software needed for
the study.
Coastal Auifer Shiulation and Management (4 man-months)
10.      This work would be supported by a geohydrologist cum mathematical
model specialist. The consultant will:
(i)    Provide user-friendly programs for aquifer modeling on the
microcomputer. These programs should include an universal 3-D
model capable of handling up to about 1,000 nodes, and a model
for the prediction and control of the movement of the salt
water/fresh water interface in coastal aquifers;
(ii)    assist WDD with the preparation of the new groundwater models
for the Akrotiri, Kiti and ;okkinokhoria aquifers, and with the
utilization of the models to determine criteria for the
management and operation of the aquifers, including their
conjunctive use with surface water and their recharge with
treated or untreated effluent; and
(Wi)    simulate the various management options envisaged by the SCP
optimization model through an iterative process, with special
attention given to the control and reduction of sea water
intrusion.
2019C



-88-
Annex 8
Page 3 of 4
Aqugier Recharme (3 man-months)
12.      A geohydrologist will be recruited to assist with aquifer recharge
studies. The consultant will assist WDD in:
(i)    Assessing the feasibility of artificial recharge in the
Kokkinokhoria and Kiti aquifers and determining the most
appropriate technology; and
(ii)    designing a pilot operation to carry out artificial recharge
experiments.
Reuse of Treated Effluent in the Areas of Larnaca and Lmassol (5 man-months)
13.      WDD will be assisted in this task by a two-man panel composed of a
sanitary specialist and a geohydrologist. These consultants will assist WDD
to:
(i)    Investigate farmers' willingness to use treated sewage and their
preference for the types of crops to be irrigated, method uf
irrigation, quality of treated sewage required, sites for
storage of treated sewage, and emergency disposal schemes;
(ii)    investigate the feasibi'ity of recharging the aquifers at
Akrotiri and Kiti, and recommend methods and places of recharge;
(iii)    determine, in the case of the Akrotiri aquifer, SBA's
requirements for either using treated sewage for irrigation or
for recharging the aquifer;
(iv)    Evaluate the economical, social, political and legal aspects of
reusing treated sewage for both irrigation and aquifer recharge,;
(v)    study the environmental impact of using treated sewage for
either irrigating crops or for recharging aquifers; and
(vi)    recomoend operational and maintenance practices anu procedures
for the protection of farmers and population from health hazards.
Comvute!Ition of O&M Data Processint and Aecouttin  (4 mma-months)
14.      Consultants with expertise in automated data processing and
accounting would assist WDD to:
(i)    define the O&M data on cropping patterns, equipment, stores,
spares, etc., which should be computerized;
(ii)    define the accounting and management information reports which
should be computerized;
20?0C



-89-
Annex 8
Page 4 of 4
(iii)    identify the most appropriate data processing equipment and
software (with respect to accounting Paid billing, within the
overall guidelines established by the Government's central
computing department);
(iv)    prepare a bid document for the supply of computers, software and
training in data processing; and
(v)    implemenit the computerization.
C. Terms of Reference for a Finaneial Manaer
15.      the Government's Accountant General would appoint a financial manager
to be responsible for WDD's accounting and management informatioei reporting
for both domestic and irrigation water. The financial manager should be a
university graduate, exrerienced in accounting and familiar with data
processing applications.
16.      The financial manager's main responsibilities would include
supervision of the following activities:
Mi)    financial planning and determination of the required water
tariffs;
(ii)    customer billings and collections;
Iiii)    recording of capital and operating expenses;
(iv)    inventory control;
(v)    financial reporting;
(vi)    reports for WDD's management; and
(vii;    computerization of the above-described accounting activities.
17.      If WDD were to be transformed or integrated into an independent Water
Entity, the financiet manager's responsibilities would include the
establishment of accounting information and procedures to permit full
financial reporting on the activities of this new institution.
307@oc



-93-
Annex 9
Page 1 of 3
CYPRUS
SOUTHERN CONVEYOR PROJECT (PHASE II)
Environmental Impact
1.       It was feared that the construction of the Kouris Dam could have a
detrimental effect on two areas of ecological importance, the 11 km2
Akrotiri Salt Lake near the mouth of the Kouris river and the adjacent
Phasouri Marsh (20 ha). This issue was investigated by two consultants (one
environmentalist and one hydrologist) recruited through the FAO/World Bank
Cooperative Program, who participated in the appraisal mission for the
Southern Conveyor Project (Phase II). Their detailed reports are available in
the Project File..'
2.       The Akrotiri Lake is a depression in the center of Akrotiri
pennisula. The lake bottom consists of fine, highly saline silt. The maximum
surface area zovered by water in winter is about 9.4 kmi, when the water
level is about 1. 7 m below sea level; the maximum water depth then reaches
about 1.0 m, while 501 of the lak'e has a depth of less than 0.3 m. The lake
is surrounded by a marsh area. At one time, the lake was connected to the
sea, first by a natural channel and later by a man-made canal; the last
recorded open connecti:.n was in the early 19th century.
3.       The Akrotiri Lake is an important resting place for migratory birds
in fall and spring; up to 10,000 flamingos may then be found in the lake, and
these are probably the most important group from the point of view of nature
conservation. The flora around the lake is mainly important because it
provides shelter and an environment conducive to food production for birds
(insects, etc.). The plant species found in the marshes have no particular
interest. The lake itself, due to its high salinity, is devoid of aquatic
vegetation which means that there is no food source for herbivorous birds in
the lake. The main food organism for the flamingos is the brine shrimp
(Artemia salina). The brine shrimp production in the lake is low however,
which is probably the reason why the flamingos usually only stay for short
periods.
4.       The main source of water for the Lake is rainfall, but it also
receives groundwater inflow and drainage water from surface run-off. The
direct contribution of the Kouris River to the lake's water supply is very
small. As the lake bottom lies below the groundwater level in surrounding
agricultural areas, there is a continuous recharge of the lake with
1/       (a) The ecological impact of the Kouris Dam 'n Akrotiri Salt Lake,
Cyprus; Euroconsult, January 1987; (b) Cyprus, Southern Conveyor
Project (Phase II), mission report by N.Q. Trac (Hydrologist),
January 1987.
2070C



-9i-
Annex 9
Page 2 of 3
groundwater.  The Akrotiri aquffer is being managed carefully by the Water
Development Department as a source for irrigation water in the Akrotiri area
and the present groundwater levels will be maintained after the construction
of the Kouris dam.  The effect of the Kouris dam on the water balance of the
lake is therefore expected to be small, and will probably lie within the
present margins of annual fluctuations.
5.       There appears scope for ecological improvement of the Akrotiri Salt
Lake, especially in making Akrotiri Lake a much richer feeding ground for the
flamingos. For instance, sea water could easily be added through
re-excavation of the old existing channel that once connected the lake with
the sea. This would likely increase brine shrimp production as they thrive in
hyper saline water. As brine shrimp cysts are valuable for aquaculture,
experiments have been carried out by the Department of Fisheries to increase
the productian of brine shrimp cysts in Larnaca Lake, another salt lake in
Cyprus situated near Larnaca, which is used for salt production.  In February
1984, sea water was pumped into the lake following suggestions from the
Fisheries Department, in order to prolong the period of stable and favorable
salinity for the brine shrimp. The experiment proved very successful, as a
large population of brine shrimp developed in Larnaca Lake, and large
quantities of cysts were produced- when the lake dried out.
6.       In Akrotiri Lake, relatively few brine shrimp have been observed by
the Department of Fisheries. This is most probably due to the fact that the
salinity in Akrotiri Lake mostly stayed well below the shrimp's optimum when
the lake was full, and was only favorable too briefly for the brine shrimp
population to build up when the lake started to dry out. Although salinity is
probably the main factor determining the brine shrimp population, the
availability of food (unicellular algae) for the brine shrimps may also differ
in both lakes. In Larnaca Lake, however, salinity is clearly the determining
factor. Despite the fact that flamingos also occur in Larnaca Lake, their
numbers are usually much smaller than in Akrotiri Lake, although Larnaca Lake
seems to provide a much richer feeding ground. The reason probably is that
there is much more disturbance in Larnaca Lake, as a road with heavy traffic
runs along its shores, and other human activities are present as well.
7.       The provision of fresh or brackish water to the Akrotiri Lakc would
also be possible. As the lake bottom lies below the groundwater level, a
borehole sunk through the impervious layer, which forms the bottom of Akrotiri
Lake, would provide an artesian flow of water. Along the northern margin of
the lake, the groundwater is most probably fresh, becoming more saline towards
the south. No data are available about the salinity cf the groundwater under
the center of the lake. With these two sources of water available, it is
probably possible to improve the present ecosystem of Akrotiri Lake, although
a number of questions still remain. These questions pertain to: (i) the
amount of water required; (ii) the amount of groundwater available; (iii) the
timing of water supply; (iv) the desirable salinity; (v) the siting of
boreholes; and (iv) fertility of the water for algae. It is therefore
recommended that a study be carried out to determine if and how the above
mentioned suggestions should be implemented. Thus, a management plan for
Akrotiri Lake should be drafted, with emphasis on the manipulation of
2070C



-92-
Annex 9
Page 3 of 3
hydrological conditions in the lake. The Fisheries Department would be the
most suitable body to both supervise the study and manage and monitor the
lake, once the management plan has been completed.
8.       The Phasouri Marsh is important for breeding birds; its botanical
value lies in the occurrence of four species of orchids. The marsh is
supplied with drainage water from surrounding areas and with surplus water
from an irrigation ditch supplied by occasional spate water from the Kouris
river. The effect of the Kouris dam on the Phaaouri marsh is difficult to
assess, due to scarcity of reliable hydrological data. However, it is
considered that any effects on the marsh as a result of the Kouris dam could
be mitigated through rather simple measures such as (a) artificial supply with
groundwater; and/or (b) controlling the outflow of drainage water from the
marsh by means of a gated structure. These measures should not be taken,
however, without knowledge of the hydrology of the marsh, availability of
groundwater, costs of a well or pumping station, and use -f the drainage water
by downstream cattle owners, etc. It is therefore recommended that, if a
study is made of possible hydrological improvements in Akrotiri Lake, an
identical study be done for the Phasouri riarsh.
2o7oc



-93-
Annex 10
Page 1 of 2
CYPRUS
SOUTHERN CONVEYOR PROJECT (PHASE II)
Related Documents and Data Available in the Proiect File
A. Documents
1.   Southern Conveyor Project (Phase II), Project Preparation
Report, FAO/CP, 4 July 1986.
2.   The Ecological Impact of the Kouris Dam on Akrotiri Salt Lake,
Euroconsult, January 1987.
3.   Southern Conveyor Project (Phase II), Mission Report, Nguyen
Quang Trac (Hydrologist, Consultant), January 1987.
4.   COSTAB (detailed cost tables).
5.   CB DISPLAY (detailed economic analysis, including separate
analyses for irrigation and domestic water components).
6.   FARMOD (detailed farm models for six farm in SPI and II areas,
including aggregate models for three project areas and
consolidated model for entire SCP project.
7.   1982 Census of Housing for the Republic of Cyprus.
8.   Draft tender documents for the construction of Water Treatment
Plants at Limassol and Tersephanou.
9.   Design report for water treatment plants at Limassol and
Tersephanou.
10. Limassol water treatment works location study. Final report by
Howard Humphreys & Partners (Nov. 1985).
EL Supportina Tables:
Appendis 1 (A£rkwiture)
Table 1: Average Increases in Vegetable Yields using Fertigation
Practices.
Table 2: Recommended Cupping Patterns in SCP Areas.
Table 3: Comparison of SCP Proposed Yields Against Other Recently
Recorded Yields.
Table 4: .Rate of Yield Increase in Perexnial Crop&
Table 5: Rate of Yield Increase in Annual Crops.
Table 6: Extension Staff Availability and Requirements.
AuPendix 2
Table 1: O&M and Replacement Cost for Irrigation.
Table 2: OM and Replacement Cost for Domestic Water Supply.
1070C



-94-
Annex 10
Page 2 of 2
ApPendix 3 (Economic Anl4Yis):
(1) Supporting tables for joint cost allocation:
Table 1: Investment Costs for Irrigation Project only.
Table 2: -Investment Costs for Domestic Water Supply Project only.
Table 3. Total Investment Costs, Phase I and II.
Table 4: Separable Costs, Phase I and II.
Table 5: Operation and Maintenance and Replacement Costs for
Irrigation.
Appendix 4 (Financial AnalJYs8):
Table 1:  Domestic Water: Project Area, Projected Income Statements.
Table 2:  Domestic Water: Project Area, Projected Sources and
Applications of Funds.
Table 3:  Domestic Water: Nonproject Area, Projected Income
Statements.
Table 4:  Domestic Water: Nonproject Area, Projected Sources and
Applications of Funds.
Table 5: Irrigation: Project Area, Projected Income Statements.
Table 6: Irrigation: Project Area, Projected Sources and
Applications of Funds.
Table 7: Irrigation: Nonproject Area, Projected Income Statements.
Table 8: Irrigation: Nonproject Area, Projected Sources and
Applications of Funds.
Table 9: Domestic Water: Project Area, Operating Costs by Scheme.
Table 10: Domestic Water: Nonproject Area, Operating Costs by Scheme.
Table 11: Irrigation: Project Area, Operating Costs by Scheme.
Table 12: Irrigation: Nonproject Area, OperAting Costs by Scheme.
Table 13: Cyprus Water Boards: Historical Income Statements
Table 14: Cyprus Water Boards: Historical Sources and Applications
of Funds
Table 15: Cyprus Water Boards: Historical Balance Sheets
C. Chart
1. Irrigation Networks - Implementation Schedule.
2070C



CYPRUS
SOUTHERN CONVEYOR PROJECI
Schematic Dgam
<  A1 /w1 ! j 1 o~~~~FaagUtoAM
II~~~~~~~I                                                                               toLosr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OOond~ ~ ~~ ~~oLCX
PAMWJSKA  ~    ~      ,w[/ w                      Gross Ame 660 ho
L.   .~~~~~IP ii.0  Dh
r7wo-os  1NeW  640 ha
Graos 5Am 320 ha
EBdsV    80 ha
~~~~~~N"                 240 ha1  / 
43                                    7113h t
1~~~~~~~ftn                 2 ha                           L ____J  
GW, 37?                                                      l         _       Saetown
> X 8 23 1~~~~~~~~A                               Uxsl_To_ 0 
NS~~~~1  2.7  2.3   ~ ~ ~~~~~~WmGross Area i.600 haj
Gross    230 ha.W                                                                 Amao           L                                              New       1t70 ho
Edxbhln  121 ho          Grass sae 778 ho        _     60   PolernWa 5.0 
Nsw     109 ha   |       bddino   407 ho         @ e l 5 4
,-5        1          Now      37t ha    1      2 A    TrMvnHA   2X0 ha
5.0                        12__
3.6                                                                                                                f*
mm.- WE tmolmrtb wodt
: 2 :                                                                                                          - NSR Nght torge sresevor
Gross Asa 634 ha                                                                                                 - Abmtua volume  MCM):
E**V   315 ho                                                                                                   1t: Total dsmwrd
Now     319 ha                                                                                                    37: SuSP
- G.W: SupIy by gsurwi'at
V ta 8on-310234



-96-
CYPRUS
SOUTHERN CONVEYOR PROJEeT FOR WATER RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT
Implementation Schedule
Year |1987|  1988   |  1989   |19901    1991   I  i                       1993       1994
Act&*                        YO        197118
6haffies 123J4l 1213l4 s 121314l11213141412131412314  1121.314    214
Phame I
Koufls Dam
man conveyor & vpP Connection                    u
Akhno Reevor                                 nnnJr
KokkinlokhOi kgation ysotems          -                     -          -
MIhQe DM  WoUr & bxteno
Khllrokica Pklnt
Proje C'ntoCenter                                       .uzuuua
Phcse II
Dhklizos D    l                                            I." -
Irgatlon D,ebmnt
Akrotlr
Pareiddisha
Mazotos                                                                       -
Domeftic Water Supply
Umassol Water Treatment Plant                   __.__                           .
Tersephano Waer TreahTent Plant                                 . .
Tersphanou-Necosla Conseyor                                _  -
Vulge waterSuppf                                          _                             -
Legend
_  Construction Peiod
*----Mointence Perbd                                                                                        Wod Bank-31023:3



S~~~~~1i    I                                               z.   
L 110  1 if l .ik                            ' XEvil        l
L____      ________            If, __Af__JiPI
-L6-



Lt ------------------------
11                           f
II               111                  1111111         I 
I              fl' ' 10
-86-



NOTEI



NOTES



S3OLON



MAP SECTION



IBRD 20379
-                       '                     NICOSIA                          37 \
/ -        ,)              \                                                                          T ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Famagusta
-                            IM~~~~~~~~~~~~AATAMIA
SErviCE RESEWOIR N
CYPRUS ' -                     _--                                                                       'N 
Afro .of tS.1a)                                                                                       \  sa           i                                                        N
_                          oE                       - |-                                        \      X      /    1       \                 t                                  \ALhI  I --_> 
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
35.           1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5
TERSEFHN40IJ WATRW 
TREASIBENT WOPERlmK)d
-35' 0 \~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IHOF WATER /
TREATMENT\WORKS  .                                                   CYPRUS
AND SOP/VPP OPER IAORL                              .      -     /
O rPors Pkv /               !    >,        f       z \          ae   /    i   / KORN-3WAIER        A                                               PRINCIPAL FEATURES
'DHErMSN                                                                              NLvasiiikos-PencldskInos                                                                        Southern conveyor
P5*0d NWP)             Project (SOP
V                          ge°or                                                             EH RW3 ,                        F , ) 7     > ~    sisling  | Phase I  Phase 11
2                                     N              Metoras/ v  1    /   t   t  >  | i [W >cg(Under
7                    25                                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Consftuciton)
1  ..~~~~~~         wzorce ~~~~~~   Reseeolrs arid Darms               -      f 
Trnmiso MNi                                      ----    ------
-     -0                                                                 Pumping Station s
/  ~~~~~~ONEM   A                                                 AquifeWrksit 
rAv, Curr MrEAL                                      Main Storage Tanks                                    0           0
DeYREPW AREA
Irrigated Areas
A kIoo,              /I,    /            /TA 7   A  /V/F  A  A/                                RSaer'
Present Ceaefire Llne
o/\  |  . r                                               Major Towns 
AhOm~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                            5       iS     15      20R
n-.W  .- KOW
33V                                                                      3$;30'
MAMR" 1987



