Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                               LOAN NUMBER 2914 CY
          (Southern Conveyor Project for Water Resources
                      Development - Phase II)
                              between
                        REPUBLIC OF CYPRUS
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                         Dated May 6, 1988
                                               LOAN NUMBER 2914 CY
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated May 6, 1988, between REPUBLIC OF CYPRUS (the
Borrower)   and   INTERNATIONAL   BANK   FOR   RECONSTRUCTION  AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower,  having  satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the  Bank to assist in the financing
of the Project;
     (B)  the Borrower intends to request from the Kuwait Fund for
Arab Economic Development  (the  Kuwait  Fund)  a loan (the Kuwait
Fund Loan)  in  an  amount  equivalent  to  about  fifteen million
dollars ($15,000,000) to assist  in  financing part of the Project
on the terms and conditions set  forth in an agreement (the Kuwait
Fund Loan Agreement) to be  entered  into between the Borrower and
the Kuwait Fund;
     (C)  the Borrower intends to  contract from various suppliers
of  water  treatment  and  water  supply  equipment  credits  (the
Page  2
Suppliers Credits) in respective amounts equivalent to about seven
million dollars in  1988  and  about  eighteen  million dollars in
1989;
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan  to  the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
last sentence of  Section  3.02  deleted  (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "domestic  water"  means  water  used  for  domestic and
industrial purposes,  supplied  either  in  bulk  by  WDD to Water
Boards or Village Councils, or  on  a retail basis by Water Boards
or Village Councils to individual consumers;
     (b)  "irrigation water" means water  used for irrigation made
available pursuant to the Project  described  in Schedule 2 to the
First Loan Agreement, the Project  described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement,  the  Prior  Irrigation  Projects  and  the Operational
Irrigation Schemes;
     (c)  "First Loan Agreement"  means  the  Loan Agreement dated
April 11, 1984 between  Republic  of Cyprus and International Bank
for  Reconstruction  and  Development  for  the  Southern Conveyor
Project for Water Resources Development (Loan No. 2386-CY);
     (d)  "Prior Irrigation Project"  means  the Paphos Irrigation
Project (Loan No.  960-CY),  the Vasilikos-Pendaskinos Project for
Water Resources  Development  (Loan  No.  1658-CY)  and Khrysokhou
Irrigation Project (Loan No. 2279-CY);
     (e)  "Operational   Irrigation   Schemes"   means   all   the
Borrower's irrigation schemes and  projects,  other than the Prior
Irrigation Projects, the Project  described  in  Schedule 2 to the
First Loan Agreement and  the  Project  described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement;
     (f)  "MANR" means the Borrower's  Ministry of Agriculture and
Natural Resources;
     (g)  "WDD"  means  the  Water  Development  Department within
MANR; and
     (h)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or  referred to in this Loan Agree-
ment, an amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty million
dollars ($30,000,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The  amount  of  the  Loan may be withdrawn
from  the  Loan  Account  in  accordance  with  the  provisions of
Page  3
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods  and  services  required  for  the  Project  described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement  and  to  be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special account in its Central Bank
on terms and conditions  satisfactory  to the Bank. Deposits into,
and  payments  out  of,  the  Special  Account  shall  be  made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing  Date  shall  be December 31, 1995,
or such later date  as  the  Bank  shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of  the Loan not withdrawn from time
to time.
     Section 2.05. (a)  The  Borrower  shall  pay  interest on the
principal amount of the  Loan  withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a rate per annum for each Interest Period equal to one-
half of one percent per annum  above the Cost of Qualified Borrow-
ings for the last  Semester  ending  prior  to the commencement of
such Interest Period.
     (b)  As soon as practicable  after  the end of each Semester,
the Bank  shall  notify  the  Borrower  of  the  Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for such Semester.
     (c)  For purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "Interest  Period"   means   the  six-month  period
               commencing on each  date  specified in Section 2.06
               of this Agreement, including the Interest Period in
               which this Agreement is signed.
         (ii)  "Cost of Qualified  Borrowings"  means  the cost of
               the outstanding borrowings  of  the Bank drawn down
               after June 30, 1982,  expressed as a percentage per
               annum, as reasonably determined by the Bank.
        (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the second
               six months of a calendar year.
     Section 2.06. Interest  and  other  charges  shall be payable
semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower  shall  repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. The  Borrower  declares  its  commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end,  shall  carry out the Project through
MANR with due  diligence  and  efficiency  and  in conformity with
appropriate agricultural,  engineering,  technical, administrative
and financial practices,  all  in  accordance  with an action plan
agreed upon between the Borrower  and the Bank, and shall provide,
promptly as  needed,  the  funds,  facilities,  services and other
resources required for the Project.
     Section 3.02. Except as the  Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the  goods,  works  and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall  be  governed  by  the  provisions  of  Schedule  4  to this
Page  4
Agreement.
     Section 3.03. In order to carry  out Part F.2 of the Project,
the  Borrower  shall:  (a)  assign  staff  and  recruit short-term
consultants in accordance with a timetable agreed upon between the
Borrower and the Bank;  and  (b)  carry out the recommendations of
said  studies  specifically  with  respect  to  the  Kokkinokhoria
aquifer, and the control of groundwater pumping in a manner and in
accordance with a timetable to be agreed upon between the Borrower
and the Bank.
     Section 3.04. The Borrower shall: (a) furnish to the Bank for
its approval, not later than (i) July 31, 1988, terms of reference
for a study of the ecology of the Akrotiri Salt Lake and the water
balance of  the  Phasouri  Marsh,  and  (ii)  March  31,  1990, an
environmental management plan for said  lake and said marsh, based
on the conclusions of said study; and (b) not later than March 31,
1991, implement said plan.
     Section 3.05.  Unless  the  Bank  shall  otherwise agree, the
Borrower  shall:  (i)  not  later  than  June  30,  1989, complete
and furnish to the  Bank  the  study  referred  to  in Part G.1 of
Schedule 2 to the  First  Loan  Agreement; and (ii) exchange views
with the Bank on  the  findings  and recommendations of such study
and undertake such  actions  as  are  necessary  to implement said
recommendations and as are  agreed  upon  between the Borrower and
the Bank.
     Section 3.06.  (a)  The  Borrower  shall  employ  a  panel of
independent engineering experts,  whose qualifications, experience
and terms  of  reference  shall  be  satisfactory  to  the Bank to
inspect the tunneling works for  the Dhiarizos Diversion Tunnel at
least twice a year  during  the  construction of said tunnel; such
inspections  shall  be  carried   out  in  accordance  with  sound
engineering practices and shall, inter alia, determine whether the
geological conditions warrant  or  require  any  changes in tunnel
design or construction methods.
     (b)  Promptly after each inspection pursuant to paragraph (a)
of this Section, the Borrower  shall  take all necessary action to
carry out any recommendations of said experts.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower  shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts  adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound  accounting  practices  the  operations,  resources and
expenditures: (i) in respect of the Project, of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible  for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof; and (ii) in respect of each of the Borrower's
irrigation schemes and domestic water supply schemes.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have  the  records  and  accounts  referred  to  in
               paragraph (a) of this  Section, including those for
               the Special Account  for  each fiscal year audited,
               in accordance with  appropriate auditing principles
               consistently  applied,   by   independent  auditors
               acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as available, but in
               any case not later  than  nine months after the end
               of each such year, the report of such audit by said
               auditors, of such scope  and  in such detail as the
               Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish  to   the   Bank   such  other  information
               concerning said records and  accounts and the audit
               thereof  as  the  Bank  shall  from  time  to  time
Page  5
               reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account  were  made  on  the  basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be maintained, in accordance
               with paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section, records and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least one  year after the Bank has
               received the audit  report  for  the fiscal year in
               which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was
               made,  all  records  (contracts,  orders, invoices,
               bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Bank's  representatives  to examine such
               records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section  and  that  the  report  of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal  year,  together with the proce-
               dures  and  internal  controls  involved  in  their
               preparation, can  be  relied  upon  to  support the
               related withdrawals.
     Section 4.02. Not  later  than  March  31, 1990, the Borrower
shall  establish  charges  for  irrigation  water  which  shall be
sufficient to recover 38%  of  the  weighted  average unit cost of
such water.
     Section 4.03. For purposes of Section 4.02 of this Agreement:
(a) the "weighted average unit  cost" is calculated by multiplying
the unit cost for each water scheme by the corresponding projected
volume of water  sold,  totalling  the  results, and dividing such
total by the total  volume  of  water available under said schemes
and  projects;  (b)  the  term  "unit  cost"  means  operation and
maintenance costs plus capital costs;  (c) the term "operation and
maintenance costs" means the  full  cost of adequate operation and
maintenance, including costs for  energy, materials, operation and
maintenance equipment, wages,  salaries  and administration costs,
both  for  the  individual  water  schemes  and  incurred  at  WDD
headquarters; and (d)  the  term  "capital  costs"  means the full
capital cost of a  water scheme including replacement investments,
calculated at an interest rate of 9% per annum over a period of 40
years after a grace period of five years.
     Section 4.04. The  Borrower  shall make budgetary allocations
sufficient to cover any short-fall  in WDD's operating costs, debt
service and working capital requirements related to its irrigation
water operations.
     Section 4.05.  In  order  to  establish  tariffs for domestic
water the Borrower shall:  (a)  as  soon  as  the facilities to be
constructed  under  the  Project   are  completed,  introduce  and
thereafter maintain a unified tariff for bulk water; and
     (b)  except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree, maintain
tariffs charged on all  domestic  water  at  levels which shall in
respect of the Borrower's  domestic  water  supply schemes: (i) be
sufficient to  cover  the  full  operating  and  maintenance costs
(including contingencies  for  working  capital  requirements) and
debt service requirements  or  depreciation,  whichever is higher;
and (ii) take into  account,  commencing  with the introduction of
domestic water tariffs for 1989,  any  shortfall or surplus in the
required revenues in the previous year.
     Section 4.06. For the purposes  of  Sections 4.04 and 4.05 of
Page  6
this Agreement: (a) the term "working capital requirements" means,
in respect of the  Borrower's  irrigation or domestic water supply
schemes, the difference  between  current assets (accounts receiv-
able, inventories  and  cash)  and  current  liabilities (accounts
payable and amounts  due  to  suppliers);  and  (b) the term "debt
service requirements" means  the  aggregate amount of amortization
and interest on debt in respect of an irrigation or domestic water
supply scheme, and  includes  Government  advances to be amortized
over 40 years after a  grace  period  of five years at an interest
rate of 9% per annum.
     Section 4.07. In  order  to  implement charges for irrigation
water and tariffs for domestic water the Borrower shall each year:
     (a)  carry out studies to  determine the appropriate level of
charges for all irrigation water  in the following year, in accor-
dance with Section 4.02 of  this  Agreement and with a methodology
acceptable to the Bank;
     (b)  on the basis of  forecasts  prepared by the Borrower and
satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  review  whether  its  domestic water
tariffs would permit the Borrower to  meet in the current year the
requirements set forth in Section  4.05 of this Agreement based on
the average water tariffs for the current and the two next follow-
ing years;
     (c)  not later than March  31,  starting with March 31, 1989,
furnish to the Bank for  its review and comment proposed schedules
of charges for irrigation water  and tariffs for domestic water to
be charged in the following year;
     (d)  not  later  than  November  30,  adopt  the  charges and
tariffs for the  following  year,  taking  into account the Bank's
comments; and
     (e)  not later than  the  next  following March 31, implement
the revised charges and tariffs for the current year.
     Section 4.08. For the  purposes  of collection of charges for
irrigation water  and  tariffs  for  domestic  water, the Borrower
shall take all measures necessary to ensure:
     (a)  payment in full of all  amounts by farmers, Water Boards
and Village Councils, respectively,  for irrigation water and bulk
domestic water within 90 days of billing; and
     (b)  that its  Water  Boards  and  Village Councils regularly
adjust the cost  of  domestic  water  supplied  to  consumers on a
retail basis to  reflect  fully  the  current  bulk domestic water
tariffs.
                             ARTICLE V
                          Other Covenants
     Section 5.01. The Borrower shall, until the completion of the
Project, maintain  the  Project  Implementation  Unit, the Project
Policy  and  Coordination  Committee,  the  two  Project  Advisory
Committees, the Project  Monitoring  and  Evaluation  Unit and the
Project Operational Unit within WDD,  referred to in Schedule 5 to
the First Loan Agreement, with such terms of reference as shall be
acceptable to the Bank.
     Section 5.02. The Borrower  shall  ensure that the membership
of the Project Advisory Committee for irrigation shall be expanded
to include the District  Officer  of Limassol, and farmers' repre-
sentatives from the Larnaca, Limassol and Famagusta districts.
     Section 5.03. The Borrower shall ensure that:
     (a)  the Project Monitoring and Evaluation Unit shall prepare
the report referred to in  Section  9.07 (c) of the General Condi-
Page  7
tions; and
     (b)  the staff of said  unit  shall  at  all times include at
least one economist and one engineer.
     Section 5.04. The Borrower  shall  by  July 31, 1988, or such
later date as the Bank  may agree, employ an experienced financial
manager within WDD's  accounting  unit  who  shall be responsible,
inter alia, for financial  planning, calculation of water tariffs,
customer billings and  collections,  and  recording of capital and
operating expenses.
     Section 5.05. The Borrower shall:
     (a)  cause the facilities to be constructed under the Project
to be operated  and  maintained  at  all  times in accordance with
appropriate agricultural,  technical,  engineering  and irrigation
practices;
     (b)  cause all  necessary  safety  inspections,  renewals and
repairs thereof to be made from time to time; and
     (c)  provide,  promptly  as  needed,  the  funds, facilities,
services and other resources required therefor.
                            ARTICLE VI
              Amendments to the First Loan Agreement
     Section 6.01. Section  3.03  of  the  First Loan Agreement is
superseded by Section 3.05 of this Agreement.
     Section 6.02. Section  3.09  of  the  First Loan Agreement is
superseded by Section 3.03 of this Agreement.
     Section 6.03. Sections 4.04, 4.05  and 4.06 of the First Loan
Agreement are hereby superseded  by  Sections 4.02 through 4.08 of
this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE VII
                       Remedies of the Bank
     Section 7.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (k) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  (i)  Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
               (A)  The  Kuwait  Fund  Loan  Agreement  shall have
                    failed to become  effective and any conditions
                    precedent to the right of the Borrower to make
                    withdrawals thereunder, if  any, have not been
                    met by December 31,  1988,  or such later date
                    as the Bank may agree; or
               (B)  the  Borrower  shall  have  failed  to  obtain
                    Suppliers Credits in  amounts equivalent to at
                    least seven  million  dollars  by December 31,
                    1988, and at least eighteen million dollars by
                    December 31, 1989.
         (ii)  Subparagraph (i) of this Section shall not apply if
               the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the
               Bank that adequate funds for the Project are avail-
               able to the  Borrower  from  other sources on terms
               and conditions consistent  with  the obligations of
               the Borrower under this Agreement.
      (b) (i)  Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
               (A)   the right  of  the  Borrower  to withdraw the
                     proceeds of the Kuwait  Fund Loan made to the
Page  8
                     Borrower for  the  financing  of  the Project
                     shall  have  been   suspended,  cancelled  or
                     terminated in whole  or  in part, pursuant to
                     the terms of the  Kuwait Fund Loan Agreement;
                     or
               (B)   that loan shall  have  become due and payable
                     prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
         (ii)  Subparagraph (i) of this Section shall not apply if
               the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the
               Bank  that:  (A)   such  suspension,  cancellation,
               termination or  prematuring  is  not  caused by the
               failure of  the  Borrower  to  perform  any  of its
               obligations under such  agreement; and (B) adequate
               funds for the Project are available to the Borrower
               from other  sources  on  terms  and conditions con-
               sistent with the obligations  of the Borrower under
               this Agreement.
     Section 7.02. Pursuant  to  Section  7.01  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following  additional  event is specified, namely,
the event specified  in  paragraph  (b)  (i)  (A)  of Section 7.01
of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph
(b) (ii) of that Section.
                           ARTICLE VIII
                            Termination
     Section 8.01. The date  one  hundred  twenty (120) days after
the date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE IX
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 9.01. The  Minister  of  Finance  of  the Borrower is
designated as representative of  the  Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 9.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministry of Finance
          Nicosia
          Cyprus
          Cable address:                     Telex:
               MINFINANCE                      3399
               Nicosia
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                     Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                        440098 (ITT),
               Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
                                                 64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
Page  9
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                   REPUBLIC OF CYPRUS
                   By /s/ Andrew Jacovides
                                         Authorized Representative
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                     RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                   By /s/ Eugenio Lari
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                              Europe, Middle East and North Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds  of  the  Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of  the  Loan  to  each  Category  and  the  percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                           Loan Allocated            of %
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category            Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Civil works                24,500,000      50%
     for Part A
     of the Project
(2)  Equipment and               2,000,000      100% of foreign
     materials                                  expenditures and
                                                of local expendi-
                                                tures (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 80% of
                                                local expenditures
                                                for imported
                                                items acquired
                                                locally
(3)  Technical                   2,000,000      100%
     assistance and
     training
(4)  Unallocated                 1,500,000
                                 _________
          TOTAL                 30,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "foreign  expenditures"  means expenditures in
the currency of any country  other  than  that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
     (b)  the term "local expenditures"  means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower  or  for  goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
Page  10
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The  objectives  of  the  Project,  which  will  complete the
Borrower's   Southern   Conveyor   Scheme   for   Water  Resources
Development, are: (1) to  ensure  adequate domestic and industrial
water supplies to  the  Famagusta,  Larnaca,  Limassol and Nicosia
districts;  (2)  to  maintain  irrigated  crop  production  in the
Kokkinokhoria area and prevent further seawater intrusion into the
aquifer in said area; (3)  to  deliver irrigation water to a total
area of about 4,300  ha;  (4)  to  bring into effect cost recovery
measures for domestic and  irrigation  water  in order to optimize
the economic  benefit  to  be  derived  from  the Borrower's water
resources; and (5) to  restructure the institutional framework for
the improved management of those resources.
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower  and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Dhiarizos Diversion
     Diversion of water  from  the  Dhiarizos  river to the Kouris
reservoir by the construction of:
     (a)  a  weir  with  off-take  structure  at  Arminou  on  the
Dhiarizos river;
     (b)  a  pipeline  of  about  1.6  km  length,  connecting the
Arminou weir off-take with the tunnel referred to in paragraph (c)
of this Part;
     (c)  a concrete-lined tunnel of about 14.5 km length; and
     (d)  an outlet structure through  which water spills into the
Kryos tributary of the Kouris river.
Part B:   Irrigation Development, Land Consolidation and Farm
          Roads
     (a)  Construction of night  storage  reservoirs and a network
of pipelines,  including  hydrants,  valves  and  water meters, to
deliver irrigation water to farms in  an area of about 4,300 ha in
the Akrotiri, Parekklisha, Mazotos and Kiti areas.
     (b)  Consolidation of up  to  2,300  ha  of  land in the area
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Part.
     (c)  Construction of about 74  km  of  farm roads in the con-
solidated area, referred to in  paragraph  (b) of this Part and of
about 30 km of farm roads in the non-consolidated area referred to
in paragraph (a) of this Part.
Part C:   On-farm Development
     Financing of specific on-farm irrigation systems, planting of
tree crops, greenhouses and  plastic  tunnels, through medium term
loans to farmers in the  areas  referred  to  in Part B (a) of the
Project.
Part D:   Domestic Water Supply
     (a)  Construction  of  two  water  treatment  plants,  one at
Limassol with an initial capacity  of  about 40,000 m3/day and one
at Tersephanou with an initial capacity of about 50,000 m3/day.
     (b)  Construction and installation of transmission facilities
for water from the  Tersephanou  water treatment plant to Nicosia,
including a balancing  reservoir  at  Dhali  and a booster pumping
station with a capacity of about 40,000 m3/day.
Page  11
     (c)  Construction of distribution  reservoirs and networks of
pipelines to deliver drinking  water  to  about twenty villages in
the Nicosia, Larnaca and Limassol districts.
Part E:   Operation and Maintenance
     Equipping of existing offices with small computers and equip-
ment for the operation  and maintenance of irrigation distribution
networks and for land consolidation.
Part F:   Institutional Improvements and Training
1.   Supervision of construction under  Parts  A,  B  and D of the
Project.
2.   Carrying out of studies,  under terms of reference acceptable
to the Bank, on system operations, ecology, mathematical modelling
for aquifers, aquifer recharge, reuse of treated sewage and diver-
sion of Ezousa river water.
3.   Implementation  of  institutional  reforms  for  better water
development planning and management.
4.   (a)  Computerization of WDD's customer billing and collection
system and O & M data processing.
     (b)  Training of  WDD's  personnel  in  data processing, com-
puterized customer billing and collection,  O & M data processing,
automated system operation, financial  management and water system
management.
                     *     *     *     *     *
     The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1995.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                       Amortization Schedule
                                          Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each May 15 and November 15
     beginning November 15, 1991
     through   May 15, 2003                      1,250,000
________________________
*    The  figures  in  this  column  represent  dollar equivalents
     determined as  of  the  respective  dates  of withdrawal. See
     General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
     Premiums on Prepayment
     The following  premiums  are  specified  for  the purposes of
Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions:
    Time of Prepayment                             Premium
                                         The  interest  rate  (ex-
                                         pressed  as  a percentage
                                         per annum)  applicable to
                                         the  balance  outstanding
                                         on the Loan on the day of
                                         prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years                          0.20
     before maturity
More than three years but                          0.40
Page  12
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                            0.73
     not more than 11 years
     before maturity
More than 11 years but not                         0.87
     more than 13 years
     before maturity
More than 13 years before                          1.00
     maturity
                            SCHEDULE 4
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, works and goods shall be
procured under  contracts  awarded  in  accordance with procedures
consistent with those  set  forth  in  Sections  I  and  II of the
"Guidelines for  Procurement  under  IBRD  Loans  and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   Bidders for the works included in Part A of the Project shall
be prequalified as described in paragraph 2.10 of the Guidelines.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part  A  hereof,  goods  manufactured  in Republic of
Cyprus may be granted a  margin  of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the provisions of  paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
     Goods estimated to cost less  than the equivalent of $350,000
per contract  may  be  procured  under  contracts  awarded through
limited international bidding procedures  on  the basis of evalua-
tion and comparison of bids invited  from a list of at least three
qualified suppliers eligible  under  the  Guidelines and in accor-
dance with the procedures set  forth  in  Sections I and II of the
Guidelines (excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55 and 2.56 thereof).
Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect  to  each  contract  estimated  to cost the
equivalent of $350,000 or more,  the procedures set forth in para-
graphs 2 and 4 of Appendix  1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where
payments for such  contract  are  to  be  made  out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be  modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract  required  to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said paragraph  2  (d)  shall be furnished to the
Bank prior to the making of  the  first payment out of the Special
Account in respect of such contract.
     (b)  With respect to each contract not governed by the prece-
ding paragraph, the procedures set forth  in paragraphs 3 and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines  shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made  out  of  the Special Account, said proce-
dures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of
the contract together with  the  other  information required to be
furnished to  the  Bank  pursuant  to  said  paragraph  3 shall be
furnished to the Bank  as  part  of  the  evidence to be furnished
Page  13
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts  on account of which the Bank has
authorized withdrawals  from  the  Loan  Account  on  the basis of
statements of expenditure.  Such  contracts  shall  be retained in
accordance with Section 4.01 (c)(ii) of this Agreement.
2.   The figure of 15% is  hereby  specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist the  Borrower  in carrying out Part F.1, 3
and 4  of  the  Project,  the  Borrower  shall employ engineering,
geohydrological and  other  consultants.  In  order  to assist the
Borrower in carrying out  Part  F.2  of  the Project, the Borrower
shall employ  a  panel  of  consultants  with  expertise  in water
resources system analysis,  agricultural economy, geohydrology and
micro-computer software. The  qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of  employment  of  all  such  consultants shall be
satisfactory to the Bank.  Such  consultants  shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank
on the basis of  the  "Guidelines  for  the  Use of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers and  by  The  World Bank as Executing Agency"
published by the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories"  means Categories 1 and 2
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agree-
ment;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be  financed  out  of  the proceeds of the Loan
allocated  from  time  to  time  to  the  eligible  Categories  in
accordance with the provisions  of  Schedule  1 to this Agreement;
and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equiva-
lent to 500,000 dollars to be  withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited in the Special  Account  pursuant  to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, payments out of the
Special Account  shall  be  made  exclusively  for eligible expen-
ditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received  evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special  Account  has  been  duly  opened,  withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent  withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account may be made as follows:
     (a)  On the basis of  a  request  or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which  add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized  Allocation,  the  Bank  shall,  on  behalf  of the
Borrower, withdraw  from  the  Loan  Account  and  deposit  in the
Special Account such amount or  amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
     (b)  The Borrower  shall  furnish  to  the  Bank requests for
replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank
shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the Bank shall with-
draw from the Loan  Account  and  deposit into the Special Account
such amounts as shall be required to replenish the Special Account
with amounts not exceeding the amount  of payments made out of the
Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall
Page  14
be withdrawn by the Bank  from  the Loan Account under the respec-
tive  eligible  Categories,  and   in  the  respective  equivalent
amounts, as shall have  been  justified by the evidence supporting
the request for such deposit  furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of
this Schedule.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account for which the  Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of  this  Schedule,  the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, prior to or at  the time of such request, such documents
and other evidence as  the  Bank shall reasonably request, showing
that such payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.   (a)  Notwithstanding the provisions  of  paragraph  3 of this
Schedule, no further  deposit  into  the  Special Account shall be
made by the Bank  when  either  of  the following situations first
arises:
          (i)  the Bank  shall  have  determined  that all further
               withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
               from  the  Loan  Account  in  accordance  with  the
               provisions of Article  V  of the General Conditions
               and  paragraph  (a)   of   Section   2.02  of  this
               Agreement; or
         (ii)  the total unwithdrawn amount  of the Loan allocated
               to the eligible Categories  minus the amount of any
               outstanding special commitment  entered into by the
               Bank  pursuant  to  Section  5.02  of  the  General
               Conditions with respect  to  the  Project, shall be
               equal to the equivalent of  twice the amount of the
               Authorized Allocation.
     (b)  Thereafter, withdrawal  from  the  Loan  Account  of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures  as the Bank shall specify
by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made
only after and to the extent  that the Bank shall have been satis-
fied that all such  amounts  remaining  on  deposit in the Special
Account as of the date of  such  notice will be utilized in making
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
payment out of the  Special  Account  (i)  was made for any expen-
diture or in any amount  not  eligible  pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
pursuant to paragraph  4  of  this  Schedule,  the Borrower shall,
promptly upon  notice  from  the  Bank,  deposit  into the Special
Account (or, if the Bank shall  so request, refund to the Bank) an
amount equal to the amount of  such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. No  further deposit by the Bank into
the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has made such
deposit or refund.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special  Account will not be required to
cover further  payments  for  eligible  expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount for crediting to the Loan Account.
