Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB5539 
Operation Name 
Samoa Economic Crisis Recovery Support Credit 
Region 
EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC 
Sector 
General public administration sector (60%);General finance sector 
(10%);Primary education (10%);Public administration- 
Transportation (10%);Public administration- Water, sanitation and 
flood protection (10%) 
Project ID 
P118636 
Borrower(s) 
Independent State of Samoa 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Finance 
Date PID Prepared 
March 3, 2010 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
April 6, 2010 
Date of Board Approval 
May 11, 2010 
1.  Country and Sector Background 
 
Samoa consists of four inhabited islands in the South Pacific, with a total population of 
c.182,000 and a total GDP in 2009 of c.US$555 million. Along with other Pacific Islands, Samoa 
is remote from main centers of economic activity or markets. Samoa has been hit hard by the 
global economic crisis in the last two years. Samoa’s GDP contracted some 5 percent in 
FY2008/09, the worst slump in two decades, and Samoa’s budget deficit exceeded its policy 
targets for maintaining macroeconomic stability. In response to the domestic economic impact of 
the global recession, the GoS formulated a major fiscal stimulus package. The Central Bank of 
Samoa (CBS) has also taken strong measures to ease monetary policy in order to cushion the 
impact of the global shock on the domestic economy, and to provide an environment conducive 
to economic recovery. Samoa was then hit by a tsunami – the worst natural disaster since Samoa 
became independent in 1962 – which considerably dimmed the prospects for a quick recovery 
from the global economic crisis. The IMF has approved a US$9.3 million loan to help spur 
recovery in Samoa following the September 2009 tsunami.  
 
The stimulus package included in the FY2009/10 budget in response to the global economic 
crisis was focused on infrastructure development. This addressed the immediate need to boost 
economic activity and generate employment opportunities, while laying a firm foundation for 
expanding the productive capacity of the economy in the medium term. The deficit of over 10 
percent of GDP budgeted for FY2009/10 was the result of the additional expenditure required for 
this stimulus package, in conjunction with the decline in tax revenues from the economic 
slowdown. Even with this fiscal stimulus, the global economic crisis and recent tsunami are 
expected to cause the Samoan economy to contract by around 3 percent in FY2009/10. Given 
this outlook for the real economy, a substantial widening of Samoa’s current account deficit is 
unavoidable. The results of the recent debt sustainability analysis suggest that, even after taking 
into account the large deficits envisaged in FY2009/10, FY2010/11 and FY2011/12, Samoa’s 
debt outlook remains favourable so long as it is able to access grants and concessionary 
financing to fill financing gaps. The GoS is committed to minimising the overall fiscal burden 
Page  2
and capacity risks arising from its post-tsunami recovery program. The macroeconomic policy 
framework in place is adequate and suitable for the purposes of this operation but subject to 
uncertainty from the external environment. 
 
2. Operation Objectives 
 
The proposed operation aims to support the government’s efforts to counter the impacts of the 
global economic crisis that have been exacerbated by the tsunami, and facilitate medium term 
recovery. The policy actions included in this operation will help maintain reform momentum, 
while at the same time supporting the government’s recovery measures. The operation 
selectively covers a small set of policy actions in four key areas:  
(i) 
Economic recovery from the impacts of the global financial crisis and the tsunami, 
particularly in the key tourism sector;  
(ii) 
Instituting mechanisms to protect the vulnerable;  
(iii) 
Public financial management reform to ensure that fiscal discipline is maintained at a 
time when public expenditure is increasing rapidly; and  
(iv) 
Public enterprise reform to strengthen infrastructure service delivery to support medium 
term recovery. 
3.  Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
Despite the challenging circumstances mentioned above, the GoS has stayed broadly on-track 
with its reform agenda. The GoS has called for concessional financing resources from the 
international community to respond to the needs of the immediately affected populations and to 
revive economic activity. The proposed operation aims to support the government’s efforts to 
counter the impacts of the economic crisis and recent tsunami, and facilitate medium term 
recovery. In particular, resources from the proposed operation will provide the GoS with the 
needed fiscal space to respond to the financing gaps that emerged from the global slowdown as 
well as the immediate reconstruction needs that have emerged due to the tsunami, while still 
protecting core service delivery for the vulnerable and positioning itself for economic recovery. 
 
The proposed DPC with Samoa is also consistent with the Bank’s overall strategy for Samoa and 
the Pacific islands more broadly. The Pacific Regional Engagement Framework (REF) is based 
around the twin pillars of: (i) strengthening government capabilities to deliver services, and (ii) 
improving the incentives for private sector led growth and employment. The REF highlights the 
susceptibility of the Pacific island countries to natural disasters, and the important role for the 
Bank in disaster risk reduction as well as responding to reconstruction needs following such 
disasters. 
 
4. Financing 
 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
Page  3
International Development Association (IDA) 
20 
 Total 
20 
 
5.  Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
 
The administration of this credit will be the responsibility of Samoa’s Ministry of Finance. The 
existing institutional structure for budget coordination in Samoa will be used to implement and 
monitor the policy areas supported by the proposed credit. Specific indicators of the completion 
of prior actions under the proposed operation are contained in the program document. The Bank 
will make use of the detailed monitoring and evaluation system that the GoS has already 
established for its SDS.  
 
The proposed credit will follow the Bank’s disbursement procedures for development policy 
credits. The untied finances will be disbursed against satisfactory implementation of the DPC 
and not tied to any specific purchases. Once the credit is approved by the Board and becomes 
effective, the proceeds of the credit will be deposited by IDA, at the request of the Borrower, into 
an account dedicated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank at the Central Bank of Samoa. 
The Borrower shall ensure that upon the deposit of the Loan into said account, an equivalent 
amount is credited in the Borrower’s budget management system, in a manner acceptable to the 
Bank.  
 
It is recommended that in addition to the request for the DPC funds to be deposited into a 
dedicated account that an audit be required on the dedicated account. These mitigation measures 
are deemed necessary as the overall fiduciary risk is rate as High due to the absence of an IMF 
Safeguard Assessment.  The mitigation measures proposed are to ensure the DPC disbursed by 
the Bank are deposited into the dedicated account and then an amount equivalent to the DPC is 
credited to an account of the government available to finance budgeted expenditures. The audit 
of the dedicated account should cover the following: (i) the accuracy of the summary of the 
transactions of the dedicated account, including accuracy of exchange rate conversions; (ii) that 
the dedicated account was only used for the purposes of the operation and that no other amounts 
were deposited into this account; and (iii) that payments from the dedicated account were in a 
timely manner (normally within 30 days of disbursement) transferred to an account available to 
finance budgeted expenditure. The audit of the dedicated account would be required to be 
received by IDA within six months of the DPC been disbursed to the Government of Samoa.   
 
6. Risks 
 
The main risks and their associated risk mitigations measures are the following:
 
Delayed fiscal consolidation.
The fiscal cost of dealing with the impact of the global economic 
crisis is very large, and has been exacerbated by the recent tsunami. The deficit for FY2009/10 is 
projected to be some 10 percent of GDP. The risk is that the needed fiscal consolidation, i.e. 
return to the government’s target of 3 percent of GDP, may be delayed. The concessional 
resources provided through this operation will be a welcome cushion in the government’s 
strained fiscal situation. The government’s continued commitment to making progress on its 
medium term expenditure framework (MTEF) and public financial management (PFM) reforms 
Page  4
should also help mitigate this risk. The recent IMF Article IV consultations and the joint debt 
sustainabil
ity analysis (DSA) have also provided analytical inputs to the government’s fiscal 
consolidation strategy. 
A
weaker than anticipated global recovery.
A
deeper or longer downturn than anticipated in 
the current global context represents a risk, contingent on developments in partner country 
economies such as Australia, New Zealand and the US who are key to the flow of tourists as well 
as remittances into Samoa. One mitigation strategy is to ensure the rapid recovery of Samoa’s 
critical tourism sector, which has been supported by the proposed operation. A further mitigation 
strategy is to continue the implementation of reforms that encourage private sector development, 
including through better infrastructure and more efficient telecommunications. The GoS has 
shown commitment to making progress in these areas some of which are also supported under 
the current operation. 
Capacity constraints of the Government.
Public sector capacity constraints are typical in a 
small, remote island economy such as Samoa. The global economic crisis has stretched the GoS’ 
capacity for reform efforts and placed greater demands on service delivery, a situation 
exacerbated by the recent tsunami. The risk is mitigated through the coordinated approach taken 
by the Bank and other donors to support the government-led recovery framework. This will 
provide both technical and financial assistance to the government while at the same time 
minimizing transaction costs of engagement. 
 
7.  Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
 
A
HIES was conducted in 2008 when Samoa was suffering the effects of the food and fuel crisis 
and the global economic crisis. When comparing the 2008 HIES to the 2002 HIES, the results 
highlighted that while food poverty was decreasing in Samoa, basic needs poverty was rising, 
particularly in rural areas. The population affected by the 2009 tsunami was among the poorest in 
Samoa. The tsunami not only resulted in the loss of homes and other material assets in the 
affected areas, it also undercut vital livelihood strategies, particularly in the agriculture and 
tourism sectors. The proposed operation will help to restore livelihoods in areas affected by the 
tsunami, mitigating the rise in poverty. 
 
The policies supported by the proposed operation would not have a negative effect on Samoa’s 
environment, natural resources or forests. The reforms supported under the operation aim 
primarily at recovering from the tsunami, strengthening public financial management, protecting 
the vulnerable at the national level, and spurring private sector growth, and do not bear directly 
on environmental risks. Measures relating to the increased independence of the LTA should 
allow for improvements in road maintenance, but do not directly support new road construction. 
The post-tsunami recovery program is expected to have some positive impact on the 
environment. 
 
8. Contact point 
Contact: Manjula M. Luthria 
Title: Sr Country Economist 
Tel: 5740+6536 / 61-2-9235-6536 
Fax:  
Page  5
Email: Mluthria@worldbank.org 
Location: Sydney, Australia (IBRD) 
 
9.  For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
