Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATASHEET 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
 
I.  Basic Information
 
Date prepared/updated:  05/08/2006 
Report No.:  AC2066
1. Basic Project Data  
 
Country:  Sudan 
Project ID:  P098495 
Project Name:  Southern Sudan Umbrella Program for Health System Development 
Task Team Leader:  Jean-Pierre Manshande 
Estimated Appraisal Date: January 25, 
2006 
Estimated Board Date: May 10, 2006 
Managing Unit:  AFTH3 
Lending Instrument:  Emergency Recovery 
Loan 
Sector:  Health (100%) 
Theme:  Child health (P);Other communicable diseases (P);Health system performance 
(P);Nutrition and food security (P);Population and reproductive health (P) 
IBRD Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
IDA Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 BORROWER 
150.00 
 SPECIAL 
FINANCING 
75.00
225.00 
Environmental Category: B - Partial Assessment 
Simplified Processing 
Simple [X] 
Repeater [] 
Is this project processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency Recovery) 
Yes [X] 
No [ ] 
2. Project Objectives 
The project's development objective is to develop core health sector systems and 
capacities and increase the population’s access to basic health services and interventions.   
 
3. Project Description 
Component 1.  Development of policy and capacity of the public health administration.  
This component will improve the capacities of MOH planners and administrators at 
GoSS, state, and county levels to formulate policy, set priorities, develop operational 
plans and budgets, and supervise and coordinate service providers and other sector 
partners.  The program will finance office equipment, information technology (IT), and 
vehicles as well as technical assistance and training.  
 
Component 2.  Investment in infrastructure and equipment.  During the first year, the 
program will support detailed planning for the investment program.  As well, the program 
will equip functioning facilities as well as upgrade priority existing hospitals and health 
centers.  Subsequent Later years will see a rapid increase in the rehabilitation and 
construction of health facilities at PHC, health center, and rural hospital levels.  
Page  2
Component 3. Pharmaceutical system capacity and supply.  This component will 
develop MoH's capacity to strengthen the regulatory framework and to manage the 
procurement, supply and distribution of drugs.  Rehabilitation and construction of central 
and regional warehouses is also planned.  
 
Component 4. Health human resource development.  This component will develop the 
health human resources required for expansion of basic service delivery.  Technical 
assistance will support the Ministry on human resource planning and management.  The 
component will also support development of pre- and in-service training capacity and 
programs, including developing and harmonizing curricula and training material, training 
of teachers and trainers, rehabilitating training facilities, and meeting the recurrent costs 
of training programs.  
 
Component 5. Expansion of health service delivery.  This component will finance rapid 
expansion of health service delivery, largely through contracting mechanisms designed to 
bypass capacity constraints.  The first sub-component involves strengthening and 
reforming service delivery by the three major hospitals in Juba, Malakal and Wau.  The 
second sub-component focuses on supporting and developing the PHC level, including 
district (first-referral) hospitals.  
 
Component 6.  High-impact health interventions.  This component seeks to reach the 
two-thirds of the population of South Sudan without access to formal health services 
through the introduction of high-impact interventions delivered through community and 
household channels.  Interventions will include measles immunization, distribution of 
insecticidal nets for malaria prevention, and others.  
 
Component 7.  Monitoring and evaluation.  This component will develop the Ministry 
of Health’s monitoring and evaluation (M&E) capacity and establish its M&E system, as 
well as measure the performance of this program itself.  
 
Component 8.  Program implementation.  Capacity for program implementation will be 
built in the existing structure of the MoH, with an Executive Board comprising the 
Undersecretary and Department Directors.  Internationally-recruited technical assistants 
will support program coordination, financial management, procurement, and the relevant 
implementing Directorates of the Ministry in technical areas.   
 
4. Project Location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard 
analysis 
The program will be implemented in South Sudan, with a population of about 10 million 
in an area the size of France.  Land is seemingly plentiful, but its use is governed by a 
complex traditional and legal framework.  Long distances and poor transport 
infrastructure will necessitate decentralized arrangements for medical waste management.   
 
5. Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists 
Mr Mohamed Arbi Ben-Achour (AFTS1) 
Page  3
Mr John A. Boyle (AFTS1) 
 
6. Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
X
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
 X 
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X 
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
 X 
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03) 
 X 
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10) 
 X 
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
X
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
 X 
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
 X 
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X 
II.  Key Safeguard Policy Issues and Their Management 
A. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues 
1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. 
Identify and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts: 
Environmental issues are expected only with the construction of new, and renovation of 
old, buildings such as health centers, hospitals and offices (e.g. safe water supply, 
sanitation, waste disposal).  These will be addressed through the implementation of an 
Environmental and Social Management Framework (ESMF) and a Medical Waste 
Management Plan (MWMP). The construction of new, and renovation of old, buildings 
such as health centers, hospitals and offices may require land acquisition, and a 
Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF) will address potential compensation requirements.   
 
2. Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future 
activities in the project area: 
None   
 
3. Describe any project alternatives (if relevant) considered to help avoid or minimize 
adverse impacts. 
Alternatives will be considered in the siting of new facilties during project 
implementation.   
 
4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard policy issues. Provide 
an assessment of borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described. 
Borrower capacity is virtually non-existent.  It is planned that the ESMF and RPF will be 
applicable to all MDTF projects, initially education, health and roads.  The MWMP will 
apply to this project only. To address safeguards capacity constraints, the Ministry of 
Environment, Wildlife Conservation and Tourism (MOEWCT) has agreed to coordinate 
an MDTF Safeguards Management Committee, comprised of Safeguards Officers from 
each ministry benefiting from the MDTF.  The MOEWCT will not have subproject 
approval authority.  However, each Safeguards Officer will have the authority to 
determine, in consultation with the coordinator, whether the site is free of safeguards 
Page  4
issues and whether additional mitigation measures are needed.  The Committee will be 
supported by a regionally recruited advisor specialized in World Bank Safeguards over 
the project period (three years).  The advisor will monitor the implementation of the 
safeguard procedures, provide training and advice to the SMC as needed, and will report 
to the benefiting ministries and to the MTDF Administrator.  This arrangement will 
support not only continuous performance improvement for the Safeguards Officers and 
implementation of the ESMF and RPF (and MWMP), but also policy, regulatory and 
institutional strengthening for the MOEWCT to support environmentally sustainable 
growth and resource management in Southern Sudan.   
 
5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and 
disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people. 
Key stakeholders are the households and communities living near and served by health 
facilities, health service providers, and local, state, and central MOH authorities.  The 
development of the ESMF and RPF will involve stakeholder consultation, while the 
MOH Safeguards Officer will be the focal point for consultation and disclosure during 
project implementation, including making available the findings of Land Acquisitions 
Assessments and other individual clearances.   
 
B. Disclosure Requirements Date
 
Environmental Assessment/Audit/Management Plan/Other: 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
10/15/2006 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
12/01/2006 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
12/15/2006 
 
For category A projects, date of distributing the Executive 
Summary of the EA to the Executive Directors 
 
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework/Policy Process: 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
10/15/2006 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
12/01/2006 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
12/15/2006 
 
*
If the project triggers the Pest Management and/or Cultural Property, the 
respective issues are to be addressed and disclosed as part of the Environmental 
Assessment/Audit/or EMP. 
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please 
explain why: 
Since the project is being prepared under OP8.50 (Emergency Recovery Assistance), the 
ESMF, RPF and MWMP will be completed, approved and disclosed by the Government 
and the MDTF Administrator within six months of project effectiveness.   
C. Compliance Monitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level (to be filled in when the 
ISDS is finalized by the project decision meeting) 
 
OP/BP/GP 4.01 - Environment Assessment 
 
Page  5
Does the project require a stand-alone EA (including EMP) report? 
Yes 
If yes, then did the Regional Environment Unit or Sector Manager (SM) 
review and approve the EA report? 
No 
Are the cost and the accountabilities for the EMP incorporated in the 
credit/loan? 
No 
OP/BP 4.12 - Involuntary Resettlement 
 
Has a resettlement plan/abbreviated plan/policy framework/process 
framework (as appropriate) been prepared? 
No 
If yes, then did the Regional unit responsible for safeguards or Sector 
Manager review the plan? 
No 
The World Bank Policy on Disclosure of Information 
 
Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the World Bank's 
Infoshop? 
No 
Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public place in a 
form and language that are understandable and accessible to project-affected 
groups and local NGOs? 
No 
All Safeguard Policies 
 
Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional responsibilities 
been prepared for the implementation of measures related to safeguard 
policies? 
Yes 
Have costs related to safeguard policy measures been included in the project 
cost? 
Yes 
Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project include the 
monitoring of safeguard impacts and measures related to safeguard policies? 
Yes 
Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed with the 
borrower and the same been adequately reflected in the project legal 
documents? 
Yes 
D. Approvals 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
Name 
Date 
Task Team Leader: 
Mr Jean-Pierre Manshande 
05/09/2006 
Environmental Specialist: 
Mr John A. Boyle 
05/09/2006 
Social Development Specialist 
Mr Mohamed Arbi Ben-Achour 
05/09/2006 
Additional Environmental and/or 
Social Development Specialist(s): 
 
Approved by: 
 
Sector Manager: 
Ms Laura Frigenti 
05/09/2006 
Comments:   
