Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATA SHEET 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AC2012 
 
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 05/01/2006 
 
I.  BASIC INFORMATION 
 
A.  Basic Project Data 
 
Country: Sudan 
Project ID: P098495 
Project Name: Southern Sudan Umbrella Program for Health System Development 
Task Team Leader: Jean-Pierre Manshande 
Estimated Appraisal Date: January 25, 
2006 
Estimated Board Date: May 10, 2006 
Managing Unit: AFTH3 
Lending Instrument: Emergency Recovery 
Loan 
Sector: Health (100%) 
Theme: Child health (P);Other communicable diseases (P);Health system performance 
(P);Nutrition and food security (P);Population and reproductive health (P) 
IBRD Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
IDA Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 BORROWER 
150.00 
 SPECIAL 
FINANCING 
75.00
225.00 
B.  Project Objectives [from section 2 of PCN] 
The project's development objective is to develop core health sector systems and capacities and 
increase the population’s access to basic health services and interventions.   
 
C.  Project Description [from section 3 of PCN] 
Component 1.  Development of policy and capacity of the public health administration.  This 
component will improve the capacities of MOH planners and administrators at GoSS, state, and 
county levels to formulate policy, set priorities, develop operational plans and budgets, and 
supervise and coordinate service providers and other sector partners.  The program will finance 
office equipment, information technology (IT), and vehicles as well as technical assistance and 
training.  
 
Component 2.  Investment in infrastructure and equipment.  During the first year, the program 
will support detailed planning for the investment program.  As well, the program will equip 
functioning facilities as well as upgrade priority existing hospitals and health centers.  
Page  2
Subsequent Later years will see a rapid increase in the rehabilitation and construction of health 
facilities at PHC, health center, and rural hospital levels.  
 
Component 3.  Pharmaceutical system capacity and supply.  This component will develop 
MoH's capacity to strengthen the regulatory framework and to manage the procurement, supply 
and distribution of drugs.  Rehabilitation and construction of central and regional warehouses is 
also planned.  
 
Component 4.  Health human resource development.  This component will develop the health 
human resources required for expansion of basic service delivery.  Technical assistance will 
support the Ministry on human resource planning and management.  The component will also 
support development of pre- and in-service training capacity and programs, including developing 
and harmonizing curricula and training material, training of teachers and trainers, rehabilitating 
training facilities, and meeting the recurrent costs of training programs.  
 
Component 5. Expansion of health service delivery.  This component will finance rapid 
expansion of health service delivery, largely through contracting mechanisms designed to bypass 
capacity constraints.  The first sub-component involves strengthening and reforming service 
delivery by the three major hospitals in Juba, Malakal and Wau.  The second sub-component 
focuses on supporting and developing the PHC level, including district (first-referral) hospitals.  
 
Component 6.  High-impact health interventions.  This component seeks to reach the two-thirds 
of the population of South Sudan without access to formal health services through the 
introduction of high-impact interventions delivered through community and household channels.  
Interventions will include measles immunization, distribution of insecticidal nets for malaria 
prevention, and others.  
 
Component 7.  Monitoring and evaluation.  This component will develop the Ministry of 
Health’s monitoring and evaluation (M&E) capacity and establish its M&E system, as well as 
measure the performance of this program itself.  
 
Component 8.  Program implementation.  Capacity for program implementation will be built in 
the existing structure of the MoH, with an Executive Board comprising the Undersecretary and 
Department Directors.  Internationally-recruited technical assistants will support program 
coordination, financial management, procurement, and the relevant implementing Directorates of 
the Ministry in technical areas.   
 
D.  Project location (if known) 
The program will be implemented in South Sudan, with a population of about 10 million in an 
area the size of France.  Land is seemingly plentiful, but its use is governed by a complex 
traditional and legal framework.  Long distances and poor transport infrastructure will 
necessitate decentralized arrangements for medical waste management.   
 
E.  Borrower’s Institutional Capacity for Safeguard Policies [from PCN] 
Virtually non-existent.  It is planned that the Environmental and Social Management Framework 
(ESMF) and Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF) will be applicable to all MDTF projects, 
Page  3
initially education, health and roads.  A Medical Waste Management Plan (MWMP) will be 
needed for this project only. To address safeguards capacity constraints, the Ministry of 
Environment, Wildlife Conservation and Tourism (MOEWCT) has agreed to coordinate an 
MDTF Safeguards Management Committee, comprised of Safeguards Officers from each 
ministry benefiting from the MDTF.The MOEWCT will not have subproject approval authority.  
However, each Safeguards Officer will have the authority to determine, in consultation with the 
coordinator, whether the site is free of safeguards issues and whether additional mitigation 
measures are needed.  The Committee will be supported by a regionally recruited advisor 
specialized in World Bank Safeguards over the project period (three years). The advisor will 
monitor the implementation of the safeguard procedures, provide training and advice to the SMC 
as needed, and will report to the benefiting ministries and to the MTDF Administrator.  This 
arrangement will support not only continuous performance improvement for the Safeguards 
Officers and implementation of the ESMF and RPF, but also policy, regulatory and institutional 
strengthening for the MOEWCT to support environmentally sustainable growth and resource 
management in Southern Sudan.   
 
F.  Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists 
Mr John A. Boyle (AFTS1) 
Mr Mohamed Arbi Ben-Achour (AFTS1) 
 
II.  SAFEGUARD POLICIES THAT MIGHT APPLY 
Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No TBD 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
X
Environmental issues are expected only with the construction of new, and renovation of old, 
buildings such as health centers, hospitals and offices (e.g. safe water supply, sanitation, waste 
disposal).   These will be addressed through the implementation of an ESMF and MWMP.   
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
 X  
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X  
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
 X  
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03) 
 X  
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10) 
 X  
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
X
The construction of new, and renovation of old, buildings such as health centers, hospitals 
and offices may require land acquisition, and an RPF will address potential compensation 
requirements.   
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
 X  
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
 X  
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X  
Environmental Category:
 
B
-
Partial Assessment 
 
III.  SAFEGUARD PREPARATION PLAN 
 
A.  Target date for the Quality Enhancement Review (QER), at which time the PAD-stage ISDS 
would be prepared:  N/A 
Page  4
B.  For simple projects that will not require a QER, the target date for preparing the PAD-stage 
ISDS:  04/24/2006 
 
C.  Time frame for launching and completing the safeguard-related studies that may be needed.  
The specific studies and their timing
1
should be specified in the PAD-stage ISDS. 
Since the project is being prepared under OP8.50 (Emergency Recovery Assistance), the 
ESMF, RPF and MWMP will be completed, approved and disclosed by the Government and 
the MDTF Administrator within six months of project effectiveness.  
 
The SMU has agreed to accept transfer of the safeguard responsibilities.   
 
IV.  APPROVALS 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
 
Task Team Leader: 
Mr Jean-Pierre Manshande 
05/01/2006 
Approved by: 
 
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: 
Mr Warren Waters 
05/01/2006 
Comments:   
Sector Manager: 
Ms Laura Frigenti 
05/01/2006 
Comments:   
1
Reminder: The Bank's Disclosure Policy requires that safeguard-related documents be disclosed before appraisal (i) at the 
InfoShop and (ii) in-country, at publicly accessible locations and in a form and language that are accessible to potentially affected 
persons.
 
Page  5
