Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB2074 
Project Name 
SD:  South Sudan Umbrella Program for Health System 
Development 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
Health (100%) 
Project ID 
P098495 
Borrower(s) 
Government of South Sudan (GoSS) Ministry of Health 
Implementing Agency 
Government of South Sudan (GoSS) Ministry of Health 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[
]
B
[X] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Date PID Prepared 
February 14, 2005 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
January 5, 2006 
Date of Board Approval 
February 26, 2006 
1.  Country and Sector Background 
Poor health status and limited access to health services
.
Though incomplete, health status indicators are 
grim.  Estimated rates for maternal (1,700/100,000) and child (250/1,000) mortality are among the highest 
in the world.  Malnutrition is widespread, vaccination rates are low, and tropical diseases, largely 
controlled in other countries, account for a considerable proportion of the total burden of disease.  In rural 
areas and many of the towns, health services are run mainly by NGOs and faith-based organizations, 
funded from international sources.  This has resulted in a patchwork of short-term, mostly uncoordinated 
health interventions that reach a small proportion of South Sudanese.  In the major towns, particularly 
Juba, Malakal and Wau, government health services are under-resourced, inefficient, in some cases 
overstaffed, and provide inadequate services.  It is estimated that less than a third of the population has 
access to adequate health services. 
 
Insufficient capacity to deliver adequate health services
.
The material resources and managerial expertise 
for administering the sector are insufficient and largely dependent on external financial and technical 
assistance.  Overall, existing infrastructure and equipment are poor, with many hospitals or PHC centres 
having capacity and characteristics of lower-level facilities.  Facilities are unequally distributed among 
the regions.  Poor staffing standards and a lack of qualified personnel have internally distorted the 
personnel situation, with many low-level staff and a shortage of mid- and higher- level cadres; some 
categories, like midwives and pharmacy staff, are grossly under-represented. 
 
Need for a balance between health systems development and immediate intervention
.
Given the 
structural weaknesses of the system, true progress can be registered only through long-term, sustained 
support and investment.  At the same time, the obvious needs of the population require short-term 
initiatives, to save lives and reduce suffering.  The Ministry of Health (MoH) is therefore pursuing a two-
track strategy, establishing a balance between development of core capacities of the health system (Track 
1) and the immediate delivery of essential services to a significant proportion of the population (Track 2). 
 
A
window of opportunity to shape a performing health sector according to a long-term vision and a 
consistent design
.
At present, MoH has certain advantages and opportunities for strengthening 
management and restoring services, including: (i) several years of policy and strategy development, 
starting with a 1997-98 policy document and most recently an Interim Health Policy for South Sudan; (ii) 
effective partnership among the health authorities and their international (mostly NGOs) and local 
Page  2
(mostly faith-based) implementing partners;  (iii) government willingness to adopt implementation 
mechanisms, in particular contracting, designed to bypass existing capacity constraints;  (iv) consensus on 
the need for decentralizing governmental responsibilities and health services;  (v) a transition period in 
Juba, Malakal, Wau and other towns presenting the opportunity to reform and rationalize the existing 
government health system;  and (vi) potentially significant financial resources (from international and 
national sources). 
 
2. Objectives 
The project's development objective is to develop core health sector systems and capacities and increase 
the population’s access to basic health services and interventions.
 
Over the three years of the program, 
the project components will contribute to this objective through: 
 
i) 
Development of core institutional capacities of the public health administration; 
ii) 
Phased implementation of an infrastructure and equipment investment plan; 
iii) 
Development of a pharmaceutical management, supply and distribution system; 
iv) 
Health human resource development; 
v) 
Expansion of the coverage of basic health service delivery; 
vi) 
Provision of selected high-impact health interventions; 
vii) 
Effective project implementation;  and 
viii) 
Development of monitoring and evaluation capacity, including measurement of the performance of 
this project. 
 
3.  Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
Current support to the health sector
.
Among bilateral agencies, USAID is supporting an integrated health 
sector development project building parts of the health system in some 20 (of a reported 90) counties, but 
the geographic focus of USAID support to the sector will likely shift to the most fragile areas in terms of 
risk of confict.  Other bilateral donors, such as Italy and DFID, are supporting development activities, 
with plans for possible scale-up.  Humanitarian programs, implemented by international NGOs, continue 
to account for the largest proportion of resources applied to health services in South Sudan, focusing on 
short-term assistance to displaced and conflict-affected populations.  Health services are fragmented 
horizontally among many actors, including some 50-75 NGOs, supported by multilateral and bilateral 
agencies.  Many disease control programs compound the complexity, segmenting the sector along vertical 
lines.  Among these, the Global Fund provides substantial inputs, but covers only part of the population. 
 
Rationale for MDTF involvement
.
Currently, programs emphasizing medium to long-term support for 
the health sector focus primarily on limited geographic areas or targeted aspects of the health system or of 
health services delivery.  The GoSS/MDTF Health Umbrella Progam will finance the implementation of 
priorities identified in the draft Interim Health Policy (2005) and concentrate on the development of key 
systems and capacities on a sector-wide basis.  The proposal is also consistent with the SPLM Health 
Sector Recovery Strategy (2004) and with the JAM recommendations for the Interim Period (2005-11).  It 
will be implemented as a complement to (and not as a replacement for) the current humanitarian and 
disease-
specific programs funded from other sources.  The Health Umbrella Program is the government’s 
health sector development program, receiving substantial support from the domestic government budget 
(on a two-to-one ratio with international donor funding from the MDTF). 
 
4. Description 
 
Component 1.  Development of policy and capacity of the public health administration
.
This component 
will improve the capacities of MOH planners and administrators at GoSS, state, and county levels to 
Page  3
formulate policy, set priorities, develop operational plans and budgets, and supervise and coordinate 
service providers and other sector partners.  The program will finance office equipment, information 
technology (IT), and vehicles as well as technical assistance and training. 
 
Component 2.  Investment in infrastructure and equipment
.
During the first year, the program will 
support detailed planning for the investment program.  As well , the program will equip functioning 
facilities as well as upgrade priority existing hospitals and health centers.  Subsequent Later years will see 
a
rapid increase in the rehabilitation and construction of health facilities at PHC, health center, and rural 
hospital levels. 
 
Component 3. Pharmaceutical system capacity and supply
.
This component will develop MoH's capacity 
to strengthen the regulatory framework and to manage the procurement, supply and distribution of drugs.  
Rehabilitation and construction of central and regional warehouses is also planned. 
 
Component 4. Health human resource development
.
This component will develop the health human 
resources required for expansion of basic service delivery.  Technical assistance will support the Ministry 
on human resource planning and management.  The component will also support development of pre- and 
in-service training capacity and programs, including developing and harmonizing curricula and training 
material, training of teachers and trainers, rehabilitating training facilities, and meeting the recurrent costs 
of training programs. 
 
Component 5. Expansion of health service delivery
.
This component will finance rapid expansion of 
health service delivery, largely through contracting mechanisms designed to bypass capacity constraints.  
The first sub-component involves strengthening and reforming service delivery by the three major 
hospitals in Juba, Malakal and Wau.  The second sub-component focuses on supporting and developing 
the PHC level, including district (first-referral) hospitals. 
 
Component 6.  High-impact health interventions
.
This component seeks to reach the two-thirds of the 
population of South Sudan without access to formal health services through the introduction of high-
impact interventions delivered through community and household channels.  Interventions will include 
measles immunization, distribution of insecticidal nets for malaria prevention, and others. 
 
Component 7.  Monitoring and evaluation
.
This component will develop the Ministry of Health’s 
monitoring and evaluation (M&E) capacity and establish its M&E system, as well as measure the 
performance of this program itself. 
 
Component 8.  Program implementation
.
Capacity for program implementation will be built in the 
existing structure of the MoH, with an Executive Board comprising the Undersecretary and Department 
Directors.  Internationally-recruited technical assistants will support program coordination, financial 
management, procurement, and the relevant implementing Directorates of the Ministry in technical areas. 
 
5. Financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER 150.0
SPECIAL FINANCING 
75.0
Total 225.0
6. Implementation 
 
Page  4
Within the MoH, the Executive Board will serve as the Project Steering Committee with overall 
responsibility for project implementation.  The Executive Board comprises the Minister, the 
Undersecretary, and Directors of the six Directorates and will manage the program.  An internationally-
recruited firm or NGO will support program implementation through technical assistants working within 
the structure of the Ministry, the chief of party working directly under the Undersecretary while other 
technical assistants will work under the Directors of the various departments. The management structure 
of the program will operate under the authority of the Executive Board, will collaborate with the 
directorates to ensure the availability of necessary technical information and specifications, and will 
provide all required project financial and administrative information to enable the Executive Board to 
reach appropriate decisions.  The GoSS Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning (MoFEP) will have 
overall responsibility for procure¬ment and financial management while capacity is being created within 
MoH. 
 
7. Sustainability 
 
The Sudan Joint Assessment Mission (JAM) notes that keys to the future sustainability of the sector 
include: steering the expansion of the sector towards equitable goals, refraining from over-ambitious 
initiatives, phasing interventions, and building realistic plans.  Planning for the program has taken in 
account the projected fiscal revenues of the GoSS, which could potentially allow for significant support to 
the health sector, on the order of Us$ 13 per capita in the next years.  This level of domestic public 
spending is considerably higher than in other countries of similar per capita income and consistent with 
estimates of the spending required to achieve significant progress towards improving health outcomes. 
 
8.  Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector 
 
The program draws on lessons learned from operations in other post-conflict settings, including:  (i) the 
use of contracting in order to bypass implementation capacity constraints;  (ii) the need to fully support 
and involve the government in ownership of program planning and implementation, including close 
control over contract management;  (iii) the benefits of a two-track approach, building health system 
capacity at the same time as meeting immediate needs;  and (iv) recognition that the post-conflict 
situation represents an opportunity to build an effective and responsive health system, avoiding the 
rigidities and inefficiencies of systems in other countries which are trying to address them through years 
of reform efforts. 
 
9.  Safeguard Policies (including public consultation) 
 
Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project
 
Yes
 
No
 
Environmental Assessment
(
OP
/
BP
4.01) [X] 
[ 
] 
Natural Habitats (
OP
/
BP
4.04)
 
[
]
[X] 
Pest Management (
OP 4.09
)
[
]
[X] 
Cultural Property (
OPN 11.03
,
being revised as OP 4.11)
 
[X] [X] 
Involuntary Resettlement (
OP
/
BP
4.12)
 
[
]
[X] 
Indigenous Peoples (
OP
/
BP
4.10)
 
[
]
[X] 
Forests (
OP
/
BP
4.36)
 
[
]
[X] 
Safety of Dams (
OP
/
BP
4.37)
 
[
]
[X] 
Projects in Disputed Areas (
OP
/
BP
7.60)
*
[
]
[X] 
*
By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims on the 
disputed areas
 
Page  5
Projects on International Waterways (
OP
/
BP
7.50)
 
[
]
[X] 
10. List of Factual Technical Documents 
 
GoSS Ministry of Health (2005) “Health System Assessment in former Garrison Towns:  Report of a 
Mission to Juba,” September. 
 
GoSS Ministry of Health (2005) “South Sudan Interim Health Policy 2006 – 2011,” draft. 
 
Joint Assessment Mission (2004) “Southern Sudan Health Sector Working Paper,” October. 
 
Joint Assessment Mission Sudan (2005) “Framework for Sustained Peace, Development and Poverty 
Eradication,” March. 
 
New Sudan Center for Statistics and Evaluation (2004) “Towards a Baseline:  Best Estimates of Social 
Indicators for Southern Sudan,” April. 
 
SPLM Health Secretariat (1998) “Health Policy of the New Sudan,” October. 
 
SPLM Health Secretariat (2004) “Laying the grounds for the recovery of the health sector in a post-
conflict Southern Sudan,” March. 
 
UNICEF (2002) “Progress of Regions:  Multiple Indicator Cluster Survey Results In the southern part of 
Sudan, 2000.” 
 
World Bank (2003) “Sudan Health Status Report,” August. 
 
11. Contact point 
Contact: Jean-Pierre Manshande 
Title: Senior Health Specialist 
Tel: 5668-6420 
Fax:  
Email: jmanshande@worldbank.org 
Location: Nairobi, Kenya (IBRD) 
 
12. For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-5454 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
