Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 23908
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-28600; PPFI-P9230)
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$18.5 MILLION
TO THE
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
FOR A
HEALTH SECTOR REFORM PROJECT
March 15, 2002
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only. in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective - March 29, 1996)
Currency Unit = Som
Som I = US$ 0.088
US$ I = Som 11.35
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATES
Kyrgyz Som per US$1
1993   8.0
1995   10.6
2001   47.70
FISCAL 'YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ARI           -      Acute Respiratory Infections
CDD           -      Control of Dianheal Diseases
MOH           -      Ministry of Health
USAID         -      United States Agency for Intemrational Development
Vice President    Johannes F. Linn
Country Manager/Director:   Dennis N. de Tray
Sector Manager/Director    Arnin H. Fidler
Task Team Leader/Task Manager      Jan Bultman



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
Health Sector Reform Project
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                     1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                    1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry          1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                             4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              10
6. Sustainability                                                                  11
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                   12
8. Lessons Learned                                                                 13
9. Partner Comments                                                                14
10. Additional Information                                                         15
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                               16
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                               19
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                               21
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                               22
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components               25
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                  26
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                              27
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P008523                                    lProject Name: Health
Team Leader: Jan Bultman                                TL Unit: ECSHD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                      Report Date: March 22, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: Health                                       L//TF Number: IDA-28600;
PPFI-P9230
Country/Department: KYRGYZ REPUBLIC                                   Region: Europe and Central
Asia Region
Sector/subsector: HR - Reform and Financing
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:   04/15/1994                            Effective: 06/01/1996        06/01/1996
Appraisal:  10/02/1995                              MTR: 03/01/1998           07/01/1999
Approval:  05/14/1996                            Closing: 06/01/2002         09/01/2002
Borrower/lImplementingAgency: GOVT OF KYRGYZ REPUBLIC/MINISTRY OF HEALTH
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                 ,At Appraisal
Vice President:     Johannes F. Linn                         Johannes F. Linn
Country Manager:     Dennis de Tray                          Yokon Huang
Sector Manager:      Arnin Fidler                            Robert Liebenthal
Team Leader at ICR:  Jan Bultman                             Carol A. Hoppy
ICR Primary Author:  Sarbani Chakraborty
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: HL
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: HS
Borrower Per.formance: HS
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                       S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The objectives of the Project are:
(i) the reform and improvement of the Borrower's health care system;



(ii) improvement of the health status of the population;
(iii) improvement of the clinical effectiveness of the service delivery system;
(iv) improvement of the economic efficiency of the delivery system; and extension of access of appropriate
care, ancd the assurance of the long-term financial viability of the system.
3.2 Revived Objective:
Project objectives were not revised
3.3 Original Components:
Component A: Primary Health Care
(US$4.0 million total project cost)
The objective of the Primary Health Care component was to reorient health services away from hospitals
and towards upgraded primary health care centers. To facilitate this process, interventions in this
component provided training to upgrade the skills of primary health care workers, provide them with basic
clinical equipment and ensure them an adequate supply of drugs. The longer term objective of the Primary
Health Care Component was to develop a more cost-effective health care program through the reduction of
hospitals, beds and staff from the merging of specialty hospitals (tuberculosis, dermatovenereal, children's,
maternity, infectious diseases, etc.) into the general hospital system at the tertiary, secondary and prirnary
health care levels. There were three sub components under the PHC component: (a) strengthening women's
reproductive health; (b) acute respiratory infections and control of diarrheal diseases (ARI/CDD); and, (c)
tuberculosis control.
Component B: Facilities Rehabilitation
(US$2.3 million total project cost)
The objective of the facilities rehabilitation component was to improve the capacity of the Ministry of
Health in managing the maintenance of buildings and equipment, and help prepare the MOH to implement
necessary rationalization programs of the health infrastructure to make it more responsive to the planned
shift froma a predominantly curative system, to a major emphasis on preventive programs and ambulatory
care.
Component C: Medical Care Provider Payment
(US$4.4 million total project cost)
The objective of this component was to implernent provider payment reforms. It was expected that
provider payment reforms would change the financing and the organization of care in two important ways.
Payment for care would be separated from delivery of care. The payer would focus on paying for the best
care at the lowest cost - purchasing care rather than manage and maintain facilities. The provider would be
made responsible for managing the services and would have more flexibility to focus on delivering the most
optimal rnix of services with the best outcome. Secondly, providers would be "at risk" in that they would
now be responsible for any deficits between payments received and costs incurred. Providers would be
accountalble for more efficient and higher quality of care. The Project extended extend to two other
jurisdictions the provider payment aspect of a USAID funded pilot program, which was in early stages of
implementation in Issyk-kul Oblast when this project was approved. The project mainly supported training
of health personnel in family medicine, the new provider payments systems and management of clinics.
-2 -



Component D: Pharmaceutical Management
(US$8.3 million total project cost)
The pharmaceutical management component was aimed at improving the availability of essential
drugs both (a) directly, by financing the procurement and distribution of a large quantity of essential drugs,
and (b) indirectly, by supporting the implementation of far-reaching reforms designed to strengthen the
Government's drug regulatory capabilities and to increase the discipline and cost-effectiveness of public
spending. The following activities were supported under this component: (a) renovation of the premises of
the national drug regulatory organization and acquisition of office equipment and furniture, laboratory
testing equipment and furniture, reagents and chemical glassware, scientific literature, and other goods
needed in order for the organization to function effectively; (b) technical assistance and training for the
staff of the drug regulatory organization, as well as broad dissemination to other health care officials of
information on drug regulatory affairs; (c) development, production, printing, and widespread distribution
of the Kyrgyz Republic's Essential Drugs List, as well as training health care officials and managers
concerning the goals and rationale of an Essential Drugs Program; (d) development of new standard
medical treatment guidelines, based on and consistent with the Essential Drugs List; and, (e)
procurement and distribution of a significant quantity of essential drugs.
The summary of projected costs of project components and ratings is provided below
Cost                Rating
FACILITIES REHABILITATION                      $2,300,000           S
MEDICAL CARE PROVIDER PAYMENT                  $4,400,000           HS
PHC-ARIVCDD                                    $600,000             S
PHC-WOMENS' REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH                $1,800,000           S
PROJECT MANAGEMENT                             $600,000             S
PHARMACEUTICAL MANAGEMENT                      $8,300,000           S
PHC-TUBERCULOSIS                                $1,500,000          S
3.4 Revised Components:
Project components were not revised
3.5 Qualitv at Entry:
Quality at Entry Reviews (QERs) and Quality Assurance Reviews (QAGs) were not available at the time
this project was approved. However, the ICR rates quality at entry as satisfactory. The project objectives
were appropriate given the country context and the problems in the health sector in 1995. As was the case
with other Former Soviet Union (FSU) countries, Kyrgyz Republic, under the old Soviet system had good
health indicators, relative to its income levels, but the health system was inefficient and approaches to
clinical care and the prevention of non-communicable diseases were outdated. In addition, between 1990
and 1995, when the Soviet system collapsed, there was a rapid decline in public spending on health, mostly
precipitated by a 50 percent decline in GDP during this period. Consequently, at the time this project was
conceived, the challenges in the health sector were enormous: continuing access to needed services while at
the time embarking on a health sector rationalization program that would bring about the needed efficiency
in the health system.
The project objectives were consistent with the 1995 and 1998 Country Assistance Strategies (CAS) for the
Kyrgyz Republic that identified supporting economic growth through market-led reforms (private sector
development) combined with poverty alleviation. The particular objectives in the health sector, as stated in
both CASs, focus on restructuring of health services to increase efficiency and make better use of resources
- 3 -



within the existing budget constraints. Project design was based on the Government's health policy, the
role of the Bank team was able to effectively facilitate the process of converting the Government's
objectives in the MANAS health policy into a coherent and implementable project. This objective was
achieved.
The Bank team responsible for project preparation and appraisal was well-balanced, consisting of project
management and health specialists. Given the strong emphasis of the project on reconfiguring the health
care financing system, project preparation and appraisal was well-served by having a leading health care
financing expert serve as the advisor on the project. The Bank team was also able to effectively coordinate
the project preparation process with other donors (e.g. USAID and WHO). The fact that the project
objectives were not amended during the life of the project and had a successful outcome is an indication of
quality at entry.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
One of the difficulties is evaluating the achievement of project objectives is the lack of specific indicators
linked to each of the project objectives. Although the project defined impact, output and input indicators to
measure the achievement under each component, it did not necessarily link these indicators to project
opjectives. Also, some of the project objectives are rather broad (e.g. the reform and improvement of tbe
borrower's health care system). This also contributes to difficulties in measuring achievements in the
absence of clearly-defined indicators. These caveats should be taken into account while reviewing this
section
(i)    The reform and improvement of the Borrower's health care system;
DO Rating: Satisfactorv
The project was successful in initiating a process of health sector reform and improvement in the
Borrower's health system. As was mentioned earlier, given the major problems in the health sector in
Kyrgyz when this project was conceptualized, reforms were needed both in the financing and delivery of the
health system. Specific reforms and improvements in these areas are identified below.
Reforms and Improvements in the Delivery of Health Services
* A modem training system focusing on priority diseases which are a major cause of disease burden in
the country has been established (women's reproductive health, common childhood communicable
diseases, and tuberculosis);
*   The process of restructuring of health facilities to create multi-profile policlinics is underway and
model multi-profile clinics have been established in each oblast;
*   Clinical protocols for a cluster of primary health care services (women's reproductive health ARI,
CDD, tuberculosis) have been updated according to latest international guidelines;
*   The foundation for comprehensive restructuring of the primary care sector through the establishment of
new primary care group practices (Family Group Practices) has been established, and under the new
IDA funded project (Second Health Sector Reform Project) will be implemented on a country-wide
basis;
*   Under the new Family Group Practices, providers are being made autonomous and accountable for
their performance to consumers;
*   The foundation for enhanced consumer participation in the health system has been established.
-4 -



Reforms and Improvements in Health Care Financing:
Under the project, far-reaching reforms and improvements in health care financing have been undertaken.
For examnple:
*   Purchasers of health services have been established and separated from the providers of health services;
*   The foundation for modem provider-payment mechanisms (capitation for primary care and case-based
payment system for hospital care) has been established. These mechanisms have been successfully
implemented in three oblasts and under Health II will be implemented throughout the country;
*   The foundation for an efficient health insurance system that pools resources within a single purchaser
has been established. The project has effectively helped create the foundation for a single purchaser
system (Mandatory Health Insurance Fund);
*   A management information system (MIS) has been established which connects the purchasers and
providers. Modem financing mechanisms (insurance, prospective payment systems) cannot operate
without an information system.
(ii)   The improvement of the health status of the population; DO Rating: Satisfactorv
*   The infant mortality rate declined from 25.9/1000 live births io 22.6 between 1996 - 2000;
*   The infant mortality rate from asphyxia declined by 9 percent between 1996 - 2000;
*   The infant mortality rate from ARI has declined by 41 percent (12.3 in 1996 to 7.5 in 2000);
*   The number of early post-natal bleeding cases decreased by 47 percent between 1996 - 2000 (From
25.4 cases per 1000 women in 1996 to 13.3 in 2000);
*   The maternal mortality rate has declined by almost 50 percent between 1996-2000 (from 80.1/100,000
live births in 1996 to 46.5 in 2000).
Some of the improvements in health status exceeded projections at baseline. For example, the maternal
mortality rate (MMR) was projected to decrease from 80/100,000 live births to 75 in 2000. However, in
2000, it was 46/100,000 live births.
The health care system, which was the focus of this project, is only one among many determinants that
impact health status. For example, mother's education, household income and water and sanitation are
important correlates of improvements in child mortality indicators. This, and the fact that the project did
not include some evaluation techniques which would have allowed comparison of health status among
groups exposed to the interventions included in this project with those not exposed makes it difficult to
attribute improvements in health status directly to the project. Also, other donors such as UNICEF were
implementing projects in maternal and child health which is an additional confounding factor is attributing
health status improvements to the project. These limitations in the evaluation approach make it difficult to
attribute improvements in health status directly to the project. However, it is also true that the programs in
reproductive health, childhood illnesses and TB supported through this project were the largest intervention
targeted at these diseases between 1996 - 2000. Therefore, it is also not possible to disregard the
improvements in health status. Thus, a qualified statement can be made that the project contributed to
improvements in the health status of the population.
(iii) Improvement of the clinical effectiveness of the service delivery system.
DO Ratingz: Satisfactorv
-5 -



A major emphasis of the project was on the adoption of latest clinical guidelines and protocols for the
treatmnent of priority health problems in Kyrgyz Republic, and increasing access to inputs (such as drugs)
needed to implement these guidelines. These protocols emphasize adoption and implementation of
treatment processes that have been show to have a beneficial impact on morbidity and mortality from these
diseases. The results of the project show that as a result of adoption by providers of latest protocols, the
process dlimension of care improved considerably. For example, providers adopted correct strategies for the
management of mother and children during the perinatal period. For example:
* The :Frequency of putting new-born infants to the breast right after delivery reached 97 percent in 2000;
*   The number of post-natal bleeding cases decreased (25.4 cases/1000 women in 1996 to 13.3 cases in
2000);
*   The infant mortality rate from ARI and diarrheal diseases (DD) has decreased. For example, infant
mortality from ARI has decreased from 12.3/1000 live births in 1996 to 7.8 in 2000. Since correct case
management is critically related to ARI mortality, this is an important indicator of clinical
effectiveness;
* Initially, an increase in the absolute number of TB cases was noted because of better case detection
(from 205 new TB cases in 1996 to 288 in 2000);
* Morbidity from TB has been reduced due to the introduction of short-course chemical therapy which is
consistent with the latest WHO clinical guidelines for the management of TB;
* High indicators of abacillation have. !wLw achiened as a result of controlled use of anti-TB drugs;
(iv) Improvement of the economic efficiency of the delivery system; and extension of access of
appropriate care, and the assurance of the long-term financial viability of the system
DO Rating: Satisfactory
During the time period of the project, improvements were noted in important efficiency indicators such as
the average length of stay (ALOS) in hospitals. The ALOS in hospitals where the new provider payment
mechanisms (case-based reimbursement system) was introduced decreased by approximately 8 percent
between a representative time period (January 1998 - December 1999). More important than the absolute
decrease is the stability in the trend. There has been a stable and consistent decline in the ALOS since the
new hospital payment mechanisms were introduced. Since the ALOS in non-project hospitals where the
new payment system was not introduced has also declined, it is difficult to attribute reductions in ALOS
entirely to the reimbursement system introduced through the project. In addition to reduction in the ALOS,
a decline in the rate of self-referral of patients to hospitals was included in the project as an indicator of
effectiveness. Between August 1997 - 1999, there was a 58 percent decline in self-referrals, which is an
indication that the population is using more primary health care, and hospitals are responding to the
financial disincentives of accepting self-referred patients. This is an indicator of economic efficiency as
well as irmprovement in the access of the population to appropriate care.
The project has contributed to developing a health care system where primary care is the point of entry for
obtaining health care services. Continuity of care is guaranteed under a system where providers have an
incentive to keep their patients healthy (capitation), and meaningless referrals are punished. This is the
foundation of a financially viable health system and in that sense, the project, by laying the groundwork for
family medicine has contributed to assuring the long-term financial viability of the health system.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Primary ]Health Care Development Component (Rating: Satisfactory)
- 6 -



All activities defined under this component were carried out in a timely manner and without any cost
overruns. The difficulties and logistics associated with organizing training for over 2000 health personnel
should not be underestimated. In addition, all activities were carried out in a properly sequenced manner to
allow synergy and efficiency. There were only two issues that affected the timely and quality
implementation of this component. First, there were delays in receiving counterpart funds which meant that
on at least one ocassion (November 1998 - July 99), all training at the raional level had to be cancelled.
Secondly, evaluations of provider behaviors showed that physicians were not necessarily practicing all that
they had learned during the training. This mostly had to do with limited monitoring and supervision of
physicinas. This problem was recognized during project implementation and addressed later on in the
project.
The details regarding the implementation achievements for the various sub-components are described
below.
Women's Reproductive Health Sub-Component: Under this sub-component, a national policy on
women's reproductive health protection was developed. The national policy was not just a general
framework but precisely determined the volume of guaranteed health services for pregnant women and
infants. Approximately 1000 health personnel (gynecologists, neonatologists, PHC specialists) were
trained in Safe Matt nity and Childho!,1Pirograns. The project refurbished and equipped a network of
decentralized training institutes that were responsible for the training. Model hospitals, policlinics, and FAP
(feldsher-ambulatory points) in each oblast were provided with essential drugs and basic clinical
equipment. The WHO recommended "Mother and Child" package was adapted for the country.
ARI/CDD Sub-Component: As in the case of the women's reproductive health sub-component, the main
activities under this sub-component were adoption of the latest clinical protocols for the treatment of ARI
and diarrhea among under-5 children, training, equipping of facilities and IEC (information, education and
communication) campaigns to change the behavior of caretakers in treating these illnesses. All activities
met defined targets in a timely manner without any cost overuns. Approximately 300 health personnel at
the raion and oblast levels were trained in latest clinical guidelines and protocol for ARI/CDD (what
percentage of total). The percentage of caretakers of children under 5 years with diarrhea who know how to
make and administer oral rehydration therapy (ORT), and the percentage of children under 5 with ARI
treated at a family medicine clinic who receive correct treatment improved considerably under the project.
The baseline for these indicators was 20% and 10% respectively when the project was initiated. At
completion, the indicators were 93% and 95% respectively, which was much higher than the original
projection of 50%.
TB Control Sub-Component: Under this sub-component, the National Tuberculosis Program of the
Krygyz Republic was adopted in 1995. Senior coordinators of the TB Control Project were trained in
modem methods of TB control, and health personnel from selected regions were trained in the Directly
Observed Therapy Strategy (DOTS). In addition, bacteriological services were strengthened and
modernized, and a system of incentives was created for health personnel to adhere to the latest clinical
protocols for the detection and treatment of TB.
Health Care Facilities Rehabilitation Component (Rating: Satisfactory)
This component had two objectives: to improve capacity within the Ministry of Health to manage the
rehabilitation of facilities and to complete rehabilitation of facilities in two oblasts where the health care
financing component was replicated under the project. The objectives of the facility rehabilitation were
-7 -



achieved, since the buildings were satisfactorily rehabilitated without any cost overruns or delays.
Originally, 62 facilities were supposed to be rehabilitated in Bishkek City and Chui Oblast. In fact, there
were savings from this sub-component that allowed the implementation agency to rehabilitate 76 facilities
instead of ihe 62 as originally planned. Under the project, an assessment of the condition of medical
equipment in primary health care facilities was completed, and on the basis of this assessment, medical
equipment was procured for 76 repaired primary health care facilities. In addition to carrying out an
assessmenl: of facilities, repair and provision of medical equipment, the project supported an evaluation of
the repaired facilities in the 4th year of the project. This evaluation showed that medical equipment
purchased through the project were being used properly. However, there were some concems with
operations and maintenance of rehabilitated facilities, and some health facilities lacked the spare parts and
consumables for procured equipment. The MOH has tried to solve the problem by using its own funds, but
obviously this is not a long-term solution and raises issues about the financial sustainability of the project.
However, Ihe capacity-building objective of the project was not achieved due to lack of leadership within
the project implementation unit.
Pharmaceiutical Management Component (Rating: Satisfactory)
Activities related to this component were satisfactorily implemented. although external factors contributed
to specific problems (described below). The main objectives of this component were to improve the
availability of stzntial `iujs in the coumtry by directly financing the procurement and distribution of.
essential d(ugs, and to create an appropriate environment for the delivery of quality drugs hi the context of
a privatized pharmaceutical market. To allow for ease of procurement and distribution, the drugs were
supposed to be purchased in three lots. The drugs were purchased with project funds, and then were
distributed through private distributors. The private distributors had to pay for each lot of drugs upfront.
During the first phase, the procurement and distribution of drugs worked smoothly. The procurement and
distribution of the second and third lot of essential drugs (5 million dollars, approximately 27 percent of
total project costs) was problematic to implement because of external factors (inflation and devaluation of
the som against the US$). Drug prices which were in US$ rose sharply against the Kyrgyz Som, as a result
of which, distributors were unable to sell the drugs at prices which would have allowed them to pay back
the loan to the Ministry of Finance. Ultimately, lot 3 of the drug distribution scheme was cancelled. In light
of these problems and the fact that that the procured drugs were reaching expiration date, the Bank
recommended that the drugs be distributed and sold as soon as possible by creating appropriate incentives
for the distributors (e.g. reduced collateral requirement, for the third lot, making the drugs more price
competitive), and if this was not possible, then the GoK should distribute the drugs for free to hospitals, so
that the drugs would not be wated. Unable to create the right incentives for distributors given the existing
economic situation in the country, the Government decided to distribute the drugs for free to the hospitals.
In general, the provision of drugs in the Krygyz Republic has improved considerably since 1990. This is
mainly attributable to the privatization of the pharmaceuticals market, which was not directly supported by
the project. However, the project has contributed to the process. The fact that drugs worth US$ 8.3 million
were to be procured and distributed through a private distribution system created appropriate condition for
a supply-response. However, the project has made major contribution in terms of regulating the supply of
drugs (development and operationalization of an essential drug list). At project launch, five State
Joint-Stock Companies (distributors) represented the pharmaceutical market in the country. Currently,
there are 15 distributors in the Kyrgyz Republic. This has contributed to greater competition and a drop in
the prices of essential drugs. In addition, there has been considerable progress in improving the supply and
utilization of essential drugs and rational drug prescription. For example, the average number of drugs
prescribed by doctors has reduced from 9-10 in 1996 to 3 in 2000.
- 8 -



Despite these improvements, some challenges remain - for example, although access to drugs has improved
in the larger cities, it is still a challenge to ensure the continuous supply of drugs in rural areas since
distributors are not attracted to these areas because of the low-income of the population. In addition, the
efforts in terms of rational drug prescription need to continue and will require the introduction of standard
clinical protocols based on evidence-based medicine. The objective of this component was to build an
appropriate environment for the privatization of the pharmaceutical industry and improve the supply of
drugs on a short and long-term basis. Management structures and legal bases for the regulation of the
pharmaceutical sector were established. The Law on Drugs and Essential Drugs Lists were adopted in
1996, and the Drug Department responsible for introducing the National Drug Policy was established in
1997. The role of the Central Laboratory in quality assurance of drugs was established. Essential Drugs
Formularies were disseminated among health personnel through training seminars. Drug committees were
established in health care facilities to ensure the implementation of rational drug use.
Provider Payments Component (Rating: Highly Satisfactory)
This component is rated as highly satisfactory. The main objective of this component was to change the
way the health system is financed in order to create the right incentives for providers and consumers to shift
their emphasis towards primary health care. Changing the way health care providers are paid. is very
important to supporting the adoption of a primary health care based system and bringing about
mucl;oieeded cffiSkncv in th- health system. It was badly needed in the country iL bring  :,C a- ;at-
changes in the way health care services were delivered. During Soviet times, the financnig system was
input based and did not create any incentives for good performance among staff. In addition, the system
was excessively hospital focused. In order to bring about any real change in this system, the way the
resources flow in the system and the types of incentives they create had to be changed.
The provider payments component of the project, building upon a successful pilot implemented by USAID
through the Zdravreform project in Issy-kul oblast took these reforms to the next stage of implementation.
Under this project, the pilot was extended to Bishkek City and Chui Oblast. There were multiple elements
to this component which focused on the creation of a consolidated purchaser (single payer system),
established family group practices (FGPs), implemented a capitation system and case-based payment
system in hospitals and began the process of creating an information system that would help in tracking
health indicators. At the completion of the project, there were 798 family group practices formed operating
in 8 oblasts (106 in Bishkek City, 144 in Chui oblast, 72 in Issyk-ul, 38 in Talas, 57 in Naryn, 175 in Osh
oblast, 142 in Jalalabad and 64 in Batken). By the end of the project, approximately 80-96 percent of the
population in the targeted oblasts were enrolled with family group practices. Related to the setting-up of
family group practices has been the implementation of an extensive training program in family medicine.
Approximately 1,362 doctors and 889 nurses were trained in family medicine. In addition, 90 persons were
certified as family medicine trainers.
In addition, the project supported the development of non-governmental institutions representing family
practitioner and hospitals, including an institution that would support quality assurance functions (Family
Group Practice Association, Hospital Association and Accreditation Commission). The Hospital
Association assisted in the implementation of a pilot to introduce case-based payment in selected hospitals
and maternity homes in Bishkek city and Chui oblast. The Accreditation Commission is an independent
professional organization which has prepared a normative-legislative base for evaluation and quality
control of health services. The licensing and accreditation process has been intrinsic to defining the health
facilities that will be included in the contracting with the Mandatory Health Insurance Fund.
In addition to the formation of the family group practices and supporting the implementation of appropriate
-9-



provider payment mechanisms, the project contributed to strengthening the health care financing system in
the country by beginning the process of developing a health insurance system. The Health Insurance Fund
(subsequently called the Mandatory Health Insurance Fund) established under the project was responsible
for contracting with the newly created family group practices using the newly-developed prospective
payment systems. The MHIF represented the single payer system, much needed for consolidation of limited
public sector funds, and the development of risk pooling mechanisms. Concurrent to the establishment of
the MHIF, oblast health administrations were closed and merged with the MHIF. The MHIF is already
operational in Issy-kul and Chui oblasts and is pooling health funds at the oblast level. The project also
supported the development of management information system (MIS) which would enable the health
insurance fund to monitor the implementation of contracts with providers. The Information Technology
Unit established under the project has been equipped with appropriate hardware and software to manage
information needs related to the newly created provider payment systems.
In addition to creating appropriate macro and micro financing mechanisms and creating family group
practices, this component also supported the development of three associations (Family Group Practice
Association, Hospital Association and Accreditation Association). These associations, representing the
providers, began to play an increasingly important role in the implementation of health sector reforms in the
country. Health sector reforms are not likely to be successful and sustainable unless those directly affected
by the reforms (e.g. health care providers, consumers) are brought on board and fully participate in the
refonns. ]By supporting the development of associntions r-presetiig -htC p.rvidcs, the project has
supported the development of institutions that can, in future, be important counterparts to the
implementation of health reforms in the country as well as supported the development of civil society in
Kyrgyz Republic.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
N/A
4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The projec:t has made substantial contribution to improving the country's ability to make effective use of its
human an(d financial resources. It has trained physicians nationwide in the latest clinical protocols for
reproductive and child health and TB. It has provided physicians with appropriate medical equipment to
actually put their training in practice. In addition, the various financing reforms supported by the project
(creating a single payer system, adoption of prospective payment systems, separating providers from the
purchasers of health services) have created a foundation for the effective and-efficient use of limited public
sector fund(s. In most OECD countries, these reforms have been implemented in various combinations to
support the development of a cost-effective and efficient health system. Institutional development is as
much about building human resources (for e.g. through training) as creating appropriate institutional and
financial incentives for staff to perform. This project has definitely contributed to these goals.
Additionally, the project has strengthened the Ministry of Health's capacity to fulfill its policy-making and
regulatory functions.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The main extemal factor affecting project implementation was the devaluation of the som following the
economic crisis in Russia in 1998. This affected the distribution of drugs through the private distribution
- 10-



system as originally envisaged under the project was affected by the devaluation. In addition, the economic
crisis affected the allocation of counterpart funds. In addition, changes in Government during the time
period of the project delayed project implementation of planned activities. However, the overall direction of
the project did not change.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Factors within the control of the Government have had both positive and negative impact on project
implementation. One of the few, but important, implementation constraint in the project has been the lack
of timely availability of counterpart funds. The government had to make many important policy decisions
in order to prevent the fragmentation of the health financing system and create a single-payer system. It
was able to take this decision and implement the decision in a timely manner.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The implementing agency (Technical Coordination Unit) along with the project coordination agency (PCU)
generally did everything under their control to implement this project in an efficient manner.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
There were no significant cost changes in the project.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The prospects for sustainability are highly likely provided the Government continues with the same
degree of political and committment, and the economic environment does not deteriorate. A follow-on
operation (Health 11) has already been approved by the Board and has already become effective. This
project is going to further strengthen the reforms supported through Health I by strengthening and
expanding the health reform efforts in health financing and delivery to the entire country. Successful
implementation of primary health care in the health system context of Former Soviet Union (FSU) countries
requires that important stakeholders (health facility managers, physicians and other health personnel) who
could resist these changes are brought on board early on. By supporting institutions that can effectively
lobby among these groups (Family Group Practice Association, Hospital Association and Accreditation
Association) the project has created an improved institutional environment for the sustainability of health
sector reforms. The follow-on operation (Second Health Sector Reform Project) will continue to support
the development of these organizations, albeit on a declining basis. By the end of this second IDA funded
health project, it is expected that these institutions will be entirely supported through membership fees.
Another critical element to successfully implementing family medicine reforms in FSU countries is to
change the health care financing mechanisms so that providers have an incentive to shift their orientation
towards primary care. Here too, the project has laid a very strong foundation which will be further
developed through the follow-on operation.
However, there are concerns about the financial sustainability of the project. As has already been
mentioned, operations and maintenance of newly rehabilitated facilities and medical equipment provided
through the project has been of concem, and the MOH has had to provide contingency funds. This is not a
long-term solution. The overall economic situation in the country is quite volatile, and health expenditures
as a percentage of total government expenditures are almost 13 percent. In comparison, in other IDA
countries in the Region, health expenditures as a percentage of total govemment expenditures is less than
10 percent. This means that it will be difficult for the MOH to argue for more funds. Rather, the emphasis
has to be on demonstrating that the MOH is making the best use of available resources. This puts a
- 1 1 -



premium on addressing the issue of efficiency. In addition, the MOH has to further strengthen its efforts at
mobilizing payroll taxes and out-of-pocket payments., as it has begun to do through the Mandatory Health
Insurance Scheme. Health II will further contribute to strengthening health care financing reforms (e.g.
expanding the Mandatory Health Insurance Fund), and also initiate the process of hospital rationalization
to address the problem of oversupply of hospitals.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The implementation of health sector reforms that will bring about systemic changes in the financing and
delivery of health services is a long-term process. Therefore, the fact that there is a follow-on operation that
will strengthen the inputs supported through Health I is very encouraging. Health 11 has a well-designed
monitoring and evaluation plan in place. This should help it to further monitor the project results achieved
through Health I. Since the project is an integral part of the Government's health policy, future monitoring
and evaluation of Health I and the results that it will generate are integrated into the Government's
monitoring and evaluation system.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:.
Highly satisfactory. As has been mentioned, the Government had a health policy in place whern this prqj,Ot-
was developed by the Bank. Therefore, the project design was very much country-driven and owned. The
Bank was very responsive to the requests of the client and provided assistance in a timely manner during
project development.
7.2 Supervision:
Highly satisfactory. The Bank team effectively combined project supervision with technical advice. The
Bank team was clear about Bank guidelines and this helped the country implement the project in a smooth
manner. There was continuity in the Bank team for the project and throughout the life of the project,
the Bank team continued its dialogue and involvement of donors.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Highly satisfactory. The Bank played the role of coordinator and technical adviser, while using its
fiduciary role positively when needed to enhance project implementation and effectiveness.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Given that this was the first Bank project in the health sector, the Borrower's role in project preparation is
rated as highly satisfactory. At the time this project was designed, the Ministry of Health was receiving
substantial technical assistance and support from bilateral donors in health sector reform. The MoH and
the team. responsible for project preparation used available information from the implementation of pilots to
conceptualize and design the project.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Given that this was the first World Bank health project to be implemented in the Kyrgyz Republic,
Government (Ministry of Health) implementation performance was excellent. Nonetheless, overall
Government implementation performance was marred by problems related to counterpart funds. This is a
general problem affecting all Bank projects in the country.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
- 12 -



The main implementation agency for the project was the Technical Coordination Unit (TCC) consisting of
Component Coordinators for each of the project component. The TCU was supported in project
implementation by the project coordination unit (PCU) that was already implementing another World Bank
Project The project implementation arrangements were well designed to blend the day-to-day details of
project implementation and the need for a high-level technical committee given the health sector reform
objectives of the project. Implementation agency performance was exceptional, and the project was
implemented in a timely manner, despite extemal problem (delays in the availability of counterpart funds,
devaluation of the Som and its effect on distribution of drugs).
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall borrower performance was highly satisfactory through out the project. At the time the project was
developed, the Govenmment has defined its health sector policy (Manas) which became the comerstone for
the design of the project. Subsequently, implementation of the project went smoothly, despite the fact that
this was the first World Bank loan in the health sector.
8. Lessons Learned
When this prpject was initiated in the Kyrgyz Republic, the country was in the immediate post-transition
phase and there were a multitude of problems in the health sector. Simplistic solutions that only addressed
one element of the health sector were not possible, and would not have produced any results on the ground.
Health .sector reforms itha addressed both the financing and delivery of health services were imminent. 'Tl ..e
reforms introduced through this project were complex, and required attention to details. Based on the
evidence, it clear that the project was a success. It has contributed to a shift in thinking about how the
health system should be financed and how services should be delivered, and the foundation for building a
primary health care system has been established.
The factors that contributed to project success were:
Government Ownership was High: At the time the Bank was developing this project, the Government
defined its health sector policy (Manas). Often, even if governments have a health policy, these tend to be
rather general, lacking feasibility analysis and implementation details. This was not true in the case of the
Kyrgyz Republic. The Manas Health Policy of the Government reflected the lessons learned from the
implementation of family medicine and provider payments reforms in Issyk-ul oblast.
Institutional Capacity and Strong Technical Committee: There was institutional capacity within the
country to take on and subsequently lead the reforms introduced through this project. Among the four
components financed through this project, the most complex, and yet the most important was the provider
payments systems component. It required sophisticated skills to understand and implement payment
systems at the primary and hospital levels. Project implementation arrangements consisted of a technical
committee with a very strong leader who was able to negotiate as needed with key players in the health
system.
Continuity and Coordination of Technical Assistance Efforts: Often, technical assistance provided
through donors and Bank projects are not coordinated. Piecemeal technical assistance efforts are not likely
to produce strong results. In the case of the Kyrgyz Republic, technical assistance on very complex
elements of the health sector reform process was well coordinated. USAID, through an international
consulting firm, Abt Associates, provided initial technical support in the development of the provider
payment reforms. The Bank ensured the continuation of this technical assistance by allowing the
Government to award a sole-source contract to the same firm for replication of the pilot in Bishkek city and
- 13-



Chui oblast. In addition, when the Bank started to design the project with the Government, there were other
donors in the country that were working on various aspects of health system strengthening and reform.
Under the project, the Bank brought together the various donors in a coordinated fashion.
Timely Interventions by the Bank: There were some critical moments in the project when the Bank made
timely interventions, and used its power as the financier of the project to press upon the Government to
make the ri:ght decisions. In the process, it helped prevent future problems in the health system and
strengthene.d the health reform process. For example, when there was a danger that the health care
financing system would become fragmented, the Bank stopped disbursements until the Government took the
decision of preventing this from happening, thereby paving the way for the development of a single-payer
system.
Attention to Institutional Development in the context of health reforms: Although the Ministry of
Health plays a key role in the implementation of health reforms, it is extremely important that stakeholders
(health personnel, hospital administrators, consumers) are brought on board and eventually take ownership
of these reforms. The creation of alternative non-govermnental organizations representing doctors,
hospitals and the creation of an accreditation association for a peer-review based system of quality
assurance is one of the most important contributions of the project. This makes the project highly
sustainable since once these groups are brought on board, the reforms will take on a momentum of their
owii. Also it is an iimportant contribution to the health systems of Former Sovie; Unios (S   countres
which operated in a command and control environment. In this environment, the creation of alternative
organizations is a contribution to the modernization of these health systems.
Weaknesses/Challenges
Proiect Evaluation: The project did a good job of monitoring project implementation. However, the
evaluation part of the project which would allowed the deterninantion of the impact of the project in terms
of intermediate health indicators and health outcomes was not very well-developed. Health outcomes were
defined in ALnnex I without any clear plan for a baseline and follow-up survey, or the use of several sources
of data to cross-validate findings. However, this weakness was identified during the implementation of the
project, and the Second Health Sector Reform Reform has a strong monitoring and evaluation plan.
Safeguards aeainst External Economic Events: One of the most difficult issues affecting project
implementation was the allocation of counterpart parts. This was due to a multiplicity of reasons - difficult
currency situation following the Russia crisis, problems in budget formation and management at the
republican level and inflation. The problems with Lot 3 of the drug distribution program were also related
to the economic crisis.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrowerlimplementing agency:
(b) Cofinanciers:
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
10. Additional Information
- 14 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:-
IndiatorjMatrix                    ProJected in last PSR                ActualLatest Estimate
PRIMARY HEALTH CARE COMPONENT
ARI/CDD SUBCOMPONENT
Percentage of CRH Trainers supplied with  100%                             100%
ARI/CCC Trainers Manuals
Percentage of Model Polyclinics receiving  100%                            60%
allocation of drugs from PHC shipment
Under 5 mortality                    9/1,000                              22.6/1000 at close of project. Projected at
9/1000 according to logframe
Percentage of infant deaths due to ARI  N/A                                7.8/1 000 infants (reduction of 5.1 % between
1995-2000)
WOMEN'S REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH
SUBCOMPONENT
Percentage of Model Polyclinics receMng  100%                              100%
WRH drugs from PHC shipment
Percentage or workshops conducted as  100%                                 100%
compared with target
Percentage of matemal mortality due to  20%                                37.7% (reduction of 2% between 1996-2000)
nriampsia
Matemal Mortality Rate               75/100,000                            46.5/100,000 live borths (reducion of 50
percent between 1996-200)
Percentage of Neonatal deaths due to  22%                                  21.7% (9% decline during 1996-200)
asphyxia
Perinatal Mortality Rate             11.1/1,000                            12.6/1000
FACILITIES REHABILITATION
COMPONENT
Number of MOH Officials Trained in Estates N/A                             3 MoH Officials
Management
Increase in utilization of facilities rehabilitated N/A                    20-25% increase in utilization
Reduction in the use of energy at facilities
which have been rehabilitated        N/A                                   Not available
PROVIDER PAYMENTS COMPONENT                                                2,240
Number of people trained in payment  12
systems, cost accounting, dInical informaton
systems, management, accreditation and
quality improvement                                                        27
Number of local experts hired by 3
associatons and trained
Locations determined and equipment                                         NA
provided for FGPs                    -20%                                  NA
Reduction in hospital admission rates  -16%                                8.1% dedine n ALOS
Reducdon in hospital LOS             -20%                                  NA
Reduction in referral rate of primary care  16%                            NA
physicians                                                                 NA
Increase in proportion of resources allocated -20%                         9.9%
to primary care section
Reduction in number of beds and faciliftes
(must be both beds and facilities to reduce
costs)
PHARMACEUTICAL REHABILITATION        550
COMPONENT                            120                                   386 application of which 362 approved and
Number of Registration applications                                        21 disapproves
approved/disapproved                 8                                     166 applicaton of which 162 approved and 4
Number of licensing applications                                           disapproved
approved/disapproved                 57                                    NA
Number of quality test performed performed
- 15-



on each sample                                                             100%
Number/range of drugs tested for quality  100%
75%                                  NA
Percentage of pharmacies/health care
facilities in possession of current EDL  95%
Percentage of samples physicians
aware/supportive of EDP
Non-branded (off-patent) drugs as
percentage of all drugs on EDL
Output Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                   Projected In last PSR|               Actual/Latest Estimate
PRIMARY HEALTH CARE COMPONENT
ARI/CDD SUBCOMPONENT
Percentage of Ralon Pediatricians who have 60%                             ARI: 81.8% of raion pediatricians
attended a "hands on' training Course                                       Diarrheal diseases: 91.7% of ralon
pediatricians
Percentage of caretakers of children under 5 50%                           95.0%
years with diarrhea at home who know how to
make and administer ORS
Percentage of children under 5 years with  50%                             95%
ARI seen at a FAP who receive correct
treatment
WOMEN'S REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH
SUBCOMPONENT
Percentage of FAPs providing iron    40%                                   12% of all FAPs
supplements regularly to all pregnant women
FACILITIES REHABILITATION
COMPONENT
Number of Rural Hospitals/Polyclinics                                      78% (114 health care facilities of Chui oblast)
Rehabilitated
Number of Health Centers/FAPs                                              16
Rehabilitated
Number of Polyclinics Provided with                                        76
Equipment Kits
Number of Health Centers/FAPs provided
with Equipment Kits
PROVIDER PAYMENTS COMPONENT
Number of FGPs formed and operating with                                   803
pracice managers
Percent of population enrolled in FGPs                                     89% (Issy-kul, Chu! and Bishkek)
Percent of budget funds pooled to fiscal  90%                              15%
intermediary and providers reimbursed by
new payment system
Percent of facilities with new cost accountng, 100%                        38%
clinical information, management and quality
improvement systems
PHARMACEUTICAL REHABILITATION
COMPONENT
3-4 months
Average speed of registration decisions (Ume 70 days
between presentation of full required
information and decision)
Average speed of licensing of proprietors  14 days                         15-30 days
(time between presentation of full required                                NA
documentaton and decision)           100%
Percentage of sampled mediciens at
pharmacies satisfying minimum quality  90%
- 16-



requirements (content and stability)
Percentage of samples proprietors satisfying
licensing requirements
NA
Change in availibility and price of those drugs
procured under the Credit at community
pharmacies and raion hospital pharmades                                   NA
Change in availability and price of drugs on
the EDL at each level of the pharmacy                                     NA
system
Change in number/average of all drugs  60%                                100%
available at each level of pharmacy system
EDL drugs prescribed/dispensed as
percentage of all drugs prescAibed/dispensed 100%                         100%
at each level of the pharmacy system
EDL drugs dispensed free of charge or at
subsidized prices to entited patient groups
as percentage of all drugs dispensed free of
charge or at subsidized rates to entited
groups
End of project
- 17-



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal   Actual/Latest I Percen-tage of
Estimate     Estimate   I   Appraisal
Project Cost By Component            US$ million  US$ miHionl
A. Primary Health Care                             3.50           2.76            79
B. Facilities Management                           2.20           2.16            98
C. Pharmaceutical Management                       7.30           6.69            92
D. Provider Payment Reform                         3.90           4.50           115
E. Project Administration                          0.60           0.53            88
F. PPF                                             0.50           0.36            72
Total Baseline Cost                               18.00          17.00
Physical Contingencies                             1.70          1.70
Price Contingencies                               0.90           0.90
Total Project Costs            20.60          19.60
Total Financing Required            20.60          19.60
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
d.ture Category                Procurement Method
Expmndlture Category     ICB          NCB         Other        N.B.F.     Total Cost
1 Works                                               2.00                      2.00
0            0          (1.80)         0          (1.80)
2. Goods                    10.20                     2.24                     12.44
(10.20)        0          (2.24)         (         (12.44)
3. Services                                           0.20                      0.20
0            0          (0.20)         0          (0.20)
4. Consultancies                                      4.50                      4.50
()__________________  o  o  (4.10)     0          (4.10)
5. Recurrent Costs                                                 1.00         1.00
O            0            0            0          (0.00)
Total                     10.20        0.00         8.94         1.00        20.14
(10.20)      (0.00)       (8.34)       (0.00)      (18.54)
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equival nt)
Procurement Method
Excpenditure Category    1GB          NCB         Other        N...'oalCs
1. Works                    0.00         0.00         1.90         0.00        1.90
(0.00)       (0.00)      (1.59)       (0.00)       (1.59)
2. Goods                    9.91         0.00         1.66         0.00       11.57
(9.91)       (0.00)      (1.25)       (0.00)      (11.16)
3. Services                 0.00         0.00         0.09         0.00        0.09
(0.00)       (0.00)      (0.09)       (0.00)       (0.09)
-18 -



4. Consultancies                 0.00           0.00          3.04          0.00          3.04
(0.00)         (0.00)        (3.04)        (0.00)        (3.04)
5. Recurrent Costs               0.00          0.00           0.03          0.40          0.43
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                         9.91           0.00          6.72          0.40          17.03
(9.91)         (0.00)        (5.97)        (0.00)        (15.88)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2'Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by C mponent (in US$ million equivalent)
Percentage of Appraisal
Component              Appraisal Estimate          Actual/Latest Estimate              - -
Bank      Go^t.     CoF.      Bank      GovL      CoF.     Bank I Govt.   CoF.
A. Primary Health Care    3.47      0.49                2.68      0.09              77.2    18.4
B. Facilities Management  2.17      0.17                1.85      0.31              85.3  .182.4
C. Pharmacputcal          7.87      0.43                6.59      0.10   l3.7               23.3
Management
D. Provider Payment       3.95      0.47                3.95      0.55              100.0  117.0
Reform
E. Project Administration  0.58     0.06                0.46      0.10              79.3   166.7
F. PPF                    0.50      0.00                0.36                        72.0    0.0
-19 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
not applicable
- 20 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)   Implementation Development
Month/Year     Count          Specialty                     Progress      Objective
Identification/Preparation
04/94 - 06/95               5    Tencalla (Training Expert)
Hoppy (Task Manager)
Campos (Primary Health Expert)
Venezia (Procurement &
Implementation Specialist)
Hauslohner (Pharmaceutical
Expert)
Appraisal/Negotiation
10/95 - 03/96               5    Tencalla (Training Expert)
Hoppy (Task Manager)
Campos (Primary Health
Expert)
i Ve.ne'az (Procurement &
Implementation Specialist)
Hauslohner (Pharmaceutical
Expert)
Supervision
July 1996                    5   Tencalla (Training Expert)         S             S
Hoppy (Task Manager)
Campos (Primary Health
Expert)
Venezia (Procurement &
Implementation Specialist)
Hauslohner (Pharmaceutical
Expert)
October 1996                 4   Hoppy (Task Manager)               S             S
Venezia (Procurement &
Implementation Specialist)
Dahlmeier (Project Assistant)
Djoldosheva (Operations Officer)
April 1997                   5   Tencalla (Training Expert)         S             S
Hoppy (Task Manager)
Campos (Primary Health Expert)
Venezia (Procurement &
Implementation Specialist)
Djoldosheva (Operations Officer)
October 1997                 4   Tencalla (Training Expert)         S             S
Hoppy (Task Manager)
Venezia (Procurement &
Implementation Specialist)
Djoldosheva (Operations Officer)
-21 -



April 1998                  5   Tencalla (Training Expert)        S             S
Hoppy (Task Manager)
Venezia (Procurement &
Implementation Specialist)
Djoldosheva (Operations Officer)
Lim (Operations Officer)
MID-TERM                    6   Tencalla (Training Expert)        HS           HS
REVIEW:                         Hoppy (Task Manager)
November 1998                   Venezia (Procurement &
Implementation Specialist)
Djoldosheva (Operations Officer)
Lim (Operations Officer)
Coignez-Sterling
(Pharmaceutical Expert)
July 1999                   6   Tencalla (Training Expert)        S            HS
Hoppy (Task Manager)
Venezia (Procurement &
Implementation Specialist)
Djoldosheva (Operations Officer)
Lim (Operations Officer)
Bultman (Public Health
Specialist)
January 2000                6   Tencalla (Training Expert)        S            HS
Hoppy (Task Manager)
Venezia (Procurement &
Implementation Specialist)
Djoldosheva (Operations Officer)
Bultman (Public Health
Specialist)
Coignez-Sterling
(Pharmaceutical Expert)
July 2000                   5   Tencalla (Training Expert)         S           HS
Venezia (Procurement &
Implementation Specialist)
Djoldosheva (Operations Officer)
Bultman (PTL)
Coignez-Sterling
(Pharmaceutical Expert)
January 2001                2   Bultman (PTL)                     S            HS
Venezia (Procurement &
Implementation Specialist)
June 2001                   3   Bultman (PTL)                      S           HS
Venezia (Procurement &
Implementation Specialist)
Djoldosheva (Operations Officer)
ICR
-22 -



(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle'                  Actual/Latest Estimate
.__________________ .No. Staff weeks                            US$ (000)
Identification/Preparation       Not Available                        83
Appraisal/Negotiation            Not Available                        41
Supervision                      Not Available                       222
ICR                              Not Available                         9
Total                            Not Available                       355
-23-



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA-Not Applicable)
Rating
OMacro policies                        O H  OSUOM      O N  * NA
OSector Policies                       O H  *SUOM O N       O NA
OI Phyisical                           O H OSU*M       O N  O NA
LFinancial                             OH   OSUOM      ON   *NA
O Institutional Development            0 H  * SU O M 0 N    0 NA
O Environmental                        0 H O SU O M 0 N     0 NA
Social
Ol Poverty Reduction             O H  OSUOM      O N  * NA
OI Gender                        OH OSUOM ON *NA
O Other (Please specify)         OH   OSUOM      ON   * NA
El Private sector development          0 H  O SU O M   0 N  0 NA
O Public sector management             0 H 0 SU O M    0 N  0 NA
O Other (Please specify)               OH   OSUOM      ON   * NA
-. 24-



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                Rating
D Lending                                           OHS*S OU OHU
D Supervision                                       *HS OS       O U   O HU
O Overall                                           *HS OS       O u   O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
O Preparation                                       *HS OS       O U   O HU
O Government implementation performance             * HS O S     0 U   0 HU
OI Implementation agency performance                O HS OS      0 U   0 HU
LI Overall                                          *HS OS       O U   O HU
-25 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
- 26 -



