Document of
The World Bank
Report No.  15181-KG
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
HEALTH SECTOR REFORM PROJECT
APRIL 22. 1996
Human Resources Division
Country Department III
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of March 29, 1996)
Currency Unit = Som
Som I   =  US$0.088
US$1   =  Som 11.35
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATES
Kyrgyz Som per US$1
1993          8.0
1994          10.6
1995          11.0
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AIDS - Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome
ARI - Acute Respiratory Infections
CC - Component Coordinator
CCME  - Center of Continuous Medical Education
CDD - Control of Diarrheal Diseases
DALY  - Disability Adjusted Life Years
DANIDA - Danish Development Agency
EDL - Essential Drug List
FAP - Feldslier/Accoucheur Posts
FSU - Former Soviet Union
GDP - Gross Domestic Product
GTZ - German Development Agency
IBRD - International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA - International Development Association
IMF - International Monetary Fund
MANAS - National Health Reform Plan
MCH - Maternal and Child Health
MOF - Ministry of Finance
MOH - Ministry of Health
NHA - National Health Accounts
ODA - Overseas Development Agency
OECD  - Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
PCU - Project Coordination Unit
PHC - Primary Health Care
PPF - Project Preparation Facility
SDR - Special Drawing Rights
STDs - Sexually Transmitted Diseases
SVA - Rural Physician Ambulatory
TB - Tuberculosis
TCC - Technical Coordination Committee
TICA - Turkish Development Agency
UNDP  - United Nations Development Program
UNFPA - United Nations Fund for Population Activities
UNICEF - United Nations Children's Fund
USAID - United States Agency for International Development
WHO - World Health Organization
WRH - Women's Reproductive Health
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC - FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
HEALTH SECTOR REFORM PROJECT
CONTENTS
Credit and Project Summary   ............................................    i
PART  I.  SECTOR  BACKGROUND, ISSUES, AND  STRATEGIES   ..................   1
A. Economic and Sectoral Background   ................................   1
B. Epidemiological Trends  ........................................   2
C. Health Care Delivery System  and Resource Utilization ..................... 5 
D. Financing Health Care  .........................................   7
E. The Current Status of Physical Facilities   ............................    12
F. The Current Status of Pharmaceuticals  ..............................    12
G. Need for Long-Term  Reform    ...................................    13
H. Govermnent's Goals and Policies for the Health Sector  ...................    14
I. Other Donor Activities and Coordination  .............................    16
PART II. LESSONS LEARNED FROM PREVIOUS BANK EXPERIENCE ...                                                       .........  17
PART  III.  THE  PROJECT    ...........................................    19
A. Project Objectives and Concept  ..................................    19
B. Project Description  ..........................................    20
Component A: Primary Health Care   ............................    20
Component B: Facilities Rehabilitation ...........................   25
Component C: Medical Care Provider Payment  .....................    26
Component D: Pharmaceutical Management  .......................    31
PART IV. PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING, PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENTS ... 37
A. Project Costs ...............................................  37
B. Project Financing  ...........................................    38
C. Procurement  ..............................................    39
D. Disbursements  .............................................    45
E. Project Accounts, Budgets and Audits  ..............................    48
PART V. PROJECT MANAGEMENT, IMPLEMENTATION, EVALUATION AND
SUPERVISION   .........................................    49
A. Status of Project Preparation  ....................................    49
B. Overall Project Management and Implementation   .......................    49
C. Project Monitoring and Evaluation   ................................    52
This report is based on the findings of an October, 1995 appraisal mission. The Project team leader was Carol Hoppy (Task Manager) and
members of the mission included Dr. Susan Welsby (Primary Health Care Specialist), Dr. Malgosia Grzemska (Tuberculosis Specialist), Michael
Hopkinson (Health Facility Specialist), Peter Hauslohner (Phamnaceutical Specialist), Trina Haque (Economist), Maria Van Beek (Legal and
Procurement Specialist) and Kathryn Dahimeier (Project Assistant). Other contributors to the project and this report included: Ronald Venezia
(Consultant) Procurement advice, Ved Kumar (Consultant) Pharmaceuticals, and Nydia Maraviglia (Consultant) Editorial assistance. The Lead
Adviser is George Schieber (HDD). Peer reviewers for this project are Jose Luis Bobadilla (HDD) and Antonio Campos (EC4MS). Robert
Liebenthal and Yukon Huang are the managing Division Chief and Department Director, respectively, for the operation.



PART VI. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS OF THE PROJECT  ........................  53
A. Framework and Justification ....................................  53
B. Benefits .................................................   54
C. Risks and Limitations  ........................................   61
PART VII. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION   .......................  65
TABLES
Table 1.1: Basic Health Status Indicators ....................................  3
Table 1.2: Disability Adjusted Life Years (DALY), by Major Disease ..................  5
Table 1.3: Comparisons of the Availability and Use of Health Resources ................  6
Table 1.4: Allocation of Health Budget by Type of Facility, 1994 .....................  6
Table 1.5: Kyrgyz Republic Health Expenditures and GDP, 1990 - 1994  ................  9
Table 1.6: Health Spending Patterns ......................................   10
Table 1.7: Kyrgyz Republic Family Budget Survey .............................   10
Table 4.1: Estimated Project Costs .......................................  37
Table 4.2: Financing Plan .............................................   38
Table 4.3: Sunmmary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements  ......................  43
Table 4.4: Annual and Cumulative Disbursements  .............................  46
Table 6.1: Cost-effectiveness of Interventions  ................................  55
Table 6.2: Alternative Methods of Paying Medical Care Providers  ...................  59
Table 6.3: Efficiency Gains from Changes in Utilization Patterns ....................  60
ANNEXES
1. Letter confirming the Policy Statement from the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic
2. Detailed Description of the Primary Health Care Component
2A. Women's Reproductive Health Subcomponent
2B. Acute Respiratory Infections/Diarrheal Disease Control Subcomponent
2C. Tuberculosis Subcomponent
3. Detailed Description of the Facilities Rehabilitation Component
4. Detailed Description of Medical Care Provider Payment Component
5. Detailed Description of Pharmaceutical Management and Reform Component
6. Implementation Arrangements
7. Implementation Schedule and Plan
8. Description of Technical Assistance
9. Description of Training
10. Detailed Procurement Arrangements
11. Performance Monitoring Indicators
12. Summary Cost Table
13. Supervision Plan
14. Other Donor Activities and Coordination
15. Selected Documents in Project Files
MAP
IBRD No. 27637



i
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
HEALTH SECTOR REFORM
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:              The Kyrgyz Republic
Implementing Agency:   Ministry of Health
Beneficiary:           Ministry of Health
Poverty:               Program of Targeted Interventions
Amount:                SDR 12.6 million (US$18.5 million equivalent)
Terms:                 Standard, with 35 years maturity.
Commitmnent Fee:       0.50 % on undisbursed credit balances, beginning 60 days after signing,
less any waiver.
Onlending Terms:       Not applicable
Financing Plan:        See Table 4.2 in Part IV.
Net Present Value:     Economic analysis based on cost-effectiveness. See Part VI.
Staff Appraisal Report:  15181 KG
Map:                   IBRD No. 27637
Project ID Number:     KG-PA-8523






KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
HEALTH SECTOR REFORM
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PART I. SECTOR BACKGROUND, ISSUES, AND STRATEGIES
A. Economic and Sectoral Background
1.1   The Kyrgyz Republic is a small landlocked country in Central Asia with a population of 4.5
million people. It is located in a mountainous area and has common borders with Kazakstan, China,
Tajikistan and Uzbekistan. The country became an independent state in 1991 as a result of the
disintegration of the Soviet Union. Since then it has been developing as a secular state and attempting to
implement market reforms. Price liberalization has, to a large extent, been completed and external trade
has become almost free of major restrictions. Similarly, the foreign exchange regime and interest rates
have been fully liberalized. Privatization and enterprise restructuring are underway, with the state
reducing direct involvement in economic activity, domestic production and distribution.
1.2   The Kyrgyz Republic is among the countries most adversely affected by the transition, which has
had a significant negative impact on the health status of the population. Poverty is a prevalent and
persistent problem. Even before the disintegration of the Soviet Union in 1991, about one third of the
population had a "socially unacceptable standard of living". Much of the existing poverty in the country
is, therefore, inherited and structural. According to the 1993 Kyrgyz Living Standards Survey, 40 percent
of households then lived in poverty with 25 percent classified as very poor. There were significant
disparities in the extent of poverty among the populations of different regions; farnilies headed by people
of different age groups; rural and urban populations; families of entrepreneurs and families of non-
entrepreneurs; employed and unemployed; families with income generated by employment and families
with income based on the provisions of social safety net; as well as among families with many children
and families with only a few children in the rural areas.
1.3   The level of financing of broad social programs inherited from the Soviet system was at an
unsustainable level. Following independence, in order to stabilize the economy the Kyrgyz Government
allowed social expenditures to fall from nearly 17 percent of GDP in 1990 to 9 percent in 1993, although
by 1994, the figure had increased to 14 percent. The health expenditures followed the same pattern,
dropping from 3.7 percent of GDP to 2.4, and then increased again to 3.6. Social assistance expenditures
were most affected, falling from 6.1 percent of GDP in 1991 to 3.4 percent in 1994. The enterprises,
which used to be major providers of subsidized social services, have encountered severe financial
difficulties and are now forced to divest their social assets.
1.4    World Bank studies show that while in 1994 local governments covered 84 percent of the health
expenditures and 74 percent of the expenditures on education, the current intergovernmental system has
several features that could jeopardize the social safety net including: (i) revenue sharing arrangements
which give subnational governments limited incentive to increase their tax efforts; (ii) a transfer system
which provides soft budget constraints for subnational governments and reduces incentives to cut
expenditures and/or increase the revenue collection efforts; (iii) local tax administrations which might be
more loyal to the local level with a potential non-compliance; (iv) limited correspondence of expenditures
and revenues, which forces local governments to accumulate large payment arrears; and (v) full
expenditure autonomy at the local level, which leads to ad hoc expenditure cuts or large arrears for social
expenditures, especially in the poorer regions.



2
1.5    Although redefining the role of the state has been successful in the Kyrgyz Republic with respect
to its withdrawal from micro-management and liberalizing the economy, the Government now has an
even greater challenge to create new institutions which will effectively provide for instances where market
forces alone cannot cope. The social sectors, and the health system, in particular, require a careful
institutional restructuring while the provision of services cannot be interrupted. The sensitivity and
complexity of issues involved in health reform in the Kyrgyz Republic under conditions of severe
economic crisis present a strong case for the Bank's participation.
1.6    The Kyrgyz health care financing and delivery system is a vestige of the centrally planned
national health service system of the Former Soviet Union (FSU). Such systems performed well in termis
of guaranteeing access to health care and promoting a relatively equitable distribution of health resources.
These systems were successful in promoting certain types of preventive services such as immunizations
and providing access to care in rural areas, and, until recently, resulted in relatively good health outcomes
given the amounts of money spent. However, with the epidemiological transition and the resulting
changing composition of illness from infectious diseases to chronic conditions, system performance has
been disappointing and inefficiencies, both clinical and economic, along with the dismal economic
situation in all FSU countries have resulted in very limited gains, and, indeed in some areas, in declines
in the health status of the population when compared to either western or other middle income countries.
1.7    The proposed Health Sector Reform Project in the Kyrgyz Republic is designed to assist the
Kyrgyz Government in the reform of its health care financing and delivery system. The Project takes
as given the underlying economic situation of the country, the basic epidemiological status of the
population, and the inherent strengths and weaknesses in the current health care financing and delivery
system. A set of health reformn goals have been set forth in the Government's MANAS Health Care
Reform Program', and this proposed IDA funded multi-component project targets the major causes of
death and disability as well as the basic underlying economic and clinical inefficiencies in the current
health care financing and delivery system. Explicit in the Project's design is the introduction of modem
clinical practice methods and provider payment reforms separating purchase and payment of health
services from delivery of care. These changes would improve clinical practice, target the country's major
health problems, and result in a reconfiguration of the service delivery system which will promote
efficient use of scarce health resources. Concomitantly, the Project is designed to preserve and strengthen
the major positive features of the previous centrally planned system, in particular universal access to care
and a relatively equitable distribution of health resources.
1.8    The components of the Health Sector Reform Project are developed on the basis of these reform
goals, weaknesses in the current system, the underlying epidemiological patterns, the current
configuration of the service delivery system, economic characteristics of the country, and the
Government's health priorities.
B. Epidemiological Trends
1.9    The Kyrgyz Republic's epidemiological profile and underlying health status compares quite
favorably to many middle income countries. Much of this positive performance can be attributed to the
strengths of the previous system in terms of widespread availability of basic services, such as children's
vaccinations, and universal access to care. However, over the last several years deaths from infectious
diseases tend to be higher, while several indicators of health status have been stagnant or declining.
1/     The MANAS Health Care Reform Program was a 1994/95 collaboration between the Government, WHO
and other donors which examined the health status of the Kyrgyz Republic and recommended future
reforms and priorities.



3
Overall, cardiovascular diseases are the most common cause of death in both sexes. For males, accidents
and intoxications, respiratory diseases, cancer, and infectious and parasitic diseases are the major causes
of death. For females, after cardiovascular disease, the most common causes of death are respiratory
diseases, cancer, accidents and intoxications, and infectious and parasitic diseases. The system has been
particularly unsuccessful in dealing with chronic conditions and the underlying epidemiological factors
affecting adults. Moreover, there are also major weaknesses in the women's reproductive (including the
matemal) health system, and the system's outdated medical practice patterns are wasting resources and
appear to be unable to cope with major increases in the incidence of highly infectious diseases such as
tuberculosis (TB) and sexually transmitted diseases (STDs).
Mortality
1.10   While the crude death rate dropped substantially over the past 15 years, it has increased since
1991 from 6.9 deaths per thousand population to 8.3 in 1994, comparable to the 9.4 rate in the westem
industrialized Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) countries. The crude
birth rate has declined over the past 15 years from 30 births per thousand population in 1978 to 24.3 in
1994, but is still almost double the industrialized country rate. The rapid drop in the birth rate between
1992 and 1994 (28.5 to 24.3) likely reflects the current socio-economic upheaval (Table 1.1).
Table 1.1: Basic Health Status Indicators
Kyrgyz Republic          Turkey          United States    OECD Average
(1994)                  (1992)          (1992)          (1992)
Infant Mortality           29.4                56.5                  8.9                 9.4
Crude Birth Rate           24.3                29.0                 16.5                 14.0
Crude Death Rate            8.3                 7.8                  8.5                 9.2
Male Life Expectancy       64.3"                64.1                72.0                 72.9
Female Life                72.4"                68.4                78.9                 79.2
Expectancy                                                 I
Source:  Kyrgyz Ministry of Health, March, 1994. Goskomstat, March, 1994.
Figures for the Kyrgyz Republic on health outcomes are based on the presentation of Dr. T. Meimanaliev, MANAS Health Policy
Conference, Bishkek, Feb. 20-22, 1995
G.J. Schieber et al., 'Health System Performance in OECD Countries," Health Affairs, (Fall, 1994), 100-112.
For Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development Countries (OECD) health expenditure figures are for 1992.
Other data are for 1992 or nearest available year.
al 1992
1.11    The infant mortality rate declined from 43 deaths per thousand live births in 1978 to 29.4 in
1994, still a rate three times higher than that in the industrialized countries. Almost half of all infant
deaths are due to acute respiratory infections (ARI), 26 percent are due to perinatal causes, and another
10 percent are due to severe diarrhea. In all, 60 percent of infant deaths are preventable. Since the
percentages of low birthweight and premature births are comparable to those found in industrialized
countries, it is apparent that poor maternal care is a major causal factor for these high rates of preventable
deaths. Over 60 percent of the deaths of children from 1 to 5 years are due to the same causes.
Accidents are the major cause of death for children aged 5-14, although ARI still accounts for almost 15
percent of deaths in this age group.
1.12   Life expectancy at birth has been relatively stable over the last several reported years (e.g. 1990-
1992). Unfortunately, the last year with accurate data is 1992, since funds were not available to do the



4
computations in 1993 (although computations will be done for 1994). In 1992 the Kyrgyz Republic's life
expectancy at birth for males of 64 years was 9 years below the OECD average and the 72 year figure
for women was 7 years below the OECD average (Table 1.1). The 1994 figures should provide some
indication of whether the current economic crisis has significantly affected the longevity of the population
as is the case in Russia.
1.13   The main causes of death of young adults 15-24 years of age are motor vehicle accidents,
suicides, and homicides. However, chronic respiratory diseases are the leading cause of death for women
15-24, and ischemic heart disease is the second most important cause of death for women. Ischemic heart
disease is the leading cause of death for both men and women at age 35 and above. Various cancers are
the second leading cause of death in women 35-54, while accidents, homicides and alcohol intoxication
are the other major causes of death. Chronic respiratory diseases are also an important cause of death
for both men and women in the 35-54 age range. For both males and females age 55 and over, after
ischemic heart disease, chronic respiratory infections and cerebrovascular diseases are the main causes
of death.
Morbidity
1.14   Specific diseases, many of which result in illness not death but nevertheless place significant
burdens on the health system, cause significant losses of productivity, and result in major health risks
being imposed on the rest of the population. Analyses of morbidity data are difficult due to the lack of
comprehensive information and the questionable reliability of reported data. Available data indicate two
areas which show large increases in incidence of morbidity and pose major health threats to the
population at large: TB and STDs.
1.15   Sexually transmitted diseases not only pose major public health problems, but also have
detrimental effects on women's reproductive health. Reported cases of syphilis were 22 per one hundred
thousand population in 1994, reflecting a ten-fold increase over the 1992 rate of 2.3. While reported
gonorrhea cases dropped from 44 per hundred thousand population in 1992 to 37.9 in 1993, there is
strong evidence that detection rates are dropping as people have stopped coming to Government facilities
for treatment. While there are no officially documented AIDS cases, the current socio-economic situation
increases the risk of a significant spread of this disease in a health system that is ill prepared from a
public health or financial perspective to deal with such an epidemic.
1.16   The tuberculosis situation in the Kyrgyz Republic is also grave. Even during the Soviet period
tuberculosis case notification and death rates were among the highest of the entire Soviet Union. Since
1989, case rates have increased annually at an average rate of three percent, and mortality has increased
annually by eight percent. Taking into account under-reporting, the estimated incidence could be as high
as 70 cases per hundred thousand and that of sputum smear positive cases as high as 35 per one hundred
thousand. The largest proportion of cases still occur in the young adult age groups: the most productive
segment of the population. In 1994, over two-thirds of all cases occurred in persons under 45 years of
age. The country's TB mortality rate has doubled from 6.7 deaths per hundred thousand population in
1989 to 13.6 in 1994. In addition to the serious epidemiological situation, drug resistance levels,
particularly to the most important anti-tuberculosis drugs, are reported to be increasing from the already
high levels recorded in the mid-1980s. Moreover, treatment patterns are out of date with a heavy reliance
on inpatient treatment as opposed to newer outpatient approaches.
1.17   Utilizing available morbidity and mortality data, a burden of disease analysis was done for the
Kyrgyz Republic using a variant of the DALY (Disability Adjusted Life Years) methodology developed
for the 1993 World Development Report. The data on DALYs presented in Table 1.2 indicates the



5
priority diseases accounting for the highest loss of DALYs. It is to be noted that the DALYs to be gained
from reduction in some highly infectious conditions, such as TB (or STDs affecting women's reproductive
health), can be as much as three or four times higher than levels indicated here because of dynamic
transmission (i.e. the infection of additional persons by an infected person).
Table 1.2: Disability Adjusted Life Years (DALY), by Major Disease!'
Estimated DALYs lost
Tuberculosis                               20,206(+ dynamic transmission)
Diarrheal Disease                                    82,439
Childhood Cluster                                    38,353
ARI                                                  82,913
Matemal ConditionslWomen's Reproductive    21,750 (+ dynamic transmnission)
Health
Pennatal Conditions                                  78,653
Malignant Neoplasms                                  77,707
Nutritional/Endocrine                                27,314
Neuro-Psychiatric                                    75,848
Cardiovascular                                      165,356
Unintentional Injures                                93,472
Intentional Injuries                                 50,288
al DALY estimates utilize data from the 1993 WDR for the Middle Eastem region and the Formner Socialist Economies.
1.18   The burden of disease analysis is combined with cost-effectiveness analysis (see Part VI) to
identify those areas where the health status of the population can be promoted in the most cost-effective
way possible (i.e. the possibility of gaining the greatest number of DALYs for the lowest cost).
C. Health Care Delivery System and Resource Utilization
1.19   The Kyrgyz health system is characterized by heavy reliance on inpatient and tertiary hospital-
based care. The emphasis of the health system on costly inpatient care is evident in the large numbers
of hospital beds and physicians, and high use rates, as compared to western industrialized countries (Table
1.3). Moreover, norms on facility structural standards, on medical practice, and on staffing and salaries
perpetuate outmoded medical treatments and economic inefficiency. The number of beds per 1,000
population has declined from 12 in 1981 to 9.5 in 1994, but is still some 15 percent above the average
for OECD countries. Similarly, while hospital admissions rates have declined from 25 percent of the
population being admitted in 1987 to 18 percent in 1994, they are still 20 percent above the average in
westem industrialized countries. While the average length of hospital stay has declined by about one day
over the past 15 years to 15.6 days in 1994, slightly above the 14 day OECD average, it has increased
from a low of 15 days in 1988. The average number of inpatient days of care per year per person has
declined from 3.6 days in 1978 to 2.8 in 1994, but is still some 15 percent above the OECD average.
The hospital occupancy has declined from 90 percent in 1978 to 81 percent in 1994, clearly indicating
significant excess capacity. The Kyrgyz Republic has significantly more beds and far higher use rates
than most western industrialized countries.



6
Table 1.3: Comparisons of the Availability and Use of Health Resources
Kyrgyz Republic (1994)     Turkey (1992)        United States (1992)    OECD Average (1992)
Physicians                     3.1                    0.9                     2.2                    2.5
Per 1,000 Population                                                                                              l
Inpatient Beds                 9.5                     2.4                    4.7                    8.4
Per 1,000 Population                         _
Inpatient Admission             18                     5.5                   13.7                    16.2
(% of Pop)                                                                                 .
Occupancy Rate (%)              81                    53.8                   69.0                   75.0
Average Length of              15.6                    6.8                    9.1                   14.4
Stay (days)                                                                                .
Average Days of Care           2.8                    0.4                     1.2                    2.5
Source:  Kyrgyz Ministry of Health, March, 1994. Goskomstat, March, 1994.
Figures for the Kyrgyz Republic on availability and use of health services are based on the presentation of Dr. T. Meimanaliev,
MANAS Health Policy Conference, Bishkek, Feb. 20-22, 1995
G.J. Schieber et al., "Health System Perfornance in OECD Countries," Health Affairs, (Fall, 1994), 100-112.
For Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development Countries (OECD) health expenditure figures are for 1992.
Other data are for 1992 or nearest available year.
1.20    Although there is an extensive network of facilities capable of rendering primary and secondary
levels of services, the bulk of health resources flow to costly inpatient care rather than to outpatient
primary care settings. The pattern of expenditures for local health budgets, for example, are heavily
skewed towards hospitals, which primarily provide inpatient care (Table 1.4).
Table 1.4: Allocation of Health Budget by Type of Facility, 1994
Type of facility          56 of Consolidated
Health Budget
Hospitals                        75.3
Polyclinics                      8.2
FAPs                             1.5
Other                            15.0
Source: Ministry of Finance
1.21    As a result, there is virtually no diagnostic capacity and equipment at lower, less costly levels
of the system. Instead of being able to treat patients at these less expensive levels, these lower levels
have typically referred patients upwards for treatment at the tertiary level. The major reductions in health
spending described below are exacerbating the problems of inappropriate referrals to higher levels of the
system as the already under-resourced lower levels are reported to be suffering from particular shortages
of consumables, especially pharmaceuticals. As a consequence, the lower facilities have greater incentive
to refer patients up the chain to the relatively less under-resourced tertiary care levels.
1.22    The number of physicians per 1,000 population has increased by some 30 percent over the past
15 years to reach 3.1 in 1994 (of which 0.45 are dentists), somewhat above the OECD average of 2.2.
More troublesome is the large number of specialists relative to generalists: some 35 percent are



7
generalists (therapists and pediatricians), whereas the ratio in many OECD countries (excluding the U.S.)
is closer to 50-50. The number of physician contacts per year is comparable to the high utilization rates
in the OECD countries. As in the case of inpatient beds, the Kyrgyz Republic has large numbers of
physicians and high utilization of physician services.
1.23   The current system of health service provision is highly specialized and fragmented. The
population of just over 4.5 million people is serviced by specialized research institutes (Infectious
Diseases, Cardiology, Oncology, Tuberculosis, Maternal and Child Health, etc.) at the tertiary level;
specialized tuberculosis and dermatovenereal hospitals and AIDS clinics at the oblast level; and a
tuberculosis dispensary at the raion level. For example, a woman is not able to go to just one primary
health facility in order to receive health care for her children and for herself. For gynecological
problems she must visit a women's consultation clinic; for contraception, a marriage and family clinic;
for venereological problems, a dermatovenereal clinic; and for AIDS testing, an AIDS clinic. While the
system is better integrated at the Feldsher/Accoucheur Posts (FAP) and ambulatory level in the rural
areas, this generally fragmented system is expensive for the country to run and inconvenient to users.
It wastes scarce resources which could be better channeled into fewer and more integrated programs.
D. Financing Health Care
Budgeting System
1.24   Health financing regulated by budgeting norms based on physical capacity (e.g. numbers of beds
or numbers of doctors) perpetuates inefficient resource use in the health sector by encouraging
overstaffing, overbedding, and increased utilization of inpatient services. Combined with the rigidly
enforced Soviet 18-line budgeting system used to pay medical care providers (hospitals and polyclinics),
there are no incentives for primary care providers to use cost-effective ambulatory treatment protocols
or to perform a "gate-keeping" function of screening inappropriate referrals. The reliance on capacity-
based budgeting and payment norms promotes inefficiency and waste. Although the recent financial crisis
in the country has weakened the application of capacity norms as the basis of budgeting, a more rational
system for reimbursing providers that encourages efficiency, as well as improved internal management,
would need to be clearly defined and instituted.
Need for National Health Accounts
1.25   Effective health policy can only be mnade on the basis of understanding the total amount of
resources being devoted to the health sector: recurrent and capital spending, spending from all public
sources including Ministries other than the Ministry of Health, enterprises, donors, and private spending
both legal and informal. National Health Accounts (NHA) provide a frarnework for classifying all
expenditures by source of funding (e.g. public and private) and by type of service. They provide the
basis for analyzing changes over time of both the total and the individual components. Ideally spending
at the oblast and local levels would be analyzed in the same manner. Such accounts are a necessary
condition for effective policymaking and are an inherent feature of the health systems of all OECD
countries. Unfortunately, the health accounting systems in FSU countries often do not lend themselves
to functional classifications or analyses. Moreover, the increasing fragmentation of the financing systems
in terms of health insurance-based models and private payments has added to the number of flows of
funds and further obfuscated the spending picture.
Levels of Public Funding
1.26   The health system in the Kyrgyz Republic, as elsewhere in the FSU, is predominantly publicly
financed.   Public funds from  general revenues are allocated through a complex system  of



8
intergovermnental tax-sharing and transfers to finance facilities through federal (Republican) and local
(oblast and raion) level health budgets. Additionally, public enterprises have financed some social
services, including health facilities.
1.27   Irrespective of the measures employed, public health spending in the Kyrgyz Republic has fallen
dramatically since 1990. As shown in Table 1.5, the decline was especially pronounced between 1990-
1993, with a slight improvement in 1994. Nevertheless, health spending in 1994 is still substantially
below the 1990 level for all measures. The ratio of public health expenditures to GDP declined from 4.2
percent of GDP in 1990 to 2.6 percent in 1993 with an increase to 3.6 percent in 1994 (the 1994 public
health number reflects only the consolidated budget, so if extra-budgetary funds and enterprise spending
were included, the ratio would be higher). The health to GDP ratio in OECD countries exceeds 8 percent
on average (Table 1.6).
1.28   Although health spending as a percentage of GDP is seen to have fallen moderately, the real
decline in public health funding is far more severe than is indicated by these figures. In real inflation
adjusted terms, GDP in 1994 was only 50 percent of the 1990 level. Similarly, 1994 real (GDP deflator
adjusted) health expenditures were only 46 percent of the 1990 level, up from 40 percent of the 1990
level in 1993. In short, there has been a 50 percent reduction in real output in the Kyrgyz Republic since
1990, accompanied by a 54 percent reduction in real public health spending. Major reductions in real
output and their associated tax revenues have caused equivalent reductions in real public health spending.
1.29   The picture is even more dismal when per person spending is converted into U.S. dollars using
purchasing power parities (i.e. exchange rates which adjust for cost of living differences across
countries). In 1990, per capita public health spending in the Kyrgyz Republic was US$156. Spending
declined to US$133 in 1991, US$74 in 1992, and US$37 in 1993, only one-fourth the 1990 level
compared to a 1992 OECD average of almost US$1,400 and spending in Turkey of US$156 (Table 1.6).
Allocation of Financial Resources
1.30   The Kyrgyz Republic has not opted for generating earmarked revenues for health through
mandated insurance, unlike some of the other FSU countries. An experiment in this regard is underway
in one of the oblasts (Issyk-kul), the provider payment reform elements of which are being expanded
under the proposed IDA Credit. Changes in medical care provider payments are needed to create
financial incentives for all providers of health services to manage care given to patients more efficiently
and cost-effectively while improving the quality of health services. Decision-making on the allocation of
resources should be decentralized so that both providers of health services and the population have more
responsibility and accountability for the efficient provision of high quality health services.
1.31   Further, the concepts of paying providers in accordance with the number of persons covered and
the types of services rendered would establish a clear relationship between the quantity and quality of the
services dispensed and the financial reimbursement received for those services, and would encourage
outpatient treatments, and reductions in the length of hospital stays and unnecessary referrals to higher
levels of care.
1.32   The advantages of applying this new method of paying health care providers include:
(i)    Ability to give more health services with current funding levels due to more efficient
allocation of existing health sector resources;



9
(ii)     Increased confidence in the health sector by businesses and the population leading to
greater willingness to invest in health;
(iii)    Increased responsibility and accountability of health providers for the outcome of health
services;
(iv)     Increased consumer participation in decisions about their health care;
(v)      Improvements in the quality of health services;
(vi)    Increased access to health services for the population; and
(vii)    Greater satisfaction and prestige for medical professionals, including  attracting  and
keeping quality professionals.
Table 1.5: Kyrgyz Republic Health Expenditures and GDP, 1990 - 1994
(In thousands of somns)
1990              1991              1992              1993              1994
Public Health                   1,776             3,296            23,393            148,029           386,700
Expenditure
Real Health                                       1,352             1,003              718               816
Expenditure                                                          _
Percent of                      100%              76%               56%                40%               46%
1990 Level
GDP                            42,506            94,270            766,250          5,720,100         10,741,000
Real GDP                                         38,667             32,841            27,667            21,154
Percent of                      100%              91%               77%                65%               50%
1990 Level                                                                                                          l
Health to                       4.2%              3.5%              3.1%              2.6%              3.6%
GDP Ratio
Per Capita                      $156              $133               $74               $37
Spending (PPPs)                                                                                                     l
GDP Deflator                                      243.8              957              886.1             245.6       l
Source: Goskomstat, March, 1994, WB
Notes:   Purchasing Power Parities (PPPs) developed by lhe World Bank.
Public health expenditures include Consolidated (Republic and Local) Budget including all Ministries, enterprinse spending on health.
and spending on health through extra-budgetay hfnds. Daa for 1994 inchlde orly the consolidated budget.



10
Table 1.6: Health Spending Patterns
Kyrgyz Republic (1994)    Turkey (1992)       United States (1992)    OECD Average (1992)
Health to GDP Ratio           3.9                   4.1                   13.6                  8.1
Per Capita Health            $37"'                 $156                  $3,094                Sl,374
Spending (US$)      I_I_                                        I
Source:  Kyrgyz Ministry of Health, March, 1994. Goskomstat, March, 1994.
G.J. Schieber et al., 'Health System Performance in OECD Countries," Health Affairs, (Fall, 1994), 100-112.
For Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development Countries (OECD) health expenditure figures are for 1992.
Other data are for 1992 or nearest available year.
a/ 1993, Dollar conversions for the Kyrgyz Republic are based on purchasing power parities (PPPs) developed by World Bank.
Expenditure data for the Kyrgyz Republic reflect only public health expenditures.
1.33    Levels of private funding.  Data from  Goskomstat based on its non-random  Family Budget
studies of 2,000 families, provide information on the out-of-pocket spending by family members on health
care. As shown in Table 1.7, data from 1989-1994 indicate that between 0.7 and 1.4 (in 1994) percent
of per family member expenditures were for health services. Taking the absolute amounts in Kyrgyz
soms and dividing by total public spending indicates that these out-of-pocket payments are equivalent to
10-15 percent of public health spending. Since infornal payments may not be correctly reported as health
spending, it is probable that the private share is somewhat higher. However, even if total (public and
private) health spending is 20 to 30 percent higher than public spending alone, spending levels are still
quite low. While informal payments may to some extent be offsetting the reductions in public health
spending, it is unlikely that they could offset the enormous decline. Likewise, aid from donors is also
offsetting these declines in health spending, but the magnitude of such assistance is quite small relative
to total health spending, perhaps on the order of three percent in 1994.
Table 1.7: Kyrgyz Republic Family Budget Survey
Average Health-Related Spending Per Family Member
(1989-1994)
19R9                1990                1991                 1992                1993                 1994
sows     % of per    sol     % of per    ss       % of per    Sam     % of per    sans     %of per     s       % of per
nembeT  membeT                           member              menber               manbee               er
speaing             speindn              speaiwg             spendingg            seMg                Spew
Allj
MEd     0.05      0.96       0.07      1.18      0.07      0.70       0.56      0.89      4.95       0.92      11.96     1.38
Exp _I_I=.   __-________-==
Source:  Goskomstat, March, 1995
1.34    Widespread user-charges have not been introduced. The MANAS group is expected to identify
a basic package of cost-effective services that will be financed publicly with no or minimal user fees.
Beyond the package, an exemption schedule for the poor and for sufferers of diseases with catastrophic
expenses would need to be developed, as well as an administrative mechanism for collecting fees. Given
widespread poverty, already existing formal and informal private outlays and proposed changes towards
cost-efficient behavior targeting medical providers (rather than users), developing a program of user fees
is not deemed to be a priority for the health sector at the moment, nor is it likely that significant revenue
would be generated if at the same time access of the poorest groups to medical care were to be protected.



11
Impact of Funding Crisis
1.35   The current funding crisis has precipitated a series of changes that impact on all levels of the
health system. A few of these changes have been beneficial in reforming a chronically overstaffed and
overutilized health system. Others have actually reduced the quality of the service provided and seek to
undermine both the health workers' and general public's confidence in the system. It has been noted that
the population's health seeking behavior has changed in the last few years with people visiting health
facilities less often, later in the illness, or not at all. The main reasons for this change in behavior have
been the lack of drugs in the health facilities, transport problems, mass unemployment reducing demand
for sick notes, and lack of money to pay the fees for service.
1.36   The health system is severely constrained by the reduced availability of drugs, equipment,
spareparts and consumables in all health facilities, particularly at the primary health care level. Health
facilities maintain a stock of drugs for emergencies and heavy reliance is being placed on humanitarian
assistance to provide vaccinations and selective priority drugs. Such humanitarian assistance is sporadic,
however, resulting in frequent acute shortages of vaccinations and priority drugs. There are many
examples of the problems created by this drug shortage, and people are selling off assets (cows, horses)
to buy drugs, or turning to faith healers and herbal remedies. The health system is collapsing due to lack
of drugs and supplies, particularly at the primary health care level. In the current situation most patients
must provide bedding, food, drugs and syringes for themselves and cover the costs of transport. This
collapse is further exacerbated by the use of outmoded treatment regimes, which often include
polypharmacy and long periods of unnecessary hospitalization.
1.37   Emergency services have been protected so far, although health officials voice doubts about how
long this emergency cover can be maintained. Emergency surgery (i.e. cesarian sections and other
emergency obstetric care, acute appendicitis, strangulated hernia repair, acute trauma, etc.) continues but
patients must provide many items. Routine surgery (chronic hernia repair, gallbladder removal, gastric
ulcer surgery, etc.) has virtually ceased. Many patients with chronic illnesses (chronic bronchitis, angina,
diabetes, epilepsy, kidney disease, etc.) have stopped visiting health facilities because of the lack of
drugs, and the introduction of a fee for some services. The lack of essential drugs for public health
priority programns such as TB and STD control programs signal a breakdown in the basic health system.
1.38   Health worker salary levels are compressed and very low (chief doctor US$25/month, hospital
doctors US$13/month, nurses US$11/month), and payment has sometimes been delayed by several
months. Several non-cash payment systems have been introduced in different raions to compensate for
the lack of revenue flow. Health workers receive part of their salaries in the form of produce from local
enterprises (wheat, cloth etc.) or vouchers. Some health staff compensate for these low salaries by
working an extra shift in their health facilities. Many compensate by cultivating their gardens to produce
extra fruit and vegetables for home consumption or sale in the market. Some of the most talented doctors
have left to work in other jobs (mainly business), or migrated to other countries. Mass unemployment
has, however, prevented many health workers from seeking alternative employment. The health facilities
appear to be adequately staffed, despite these low salaries and long delays in payment. Many health
workers are motivated and committed to their health service system, but are finding it a challenge to
continue working without drugs for their patients.
1.39    A shortage of gasoline and spareparts have contributed to a reduction in the number of
ambulance teams, coinciding with a reduction in the public transport system. Pregnant women are now
advised to keep a stock of gasoline in their homes for the ambulance or private vehicles. Disturbingly,
some health workers report an increase in the number of home deliveries. Supervision of health staff by



12
Ministry, oblast and raion health officials remains intact, although reductions in public transport and
gasoline shortages have substantially reduced the frequency of visits.
1.40   A variety of cost-saving measures have been introduced by different health facilities to
compensate the reduction in their budgets: beds and staff have been reduced; day patient services and fee
for service have been introduced; some hospitals now grow wheat and make their own bread; hospital
pharmacies have been set up to produce infusion solutions and herbal remedies; garbage is removed by
hospital staff in preference to paying outside contractors; coal heaters have been replaced by electric
heaters; and physical therapy has partially replaced drug therapy for some ailments. The chief doctors
and their staff have shown great resourcefulness in their attempts to reduce costs, while trying to maintain
the quality of patient care.
E. The Current Status of Physical Facilities
1.41   A comprehensive review on the status of health facilities in the country, with a particular focus
on those at the PHC level, revealed that adequate funds are no longer available to pay for running and
maintaining buildings, plant and equipment making it increasingly difficult to maintain acceptable levels
of efficiency and quality of the facilities. A large part of the equipment is not working due to shortages
of spareparts and a widespread lack of maintenance. Furthermore, essential consumables needed to
operate the equipment are not available or in short supply, seriously detracting from the quality and
effectiveness of the medical services being provided.
1.42   Even though as a result of the mentioned shortages and inefficiencies buildings and equipment
are not adequate to respond to medical needs, they also represent a fixed cost to the Government in terms
of personnel and energy consumption. A reform program aimed at improving efficiency and decreasing
waste will require the closing of some facilities and the adaptation, remodeling and re-equipping of other
establishments. At present, there are very few norms and standards regarding physical infrastructure that
could respond to current needs. With respect to the human resources that would be needed, while in the
past there was apparently a well functioning hierarchy of technical and administrative expertise to support
the Ministry of Health's investment activities, including engineers, architects and builders, this is no
longer the case. The few remaining members in the Office of Capital Investments are not well trained
to manage the technical changes that will be required to reform the network and to bring the facilities up
to modern standards, while achieving savings. The Central Office for maintenance has been completely
disbanded.
1.43   At present there is no overview of the status of buildings and equipment and it is not possible to
make overall plans and establish priorities for reform and maintenance activities of the whole public
health network. The scarce resources available should be used for rehabilitation and for organizing an
updated system of maintenance, once decisions are taken on partial or total closing of some facilities and
on remodeling work and installation of new equipment. For this change of focus, however, a significant
reorganization is required including retraining of a small core of technical staff in planning and managing
the reform and the improvement of the existing health physical infrastructure network. This may also
require contracting of private sector expertise.
F. The Current Status of Pharmaceuticals
1.44   Prior to independence, The Kyrgyz Republic received most of its pharmaceuticals from the FSU.
With the breakup of the Soviet Union, pharmaceutical availability was severely disrupted. With the
collapse of the economy, the country cannot afford to buy drugs at market prices. To compound these
problems, state monopolies on procurement and distribution, outmoded storage facilities, and outmoded



13
lists of clinically inappropriate drugs have all exacerbated the problems of pharmaceutical supply. The
Kyrgyz Republic was also left without a quality control system for drugs because determination of safety
and efficacy of drugs was done by the Ministry of Health of the USSR in Moscow. To make matters
worse, the high costs of outpatient drugs result in individuals being inappropriately hospitalized in order
to receive free pharmaceuticals. The situation is so severe that for most non-emergency cases, hospitals
can no longer afford to provide drugs, and individuals frequently must provide their own drugs in order
to receive appropriate inpatient treatment. An adequate supply of essential drugs is critical to the
effectiveness of any health care system, but it is particularly important at a time when resources are being
shifted from inpatient to outpatient facilities and from curative to preventive care. However, in order to
assure an adequate supply of essential drugs, it is not enough simply to finance the purchase of additional
medicines. Without fundamental improvements in pharmaceutical management, much of the potential
benefit of increased physical supply is likely to be squandered, and none of the benefit is likely to be
sustainable once the additional funds have been spent. Moreover, the danger of ineffective, or even
unsafe, medicines being supplied may be rising, in light of the worsening economic conditions, the
growing shortage of drugs, and the unscrupulousness of low-quality manufacturers. A more serious
source of waste is undisciplined, cost-ineffective public spending. Despite cuts in Government funds for
drugs, the funds that are available still are being used to buy an excessively large number of drugs, many
of which have never been proven to be effective. Expensive branded drugs are sometimes purchased
instead of less expensive, therapeutically equivalent generic products. And, because a large number of
different drugs are purchased in relatively small quantities, the demand for many important, widely used
medicines often is not met, while the price that must be paid to obtain these drugs is higher than would
be the case if larger quantities of fewer drugs were purchased through competitive bidding. Reform of
pharmaceutical procurement and management is critical. Lists of essential clinically effective drugs based
on the recommendations of WHO must be established, and effective procurement and distribution
networks must be put in place. The safety and efficacy of the country's pharmaceutical supply must be
assured.
G. Need for Long-Term Reform
1.45   Based on the preceding analysis, the following are identified as the main areas of the health
system where problems exist:
(a)    overemphasis on inpatient and tertiary care, with poor diagnostic capacity, treatment
protocols, pharmaceutical supplies and facilities at ambulatory levels;
(b)    federal norms promoting outdated clinical practices and inefficient facility configurations;
(c)    large numbers of low quality medical treatments, and an excess of hospital beds;
(d)    rigid 18-line budget procedures for paying polyclinics, hospitals and salaries for all
medical care personnel, which provide no incentives for economic efficiency in resource
use or referral patterns and perpetuate imbalances toward inpatient care;
(e)    outmoded health programs in a number of important areas such as maternal and child
health (MCH), TB, STDs, and adult health;
(f)   lack of an up-to-date essential drug list, poorly structured monopolistic state procurement,
storage, and distribution systems, and shortages of essential drugs;
(g)    limited technology and shortages of basic equipment and supplies; and



14
(h)    history of chronic underfunding exacerbated by the current economic situation.
1.46   As a consequence, the quality of health services and effective access to these services has declined
in recent years (as evident in falling utilization rates).  Total resource availability has declined
considerably and the remaining resources are utilized in a highly inefficient way. The incentive structure
underlying the resource allocation system in the sector contain limited incentives for inducing cost-
effective behavior by medical care providers.
1.47   The issue in the Kyrgyz Republic's health system in the short-run, therefore, is to make the best
possible use of the limited resources available, while laying the basis for future enhancements in areas
such as quality assurance, accreditation of health facilities and new forms of financial resource
mobilization. The major areas of reform in this first stage are identified as:
(a)    emphasizing cost-effectiveness criteria in public financing of health service delivery: this
will require that resources are channeled to diseases which have a high burden and which
can be treated through cost-effective ambulatory protocols;
(b)    re-orientation of resource use towards ambulatory primary care and away from inpatient
and tertiary care: this will require strengthening of ambulatory care through investments
in new ambulatory treatment protocols, diagnostic capacity, supply of essential drugs, and
rehabilitation of facilities for expanded ambulatory care;
(c)    ensuring that the focus on cost-effective ambulatory care is sustainable through changes
in the incentive structure facing medical care providers: this will require separation of
purchasing and provision of services with the introduction of a new payment system for
providers, such as a capitation-based payment system, which will place responsibility for
cost containment on the providers and will encourage use of cost-effective ambulatory
protocols and avoidance of inappropriate referrals, while maintaining pre-agreed,
specified service quality levels;
(d)    introducing mechanisms for cost-effective procurement of major consumables, especially
pharmaceuticals: this will require identification of clinically effective and cost-effective
essential drugs and the strengthening of pharmaceuticals regulatory bodies; and
(e)    facility and staff rationalization for the health sector in order to realize savings from the
shift in service provision from inpatient to ambulatory methods: this will require
closure/consolidation of facilities and re-training/release of some staff, especially at the
tertiary level and at inviable small inpatient facilities.
1.48   These reforms would be expected to generate structural efficiency (i.e. achievement of health
gains with least cost), sustain these cost-savings over time, as well as achieving health gains, ceteris
paribus, through improvements in the effectiveness and quality of services provided.
H. Government's Goals and Policies for the Health Sector
Goals
1.49   Like other member nations of the World Health Organization, the Kyrgyz Republic has developed
health goals that it wants to achieve by the year 2000. The Kyrgyz Republic's State Program For A
Healthy Nation Targets For the Year 2000 include: (a) reduction of Infant Mortality by 25 percent; (b)
reduction of Child Mortality under five by one-third; (c) reduction of Maternal Mortality by 25 percent;



15
(d) reduction of Cardiovascular Diseases and Cancer by 15 percent; (e) reduction of Mortality by
Diabetes by 20 percent; (f) reduction of the Crude Mortality Rate by 15 percent; (g) reduction of the
incidence of tuberculosis by 10 percent; and (h) reduction of the incidence of sexually transmitted diseases
by 50 percent. Within the context of the MANAS Health Care Reform Program, the Government is
attempting to develop a rationalistic framework for developing solutions to these serious health problems
of the country, which have been exacerbated by the difficulties of the transition. By December 31, 1996
MOH would, as part of project implementation, present to the Association for review and comments, the
MANAS Health Care Reform Program and a schedule of rationalization of health facilities and thereafter
carry out the program in accordance with that schedule, taking into account the comments of the
Association.
Policy
1.50   Before negotiations the Government provided the International Development Association (IDA),
hereafter referred to as the Association, with a draft policy statement outlining its health sector reform
strategy. This policy statement was reviewed and discussed during negotiations. Signature of the policy
statement in a form acceptable to the Association was a condition of Board Presentation. The Prime
Minister transmitted the policy statement with a signed letter, dated April 5, 1996, which summarized
the policy's main points. A copy of this letter is contained in Annex 1. The full policy statement and
letter in both Russian and English are contained in Annex 15. The statement contains undertakings:
(a)    That during the execution of the Project the level of annual State budgetary expenditures
for the health sector will remain executed at a level, not less in real, inflation-adjusted
terms than such total executed expenditures in 1994. Savings resulting from carrying out
the Project will be put back into the health sector.
(b)    That the health sector needs to be rationalized and modernized and a first step will be
taken during the time the Project is implemented by merging specialty departments and
health facilities; increase the emphasis on primary and outpatient care and reduction of
health personnel, hospitals and hospital beds. As part of this restructuring,
(i)    The STD and AIDS programs will be integrated in other primary care programs
and new treatment methods and protocols will be introduced to enhance
ambulatory treatment of sexually transmitted diseases.
(ii)   If results of the pilot projects on ambulatory treatment of TB are satisfactory,
introduce ambulatory treatment as standard treatment nationwide; reallocate
current tuberculosis specialists from tuberculosis in-patient facilities to primary
health care facilities; and phased closure of TB sanatoria in the country.
(iii)   Emphasis will shift from new construction to rehabilitation of health facilities and
from specialty hospitals to integrated hospitals.
(iv)   Allocations in the local and national budgets for repair and maintenance of health
facilities will be maintained at the same executed real level of the 1994 budgets
and further that these allocations will be utilized only for the purposes intended.
(c)    That the population will have a free choice of health care provider/physician.



16
(d)    That the Borrower will take all necessary legal, organizational and financial steps to
ensure that only drugs that are safe and proven effectiveness will be manufactured,
distributed, sold, and used in the Kyrgyz Republic; that the borrower will establish an
Essential Drugs Program, including a limited list of essential drugs; that the Goverrnent
intends to require that government funds be used, directly or indirectly, to finance the
purchase of only drugs on the approved essential drugs list; and that the Government will
continue to eliminate obstacles to the growth of a financially stable, well-regulated system
of private pharmacies and pharmaceutical distributors.
I. Other Donor Activities and Coordination
1.51   The major donor agencies working in the Kyrgyz Republic are USAID, UNICEF, WHO, UNFPA
and UNDP. USAID, UNICEF and UNDP all have small country offices in Bishkek. USAID has a
regional office in Almaty and the UNICEF country office is supervised by the Central Asian office of
UNICEF in Islamabad, Pakistan. UNFPA plans to set up a regional office with a regional advisor. GTZ,
the German Goverrunent's technical assistance agency, and DANIDA, the Danish Govermnent's
development agency also have small offices with a resident country program officer. ODA's Know How
Fund is also very active in the health sector in the country, and is expected to provide technical assistance
to the Government to rationalize health facilities in Bishkek city. Many smaller agencies are working on
emergency food programs (Red Cross, Mercy Corps International, etc.) Annex 14 provides a summary
of agencies involved in health reform activities, drug programs, children's health, women's reproductive
health, and a description of the coordination of these activities and the proposed Project. Collaboration
agreements have been reached with UNICEF on the Project's support for acute respiratory infections and
the control of diarrheal disease (ARI/CDD), and GTZ on activities related to the promotion of adult
health and lifestyles.



17
PART II. LESSONS LEARNED FROM PREVIOUS BANK EXPERIENCE
2.1    A review of the analysis of medical systems performed in Russia and the other FSU countries
reveals a pattern which is symptomatic of the legacy of Soviet medical practices. First, the lack of
discipline inherent in any system where cost is not a factor produced a medical system highly skewed to
tertiary level care and hospitalization in specialized and functionally independent facilities with staff and
overhead costs out of proportion to patient load. Incentives were biased away from services towards
facilities and hospital stays, and providers were paid on a fixed salary. This system has proved not only
to be unaffordable under the present fiscal austerity, but unworkable in a market economy. The provider
payments component of the Project proposes to deal directly with these issues. Second, lack of exposure
to and incorporation of western medical practices has resulted in medical practices and protocols which
are not in accord with modern developments. The current cadre of medical professionals need to have
their training upgraded and expanded. A significant effort is undertaken in the Project to introduce
modern methods, materials, publications, ambulatory techniques, and recent research findings to the
primary health care sector. Third, the level and quality of physical construction in the sector has
emphasized new construction almost to the virtual exclusion of maintenance and upgrading of present
facilities. Community involvement has been generally absent. The facility rehabilitation component
focuses on establishing methods and administrative steps to introduce the concept of estate management
with community participation in primary health facilities. Fourth, throughout the FSU the actual level
of financing directed to health has suffered as the federal level has divested responsibility and financial
support to the oblast and raion authorities, and central financial authorities have been under pressure from
the IMF with regard to fiscal deficits. There is strong pressure on medical authorities to rationalize
expenditures within a shrinking annual allocation. The Project seeks to establish a "floor" for budgetary
allocations to health, as well as encourage the hard task of reducing physical and staffing levels to fit
current needs without reducing quality of services. The Kyrgyz Republic, in many respects of size,
commitment to reform, and ability to make decisions offers an excellent opportunity to attack these issues
and provide lessons for its larger neighbors who are all facing the same challenges.
2.2    With respect to implementation this is the first lending operation for the health sector in the
Kyrgyz Republic. In general, the Kyrgyz Republic's health sector shares the same characteristics of other
FSU countries, i.e. the dispersion of responsibilities among various levels of Government, lack of
coordination among various entities involved in health care, inexperience with Bank procedures, weak
implementation capacity, and a resistance to credit-funded external technical assistance. In the area of
pharmaceuticals, a Rehabilitation Credit had an original allocation of US$1.5 million to finance imported
drugs, but due to lengthy delays and changing priorities in Government the preparation and finalization
of list of drugs to be purchased, combined with offers of donations from donors, resulted in only
US$100,000 of the total amount allocated being used. For small-scale rehabilitation of facilities, the
Social Safety Net Project has almost completed rehabilitation on 48 sites around the country. The lessons
learned would be applied to the rehabilitation activities under the proposed Health Project, including the
early refocusing of MOH on rehabilitation and supervision of works, together with outside engineers, and
development of simplified bidding documents for rehabilitation works. Finally, the Project Coordination
Unit of the Social Safety Net Project has gained valuable experience with Bank procedures, and the PCU
would perform, on a contract basis, the procurement, disbursement and reporting functions for the
MOH.
2.3    The use of the Disability Adjusted Life Years (DALY) methodology presented in the World Bank
1993 World Development Report provided an excellent tool of analysis to select those medical conditions
which had the highest priority, and to choose only those interventions which are both cost-effective and
can be provided in an outpatient care setting. Special efforts have been made to incorporate the lessons
of other donors, and one component - provider payments - is a direct extension of the USAID-funded



18
demonstration project in Issyk-kul, which is part of a larger effort involving several countries of the FSU.
The lessons learned throughout the FSU will be incorporated as they emerge. The Bank's Poverty
Assessment and Strategy for the Kyrgyz Republic calls for the major causes of death and disability to be
targeted, and the basic underlying inefficiencies which remain in the health care system to be addressed.
In particular, modern clinical practices will need to be introduced, along with new incentive-based
payment mechanisms for medical service providers. The goals and strategy of the proposed Project are
entirely congruent with that strategy, and with the Government's health priorities.



19
PART III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives and Concept
3.1    The objectives of the Project are: the reform and improvement of the Borrower's health care
system; improvement of the health status of the population; improvement of the clinical effectiveness of
the service delivery system; improvement of the economic efficiency of the delivery system; and
extension of access of appropriate care, enhancement of the quality of care, and assurance of the long-run
financial viability of the system.
3.2    The Project's objectives are also goals which are fully consistent with those developed under the
first phase of the MANAS Health Care Reform Program. Policies and programs developed to achieve
these goals would be monitored throughout the Project to assure that they also deal with the underlying
social and economic problems that undennine health status, as well as with the public goods aspects of
certain health services where the benefits and/or costs to society far exceed those to the individual (e.g.
immunizations, TB, and STDs), thereby necessitating state financing of goods and services provided in
these policy areas. Effective policy development must also deal with the existing economic constraints,
and base policies on cost-effectiveness criteria. Policies also deal with inefficiencies in the basic system,
whether they relate to ineffective clinical practice or economic inefficiency. Long-run sustainability and
maximum improvements (or reductions in the rate of decline) in health status must be achieved in the
context of the economic realities facing the country as a whole, and the health sector in particular.
3.3    This proposed four and a half year Project will focus on: primary health care, limited facilities
rehabilitation, a medical care provider payment system, and pharmaceutical management. The primary
health care focus of the proposed Project corresponds with these priorities. The interventions envisaged
under the Project are both clinically and cost-effective.  Moreover, focusing on primary care,
rationalizing drug procurement and ensuring the availability of essential drugs, and providing financial
incentives for system restructuring through a medical care provider payment component will result in
cost-effective improvements in the country's health status and improvements in the clinical effectiveness
and economic efficiency of the health system, all within the context of the current economic constraints.
3.4   Increasing the effective utilization of the primary health care system will have the effect of
decreasing demand at the hospital level. In conjunction with this decreased demand, provider paymnent
schemes as proposed in the Project will accelerate the closure of inefficient hospitals. Increasing
utilization of the primary health care system will not occur solely by training providers. A reliable drug
system operating within the Government sphere is imperative if demand for and utilization of primary
health care services is to be sufficient enough to decrease hospital utilization. Another activity encourages
more effective and efficient utilization of the primary health care system through the repair, refurbishment
and minor alteration of select ambulatory facilities.
3.5    The medical care provider payment component will furnish the financial incentives needed to
support the changes in clinical practice and the restructuring of the delivery system inherent in the other
components. It will consist of a new system under which the oblasts, acting as purchasing agents, will
make payments to providers on the basis of pre-agreed performance indicators. During the phase-in
period, payments would be made on a capitation basis. This approach will promote the long-run financial
sustainability of the system and rationalize the current base by promoting primary and outpatient care,
while providing strong incentives to eliminate unnecessary inpatient bed capacity. It reinforces the other
components which also promote and improve the quality of outpatient care through the availability of
essential drugs and redesigned outpatient practice protocols. Physicians will assume responsibility for



20
managing the care of their patients and eliminating unnecessary referrals to other specialists, for
diagnostic tests, and to hospitals, and in tum, will be rewarded with increased remuneration.
3.6    The pharmaceutical management component of the Project will finance the purchase and
distribution of a large quantity of essential drugs, in an effort to improve fundamentally the availability
of needed medicines. The procurement of drugs, however, will be done only in the context of far-
reaching reforms in pharmaceutical management aimed at guaranteeing "sustainability" so that
improvements in the supply of drugs -- or the increment of "health" produced by a given amount of
resources -- will last long after the Project has ended.
B. Project Desciiption
3.7    Through working with officials of the Kyrgyz Government, the MANAS team, and other donors
active in the sector, a four component Project has been developed as follows: (a) primary health care;
(b) facilities rehabilitation; (c) medical care provider payment system; and (d) pharmaceutical
management. This Project is designed to achieve the basic goals of health care reform within the current
economic and institutional constraints of the Republic. It focuses on the major burdens of disease in the
country and is designed to deal with the most egregious inefficiencies in the service delivery system. By
emphasizing cost-effective interventions, modern clinical practices, and major structural reform, the
design recognizes the current economic realities facing the system and provides the basis for long-run
financial sustainability. The Government has provided the Association with a policy statement, acceptable
to the Association, outlining its health sector reform strategy, reaffirming its commitment to health
reforns expressed in its "Master Plan for Future Developments of the Republic's Health Care System,"
einphasizing reform in primary health care, pharmnaceuticals and testing of different modalities of provider
payments as a way of seeking efficient solutions for resource allocation. During negotiations, assurances
were obtained that the Borrower would carry out an action plan agreed with the Association and in a
manner satisfactory to the Association, as part of project execution.
3.8    An important activity of the PHC component in support of all the subcomponents is the
production of mass media materials for the general public, aimed at promoting healthy lifestyles in the
family and the rational utilization of health facilities. Booklets will be widely distributed to the general
public from primary health care facilities. This will complement an extensive countrywide program
supported by the German Development Agency (GTZ) covering, among other things, adult lifestyle
issues. Under the Project local technical assistance will be provided for computer software training and
the production of mass media materials. GTZ will provide technical assistance for the production of
booklets, TV and radio programs for the general public.
Component A: Primary Health Care
(US$4.0 million total project cost)
3.9    The objective of the Primary Health Care component is to reorient health services away from
hospitals and towards upgraded primary health care centers. To facilitate this process, interventions in
this component will provide training to upgrade the skills of primary health care workers, provide them
with basic clinical equipment and ensure them an adequate supply of drugs. The longer term objective
of the Primary Health Care Component is to develop a more cost-effective health care program through
the reduction of hospitals, beds and staff from the merging of specialty hospitals (tuberculosis,
dernatovenereal, children's, matemity, infectious diseases, etc.) into the general hospital system at the
tertiary, secondary and primary health care levels. Before negotiatons the Government has concluded
that no legislation restricts different hospital functions to separate facilities nor forbids the expansion of
the range of health services provided at the primary health care level, including ambulatory treatment of



21
STDs and TB. Not later than December 31, 1996 MOH will establish new case management guidelines
for ambulatory treatment of STDs and TB, as part of project implementation.
3.10   The PHC Component would offer nationwide coverage and would be focused on the primary
health care facilities which provide health care to the country's 43 raions outside of Bishkek, through
three main interventions: (a) redefinition of medical treatment protocols; (b) training of health care
workers in priority health interventions; and (c) development of a mass media campaign for the general
public to support the health reform activities. The MOH would have overall responsibility for the PHC
component in close coordination with oblast and raion health authorities. The Technical Coordination
Committee (TCC), organized to support the technical implementation of the Project, has one full-time
advisor to coordinate all PHC activities (Annex 6 describes implementation arrangements.)
3.11   There are three subcomponents under the PHC component: (a) strengthening women's
reproductive health; (b) acute respiratory infections and control of diarrheal diseases (ARI/CDD); and,
(c) tuberculosis control. These programs cover the major health problems faced by the Kyrgyz Republic,
namely high maternal, perinatal and infant mortality rates, and rising levels of syphilis and tuberculosis.
Reductions in maternal mortality will be achieved by upgrading prenatal, delivery and postnatal care, both
in hospital and at the primary health care level; and to prevent deaths from eclampsia, hemorrhage and
sepsis. Perinatal mortality will be reduced by upgrading the monitoring of pregnancy and labor, and
improving neonatal resuscitation practices to prevent deaths and disability from newborn hypoxia and
brain trauma. The component also focuses on reducing the spread of tuberculosis and syphilis, two of the
most serious infectious diseases, through the introduction of ambulatory care for treating these conditions,
and a public health media campaign on adult health lifestyle issues.
Subcomponent A.1: Strengthening Women's Reproductive Health Management
(US$1.8 million total project cost)
3.12   The specific goals of this subcomponent are: provision of basic maternal care to all pregnant
women, and reduction of the following conditions associated with pregnancy and delivery: maternal
deaths due to obstetric complications such as hemorrhage, eclampsia, sepsis, and obstructed labor;
anemia; neonatal deaths and disabilities associated with birth asphyxia and hypothermia; and, reduction
of anemia and of complications of sexually transmitted diseases among pregnant women, as well as of
ophthalmia neonatorum among infants. Evaluation of improvements in these conditions would be done
using as a basis estinates of present levels of incidence, and comparing these values with the
corresponding statistics of subsequent years (indicators for evaluation are presented in Annex 11). This
subcomponent would complement the work of other donors, including UNICEF, UNFPA, WHO, German
Government (KFW), Central Asian Partners, BASICS, etc.
3.13   The subcomponent will help develop national case management guidelines (or protocols) for the
Mother/Baby package, following WHO and UNICEF guidelines and will increase training capacity within
the country to implement these guidelines. Before negotations, the Government has concluded that no
legislation restricts the adoption of the WHO Guidelines on maternal and child health and STDs, related
to confidential, anonymous care. Not later than December 31, 1996 MOH will establish new national
case management guidelines for women's reproductive health management, as part of project
implementation.
3.14   Main topics for training would include: medical and nursing care of normal and high-risk
pregnancies and deliveries (including use of partograms); medical and nursing care of newborns
(including resuscitation); encouraging breastfeeding during neonatal period; application of WHO's



22
"Mother-Baby" package; principles and practices of family planning; case management of sexually
transmitted diseases; and management and supervision of public health programs.
3.15   A system of countrywide training centers will be established consisting of the Centers of
Continuous Medical Education (CCMEs) in Bishkek and Osh, six Model Hospitals, six Model City
Polyclinics-one in each oblast--and six model FAPs, also one in each oblast. These model training
centers will provide "hands on" clinical training experience in health facilities using the new treatment
protocols. A core of trainers will be trained at the national, oblast and raion levels and printed training
manuals provided to trainees. Study tours will be funded for a limited number of key health personnel.
The training will be institutionalized within several key Government establishments to ensure a regular
update of case management guidelines and a program of continued education for health personnel.
3.16   The training will take place at the 20 facilities listed above, and will be carried out in three
phases: Phase 1. Training of National and Oblast Trainers; Phase 2. Training of Raion Trainers; Phase
3. Training of Primary Health Care Teams. The Project will fund all three phases for the Women's
Reproductive Health Program.
3.17   The  following  personnel would  be  trained  through  the  Project:  80  trainers  (20
obstetricianl/gynecologists, 20 pediatricians, 20 neonatologists, 20 STD specialists) who would in tum
train up to 2,000 health personnel nationwide. Special emphasis would be placed on strengthening the
MOH central, oblast and raion management to ensure adequate oversight and monitoring of the process.
The focus of training would be on the obstetric and pediatric staff working in the country's 43 raion
hospitals; and primary health care staff working in the country's peripheral health units.
3.18   The CCME in Bishkek City, will act as the focus for all training activities in the Project and will
be responsible for training coordination nationwide. In Phase I of the training program, the national and
oblast trainers will receive training at the CCME in Bishkek City. The CCME has a sub-department in
Osh City, which will play a coordinating role for the Southern area of the Kyrgyz Republic. In Phase
2, both CCMEs will be responsible for training raion trainers. The following set of office and training
equipment will be provided by the Project for each of the CCMEs: computer, printer & software (plus
training), heavy duty photocopier, fax machine, videocamera, television, VCR, slide projector, overhead
projector and screen, and 2 flipchart stands.
3.19   Three health facilities in each oblast (a multispeciality Oblast Hospital, a nearby city polyclinic
and a FAP) will be upgraded with equipment and staff training and used as model health facilities for
training purposes. During project implementation and not later than December 31, 1996 MOH would:
(i) combine services in the health facilities selected as Oblast Model Polyclinics where training under the
PHC component will be carried out, so that services for pediatrics, women's health and general adult
health will be offered in one building; and (ii) ensure timely supply and regular replenishment to all
facilities where training is carried out under the PHC component, of project financed equipment, drugs
and other materials, and ensure that part of these drugs are provided free of charge to personnel of FAPs
and ambulatory centers, participating in the training programs as trainees. The practical training will
consist of maternal and perinatal care and sexually transmitted diseases. Hospital-based specialist staff
will receive additional training in neonatal resuscitation and obstetric care. The following sets of training
equipment will be provided to each Oblast Model Hospital: television, VCR, slide projector, overhead
projector and screen, 2 flipchart stands. A limited list of clinical equipment, drugs and supplies will be
provided to the upgraded model hospitals, polyclinics and FAPs. In Phase 3 of the training program,
Primary Health Care Teams from the peripheral FAPs, Rural Physician Ambulatories (SVAs), polyclinics
and rural hospitals will receive training from the raion and oblast trainers.



23
3.20   A set of basic clinical equipment will be provided to 170 ambulatories (SVAs) nationwide. All
43 Central Raion Hospitals nationwide will be equipped with basic instruments to handle complicated
delivery cases.
3.21   The Ministry of Health is responsible for the overall management and monitoring of training
activities. To strengthen MOH management capacity, a computer, printer and software training will be
provided to the Chief Pediatrician and the Chief Obstetrician. Updates on training will be printed out
and circulated to health personnel nationwide by the two CCMEs.
3.22 The subcomponent would require internationally recruited specialists to assist in the design of the
training programs and of the health promotion materials. Specialties required for technical assistance
would include: women and children program management; obstetricians and gynecologists with
experience in having taught the application of the WHO "Mother-Baby" Package Guidelines;
neonatologist/pediatrician; and venereologist with experience in having taught WHO's Guidelines on
sexually transmitted diseases. GTZ is committed to funding technical assistance to support health
promotion activities. Additionally, the Project would finance study tours, consultants on the technical
specialties listed above, to the extent they are not supported through grants by other donors, as well as
the translation or design, and reproduction of manuals and booklets on family health for training workers
and for public information; equipment for training; computers; and clinical equipment for basic mnaternal
and newborn care to 170 ambulatory centers nationwide. The subcomponent also includes financial
support for purchasing essential drugs in two annual tranches for 12 central raion hospitals (two per
oblast) for distribution among surrounding FAPs and ambulatory centers.
3.23   The MOH has been compiling the essential drugs list and would not later than December 31,
1997 establish a data base of National Case Management Guidelines for women's reproductive health,
STDs, ARI/CDD and TB, based on the WHO recommended guidelines, together with treatment protocols
for all those conditions, indicating that drugs used should be from its Essential Drug List only, and
thereafter update and distribute these protocols regularly to health workers nationwide.
Subcomponent A.2 Acute Respiratory Infection and Diarrheal Disease Control
(US$0.6 million total project cost)
3.24   The goals of this subcomponent are to reduce deaths of children from acute respiratory tract
infections and from diarrhea. This will be achieved by retraining hospital-based and outpatient facilities
pediatricians, infectious disease specialists and pediatric nurses, on management of acute ARI and
diarrhea cases among children, using redesigned guidelines based on best current knowledge of
appropriate treatment.
3.25   The subcomponent would help develop national case management guidelines (or protocols) for
ARI/CDD case management, following WHO and UNICEF Guidelines and will increase training capacity
within the country to implement these guidelines. Before negotiatons the Government has concluded that
no legislation restricts the adoption of the WHO guidelines on ARI/CDD. Not later than December 31,
1996 MOH will establish national case management guidelines for ARI/CDD case management, as part
of project implementation.
3.26 This subcomponent would complement the UNICEF ARI/CDD program and would finance
essential drugs for ARI/CDD to 12 central raion hospitals (two per oblast) to be distributed to
surrounding FAPs and ambulatory centers. UNICEF would provide essential drugs for the peripheral
health units. It would train staff in all those facilities and would provide them with a small pack of
essential drugs and supplies for ARI/CDD, which would subsequently be regularly resupplied from the



24
central raion hospital. Training would involve "hands-on" practical instruction with patients. Public
education would be done through lectures and booklets.
3.27   The system of countrywide training centers and courses, described in paragraph 3.15 above,
would also train health personnel in the treatment of ARI/CDD. Under the Project, training under the
ARI/CDD subcomponent will be carried out in two phases: Phase 1. Training of National and Oblast
Trainers; and Phase 2. Training of Raion trainers. Phase 3. training of primary health care teams would
be funded by UNICEF. The practical training would consist of case management of acute respiratory
disease and diarrheal disease.
Subcomponent A.3:  Tuberculosis Control  (US$1.5 million total project cost)
3.28   The TB subcomponent of the Primary Health Care component would revitalize the National
Tuberculosis Program by providing support to the existing three levels: central (at the National
Tuberculosis and Research Institute), oblast, and raion structures and to the primary health care services
countrywide for program implementation. Adoption of legislation in the form of a Government decree
and a law of Parliament, respectively, revitalizing the National Tuberculosis Program and the framework
for tuberculosis control prepared by the National Tuberculosis Research Institute was a conditon of
negotiatons which the Government has met. As part of project implementation, new treatment protocols
for TB will be adopted by December 31, 1996. It will result in more effective case detection and
treatment, use of current TB treatment protocols, and emphasize ambulatory as opposed to inpatient
treatment of tuberculosis. In short, it would improve both the clinical effectiveness and economic
efficiency of the delivery system, and improve the health status of the population through early detection
and effective treatment of tuberculosis.
3.29   The TB subcomponent consists of the following elements:
(a)    expansion, improvement and free provision of tuberculosis diagnostic services in at least
one facility per raion or city and upgrading of the quality of bacteriological services at
raion and city level;
(b)    provision of free short course chemotherapy and other treatment services to all TB cases,
with directly observed therapy during, at least, the initial phase of chemotherapy, and
achievement of high cure rates among all sputum smear positive pulmonary cases;
(c)   improvement of case management by adoption of WHO recommended national case
management guidelines, recording and reporting system, and adequate supervision;
(d)    introduction of a system of financial incentives for case detection and cure of tuberculosis
patients through the Government's own resources including a payment to any health
worker who originally refers TB suspects for examination if the diagnosis of TB is
confirmed by sputum smear microscopy, and fees for managing the course of treatment
if cure is documented (adoption of legislation introducing this system was a condition of
negotiations and has been fulfilled); and,
(e)    provision of approximately US$600,000 of TB pharmaceuticals and US$180,000 for the
transportation and distribution costs of the pharmaceuticals.
3.30   Training and technical assistance will be crucial for staff at all levels to successfully adopt modern
supervised, short course chemotherapy and the new policy. In late 1995 two pilot projects in selected



25
raions began irnplementation to evaluate the operational aspects of the new program. These raions will
form the national training site for future nationwide project implementation. Basic training equipment
will be provided for the raions selected for the pilot projects and, later, for the whole country. The
training centers described in paragraph 3.15 above will be used for the training in the Tuberculosis
Control Program. The cost of conducting the training programs (central and oblast managers - one
course every other year; oblast and raion/city staff - seven courses, one per oblast every other year; for
PHC workers - two brief courses per raion every year; laboratory personnel at central and oblast level -
one course every other year; peripheral laboratory personnel - one course in each oblast every year), and
of the materials used will be covered by the Project. The raion coordinator should maintain a close
relationship with primary health care workers and ensure continuous education on tuberculosis control.
External consultants to assist and help in the national training courses will be necessary.
3.31   Two pilot projects have been established to evaluate the feasibility of providing ambulatory
treatment through the primary health care system, as compared to drug administration through
hospitalization of all patients at the initial phase of treatment. The results of the pilot projects, as well as
the progress of implementation of the new primary health care system, will guide the final choice of
diagnostic and treatment policies for the nationwide project.
3.32   Since hard-to-justify numbers of facilities and beds dedicated to tuberculosis control are available
in the Kyrgyz Republic, the Project will, by its accompanying changes, rationalize the number of beds
and reduce the number of facilities. As case detection and treatment will become the responsibility of
primary health care workers, the MOH should consider making current tuberculosis specialists from
tuberculosis in-patient facilities available, on a part-time basis, to primary health care facilities.
Component B: Facilities Rehabilitation
(US$2.3 million total project cost)
3.33   The facilities rehabilitation component would improve the capacity of the Ministry of Health in
managing the maintenance of buildings and equipment, and help prepare the MOH to implement
necessary rationalization programs of the health infrastructure to make it more responsive to the planned
shift from a predominantly curative system, to a major emphasis on preventive programs and ambulatory
care. This component would facilitate the transition and the implementation of adjustments in the number
of hospital beds, remodeling of facilities, and introduction of energy saving measures at health
institutions. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that during the execution of the Project the
Borrower will not undertake any new construction of health facilities without prior consultation with the
Association.
3.34   The Project will provide US$300,000 for improving conditions of 30 ambulatory centers i.e.
repairing roofs and floors, replacing ironmongery, refurbishing water and sanitary installations and up-
grading electrical supply and installations; and US$1,200,000 for converting 30 rural hospitals into
ambulatory polyclinics with holding beds (carrying out the same repairs as above, and converting existing
wards into laboratories, consultation rooms, etc.). In addition, US$300,000 for equipment and
US$150,000 for supplies will be provided to ensure efficient performance of the renovated/converted
facilities.
3.35   The Project will also provide US$50,000 (training) and US$7,200 (salary for full-time TCC
member) to support the activities of the Buildings and Equipment Committee. This Committee, which
will meet once or twice a month, as necessary, reports to the Minister of Health and represents clinical,
nursing, technical, staffing administration and financing interests in the Ministry. The Committee's tasks
include representing the MOH in making decisions regarding building and equipment activities; approving



26
the technical content of the proposals; and deciding on priorities. The Commnittee will also be responsible
for obtaining and circulating information within the MOH on civil works projects; coordinating
commissioning and staffing; delegating tasks within the Ministry and establishing and liaising with user-
groups at the different facilities being up-graded. In order to assist the Buildings and Equipmnent
Committee in the above tasks, and further in revising existing norms and standards for health facilities
and in the implementation of the civil works included in this component, US$60,000 is provided under
the Project to reimburse the fees of local architectural and engineering consultants.
3.36   The construction activities of the facilities component will take place initially in the Chui Oblast
region so as to support closely the provider payment component efforts to rationalize health services and
facilities before making major investments. The methodologies developed and solutions rendered in Chui
Oblast will then enable the MOH to apply them nationwide. As a condition of negotiations the MOH
has prepared a list for review and comments to the Association of 30 ambulatory centers and 30 rural
hospitals in Chui Oblast and Bishkek City to be repaired and converted as part of this Project. As part
of project implementation, establishment by MOH of a stakeholder group consisting of health authorities
and local government officials in each medical facility to be renovated under the Project will take place
before its renovation in undertaken.
3.37   The rehabilitation "packages" to be developed will be low cost (US$10,000-40,000 for buildings,
US$1,000-4,000 for equipment) and may be replicated with national resources in the rest of the country.
Component C: Medical Care Provider Payment
(US$4.4 million total project cost)
3.38   The health care system in the Kyrgyz Republic is dominated by the hospital sector, which
consumes more than 75 percent of resources. One reason for this inefficient allocation of resources is
the financial incentives for facilities contained in the current line item budgeting system. The budgeting
system is based on input measures such as number of beds and staff, and rewards increases in capacity
rather than the efficient provision of high quality health services.
3.39   Under the Project the methods to be used by the Ministry of Health through the oblasts to pay
hospitals, polyclinics, and physicians would be changed to foster efficiency in the health care delivery
system and promote the use of primary care. Payment for care would no longer be made on the basis
of production input measures but rather on the basis of performance as measured by coverage of the
services provided (capitation). The new provider payment methods would strengthen the connection
between the quantity and quality of services rendered, and the financial reimbursement received for those
services. Incentives would encourage treatment of patients on an outpatient as opposed to inpatient basis,
reduce length-of-stay for those patients who do require hospitalization, and reduce unnecessary referrals
to specialists and for diagnostic tests.
3.40   Provider payment reforms would change the financing and the organization of care in two
important ways. Payment for care would be separated from delivery of care. The payer would focus
on paying for the best care at the lowest cost -- purchasing care rather than manage and maintain
facilities. The provider would be made responsible for managing the services and would have more
flexibility to focus on delivering the most optimal mix of services with the best outcome. Secondly,
providers would be "at risk" in that they would now be responsible for any deficits between payments
received and costs incurred. Providers would be accountable for more efficient and higher quality of
care.



27
3.41   The Project would extend to two other jurisdictions the provider payment aspect of a USAID-
funded pilot program, which is now in the early stages of implementation in Issyk-kul Oblast. The
Technical Coordinating Committee (TCC) would monitor the progress of Issyk-kul and the extended pilot,
and keep Government officials and providers informed about the design, implementation and results of
the pilot.
3.42   Site Selection: The geographic areas selected as most favorable for extending the demonstration
are Bishkek City and Chui Oblast. These sites are preferable for several reasons: (i) relatively dense,
urban population; (ii) most affluent geo-political units (in terms of per capita income and tax revenues
paid); (iii) relative sophistication of medical institutions and trained personnel; (iv) relative excess of
medical providers, especially physicians per capita in Bishkek; (v) contiguous geographically, effectively
sharing market areas for medical services; (vi) proximity to health sector leadership for observation and
evaluation; and, (vii) proximity to technical coordinating staff for implementation purposes under the
Credit. Selected data comparing features of these two geographic units and Issyk-kul to national averages
are provided in Annex 4, Table 2.
3.43   Pilot Design. Implementation of this component requires structural change in the health services
delivery system as well as development of new provider payment systems and the corresponding financial
infrastructure to support them. Four major progranmmatic elements or modules of the medical care
provider payments component are described below:
3.44   (i) The first element is comprehensive restructuring of the primary care sector through the
establishment of new primary care group practices--Family Group Practices. In order to reimburse
providers a capitated rate for the provision of all primary health services to an individual, an entity
capable of providing the entire range of primary health services must exist and consist of a therapist
(internist), pediatrician, and obstetrician/gynecologist. Currently there are very few general practitioners.
3.45   The primary care groups would be the focal point of the new provider payment methods: they
would enroll people and receive a capitated rate for providing a specified set of health services. The
financial incentive for the groups is to provide services rather than referring patients to other parts of the
health delivery system. Different models of primary care should be encouraged, and over time clinical
retraining and new medical institute curriculum will lead to the development of general and family
practitioners. The primary care groups should be independent, form voluntarily, and be organized as a
business. They can initiate the development of non-profit entities within the health sector and also
become private practitioners.
3.46   Approximately 300 primary care group practices would be formed to serve the population of
Bishkek City and Chui Oblast, estimated at 1.6 million people. Each group would be capable of enrolling
and serving approximately 5,300 people. About 150 groups would come on line in the first year of the
Project, 100 in the second year and 50 in the third year. A significant portion of the provider payment
component budget will be directed at developing the capacity of these entities to respond to the financial
incentives of the new payment methods. The Project will fund minor renovations of new practice
locations, allowing them to establish a separate identity and be dispersed throughout the community;
equipment to enable the groups to treat patients rather than refer them; clinical training to increase clinical
capability and begin development of a cadre of general practitioners; and, establishment of financial
systems, including development of practice managers providing business skills for the groups.
3.47   (ii) The second element is free choice of primary care provider by the population and enrollment
of the entire population into primary care groups. Participation by the population in decisions about their
health care gives providers an incentive to provide high quality services. If patients are not satisfied, they



28
can change providers. Information would be furnished to the population to help them make informed
choices about their medical provider. The Project would fund a public awareness and marketing
campaign, an enrollment process, and the distribution of comparative information so the population may
judge provider performance.
3.48   (iii) The third element is new incentive-based provider payment systems for primary care services,
outpatient specialty and ancillary services, and hospital services. These payment systems replace line-
item budgets for facilities with payment for health services at the patient level. Although the experience
of the Issyk-kul pilot will determine the exact form of these systems, the main concepts are a capitated
rate and a case-based hospital payment. A capitated rate is the payment of a set fee to a provider for the
provision of certain health services to an individual. A case-base hospital payment system reimburses
hospitals a prospectively set fee depending on the type and severity of the treated case.
3.49   Currently, national, oblast, municipal, and raion governments finance and control their own
facilities using a budgetary system which allocates funds through predetermined functional categories such
as salaries and medical supplies. The health reforms envision the population choosing providers and
providers receiving payment for specific services rendered to patients. The focus of payment for health
services changes from the facility level to the patient level. A fiscal intermediary is needed to pool the
funds from the national, oblast, municipal, and raion sources and reimburse providers for health services
they provide to the population. Funds would no longer be delineated by government level and separately
allocated to facilities; services would be purchased by the fiscal intermediary from one pool of funds.
3.50   The fiscal intermediary requires institutional capacity to pool the funds and manage the new
provider payment systems. The development and installation of new computer systems is especially
important. Provider payment on a treated case basis increases the base unit for reimbursement many
times. For example, in Issyk-kul the base unit for hospital payment will increase from budgets for about
50 facilities to payment for about 50,000 treated hospital cases. This very large increase in the number
of transactions requires the development of automated systems to manage the payment process.
3.51   Computer systems would handle enrollment of the population, construction of rates for the
payment systems, recording of clinical information from facility bills, payment of providers for services,
operation of a quality assurance system, and analysis of health statistics. An accounting system would
record all financial transactions from defined source payment documents, interact with the banking system
and provide financial reports for the fiscal intermediary. Current accounting systems provide a good
starting point; however, they could benefit from the introduction of accrual accounting and more
sophisticated financial reporting to present available information in a more useful form. Internal auditing
and control procedures are necessary. Relationships between the fiscal intermediary and the treasury and
banking system need to be clearly defined. The transition to a stable market economy may require the
banking system to gradually shift its focus toward handling financial transactions efficiently, away from
serving as a control mechanism.
3.52   The Issyk-kul pilot is developing and implementing these new systems. This allows for efficient
refinement and extension of the products under the proposed project's provider payment component. The
Project will fund adaptation of the new provider payment systems to Bishkek and Chui Oblast,
procurement of computer hardware, refinement and installation of computer and accounting systems for
the fiscal intermediary to track data of enrolled patients, and training of local experts and facility
managers to implement the new provider payment systems.
3.53   (iv) The fourth element is development of health sector infrastructure to support the
implementation of new provider payment systens.  This infrastructure consists of three areas: (a)



29
integrated management information systems (MIS), such as cost accounting and clinical information
systems, to track data on the country's health care delivery, resource use and utilization patterns and
provide managers tools to improve their decision-making ability; (b) increased management autonomy,
flexibility, and accountability for health care providers; and, (c) quality assurance systems to monitor care
and prevent "gaming" or abuse under different financial incentives of new provider payment systems.
3.54   As with the Project's provider payment systems, these infrastructure products are being developed
in Issyk-kul. The provider payment component will fund adaptation of the systems, procurement of
computer hardware and software to establish the capacity necessary at the facility level, and training of
local experts and facility managers.
3.55   Finance and Training Plan: The medical care provider payment component requires US$4.4
million in IDA and counterpart funds to implement over a four and a half year period. The Government
of the Kyrgyz Republic would be required to provide contributions in terms of staff time and expertise.
A limited number of leaders would be offered the opportunity for out-of-country study tours and training.
These trips would be planned in the first year of the Project to support the initial development and
implementation of the provider payment systems, and the third year of the Project to support the
continued refinement of the provider payment systems following initial implementation.
3.56   Approximately 2,000 health care personnel would receive training under the Project's medical
care provider payment component. Most of this training would occur in years I and 2 of the Project.
The training would be preparatory to the implementation of new provider payment systems, which would
begin in year 2 and be phased-in over years 2-4. Retraining of physicians would occur over the first
three years to coincide with the establishment of primary care groups. Internists, pediatricians, and
obstetricians/gynecologists would receive both classroom and on-site training to improve their capability
to manage care on an outpatient basis and begin the conversion to general and family practitioners. This
process would be enhanced by changes in the curriculum for medical students. Training for specialists
would be offered as they begin to redefine their role in the new health care delivery system.
3.57   A clinical training center would be established and provided with equipment and materials at the
Republican Center of Continuous Medical Education to provide clinical training to physicians. The
Health Finance and Management Department of the CCME would also be established as a training center
and provided equipment and materials to hold training for the provider payments component. In addition
to more efficient provision of training, improving the education capacity will build the finance and
management skills needed within the health sector to sustain the reforms.
3.58   Implementation: The institution of new provider payment methods requires substantial technical
expertise in hospital payment, physician payment, clinical practice, cost accounting, clinical information
systems, management, finance and internal auditing, computer systems, accreditation, and quality
improvement. Although most of the products would have been developed in the Issyk-kul pilot, they will
need to be adjusted to fit Bishkek and Chui Oblast because the population composition is different.
3.59   The implementation strategy of this component is to use foreign experts selectively to produce
defined products. Each of the four program elements would have a foreign expert or module leader.
Module leaders would have three goals in their work: (i) refine the Issyk-kul products to fit Bishkek and
Chui; (ii) provide initial training to a broad audience on the systems/products through workshops, and
intensively train a local expert in the specialty area; and, (iii) work with the local expert to implement
this aspect of the Project.



30
3.60   The local expert for each programmatic area would be responsible for implementation of the
product and continued training of health personnel. Qualified computer specialists would support them.
They would both work for the fiscal intermediary or one of three associations formed to facilitate the
implementation of the provider payment reforms. The three associations are a Primary Care Physicians
Association, a Hospital Association, and an Accreditation Commission.  Establishing these three
organizations should contribute to the sustainability of the reforms. The Accreditation Commission needs
to be independent, to determine objectively whether a facility meets the minimum standards required to
operate and receive payment for services. In the medium to long-term, the Primary Care Physicians
Association and Hospital Association will serve as representative bodies in a more decentralized, market-
oriented health sector. While the local experts serving as their employees are initially supported by the
Project, they are developing marketable skills which will be in demand in the future.
3.61   The central Ministry of Health would have overall responsibility for the component with
implementation managed by the TCC. The TCC would have one full-time advisor to coordinate all
provider payment activities. Close coordination is required with several other critical organizational
components -- the central Ministry of Finance and the oblast (city in the case of Bishkek) level
administration, Department of Health, and Department of Finance. To facilitate collaboration between
the central, oblast and city level governments, Ministry/Department of Health, and Ministry/Department
of Finance, a task force would be formed with representatives of the various stakeholders. The World
Bank, TCC, and task force would continue its close collaboration with other relevant donors -- notably
USAID, ODA and GTZ.
3.62   For full implementation of the pilot to occur, the Government must ensure that all legal and
regulatory obstacles are removed. Before negotiations the Government has concluded that current
legislation does not restrict implementation of new provider payment systems in the extended pilot.
However, an order specifically allowing such payment systems is being prepared and will be adopted by
December 31, 1996 as part of project implementation. The order will address at least the following three
points:
(a)    Savings from rationalization of facilities or implementation of new provider payment
methods will be retained and reinvested in the medical sector;
(b)    Establishment of a mechanism to enforce the pooling of funds at the national, oblast,
municipal and raion level; and
(c)    Authority to establish new payment methods including at least the following:
(i)    The line-item budget system will not be used to reimburse providers.
(ii)    Determination and resolution of conflicts with the Treasury System created by
new provider payment methods.
(iii)   Capability to institute performance-based pay.
(iv)   Facility management autonomy including hiring and firing.
3.63   A smooth transition of the provider payment reforms from the Issyk-kul pilot to Bishkek City and
Chui Oblast requires continuous coordination with the Issyk-kul pilot over the next year. The TCC and
task force should meet regularly with the Issyk-kul pilot team, begin work on designing the program and
adapting the Issyk-kul products, communicate with and educate officials about the design, implementation
and results of the Issyk-kul pilot, and monitor the progress of the pilot program. The three parties should
continue to work to facilitate the rapid implementation of the extended pilot by identifying,
communicating and helping to resolve any issues which arise.



31
3.64   During negotiations, assurances related to the implementation of this component, were obtained
that the Government would evaluate the Issyk-kul provider payments pilot program, not later than
December 31, 1996 to explore the feasibility of introducing a provider payment mechanism for health
care workers, and present the results of the evaluation to the Association for its review and comments
and would subsequently apply the recommendations to the implementation of the medical care provider
payments component of the Project. As part of project implementation, the Borrower would take the
following steps:
(a)    not later than December 31, 1996, issue guidelines, acceptable to the Association, to
health authorities at all levels on leasing of publicly owned health premises to family
group practices.
(b)    MOH would, not later than December 31, 1996, carry out a study of the levels of patient
referrals from primary care physicians to specialists and for diagnostic tests in Bishkek
City and Chui Oblast; not later than June 30, 1997, MOH would submit this study to the
Association for review and comments, and subsequently MOH would implement the
agreed recommendations.
(c)    not later than December 31, 1997, (i) establish and thereafter maintain a Health Fund into
which national, oblast, municipal, and raion level health and finance authorities would
contribute and out of which medical providers will be paid, together with guidelines on
the manner and level of contribution by these health authorities and the characteristics and
costs of services to be purchased; (ii) design and implement a national health accounts
system to be able to track the allocation of resources for health and the flow of funds in
the health sector; and (iii) pass legislation allowing establishment of primary health care
provider groups as non-profit entities and opening of bank accounts by such groups.
Component D: Pharmaceutical Management
(US$8.3 million total project cost)
3.65   The pharmaceutical management component is aimed at improving the availability of essential
drugs both (a) directly, by financing the procurement and distribution of a large quantity of essential
drugs, and (b) indirectly, by supporting the implementation of far-reaching reforms designed to strengthen
the Government's drug regulatory capabilities and to increase the discipline and cost-effectiveness of
public spending. Financial support for the procurement and distribution of essential drugs is contingent
on the Government's continued determination to implement these reforms.
3.66   The pharmaceutical management component will support the following activities:
(a)    renovation of the premises of the national drug regulatory organization and acquisition
of office equipment and furniture, laboratory testing equipment and furniture, reagents
and chemical glassware, scientific literature, and other goods needed in order for the
organization to function effectively;
(b)   technical assistance and training for the staff of the drug regulatory organization, as well
as broad dissemination to other health care officials of information on drug regulatory
affairs;



32
(c)    development, production, printing, and widespread distribution of the Kyrgyz Republic's
Essential Drugs List, as well as training health care officials and managers concerning
the goals and rationale of an Essential Drugs Program;
(d)    development of new standard medical treatment guidelines, based on and consistent with
the Essential Drugs List; and,
(e)    procurement and distribution of a significant quantity of essential drugs.
National Drug Regulatory Organization
3.67   The national drug regulatory authority will be responsible for: (a) the registration of all drugs and
vaccines manufactured and/or marketed in the Kyrgyz Republic, including pre-registration review of all
technical information on safety and effectiveness, the organization of clinical trials if necessary, and post-
registration monitoring of drug utilization and possible adverse drug reactions; and, (b) quality testing
and quality assurance of all drugs and vaccines manufactures, imported, marketed, and/or otherwise
distributed in the Kyrgyz Republic.
3.68   A national drug regulatory organization was established in 1993 by decree of the Prime Minister.
Located within the MOH, the organization is known officially as the Administration for Standardization
and Oversight of the Quality of Medicines and Medical Technology. The authority and responsibilities
of this organization are reaffirmed in a proposed "Law on Medicines" that has been drafted and its
adoption by the Borrower is a condition of effectiveness. The Administration for Standardization
includes, among its subordinate departments, a national drug testing laboratory which is responsible for
(a) providing technical support of the Administration's registration decisions, and (b) ascertaining the
quality of drugs manufactures, imported, and/or otherwise distributed in the Kyrgyz Republic.
3.69   The Drug Regulatory Organization and its subordinate testing laboratory, which are co-located,
have rented 340 meters of space at the Institute of Cardiology and are negotiating with the Institute to
rent an additional 160 meters of adjoining space. With a total of approximately 500 square meters of
space, the organization will have sufficient room to perform its functions. Renovation of the premises
has begun, and a small amount of testing equipment has been procured; it will be installed when
additional renovation is completed and the necessary laboratory furniture has been acquired. Current staff
of the organization numbers 15 of a planned 35. The Project will provide extensive support to enable
the organization and laboratory to become fully operational as quickly as possible. The Project will
provide US$97,000 for renovation of the premises and US$357,000 for the purchase of: office furniture
and equipment; laboratory testing equipment and furniture; reagents and chemical glassware; scientific
literature, computer software, and databases; and other necessary supplies.
3.70   The Project will finance a substantial amount of training for the staff of the organization and
laboratory, including activities designed to foster close professional relations between officials of the
organization and counterparts in drug regulatory agencies of other countries. The Project will finance
in-country training in the use of computers and databases, the use of new laboratory equipment, and cost-
effectiveness analysis for approximately 75 people during the first two years of the Project. The Project
also will finance approximately 50 person-weeks of training and study tours abroad, spread over four
years. In order to facilitate widespread dissemination of this information within the Kyrgyz Republic and
to support a limited amount of training for persons outside the organization and laboratory, e.g. local
health care officials, the Project will also finance an annual two-day national conference on drug
regulatory affairs, including participation of foreign experts.



33
3.71   The Drug Regulatory Organization presently operates as a self-financing body, relying on income
from registration and testing fees. As a result, drug regulatory officials may have a direct economic
interest in their regulatory decisions, and this may increase the risk that ineffective, or even unsafe, drugs
will be made available to patients. In order to avoid potential conflicts of interest, the compensation of
senior drug officials and other staff with a direct voice in regulatory decisions should be financed directly
from the state budget. Before negotiations the Government did adopt revised procedures for financing
the Administration for Standardization, providing that the salaries of senior officials and regulatory
decision-makers are financed by the Government and not from fees.
3.72   The TCC  Component Coordinator for pharmaceutical management will supervise the
implementation of the various activities. In cooperation with the Chief of the Drug Regulatory
Organization, other MOH officials, and the Project Coordination Unit, the TCC component coordinator
will prepare terms-of-reference for all procurement contracts, including adequately specified lists of
equipment, furniture, supplies, and other goods to be purchased with project funds. The TCC component
coordinator will prepare, in concert with the Chief of the Drug Regulatory Organization, an annual
training plan, including the dates, location, purpose, and names of participants for all in-country training
courses and foreign study tours; the TCC component coordinator will exercise personal responsibility for
assuring that all technical and logistical requirements of the training are met. The TCC component
coordinator will maintain continual communications with other donors, in particular WHO, in order to
minimize duplication and to maximize coordination in all drug regulatory technical assistance and training
activities. Finally, the Coordinator will, each year, convene and chair a temporary organizing committee
to prepare for and to implement the annual national conference on drug regulatory affairs.
Essential Drugs Program
3.73   An Essential Drugs List (EDL), numbering 300 different products, has been adopted as a first
step toward the creation of an Essential Drugs Program (EDP). Part 1 of this list consists of the 195
"most widely distributed basic medicines" that are expected to be consistently available at, or by
prescription from, all primary and secondary health care facilities. Part 2 consists of 105 "basic
medicines used in specialized institutions."  The EDL has been endorsed by both WHO and the
Association. Before negotiations, the Government did adopt and publish the EDL, agreed upon by the
Association and WHO.
3.74   The EDL was compiled by a large ad hoc committee in the MOH and is the product of a lengthy
dialogue between the MOH and experts from the WHO and the Association. The process for establishing
and maintaining the EDL must now be institutionalized. The latest draft of the "Law on Medicines"
delegates to the MOH formal authority to compile the EDL. Final passage of this law, with this authority
included, and the adoption of formal rules and procedures for compiling and maintaining the EDL,
including provisions for its periodic review and, if necessary, revision in the future in a form acceptable
to the Association, is a condition of effectiveness.
3.75   In order to become an effective means of influence over the procurement and utilization of drugs,
the EDL must be made widely available, and the rationale for an EDL must be understood clearly and
supported by physicians, pharmacists, other health care professionals, and health care financing decision-
makers. The Project will support development and publication of a brochure, containing the EDL and
a lengthy commentary explaining how the EDL was compiled and its purpose. The Project will finance
the printing and distribution of several thousand copies of the brochure, which will be made available to
all pharmacists and health facilities prior to the start of the sizable procurement of essential drugs under
the Project. The Project will help to finance a workshop in each oblast prior to effectiveness, in order
to introduce the EDL to local health leaders and to build professional support for an Essential Drugs



34
Program. In the second and fourth years of the Project, revised editions of the EDL will be published
and distributed.
3.76   Equally necessary for effective implementation of the EDL is the development and dissemination
of new, standard medical treatment guidelines that are compatible and consistent with the limited range
of drugs included on the List. The MOH already has begun to draft new treatment guidelines, and the
Project will support a study tour prior to effectiveness, designed to further this effort.
3.77   Maximum benefit of the EDL will be achieved when the List becomes a principal mechanism for
regulating public spending on drugs. However, a requirement that public spending for drugs be limited
to the EDL is, for the time being, impracticable. Two years will be needed in order to train health care
professionals and to win their support and cooperation, but also in order to gain experience with the List
and to revise the List in light of this experience, as will inevitably be required. From the start of the
third year of the Project, public spending on drugs will be limited to the EDL: from that date, state-
owned health facilities will be permitted to buy, and specially "entitled" ambulatory patients will be
permitted to receive free of charge or at subsidized prices, only drugs included on its EDL. As part of
project implementation, the Government would from January 31, 1998 onwards allocate budget resources
for procurement and reimbursement of pharmaceuticals solely to pharmaceuticals listed on its EDL and
registered in the country. At the same time, no restrictions will be placed on the privately-financed
purchase, distribution, and sale of medicines which are not included on the EDL.
3.78   The establishment and operations of the Kyrgyz Republic's Essential Drugs Program will be
undertaken and supervised by a standing commission or committee appointed by the Minister of Health,
consistent with authority provided by the proposed "Law on Medicines" and as provided by the rules to
be adopted on compiling and maintaining its EDL. As part of project implementation, the Government
would establish this standing committee by December 31, 1996. The TCC Component Coordinator for
pharmaceutical management will be a member of this body and will coordinate the various project
activities intended to support implementation of the EDP. In particular, the TCC component coordinator
will: (a) convene and chair a small, informal working group to oversee production and distribution of the
EDL; (b) maintain close communications with WHO, UNICEF, and other donors in order to ensure that
foreign assistance in the development of new standard treatment guidelines is used with minimum
duplication and maximum effectiveness; and (c) convene and chair an informal working group to design
and implement a monitoring program which will include regular surveys of pharmacies and physicians
in order to measure the availability and utilization of essential drugs.



35
Procurement of Essential Drugs
3.79   In order (a) to improve significantly the supply of the most important and commonly used
essential drugs, and thereby to facilitate introduction of the Essential Drugs Program, and (b) to
strengthen financially key elements of the Kyrgyz Republic's drug distribution system now undergoing
privatization, funds amounting to US$6.0 million (without contingencies) over the life of the project
would finance the purchase and distribution of drugs included on the EDL. All drugs purchased with
project funds will be selected from Part 1 of the EDL and procured by the Project Coordinating Unit
(PCU). In principle, registration of drugs must be completed or in progress prior to award of contracts,
although the Borrower and the Association may agree on certain exceptions to this requirement. They
must be labeled in Russian; and all bulk packages and individual vials and containers must be identified
as containing an "Essential Drug of the Kyrgyz Republic." In order to give potential vendors sufficient
time to register their drugs, a list of drugs to be procured was published in the March 31, 1996
Development Business; final procurement will be limited to drugs included on the initial list. A similar
procedure will be observed in the case of subsequent tranches, although the minimum period between
publication of the initial procurement list and bidding will be four months.
3.80   In order to minimize supply shocks, funds will be disbursed in four annual tranches of
approximately US$2.0 million in each of the first two years and approximately US$1.0 million each in
Project Years Three and Four. Initially, onward distribution of the drugs procured with these funds will
be organized as follows. Procurements will be divided into six lots, according to a formula approved
by the Association prior to effectiveness; winning vendors will deliver shipments, in accordance with this
formula, to Naryn Oblast Pharmacia, Issyk-kul Oblast Pharmacia, Osh Oblast Pharmacia, Talas Oblast
Pharmacia, Dzhalal-Abad Oblast Pharmacia, and Kyrgyz Pharmacia (for onward distribution in Chui
Oblast and Bishkek city)--hereafter, these recipients are called the "Distributors"; bidders' prices will
include the cost of transportation and delivery to these destinations. Drugs will be sold to the Distributors
on credit, based on an arrangement to be described in distribution agreements. Preparation of bidding
documents for the first annual tranche of drug procurement, and distribution agreements for these drugs
in six oblasts, in a form acceptable to the Association is a condition of effectiveness. The Distributors
will be permitted to sell drugs procured with project funds at prices no higher than the nominal cost of
procurement and delivery plus a five percent markup (equal approximately to the cost of handling and
distribution). The requirement that the drugs be sold at controlled prices will limit the risk of diversion,
while maximizing availability. All prospective buyers, regardless of their form of organization or
ownership, will be guaranteed equal opportunities to purchase the drugs. Revenues received by the
Distributors, generated by the sale of drugs procured with project funds, will be accounted separately and
used (a) to cancel the distributors' substantial debt and (b) to rebuild the distributors' working capital.
The Government will present to the Association as part of the bidding documents to be submitted prior
to effectiveness, the contract for drug distribution, and a list with the percentages of revenue allocated
to these purposes, along with remaining revenue allocated to tax payments. In turn, the hospitals,
pharmacies, and distributors that buy Project-financed drugs from the oblast Pharmacias and Kyrgyz
Pharmacia will be permitted to sell the drugs to patients at unrestricted prices, except in the case of
legally exempted patients, and the revenues resulting from such sales will be taxed according to existing
legislation of the Kyrgyz Republic. As part of project implementation, drug procurement and distribution
will be reviewed by the Government by June 30, 1997 and thereafter at the end of each procurement
cycle so as to assure that privately owned drug wholesalers and retailers are not disadvantaged, compared
to remaining state-owned companies.
3.81   In addition to the US$6.0 million to be used to finance the procurement and distribution of drugs
from Part 1 of the Essential Drugs Lists, US$2.0 million will be made available to purchase necessary
drugs in support of the activities in the Primary Health Care component of the Project. In order to ensure



36
maximum efficiency and cost effectiveness, these PHC drugs will be procured by the PCU at the samne
time as, and in accordance with the same procedures used for, the procurement of essential drugs.
However, the PHC drugs will be onward distributed as specified previously in the description of the PHC
component of the Project.
National Drug Policy
3.82   The Kyrgyz Republic has not yet published a document, or set of documents, sufficiently broad
and encompassing as to constitute a national drug policy. Nevertheless, considerable progress has been
made in developing the individual components required of such a policy, notably the Law on Medicines.
A national Drug Regulatory Authority and associated testing laboratory have been established and are
being put into operation. Initial steps to establish an Essential Drugs Program have been taken. The
former vertically-integrated and highly centralized state monopoly in charge of drug procurement and
distribution is being thoroughly restructured and privatized. In addition, in collaboration with the
MANAS project, the MOH has drafted a lengthy, comprehensive "Master Plan" for future development
of the Republic's health care system, which includes a detailed discussion of national policy and
development priorities in the pharmaceutical sector. Taken together, these individual activities constitute
the core elements of a comprehensive national drug policy which, if articulated publicly, would raise the
effectiveness of the pharmaceutical management component of the Project and contribute positively to the
overall development of the Republic's pharmaceutical sector. The Government's policy statement as
described in para. 1.50 reaffirms its commitment.



37
PART IV. PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING, PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENTS
A. Project Costs
4.1    The total cost of the Project is estimated at US$20.1 million equivalent. The estimated cost and
foreign exchange by components are shown in Table 4.1 below. Detailed cost estimates by type of
expenditure are contained in Annex 12.
Table 4.1: Estimated Project Costs
(US$ Million)
Local       Foreign  Toa    % Foreign    % Total
Exchange       Base
Costsal
Primary Health Care               0.7            2.8               80%         20%
Facilities Management             1.6            0.6    2          27%         13%
Pharmaceutical Management         0.7            6.6     X         90%         42%
Medical Care Provider Payment     1.5            2.4      9        61%         22%
Project Administration            0.2            0.4    0          66%          3%
Total Base Costs                  4.7           12.8               73%        100%
Physical Contingencies         0.5           1.2     1         71%
Price Contingencies            0.2           0.7    09         78%
TOTAL PROJECT COST                5.4           14.7  :l          73%
a[ Base cost date October, 1995
Basis of Cost Estimates
4.2    Project costs have been estimated in US dollars because of the difficulty in forecasting inflation
rates for local currency. Civil works cost have been derived from a detailed study carried out in August
1995 during preparation of the Project. Costs for Goods consisting of pharmaceuticals, medical
equipment and related supplies, other miscellaneous office equipment consisting of computer and related
equipment and software are based on recent contracts awarded under an on-going IDA-financed project
(Social Safety Net Project-Credit No. 2643-KG). Unit costs for medical equipment and related supplies
are based on UNICEF price lists and quotations from suppliers in Bank-financed projects in other FSU
countries. Cost for consulting services have been derived on the basis of recent cost estimates for
comparable services in other IDA-financed projects in the Kyrgyz Republic including training (both local
and overseas). The costs of consulting services would include, fees, recruitment/relocation costs,
housing, subsistence, and overheads.



38
Foreign Exchange Component
4.3    The foreign exchange component has been estimated as follows: (a) civil works - 0%; (b) goods
consisting of pharnaceuticals, medical and other equipment and related supplies - 100%; (c) consultants
and overseas training (study tours and fellowships) - 100%; (d) local consultants - 0%; (e) local training-
0%; and (f) project administration - 66%). These percentages have been determined assuming that
basically all goods (pharmaceuticals, equipment and related supplies) would be imported, and that
international consultants would be recruited internationally.
Contingency Allowances
4.4   Price contingencies, representing about 4% of the total project cost, are based on estimated
inflation rates of 2.0% for 1996, 1.6% for 1997, 2.1% for 1998, 2.4% for 1999, and 2.2% for 2000.
It is assumed that the rate of exchange will depreciate in step with local inflation. Price contingencies
on local costs (expressed in US dollars) are therefore based on the same international inflation rates.
Physical contingencies represent about 8% of the total project cost.
Taxes and Duties
4.5    Civil work contracts would be subject to all applicable local taxes which is estimated at 10% of
the total civil works cost. All Goods (pharmaceuticals, equipment and related supplies) specifically
imported for the Project would be exempt from custom duties and taxes. International and local
consultants would be exempt from the Government's normal personal income tax. At negotiations, the
Government confirmed that tax and duty free status would be granted.
B. Project Financing
4.6    The total project cost is estimated at US$20.1 million (including taxes of US$0.2 million), with
a foreign exchange component of US$14.7 million. The financing plan is shown in Table 4.2 below.
The proposed Credit of US$18.5 million would finance 100 percent of the foreign exchange costs and
about 70 percent of local costs including taxes. The proposed Credit of US$18.5 million would finance
about 92 % of total project costs and the Government would contribute US$1.6 million equivalent or about
8% of total project costs.
Table 4.2: Financing Plan
(USS Million)
Local   Foreign    -          % Foreign   % Total Project
...........Exchange         Costs
Kyrgyz Republic             1.6       0                      0%             8%
IDA                         3.8      14.7   5:             79%             92%
TOTAL PROJECT COST          5.4      14.7   2l             73%             100%
Recurrent Costs
4.7    Recurrent Costs (US$1.0 million) will be comprised of salaries, utilities, Government in-country
travel and per diem, maintenance and operation of equipment, rents, and operating costs.  The
Government will finance 100% of recurrent costs.



39
Incremental Recurrent Costs
4.8   Several aspects of the Project are based on the rationale that there is a need for current health
sector expenditures to be maintained at least at the 1994 ratio to GDP of 3.6 percent. Significant gains
in efficiency are expected from the introduction of provider payments for services, and the liberalization
of budgetary expenditure rigidities. Greater reliance on fee for service will increase the level of private
spending for health which at the moment is quite low. The Project would require the Government to
provide incentive payments for the TB workers (US$82,000), and an estimated 10 percent contribution
to the civil works to cover local taxes (US$196,480). The total Government contribution is estimated
at US$1,605,127. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that the Borrower would deposit its
counterpart funds for the Project quarterly and in advance in the project account, establishment of which
in a commercial bank is a condition of effectiveness.
C. Procurement
Summary of Procurement Procedures
4.9    The Project Coordination Unit would be responsible for managing procurement under the
proposed project. Specialized Procurement Consultants would assist the PCU in development of technical
specifications. Procurement of goods and services would be in accordance with the World Bank's
"Guidelines, Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" dated January 1995 and "Guidelines for
the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" dated
August 1981. Standard Bidding Documents (Goods) and Form of Contracts (Services) issued by the Bank
would be used as appropriate for the Goods and Services to be procured. Both works and goods would
be grouped in the most efficient manner possible and the proposed packaging would be reviewed by the
Association.  Table 4.3 below summarizes the proposed procurement arrangements.  Detailed
procurement arrangements indicating the number of procurement packages, their value and method is
presented in Annex 10 and described below.
Procurement of Civil Works
4.10   Civil Works (US$2.0 million). Civil works for the Facilities Rehabilitation and Pharmaceutical
Management Components consisting of modest rehabilitation and upgrading of 60 primary health care
facilities (US$1.74 million) and laboratory renovation (US$96,000). The Government will provide
approximately US$200,000 for any local taxes in civil works contracts. Due to the (i) small contract
values, (US$10,000 to US$50,000 per contract); (ii) works that are geographically scattered and spread
over time due in part by climatic conditions; and (iii) labor intensive techniques, procurement of small
scale civil works will be procured under lump sum, fixed price contracts awarded on the basis of
quotations obtained from three qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. Each
year, the PCU will advertise to solicit expressions of interest from contractors in carrying out the civil
works to be financed under the project. The Borrower shall use bidding documents developed in the
ECA region.  The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic
specifications, the required completion date, and relevant drawings where applicable. Short letters of
invitation and a brief standard form of contract have been reviewed and accepted by the Association. The
award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and
who has the experience and resources to successfully complete the contract. Contracts above US$50,000
will be awarded on the basis on NCB procedures and for this purpose, the Borrower will use the Bank's
sample NCB document dated September 1995.



40
Procurement of Goods (except pharmaceuticals)
4.11   Goods (US$3.8 million) consisting of medical and other equipment and related supplies, would
be grouped to the extent practical to encourage competitive bidding. The following methods of
procurement would be followed:
(a)   International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures would be used for goods estimated
to cost US$1.8 million related to contracts estimated to cost more than US$300,000
equivalent each;
(b)   International Shopping procedures (IS) would be used for the procurement of goods that
cannot be grouped in packages above US$300,000. Quotations from at least three
suppliers from at least two different eligible countries would be required for contracts
estimated to cost less than US$300,000 and more than US$50,000. An aggregate limit
of US$1.8 million worth of goods excluding pharmaceuticals would be procured through
IS; and,
(c)    National Shopping (NS) procedures for publishing of materials (US$0.2 million), and
contracts up to US$50,000 each would be used for locally available, off-the-shelf
equipment and furniture items of small value and standard specifications up to an
aggregate amount of US$200,000; three quotations would be required.
Procurement of Pharnaceuticals
4.12   Procurement of US$8.7 million of essential drugs is a critical element in the Project and will
require special attention. All pharmaceutical procurement will follow World Bank Guidelines and the
policies established for financing procurement of pharmaceuticals and vaccines2.  International
Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures would be used for pharmaceuticals estimated to cost US$8.4
million. ICB Procurement for the Project, for pharmaceuticals, taken together with other equipment and
supplies will amount to about 83 % of all goods and pharmaceutical costs. The Bank's "Standard Bidding
Documents for Procurement of Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines" dated September, 1993 will be used for
ICB pharmaceutical contracts over US$300,000. Preparation of bidding documents for the first annual
tranche of drug procurement in a form acceptable to the Association is a condition of effectiveness. For
procurement of packages less than US$300,000, International Shopping will be used in an amount not
to exceed US$300,000. For certain drugs required under the TB component, which would involve close
cooperation with WHO, procurement of up to US$50,000 of drugs may be done through UN agencies,
where it can be demonstrated that speedier service and more economical prices are a result. In all such
cases, the World Bank's procurement policies and procedures would apply. For pharmaceuticals available
from only one source, Direct Contracting (DC), in an amount not to exceed US$50,000, would be used,
and prices would be derived from drug price bulletins issued periodically by UNICEF and similar sources
to determine reasonableness of prices offered by single bidders. The Project would finance the
procurement of drugs included on an Essential Drug List prepared by the Borrower and approved by
WHO. Standard bidding documents will be used and procurement will be under generic names.
Procurement lists will be published in "Development Business" six months prior to initiating procurement
to allow for any necessary registration. Registration of a drug would have to be completed before it can
be supplied in the Kyrgyz Republic. An exception to this requirement of completed registration could
be made, with the approval of the Association, for drugs registered in an OECD country or in the Russian
Federation. Also, all drugs to be financed under the Project would have to be registered in their own
2/Procurement Technical Note 4.3.2, August 27, 1993



41
country of manufacture and authorization certificates from all original manufacturers will be required.
Drugs will be in standard formulation in agreed packages and no non-standard pack and mini powder bulk
material will be permitted except for such items which are procured for compounding of ointments and
mixtures at the dispensary level. Any special disease drugs procured will be per international treatment
regimens acceptable to WHO and UNICEF.
4.13   The MOH  would be responsible for final determination of the type and quantity of
pharmaceuticals to be purchased. The PCU would be responsible for administering the process and
ensure that all Bank Guidelines are followed. A pharmaceutical consultant may assist the MOH and the
PCU to develop the technical specifications of all pharmaceutical procurement. Wholesalers in the
Kyrgyz Republic will sign an agreement with the MOH that details the respective responsibilities of each
in the distribution of drugs. Preparation of these distribution agreements in a form acceptable to the
Association is a condition of effectiveness.
4.14   Procurement from UN Agencies. Should it be determined that procurement of drugs and other
related medical supplies in the health sector could be carried out in a more efficient and effective way
from UNICEF or other UN Agencies, then such procedure could be used, subject to prior review by the
Association.
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods
4.15   For contracts for goods, including pharmaceuticals, to be awarded on the basis of ICB, the
Borrower may grant a margin of preference of 15% or the amount of applicable customs duties,
whichever is lower, to qualified domestic manufacturers of goods in accordance with World Bank
Procurement Guidelines (January 1995).
Procurement of Consulting Services
4.16   Consulting Services (US$3.3 million). Specialists and/or consulting firms financed under the
Project would be hired in accordance with the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" dated August, 1981. For specialized short-term
consulting services to the PCU an amount of US$90,000 (4 person months of specialized short-term
procurement advice) will be authorized, as an amendment to the on-going contract with the firm providing
long-term procurement advice to the PCU selected competitively and already in place under the Social
Safety Net Project. This arrangement would insure continuity and fast response. There will be a need
to consult closely with WHO on the introduction of modem medical practices that meet WHO guidelines,
and approximately 25 consultant months of WHO individual specialist services will be sought, largely
for the Primary Health Care component.
4.17   The Provider Payments component will require the services of an international firm for up to 34
person months of specialized technical assistance (US$820,000). The component will extend the lessons
of the reform program now underway in the Issyk-Kul oblast. The Issyk-Kul pilot project will continue
until December 31, 1996, and recommendations on the basis of the evaluation of its impact and
effectiveness will be incorporated into the Health Project.  Consultants previously hired by the
Government for the Issyk-Kul pilot project under previous financing may be considered for submission
of a proposal to assist in carrying out the Provider Payments component, with the prior approval of the
Association.



42
4.18  In addition, approximately 390 consultant years of local consultants (US$870,000) will be
required to implement the sub-components of the provider payment component. Over the four year
period of project implemeritation, this will involve approximately 100 local consultants a year, of which
more than 50% (220 person years) will be involved in the management of the 300 family practice groups
being formed under the Project. These local consultants will be selected and hired under contracts used
by the TCC for local consultants which have been approved by the Association. The TCC would prepare
a manual outlining the procedures used for selection and hiring of these consultants. The management
of these contracts will be under the administration of the specialized associations being created under the
Project to represent the interests of the various medical groups, i.e the Primary Care Physicians
Association, the Health Fund, the Hospital Association, and the Accreditation Commission. The TCC
will oversee the hiring process and the PCU has developed standard documentation for employment,
reporting and payments. The Association has reviewed and approved this documentation. Annex 8
provides the descriptions of the Terms of Reference for the proposed consultants. Local consultants will
also be provided to the TCC and PCU (54 person years) and local consultants/engineers (15 person
years).
Training
4.19 Training (US$1.2 million). For local and overseas training and study tours financed under the
Project, the qualifications of candidates along with their course of study, and proposed training
institutions and costs, and in-country local training courses would be subject to prior review by the
Association. Candidates would be selected on the basis of established criteria, to be agreed upon with
the Association as part of the annual reviews. Local training courses will be offered in Bishkek and at
model hospital facilities in the oblasts throughout the country. Up to 200 short-term training courses
(averaging about one week in length) will be offered to approximately 4000 medical and administrative
personnel of the MOH. The Government's Training Center, the Center of Continuous Medical Education
(CCME) will organize and manage most of this training activity at its facilities in Bishkek and Osh.
Other training will be carried out at model hospital facilities participating in the program, utilizing
trainers trained at the CCME who will then travel to the different oblast and raion sites to mount short
term courses there. The CCME is the only professional medical training facility servicing the medical
community and the MOH in the country. The Project will finance approximately US$400,000 of local
training costs, and US$400,000 of international training. The Government will contribute US$400,000
for local training costs. Annex 9 summarizes the training to be financed under the Project.
Project Administration
4.20   Project Administration (US$0.6 million) consists of the Technical Coordination Committee (TCC)
and the PCU. Part V of this report provides a full description of the arrangements for project
administration and management. The PCU has signed an inter-ministerial agreement with the MOH.
The PCU currently has a procurement consulting firm under contract.



43
Table 4.3: Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Project Element                          International                  Other-'                 Not Bank                  Total Cost
Competitive                                           Financed
Bidding
1. Workst'
1.1    Rehabilitation                                                 2.0                                                  2.0
(1.8)                                               (1.8)
2. Goods
2.1  Equipment                               1.8                       0.7                                                 2.5
(1.8)                     (0.7)                                               (2.5)
2.2  Pharmaceuticals                         8.4                      0.34                                                  8.7
(8.4)                    (0.34)                                               (8.7)
2.3  Supplies                                                          1.2                                                  1.2
(1.2)                                               (1.2)
3. Service Contracts
3.1  Publishing                                                        0.2                                                 0.2
(0.2)                                               (0.2)
4. Consultanciess'
4.1   Technical                                                        3.3                                                 3.3
Assistance                                                  (3.3)                                               (3.3)
4.2    Training                                                        1.2                                                  1.2
(0.8)                                               (0.8)
5. Recurrent Costs                                                                                   1.0                       1.0
Total                             10.2                      8.9                        1.0                      20.1
(10.2)                     (8.3)                                              (18.5)
Fips  in parueisecs ame iee respective a monu finaced by the Assciatio.  Fiu  may eot totl due to rnding.
a/ Includes i) lnternatial Shopping of USS2.1 mllims for:  soabory equpsent  nd supplies (USS0.3 million), office eqimne  and aspplies (US$0.3 milion), medical
supplies (USSO 2 milicn), pmacum ticals (USS0.3 millio), and trainieg matel  and boolm (US$1.0 million); ii) Direct Cotmceting for US$50,000 of pbumaceutiaa,
US$0.4 miHlion for inu-crauy training, and US$0.4 miUhrka for tuudy tnr; iii) Natioal Shopping for publishing materials (US$0.2 million), and furniture aal off-isabesf
equipment (US$0.2 millicn).
b/ SmaDl scale civil worh in ccordance widl World Bank Ouidelinea.
!/ Conaiting Services would be procured in accordance with Bank Guidelies: Uwe of Csuloants, 1981.



44
Notification of Business Opportunities
4.21   A General Procurement Notice was published in the March 31, 1996 edition of the UN
publication Development Business and, as appropriate, would be updated and published annually
thereafter. For pharmaceuticals, the list of essential drugs to be procured in the first year of the Project
was published in this notice to give bidders the opportunity to register their drugs. This will be the list
of drugs which may be financed under the Credit. For goods to be obtained by ICB, individual bidding
opportunities would be advertised in a major local newspaper 30 days prior to availability of bidding
documents and transmitted to potential bidders who expressed interest in bidding in response to the
published General Procurement Notice. The local advertisement procedure would be repeated for all
bidding packages utilizing ICB. These advertisements would be in the English language.
Project Preparation Facility (PPF)
4.22   A PPF (P-923-KG Health) in the amount of US$0.5 million was signed June 14, 1995 and
amended on December 28, 1995 to advance project preparation. Work includes consulting services to
the TCC and the PCU for the preparation of procurement arrangements, and to the component areas of
Primary Health Care, Facilities Rehabilitation, Provider Payments and Pharmaceutical Management.
Study tours and a limited amount of equipment and supplies are also eligible expenses. Rehabilitation
of the Drug Testing Laboratory was initiated under small scale civil works. Procurement will follow
Bank Guidelines.
Review By the Association of Procurement Decisions
4.23   The documentation for all procurement transactions not subject to prior review by the Association
would be subject to ex-post review during the Association's periodic project supervision missions. To
ensure compliance with the World Bank's Procurement Guidelines the following procurement actions
would be subject to prior Association review:
(a)    Civil Works: All works (including repairs to existing facilities and installation of equipment)
shall be procured under lump sum, fixed price contracts. The PCU will use a simplified version
of the standard bidding documents, developed by ECA region, which would be based on a
simplified bill of quantities including, inter alia, the method of payment and a form of contract.
The PCU would be responsible for the evaluation and recommendation of award of contracts.
Technical verification of the work carried out would also be the responsibility of the PCU in
cooperation with the MOH. Prior to award the Association would review the first two
rehabilitation contracts for work on health facilities and monitor other awards and works on a
selective basis during project supervision.
(b)  Goods induding pharmaceuticals: In general, pre-identified master lists of goods, indicating
grouping, along with estimates of cost and proposed method of procurement would be pre-
reviewed by the Association. Items would be grouped to the extent practical to encourage
competitive bidding and to permit bulk procurement. Bidding documents, evaluations and
recommendations of awards for goods and pharmaceuticals procured under DC and ICB would
be subject to prior review by the Association.
(c)  Consultants: The selection of consultant firms and individuals would be in accordance with the
World Bank Guidelines for Use of Consultants (August, 1981). Terms of Reference for all
consulting assignments would be subject to prior review by the Association. Terms and
conditions of contracts for all technical assistance assignments, invitation packages and evaluation



45
reports of assignments costing more than US$100,000 each for firms, and US$50,000 each for
individual consultants would be subject to prior review by the Association. The use of WHO
consultants for specialized medical expertise associated with introduction of WHO standards
would be in accordance with the Bank's policy on use of Advisory Services by UN Agencies
Under Bank-Financed Projects.
4.24   After award, should any material modifications or waiver of the terns and conditions of a
contract result in an increase above 15% of the original price, the Association would reserve the right
of prior review of such modifications (included would be modifications in contracts for consulting
services).
4.25   General Review: The Association would monitor procurement activities, contract management,
and project record-keeping during supervision missions. The Association would undertake a focussed
project launch workshop in June, 1996 and a comprehensive mid-term review of project progress; both
activities would place special emphasis on implementation including procurement matters.
Procurement Monitoring and Reporting
4.26   The PCU would be responsible for establishing and maintaining a computerized procurement
monitoring and reporting system acceptable to the Association. Status reports from this system would
accompany the PCU's regular quarterly project progress reports sent to the Association.
Country Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR)
4.27   Preparation of a Country Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR) is in progress for the Kyrgyz
Republic. The Government has initiated reforms in the public procurement system and new legislation
is expected in March, 1996. Following this standard procurement documents specifically designed for
the Kyrgyz Republic will be developed.
D. Disbursements
Schedule
4.28   The proposed Credit would be disbursed over about five years which includes six months for the
finalization of accounts and submission of withdrawal applications and other reports. No standard
disbursement profile exists for the Kyrgyz Republic. The Project is expected to be completed by
December 31, 2000 with a Credit Closing Date of June 30, 2001.



46
Disbursement Percentages
4.29   The proceeds of the Credit would be disbursed as shown below:
Amount        Percentage of Expenditures
Category                                   (US $ millions)         to be Financed
1. Works                                         1.7        90% of total expenditures
2. Goods and Services                            10.9       100% of foreign expenditures,
100% of local expenditures
(ex-factory costs), and 75% of
local expenditures for goods
procured locally
3. Consultants                                   3.0        100% of total expenditures
4. Training                                      0.7        100% of foreign and local total
expenditures
5. Re-financing of PPF                           0.5        Amount due according to
Agreement No. P923-0 KG
6. Unallocated                                   1.7
Total                                   18.5
Table 4.4: Annual and Cumulative Disbursements
(US$ Millions)
Bank Fiscal Year    FY97      FY98       FY99    FY00   FY01
Annual               1.0       4.0        6.0      5.0      2.5
Cumulative           1.0        5.0       11.0     16.0    18.5
4.30   The standard disbursement profile for population, health &  nutrition projects requires
approximately 32 quarters or eight years to disburse a credit. Notwithstanding this profile, the pattern
of disbursement for this Project has most of the funding for training and technical assistance taking place
during the first two years of project execution. A five year period is shown above as it is expected that
the Project will become effective early in FY97. The last year of disbursement anticipates final
disbursements in FY01. The Project's administrative arrangements are already in place and operating
under the PPF and there is a mobilized and trained Project Coordination Unit in place and working.
Procurement actions for civil works have been prepared under the PPF and would be ready to initiate
upon Credit effectiveness. Bidding documents for the first year's drug purchase will be prepared under
the PPF and would be ready to issue upon Credit effectiveness. The positive list of the drugs eligible
to be financed under the Credit has been published in Development Business on March 31, 1996 and the
drug testing laboratory has been rehabilitated under the PPF to allow early registration. The entire PPF
(US$0.5 million) is expected to be disbursed before Credit effectiveness. The disbursement schedule in
Table 4.4 allows for some lag time in actual disbursements to account for normal delays in preparation
and presentation of documentation. While ambitious, the disbursement schedule is attainable.



47
4.31   For expenditures relating to (a) contracts for goods valued at less than US$50,000 equivalent,
and (b) contracts for works each valued at less than US$50,000 equivalent, reimbursements would be
made on the basis of Statement of Expenditures (SOEs). The documentation to support these expenditures
would be retained by the PCU for their respective project activities for at least one year, after receipt by
the Association of the audit report for the year in which the last disbursement is made.  This
documentation would be made available for review by the auditors and Association supervision missions.
Disbursements for all other items would be made against full documentation and respect procurement
guidelines where applicable. Supervision missions would review documentation retained by the Borrower
in the field. If ineligible expenditures, included those not justified by the evidence furnished, or amounts
in excess of agreed disbursement percentages are financed from the Special Account, the Association
would have the right to withhold further deposits into the Special Account. The Association may exercise
this right until the borrower has: (i) refunded the amounts involved, or (ii) (if the Association agrees)
submitted evidence of other eligible expenditures that the Association can use to offset the ineligible
amounts. The minimum amount of each withdrawal application for direct payment would be US$50,000.
Special Account
4.32   To facilitate and expedite disbursements, a Special Account (SA) in dollars would be established
by the Borrower in a commercial bank on terms and conditions acceptable to the Association. An initial
deposit of US$250,000 would be made, representing estimated average expenditures to be paid from the
SA over a three-month period. To facilitate payments of rehabilitation activities, funds may be
transferred when payments are due or not more than 90 days in advance in Kyrgyz som directly from the
SA to bank accounts in branches or correspondent banks at the oblast or city level. All foreign
expenditure payments would be made directly from the Special Account. The amount of the initial
deposit will be reviewed after six months and, if necessary, increased.
4.33   The Special Account would be in the name of the Borrower and would be administered by
authorized staff of the PCU. Applications for replenishment of the SA would be submitted to the
Association by the PCU monthly or whenever the account is drawn down by about 50% of the initial
deposit, whichever comes first.
4.34   The SA would be maintained in a commercial bank. It has been confirmed that the chosen bank
must be capable of meeting the requirements of the Association with respect to opening and maintaining
the SA. The bank chosen must be: (i) financially sound as demonstrated by its latest accounts, as audited
by an internationally recognized auditing firm; (ii) have a significant foreign correspondence network
covering all major currencies; (iii) have a reasonable capacity and experience for issuing letters of credit,
for making direct foreign payments and other international transactions with appropriate arrangements
for the training and development of its staff; (iv) be capable of performing a wide range of local banking
services, including cash payments, transfers to other domestic banks, issuance of debit notes, application
of conversion rates from foreign currencies, and maintenance of adequate accounts for the SA; (v) be
willing to issue a Comfort Letter to assure that amounts deposited in the SA would not be set off or
otherwise seized or attached to satisfy amounts due to the bank by the Borrower; (vi) be willing to
maintain adequate accounts as required by the Association, provide to the Association monthly bank
statements, and any other information considered necessary (copies of all transactions would be routinely
submitted to the implementing agencies); and (vii) be willing to charge reasonable rates for its services
and provide reasonable interest on balances held from time to time.



48
E. Project Accounts, Budgets and Audits
Project Accounts and Budgets
4.35   Financing of project activities would proceed through a Project Account (PA) to be opened by
the PCU, through which project funds would be channeled.
Accounts and Audits
4.36   The Borrower would be responsible for the appropriate accounting of the funds provided by the
Association under the Credit, for reporting on the use of these funds, and for ensuring that audits of the
financial statements or reports are submitted to the Association. Under the PPF, a computerized
accounting system identical to the one already established for the Social Safety Net Project, has been
established under the PCU's financial reporting system. The project accountant in the PCU would
maintain consolidated accounts for the Project and would prepare quarterly financial reports. The
accounts would be maintained for all project funds, i.e. Credit funds and local contribution.
4.37   All project records and accounts, including those for the SOEs, the SA, and PA would be audited
annually in accordance with the "World Bank Guidelines for Financial Reporting and Auditing of Projects
Financed by the World Bank," (March 1982). An international auditing firm would be appointed to
perform project audits. The Association would be provided within six months of the end of each fiscal
year with an audit report of such scope and detail as the Association may reasonably request, including
a separate opinion by the auditor on disbursements against certified statement of expenditures.



49
PART V. PROJECT MANAGEMENT, IMPLEMENTATION, EVALUATION AND
SUPERVISION
A. Status of Project Preparation
5.1    The Project is in an advanced stage of preparation. The Ministry of Health has established a
Technical Coordination Committee (TCC) and appointed a director, and four technical component
coordinators (CCs) for each of the major activities in the Project: primary health care, facilities
rehabilitation, medical care provider payment and pharmaceutical management. The MOH has also
signed an agreement with the existing Project Coordination Unit for the Social Safety Net Project, which
will be used to manage the procurement, disbursement and administrative reporting requirements of the
proposed Health Sector Reform Project. Two MOH staff are seconded to work within the PCU, receive
hands-on training and ensure close coordination between the two entities.
5.2    A pilot TB project, funded by the Policy and Human Resources Development (PHRD) grant from
the Japanese Government, began in October, 1995 to ensure it fits within the Project's overall objectives
to make more effective use of scarce resources by reducing the length of hospitalization, number of beds,
and other costly interventions. The pilot will serve to evaluate and assess the effectiveness of comparing
partial hospital based treatment for TB to a fully ambulatory treatment from the beginning of therapy.
The results of the pilot project will guide the final choice of diagnostic and treatment policies for the IDA
supported Health Project.
5.3    USAID is funding a provider payment pilot project in Issyk-kul Oblast. A three year effort, due
to complete its first phase in December 1996, it will provide excellent experience and working models
for wider application. An evaluation of this experience will be conducted by the Government using PPF
funding. The results will be incorporated into the IDA-funded Project, which is due to begin immediately
after effectiveness.
5.4    Understandings have been reached during the pre-appraisal mission with other donors on
collaboration with regards to certain aspects of the Project. The roles of UNICEF and IDA supported
projects in the area of ARI/CDD have now been defined. Similarly, the roles of GTZ and IDA have
been better delineated, so that promotional activities in adult health lifestyles and family health will
complement and support each other so that program and resources can be strengthened and expanded.
B. Overall Project Management and Implementation
5.5    The overall implementation and administration of the Project will be the responsibility of the
Ministry of Health. To assist in the various aspects of the Project, the MOH will depend upon several
entities to provide policy advice, technical direction and specialized services. These will be carried out,
respectively, by a Project Policy Council (PPC), a Technical Coordination Committee (TCC), and the
Project Coordination Unit (PCU) of the Social Safety Net Project. Annex 6 provides a description of the
management and implementation arrangements.
Project Policy Council
5.6    The Project Policy Council, which was formed in July, 1995, will oversee the policies undertaken
by the MOH and other entities involved in project implementation to reform the health sector. The
Project Policy Council is chaired by the Minister of Health or his designee, and members include MOH
Deputy Ministers, representatives from the involved departments of the MOH, Chui and Issyk-kul Oblasts
and Bishkek city medical officials, Pharmacia, representatives from the medical community and a



50
representative from the Ministry of Finance. It will advise the Minister on all important policy aspects
of the Project and would meet once every three months, or more often if its Chairman so decides. The
Technical Coordination Committee (TCC) would serve as the secretariat of the Project Policy Council.
Technical Coordination Committee
5.7    The Technical Coordination Committee, which has been formed and has been operational since
August 1995, will manage the technical implementation of the Project. The TCC is headed by a Director
who reports to the designated Deputy Minister of Health, who serves as the Ministry's counterpart and
chief liaison officer with the Association for the Project, on a day-to-day basis. It is comprised of a full-
time Director and four technical advisors, found acceptable to the Association, who are designated as
Component Coordinators. The Director has a relevant degree and experience in the health sector. The
Director and technical staff are assisted by one administrative assistant. The TCC functions on a
permanent basis during the course of the Project. In addition, current operating personnel from each
organization who are assigned to implement a specific activity (e.g. tuberculosis, drug regulatory
organization, etc.) within each of the four components would be named as a liaison person to the TCC,
and would be responsible for the day-to-day management of their respective activities.
5.8    The TCC provides the technical direction to the several components and subcomponents. It
formulates and recommends for approval any policy reforms associated with the Project, and periodically
assesses the status of and progress towards overall project goals. It coordinates activities among the
components, and also coordinates the project's activities with the other donor activities in the health
sector. It coordinates the budget planning and control of project funds, and coordinates with the Ministry
of Finance as required. Problems which are not resolved at the component level are to be raised to the
entire TCC. The TCC will request and authorize the PCU to prepare disbursement documentation for
signature by the Minister or his designee for payment of goods and services. Finally, the TCC maintains
progress indicators, designs and arranges for periodic project evaluations and manages the periodic
meetings of the Project Policy Council. Before negotiations the MOH has provided office space, local
telephone service, local transportation expenses, an administrative assistant and two positions seconded
to the PCU funded through MOH budgetary resources. During negotiations assurances were obtained
that the Borrower shall maintain the TCC with adequate authorities to effectively coordinate the activities
under the Project under the management of a director and four component coordinators, all with
qualifications and experience acceptable to the Association, assisted by an administrative assistant. The
project finances specialized technical services, the TCC Director, the four TCC technical component
coordinators, office equipment and one vehicle.
5.9    During negotiations assurances were obtained that the Borrower would prepare, under terms of
reference satisfactory to the Association, on or about August 31 of each year, an annual progress report
integrating the results of its monitoring and evaluation activities on the progress achieved in the carrying
out of the Project and the action plan during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out
the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the
Project's objectives during the period following such date; and review with the Association, by October
15 of each year, or such later date as the Association shall request, said report and thereafter take all
measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives
thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Association's view on
the matter. The Government would make annual allocations and execute budgetary resources to the MOH
in accordance with the funding requirements of the Project, and in accordance with its policy statement
dated April 5, 1996 to the Association.



51
Component Coordinators
5.10   The Director of the TCC is assisted by four technical Component Coordinators (CCs) who
provide policy and technical direction to the four functional sectors of activity under the Project, namely
(i) primary health care, (ii) pharmaceutical management, (iii) medical care provider payment, and (iv)
facilities management. The CC's responsibility is to ensure that the day-to-day managers, i.e. the
individuals within each activity who are assigned the responsibility of implementing specific activities,
receive the necessary support and policy guidance to execute their activities, and also to ensure that the
separate activities are coordinated within the overall program of reform. This includes the coordination
with other donor activities, and the sharing of information and problem solving among all the
participating agencies and entities. They are responsible for preparing training plans and arranging for
their execution within their respective sector. They are responsible for reporting to the TCC Director
all significant activities, progress, problems or policy issues which emerge in their sector, and making
recommendations for action. They follow up on all relevant recommendations of the Project Policy
Council, and prepare or cause to be prepared any reports required in the execution of the activities within
their sector.
Project Coordination Unit
5.11   The PCU of the Social Safety Net Project, which is under implementation, has been requested
to serve as the procurement and administrative consultant of the MOH for the Health Sector Reform
Project under the PPF. The MOH has negotiated and signed an intergovernmental agreement with the
PCU which will reimburse the PCU for those direct and indirect costs associated with the Health Project,
and these costs shall be funded under the Credit. The PCU will service the specific needs of the Project
in those administrative functions required for efficient project management and implementation; it will
do so at a cost considerably less than setting up a separate PCU in the MOH. Before negotiations the
MOH has provided the PCU with two positions, which at the end of the Project would revert to the MOH
and serve as a nucleus for the MOH to establish a procurement capability within the MOH in the future.
These MOH staff working within the PCU will receive hands-on training, and ensure close coordination
between the two entities. Salaries will be paid from the MOH budget. The Project will finance the
services of general and specialized procurement specialists in pharmaceuticals, medical equipment, and
civil works adrninistration. During negotiations assurances were obtained that the Borrower shall
maintain the PCU and vest it with the responsibility for procurement, preparation of disbursement
requests and reporting in respect of the Project under the management of a director, with qualification
and experience acceptable to the Association, assisted by support staff in adequate numbers. Specifically,
the PCU will perform the following functions:
(a)  Procurement:  provide assistance, advice, and contract management to the implementing
departments and entities in the procurement of civil works, equipment, pharmaceuticals and
related services. It would also provide assistance, advice and contract management in the
recruitment of consultants and technical assistance/training services. The PCU would prepare
all tender documents and technical specifications, and manage the process of receiving and
evaluating competitive proposals (with the active participation of the TCC and Component
Coordinators within the TCC). Ensure that all procurement actions meet Bank Guidelines and
that Association no objections are sought and obtained as necessary.
(b)  Finance and Accounting: prepare and maintain detailed project and summary accounting and
financial analysis records and reports. It would also arrange for and execute all necessary project
account audits.



52
(c)  Disbursements: acting on the advice of the TCC and the Component Coordinators within the
TCC, prepare and process Bank withdrawal applications and disbursements of project funds, and
maintain all necessary special accounts of project funds.
(d)  Reporting: prepare all necessary reports required by the Association. For technical and periodic
quarterly progress reports, the PCU will insure that the TCC and Component Coordinators
prepare their contributions in a timely manner.
(e)  Civil Works: Design and implement a system of supervision involving the local comrrmunity,
MOH on-site personnel and independent engineers.
(f)  Training: train the MOH on-site personnel in accounting.
C. Project Monitoring and Evaluation
5.12   The Project includes a mechanism for monitoring the progress in its implementation and
measuring its impact. This mechanism is based on a set of indicators developed specifically for each of
the subcomponents of the Primary Health Care component and for the Facilities Rehabilitation, the
Medical Provider Payment and the Pharmaceutical Management components. The indicators are adjusted
to the disparities in the complexity and newness of the Project's various activities. Annex 11 provides a
detailed description of actions to be taken by the Government as well as details on the performance
monitoring indicators. Monitoring is carried out by the TCC, assisted by consultants.
5.13   The most important expected result of the Primary Health Care component is to improve the
health status of the population, concurrent with Ministry of Health and MANAS goals.  This
improvement in health status will be achieved by expanding effective ambulatory care for diseases of
importance and by providing the essential drugs, facilities, training and equipment to do such. As a result
of this rationally targeted expansion of the ambulatory care system along with accepted clinical and
preventive protocols, access to appropriate care improves by definition and quality of care parameters will
indicate a definite improvement.
5.14   An important aspect of the progress of the Project will involve the close monitoring of the
schedule and rate of rationalization of health facilities. Much of the economic analysis derives from the
ability and commitment of the health authorities to undertake a serious examination of the extent to which
consolidation of present redundant health facilities and the amount of budget resources they absorb can
be redirected towards primary health care and essential services. The MANAS program will specifically
address this issue, and the policy paper presented by the Government will propose general targets and
objectives. The reviews conducted by the Association during the Project will specifically address this
issue and annual discussions with the Borrower will include progress to date and expected results in the
coming year.
5.15   Other expected results will be to improve the clinical effectiveness of the delivery system by
introducing and disseminating tested and accepted ambulatory treatment protocols for PHC targeted
diseases. The concurrent provision of needed pharmaceutical in an efficient and safe health service
facility will result in the improved clinical effectiveness of the delivery system. When a health system's
clinical effectiveness occurs within the framework of targeting diseases of importance from mortality and
morbidity points of view, the health status of the population improves. The Medical Care Provider
Payment component methodology is intended to encourage providers to treat patients on an out-patient
basis, discourage unnecessary referrals and reduce hospital days. This, along with changes in protocols
formed under the other components, is expected to result in savings and efficiencies in the system.



53
PART VI. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS OF THE PROJECT
A. Framework and Justification
Integration in Country Assistance Strategy
6.1    The Bank Group's Country Assistance Strategy for FY96-98 for the Kyrgyz Republic is designed
to support the transition to a more market-oriented and macroeconomically stable economy by (i)
facilitating growth; (ii) supporting structural reform; (iii) assisting the Government to protect vulnerable
groups; and, (iv) strengthening institutional capacity. The proposed project is an integral part of this
strategy. Health service delivery, predominantly financed and provided by the public sector, is a key area
for structural reform. The proposed project aims to assist the Government to rationalize expenditures in
the health sector and place it on a more cost-effective and sustainable financial basis through extensive
structural reform of the health service delivery system. This is also consistent with the recommendations
of the recent Poverty Assessment which emphasized, inter alia, the importance of using public social
expenditure funds as effectively as possible in order that quality of, and access to, basic social services
can be improved.
Choice of Project Interventions
6.2    The Project aims to assist the Government to (a) reorient public resource flows to more cost-
effective interventions; (b) sustain cost-effective choices by medical providers through changes in the
incentive structure; and, (c) achieve health gains through strengthening the quality of care at primary
levels (ambulatory polyclinics and FAPs).
6.3    Although the current financial crisis has placed great strain on the quality and availability of
health services, the emphasis of the proposed project is not on short-term financing but on structural
reform. The analysis of the health system presented in Part I emphasized the structural inefficiencies
which characterize the sector. Additional financial resources for the sector without reforms to encourage
cost-effective resource use would result in scarce public funds achieving less health effects than they
potentially could. Furthermnore, the pervasive biases in resource allocation patterns indicate that there
is considerable scope for savings to be gained through rationalization of resource use in more cost-
effective directions. Realization of these potential gains and re-investment into the health sector would
enable the Government to improve the quality and availability of services, even in the current fiscal crisis.
In other words, application of cost-effectiveness criteria to project design narrows the apparent policy gap
between short-term resource needs and longer-term reform needs.
6.4    Cost-effectiveness in the context of the health sector is defined as the achievement of the highest
health gains (measured by DALYs) at the lowest cost. Although cost-effectiveness was most explicitly
applied in the selection of interventions to be financed within the Primary Health Care component, its
broader application resulted in other Project components focusing on the strengthening of ambulatory care
more generally, given the current overemphasis on tertiary and inpatient care and given that there are
relatively few cost-effective inpatient interventions.
6.5    Successful implementation of a program to upgrade ambulatory care will reduce the demand for
hospital based care at the tertiary and secondary levels. The redirection of this demand towards a
strengthened integrated PHC level will imply that inpatient resources previously utilized to treat some
health conditions will become redundant. Project interventions are likely to demonstrate the potential for
savings which would be released if the excess inpatient capacity was reduced. Actual realization of these



54
savings would require the Government to close redundant facilities and to reassign or release staff from
inpatient facilities.
6.6    The Project itself does not design a program of facility or staff rationalization, although it
recognizes that these measures would be necessary in order to guarantee potential savings which could
be reinvested into primary health care. By strengthening the ability of the primary level to deliver
outpatient care, however, the project design will raise the visibility of excess inpatient capacity,
demonstrate that this excess capacity could be reduced without adverse health impacts, provide incentives
through changes in both provider payment systems and medical practice, and thereby strengthen the
ability of the Government to begin the difficult process of closures and staff rationalization. Additionally,
even if facility rationalization is undertaken slowly, and potential savings are slow to be realized, health
gains can still be expected as a result of improved diagnostic and treatment capacity in the primary care
levels. These issues are elaborated in the section on Risks and Limitations.
Systemic Approach
6.7    The approach of the proposed project is a systemic one aiming to change clinical protocols and
the regulatory, payment and management structures underlying inefficient resource use, rather than a
vertical approach targeting specific clinical programs alone (e.g. TB). Although the systemic approach
leads to a more complex project than would be expected from a vertical approach, it was the preferred
design. This is in view of international experience which suggests poor sustainability of improvements
to specific programs without accompanying changes in the system-wide incentives which resulted in
inefficient resource allocation and use in the first place. In order to monitor impact of the proposed
changes and in view of limited implementation capacity, however, the Project does not attempt to
intervene in all areas where structural reforms are deemed necessary. Some of the more significant
limitations of the project design are elaborated in section C below on Risks and Limitations.
B. Benefits
6.8    An effort is made to identify benefits expected from each component. It is necessary to bear in
mind, however, that the proposed interventions are integrally linked to each other and will jointly affect
outcomes in many cases. Cost benefit analysis is not attempted because both costs and benefits are shared
across components which have different coverage levels, and because it is very difficult to establish direct
causal links between project interventions and health benefits, let alone to measure these benefits. The
emphasis of the current analysis is on establishing the cost-effectiveness of project interventions.
Component A: Primary Health Care
Application of Cost-effectiveness Criteria
6.9    In identifying priority interventions within PHC areas, it was necessary to consider the incidence
or prevalence of the disease, the likely gains in potential years of life and/or disability adjusted life years
(DALY) resulting from the burden of disease, the effectiveness of the intervention, and the cost of the
intervention. A variant of the DALY methodology presented in the World Bank's 1993 World
Development Report was applied to the Kyrgyz situation (see note to Table 6.1 below).



55
Table 6.1: Cost-effectiveness of Interventions
Estimated                    Existence of
ambulatory
DALYs lost                    intervention in
preventive and/or
curative scenario
Tuberculosis                   20,206 (+ dynamic transmission)              Yes
Diarrhcal Disease                          82,439                           Yes
Childhood Cluster                          38,353                           Yes
ARI                                         82,913                          Yes
Maternal Conditions                        21,750                           Yes
Perinatal Conditions                       78,653                           Yes
Malignant Neoplasms                        77,707                           Yes
Nutritional/Endocrine                      27,314                           Yes
Neuro-Psychiatric                          75,848                            ?
Cardiovascular                             165,356                           No
Unintentional Injuries                     93,472                            No
Intentional Injuries                       50,288                            No
Sexually transmitted diseases   5,725(+ dynamic transmission)               Yes
Source:  DALY estimates based on a weighted average for countries of the Middle Eastem region and tde Former
Socialist Economies, WDR 1993; Staff estimates
Notes:   *the analysis was performed for all diseases;
*in order to focus on conditions that had a significant impact on the health status of the population, a cutoff
for all conditions was established at 20,000 disability adjusted life years (DALYs) saved, or diseases which
were likely to have dynamic transmission (i.e. highly infectious diseases); only conditions meeting one or
the other of these two criteria were included in the next phase of the analysis;
ebased on the existing health services literature, conditions that have cost-effective interventions (defined as
costing less than US$350 per DALY saved) were considered for inclusion in the Project;
-from this list, only those interventions were chosen which are cost-effective from a curative or preventive
perspective and can be provided in an outpatient primary care setting.
6.10     Based on the DALY  analysis support to 10 conditions can be offered through ambulatory care
and is a cost-effective approach--tuberculosis, diarrheal diseases, childhood cluster (i.e. expanded
program of immunization), ARI, STDs, matemal conditions, perinatal conditions,
nutritional/endocrine, and cardiovascular conditions. Taking into account the cost-effectiveness
analysis and the existing pattem of donor support, the proposed project focuses on ARI/CDD, WRH
(which includes STDs), and TB. Together, these interventions target a significant portion of the
burden of disease and use limited funds in a very cost-effective manner. The PHC component will
finance training, pharmaceuticals and equipment (particularly for TB) necessary to implement new
medical protocols emphasizing prevention and the use of arnbulatory care.



56
Potential for Fiscal Benefits
6.11   The introduction of new treatment protocols emphasizing ambulatory care will not directly
lead to fiscal savings but will demonstrate the lower cost of provision of a service as compared to the
inpatient alternative. The source of these potential savings are from reductions in the hospital length
of stay and number of hospitalizations (admissions), which in turn would imply lower inpatient staff
and facility needs. To realize these savings, inpatient facilities and staff would have to be reduced.
This would lead to realized savings in the form of saved salaries (plus payroll contributions) and
utilities costs which together, in 1994, on average accounted for 66% of the operating costs of health
facilities.
6.12   An exercise was undertaken to estimate the magnitude of savings expected from changes in
the TB treatment protocols. A costing exercise was done for 1996 using 1994 prices to estimate the
cost of treatment of all TB cases if current protocols were not changed (the without project scenario)
and if 50% of TB cases were treated according to specified combinations of the proposed protocols
(three categories) while 50% continued to be treated according to current practice (the expected
scenario in the first year of the Project). 3
6.13   The analysis suggests that the cost of treating all TB patients for 1996 could be reduced by about
28% if only 50% of cases are treated using the new protocols. For subsequent years, as adoption of the
new protocol expands, the magnitude of potential savings can be expected to increase. Overall, it is
estimated that successful adoption of the TB protocols could reduce the cost of TB treatment by 25-50%,
relative to costs under current protocols, for each year of the Project and beyond. The main source of
these savings is from a reduction in the use of costly inpatient-days and a greater use of outpatient visits
in the treatment of TB cases. As mentioned, realization of these savings will depend on closure of excess
inpatient capacity.
6.14   The TB exercise provides an order of magnitude of potential savings. The methodology could
be applied to the other PHC interventions (ARI/CDD, WRH), data availability permitting.
Coverage and Access
6.15   The coverage of the new protocols is intended to be nationwide across all six oblasts, with a
population and potential beneficiary pool of 4.5 million. The different subcomponents aim to complete
training on different schedules and full coverage of the population will be achieved only by the end of
the Project's completion. The PHC component is likely to increase access to services in at least four
ways:
(i)    introduction of ambulatory alternatives to inpatient care will enable the poor, who may
not have been able to afford costs associated with inpatient care (e.g. lost wages, food,
bed-linen, etc.) to access treatment which they may otherwise have foregone;
3/ It must be noted that the comparison is between the scenarios where the full recommended treatment, including
drugs, under the respective protocol is implemented. In reality, many patients under the current protocol are not
supplied with the necessary drugs. In actual terms, therefore, actual operating expenses (relative to the current
situation) may increase if necessary drugs are supplied as recommended under the new protocols. Comparisons of
cost-effectiveness are meaningless, however, if they are not done across comparable outcomes (i.e. equivalent
numbers of cases treated and cured). The methodology used here is justified in that the different methods lead to
the same number of cases cured and the estimate is of potential costs and savings expected in achieving this
equivalent outcome.



57
(ii)   improved quality of services in the network of primary care facilities will also reduce the
transportation costs (time and material) which patients would have bome to access
inpatient care at the more centralized tertiary care facilities;
(iii)   provision of basic supplies to all FAPs will especially enable the rural population to
access basic services without having to incur transportation costs or delays; and
(iv)   the integration of services in some model sites will enable catchment area populations
(and also those who travel to these facilities) to obtain services with lower transaction
costs.
Health Impact
6.16   The provision of basic supplies and equipment in support of the new protocols under the PHC
component is expected to lead to improvements in the quality of services provided. This will lead to
gains in healthy years of life which would not have been achieved in the absence of the Project. It is
difficult to quantify expected health impact of the component, however, since exogenous factors (e.g. a
decline in nutritional status, changes in pollution levels, etc.) may obscure the causal links between
project interventions and health outcome. As demonstrated, however, the interventions target diseases
which had a high burden of disease. Moreover, monitorable targets in terms of changes in health
outcomes will be tracked as part of project performance monitoring.
Demonstration Effect
6.17   The PHC component will also finance integration of basic primary health care provision
(Tuberculosis, AIDS control, Dermatology, Venerology and Family Planning) on unified Model sites
situated in each oblast at selected oblast and raion facilities.  This will demonstrate the feasibility of
providing primary care in a unified setting and offer a model to be replicated throughout the country.
As stated above, the component can further demonstrate the potential savings to be gained from provision
of services on an ambulatory rather than inpatient basis for the selected interventions. These lessons
could be replicated for other types of interventions on a nationwide scale.
Component B: Facilities Rehabilitation
6.18   The enormous emphasis placed on inpatient care has resulted in the systematic underfunding of
primary care facilities such as ambulatories and FAPs. As a consequence of successful implementation
of ambulatory protocols under the PHC component and more cost-effective use of inpatient facilities by
medical providers under the Medical Care Provider Payment component, greater utilization of outpatient
facilities and reduced utilization of inpatient facilities is expected. In support of this anticipated change
in the pattern of utilization, the Facilities Rehabilitation component attempts to expand the physical
capacity for outpatient care provision. The Project will finance rehabilitation and conversion of existing
capacity rather than the creation of new facilities.
6.19   Since the target facilities will be distributed throughout the oblast, the whole population of Chui,
of 774,000, may be regarded as beneficiaries. This is also likely to result in higher effective gains to the
poor relative to the non-poor within Chui Oblast, since transportation costs to better resourced city
facilities are likely to have been more of a constraint to proper medical care for poorer households than
for others.



58
6.20   It is not possible to separately identify the gains from investments under the facilities component
alone, since it complements changes under the PHC and Provider Payments components in the strategy
to improve ambulatory care provision. For example, services not targeted under the Project, but which
can be performed in an outpatient setting (e.g. cataract operations), will also benefit from improved
outpatient facilities. Expansion in effective physical capacity for ambulatory care is essentially an
enabling factor for implementation of changes under the other project components. In addition, there may
be significant demonstration effects of this component for further facility rationalization within Chui
Oblast and for replication of criteria, process, organizational forms, etc. in all the other oblasts.
6.21   The sustainability of rehabilitation efforts under the component is addressed through the
reformulation and empowerment of a Buildings and Equipment Committee which will be responsible for
future maintenance of facilities.
Component C: Medical Care Provider Payment
6.22   The Medical Care Provider Payment Component proposes to change the methods used to pay
physicians, polyclinics and hospitals in order to introduce incentives for these providers to manage
resources and deliver care more efficiently through greater use of primary care. Payment to medical care
providers from public funds would no longer be made on the basis of production inputs but on the basis
of a combination of expected volume of cases, performance and outcome. The payer (in this case, the
proposed Health Fund) would focus on paying for appropriate care at the lowest cost, while the provider
(family practitioners and hospitals) would have greater flexibility to manage costs and select protocols
in delivering care. Under the reforms, the provider would be 'at risk' in that they would be responsible
for payments received and costs of care.
6.23   These features should encourage providers to treat patients on an outpatient rather than an
inpatient basis, discourage unnecessary referrals for specialist or diagnostic services, reduce the rate of
hospital admissions as well as the length of stay in hospital (LOS). The component will also develop a
quality assurance system to ensure that quality of services is not compromised. This component attempts
to reinforce the primary care focus of the other components discussed above.
6.24   During a phase in period, capitation based payments (i.e. payments per enrolled person to finance
the costs of a set of services) will be introduced for Family Practice Groups and global budgets for
hospitals. Over the course of the Project, case-based payment systems will also be introduced in the
hospital sector. Fee for service (using a fixed schedule) would be introduced for some priority diseases.
The main advantages and disadvantages of the proposed measures, relative to the current line-item
budgeting system, may be summarized as follows in Table 6.2 below:



59
Table 6.2: Alternative Methods of Paying Medical Care Providers
Payment                   Main Advantages                   Main Disadvantages           Measures to Minimize Disadvantages
Method
Line Item         Allows strong central control,     No direct incentives for efficiency    Montor performance to encourage
Budget            desirable where local management                                       best use of resources within
very weak                          Provider may under provide          constraint of fixed factors of
services                           production
Predictable expenses for fund
holder (unless supplemental        Imposes fixed resource use,
budgets provided                   directly impending efficiency
Global Budget    Predictable expenses for fund       No direct incentives for efficiency    Monitor performance. Provide
holder, low administrate costs                                         performance based incentives (link
Provider may under provide         global budget to performance,
Unified budget permits resources   services                            bonuses)
to be used efficiently
Capitation        Predictable expenses for the fund  Financial risk mnay bankrupt        To mininize excessive provider risk
holder                             provider. Provider may seek to      consider capitation 'carve outs' and
minimize risk by 'cream            adjusting capitated payments to
Provider has incentive to operate  skimming" --enrolling low-risk      reflect the underlying risks of
efficiently                        patients                            population enrolled
Eliminates supplier-induced        Provider may under provide          Enforce contracts to ensure services
demand                             services                            provided
Moderate admin. costs
Case-Based        Strong incentives to operate       Unpredictable expenses for fund     Adopt detailed case-mix category
efficiently                        holder, high administrative costs   system
(but less than fee for service)
Adopt mixed payment system
Provider has incentives to select
low-risks within case categories
Case based payment less suitable
for outpatient care (difficult to
define case)
Source: Barnum H., Kutzin J. and Saxenian H. 'Incentives and Provider Payment Systems".
6.25      Under this component, a mixed payment system  will be adopted in Bishkek City and in Chui
Oblast, extending models currently being piloted in Issyk-kul Oblast under the auspices of USAID. The
main expected benefit from the implementation of the Provider Payment component in these areas are
changes in the utilization pattern of inpatient and outpatient care: decreases will be expected in the
number of inpatient admissions, the average length of stay, and the number of secondary referrals; an
increase will be expected in the number of outpatient visits. An attempt was made to model these
changes in order to obtain an estimate of the impact on total costs of inpatient and outpatient care.
6.26     In a simplified model for Chui Oblast, three scenarios were estimated:  (i)  the current cost of
inpatient and outpatient care if number of admissions, length of inpatient stay (LOS), and number of
outpatient visits were at 1994 levels; (ii) the cost of inpatient and outpatient care if the number of
admissions and the LOS fell by 10% while the number of outpatient visits increased by 10%; and (iii)



60
the same pattern as in scenario 2 except that the expected changes were 20% rather than 10%. The
results are presented in Table 6.3.
Table 6.3: Efficiency Gains from Changes in Utilization Patterns
(soms, in 1994 prices)
Cbui Oblast                              Department   Cost per    Lengt o    Nuimur of  Numer or
Cost after   Case       Stay in    outpatient   inpatient
allocation             hospital     visits    admissions
.____ ____   ______(LOS)
Current:
Scenario 1:
Current total cost for 1994            77,112,324    548        16.6      2,309,000    111,262
Effidency gaim:
Scenario 2
if# of admissions decreases by 10%,
LOS decreases by 10%,
# of outpatient visits increases by 10%
New total annual cost:                67,148,252    493        14.94     2,539,900    100,136
New total as % of current total          87%
Effkency galns:
Scenario 3:
if # of admissions decreases by 20%,
LOS decreases by 20%,
# of outpatient visits increases by 20%  58,403,167  438    13.28     2,770,800    80,910
New total annual cost:                   76%
New total as % of current total
Sources:Util data from MOH; Cost data from ZdravReform, Abt Associates
6.27    In scenario 2, cost of care falls by about 13%  compared to the present, while in scenario 3, the
potential savings are almost 25 % of current costs.4 The model does not identify whether it is realistic
to expect changes of 10 or 20% in utilization patterns or what timeframe is being considered. It can be
said, however, that hospital admission rates in the Kyrgyz Republic are about 15-20% higher than the
OECD average, while hospital lengths of stay are as much as 50 % higher than OECD levels for selected
disease categories (although the case-mix is different in the Kyrgyz Republic). Thus the magnitudes of
change used in the model are not unrealistic. The pace at which efficiency gains can be expected will
probably accelerate in the latter years of the Project as providers participate and learn to use the new
systems. A similar exercise was done for Bishkek city.
6.28    Note: the estimates here reflect the expected effects due not only to changes in the provider
payment systems but also changes in treatment protocols and facility rehabilitation financed under the
other components. Moreover, these estimates indicate the level of overall cost reduction that could be
expected if decisions by providers to utilize primary care alternatives are sustained. It is noted that
realization of these potential savings is largely dependent on closure of excess inpatient capacity.
Component D: Pharmaceuticals Management
6.29    This component attempts to make progress in restructuring regulation, procurement and use of
pharmaceuticals towards cost-effective ends and to improve the overall supply of medicines. The main
benefits are expected in the following areas:
4/Actual savings may be lower than estimates given here since costs saved on the margin may be less than costs
saved on average. If the Government is committed to rationalize overhead costs such as salaries, any gap between
marginal and average cost-savings will be reduced.



61
Rationali2ing the Composition of Public Spending on Medicines
6.30   Since drugs procured under the Project will be essential drugs, a significant percentage is likely
to be dispensed to exempted patients and, hence, to be financed out of local health budgets. If public
spending levels remain constant, therefore, a greater proportion of public spending on medicines will be
used to buy cost-effective essential drugs. This change in composition of public drug expenditures is
expected even prior to the third year of the Project when the Government is required to limit public
spending exclusively to the drugs on the Essential Drugs List.
Net Consumption of Medicines
6.31   Since the drugs are to be sold, either for cash or for reimbursement from Article 10 funds, the
net increase in total consumption of medicines will depend, on the-one-hand, on the budgetary resources
available to purchase medicines, and, on the-other-hand, on the financial ability of consumers to incur
out-of-pocket expenses. The increase in supply of cheaply procured drugs at the distributor levels may,
however, lead to a decline in scarcity premia inflating drug retail prices. Net consumption is likely to
increase by a modest amount. As the Project will institute mechanisms to ensure that drugs procured
under the Project are distributed to all oblast Pharmacias, the increase in net consumption is expected to
be spread across the country.
Distribuion System
6.32   The component will assist in the re-capitalization of the weakest link in the pharmaceuticals
distribution system in the Republic: the oblast Pharmacias. These Pharmacias, nominally independent,
are deeply in debt, have no access to short-term credit, and have meager inventories. By providing these
regional distributors with a substantial supply of low-cost drugs, and if the Pharmacias are permitted to
retain a significant portion of their earnings from onward sale of the medicines, it is possible that one or
more of the distributors will be able to emerge as financially viable. Financially sound distributors which
may be able to compete with each other in the future, will help sustain improved availability of medicines
well beyond the duration of the Project.
Effective Regulation of Medicines
6.33   The component will provide financing critical to strengthen institutional capacity to assure the
safety and efficacy of medicines produced and/or distributed locally. Empowered regulatory bodies will
be better placed to enforce procurement guidelines and contribute to educating practitioners and users in
the use of essential drugs. Successful implementation of regulatory capacity building under the Project
is likely to be an effective means of sustaining the benefits from cost-effective procurement, distribution
and use of medicines in the country during and beyond the Project.
C. Risks and Limitations
6.34   The reforms proposed under the Project target some of the structures in the health sector which
are most difficult to change in an orderly manner. The aim is to restructure resource flows in the sector
and this necessarily implies that there are winners and losers.
Closure and Retrenchment
6.35   The potential efficiency gains identified from reforms cannot be achieved without rationalization
of inpatient facilities and staff. The issue of closure of facilities and staff retrenchment is an enormously



62
difficult one which many countries are grappling with in health and other sectors. Resistance to
rationalization efforts can be expected not only from medical professionals and auxiliary staff fearing job
losses, but users in catchment areas of facilities which are likely to be closed. Uncertainty and anxiety
in this regard may lead to resistance to the adoption of new ambulatory protocols and payment methods
even if closure is not an explicit program in the short-term. The Government would need assistance to
undertake a process of consultation with different constituencies such as doctors, other medical staff, users
in urban and rural areas, MOH staff, the Parliament, etc. to develop a program, design a compensation
package, identify re-training opportunities, disseminate information on the need, purpose and measures
necessary and generally build a core consensus on the issues.
6.36   The strengthening of primary and ambulatory service delivery is a precursor to inpatient capacity
reduction. The Project has focussed on this first process through the already complex set of proposed
reforms. While recognizing the necessity of assisting the Government with a capacity rationalization
strategy, the project preparation team did not think it feasible to include a facility and staff rationalization
program within the Project itself, especially given limited implementation capacity and reduced central
staffing levels in the MOH. Efforts have been made to coordinate project planning with relevant efforts
being undertaken through other programs. A facility restructuring program currently being developed
by the ODA will identify a detailed facility rationalization plan for Bishkek City, including the financing
needs. The MANAS group is also developing a master plan for facility rationalization. It is not clear
whether these efforts, combined with the urgency created by the continuing fiscal crisis, will be enough
to build the political will in Government necessary to undertake physical and human resource
rationalization. As results unfold, it will become clearer whether the issue will remain a priority for
support under the next Sector Adjustment Loan (SECAL).
Potential for Private Sector Displacement
6.37   In a real sense, there is little displacement likely from the large majority of interventions proposed
under the Project since the private sector is very small at the moment. Moreover, the primary health
interventions to be financed under the Project are mostly of a public goods type, with significant gains
to society (e.g. TB, STDs, CDD, ARI, adult/family health education). These are appropriate areas for
public financing since a potentially active private financing sector may not find these areas attractive and
may finance these services at levels below those which would benefit society at large.
6.38   An area where there is an unknown net impact on the private sector, is that of current
pharmaceuticals procurement under the Pharmaceutical Management component. Since the oblast
Pharmacias will be receiving drugs at a low cost, it may become more difficult for other distributors to
sell the same drugs profitably, i.e. at a price high enough to cover their acquisition costs. It is possible
that alternative sourcing of the drugs procured under the Project could decline, especially if quantities
procured under the Project represent a substantial portion of annual demand for the medicine. The
magnitude of this effect is impossible to predict at the moment because of the lack of information on the
composition of current drug consumption, the recent nature of private distributor activity in the country,
etc. In order to minimize any displacement effect, it will be necessary to carefully choose the list of
drugs to be procured under the Project and to spread out disbursement in simple tranches.
6.39   On the other hand, the Project may facilitate the growth of the private sector. The Project
finances a large amount of training in modern clinical and management techniques which can be used by
private providers of health care. Changes in provider payment systems promoted by the Project can be
utilized to compensate private providers as well as public sector providers. Under the pharmaceuticals
management component, the structure of on-lending is designed to re-capitalize distributors who may be
able to compete on a financially viable basis in future procurement and distribution activities.



63
Fiscal Sustainability
6.40   No significant new incremental costs are expected under the Project and the counterpart financing
required from the Government over the course of the Project is estimated as averaging annually at I %
of the 1994 budgetary expenditures on health. Of greater concern for the overall feasibility of the
Project, however, is the level of budgetary commitment expected for the health sector for the duration
of the Project.
6.41   Several aspects of the Project require that health sector budgetary expenditures be maintained at
the real levels of health budget execution of 1994.
(i)    As an example, in order to compensate providers under the new payment methods,
adequate public resources will be necessary in the Health Fund such that realistic
capitation compensation rates and hospital global budgets can be set. If public financing
declines beyond current levels, the financial viability and credibility of the new payment
system will be severely undernined.
(ii)    Further, the above analysis demonstrates that the increased volume of utilization of
outpatient facilities expected from the reforms will imply capital needs to finance
conversion to and rehabilitation of outpatient facilities.  This provides one of the
arguments for the proposed Covenant requiring Government to maintain public health
budgets at a reasonable level: even if savings are expected and realized through closure
of inpatient facilities, there would be considerable need to re-invest savings in upgrading
and expanding outpatient capacity in order to accommodate the desired changes in
utilization patterns.
(iii)   The public health system's access to the drugs procured under the pharmaceuticals
management component (but not the PHC component) is circumscribed by the total public
funds available in central and oblast budgets to purchase these drugs directly or through
reimbursement of exempted consumption.
6.42   As documented in Part 1, real expenditure levels in the Kyrgyz health sector have already declined
significantly during the course of transition, jeopardizing both effective coverage and quality of services
provided. In view of these earlier declines, and of the need to re-invest any savings generated by the
Project towards sustaining the reform process, it was the judgement of the project appraisal team that
further declines in health spending could delay, or effectively negate, the improvements in utilization and
health status expected from the reforms. These concerns have been discussed with the Government and
a covenant will be included to require that the level of total executed budgetary financing of the health
sector is not less than the 1994 executed level in real inflation adjusted terms (using IMF estimates of
GDP deflators) for the project implementation period.
6.43   Additional sources of financing of health services are also being explored. The USAID is
exploring the feasibility of a payroll tax based mandatory health insurance system through its existing
technical assistance program in Issyk-kul Oblast. Given the ongoing revenue shortfalls faced by the
Government, the likelihood of any additional financing being raised through payroll taxes seems unlikely
in the short-term. User fees for services, while already in operation for some types of services is not
extensive. The MANAS Group is discussing the introduction of a minimum package of cost-effective
services which would be provided free of charge and beyond which user fees could be introduced for the
non-poor. Given the extensive prevalence of poverty in the country and the likely administrative costs
of administering a fee system, net revenue expected if fees are introduced are likely to be modest at best.



64
It was also judged that revision of the exemptions policy for consumption of medicines is neither
politically nor administratively feasible in the short term, and again, may not generate significant savings
if implemented. Adherence to the covenant will thus require clear Government commnitment and inter-
sectoral adjustments within total public sector spending.
6.44   As has been demonstrated, if real budgetary levels are maintained, potential savings are realized
through facility rationalization, and realized savings are re-invested in primary care, the delivery of health
care in the Republic will be on a far more financially sustainable and cost-effective basis than it is at
present.



65
PART VII. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
7.1    The following actions were taken by the Borrower to fulfill conditions of negotatons:
(a)    The Ministry of Health has staffed the Technical Coordination Comnmittee with an
administrative assistant and the PCU with two staff for day-to-day administration and
monitoring of project activities (para 5.8, 5.11);
(b)    Review of current legislation to identify possible restrictions on:
(i)   the efficient use of present health facilities, including restrictions that require
different hospital functions to be placed in separate buildings (para. 3.9);
(ii)   the expansion of the range of health services provided at the primary health care
level, including ambulatory treatment of STDs and TB (para. 3.9);
(iii)   adoption of the WHO guidelines on maternal and child health, sexually
transmitted diseases, acute respiratory infections, diarrheal disease including
those related to confidential, anonymous care and ambulatory care (para. 3.13,
3.25, 3.29);
(iv)   savings from rationalization of facilities or implementation of new provider
payment methods will be retained and reinvested (para. 3.62);
(v)    establishment of a mechanism to enforce the pooling of funds at the national,
oblast, municipal and raion level (para. 3.62); and
(vi)   authority to establish new payment methods including at least the following (para.
3.62):
(a)    The line-item budget system will not be used to reimburse providers.
(b)    Determination and resolution of conflicts with the Treasury System
created by new provider payment methods.
(c)    Capability to institute performance-based pay.
(d)    Facility management autonomy including hiring and firing.
(c)    Adoption of legislation on the following points:
(i)   the three-level structure and revitalization of the National Tuberculosis Program
and the framework for tuberculosis control prepared by the National Tuberculosis
Research Institute on the basis of WHO guidelines (para. 3.28);
(ii)    a system of financial incentives for primary health care personnel for case
detection and cure of tuberculosis patients (para. 3.29);
(d)    Adoption of revised procedures for financing the Administration for Standardization,
providing that the salaries of senior officials and regulatory decision-makers are financed
by the Government and not from fees (para 3.71); and,
(e)    Adoption and publication of the Essential Drugs List (para 3.73).



66
(f)    Presentation of a draft policy statement outlining its health sector reform strategy, which
includes a provision that during the execution of the Project the level of annual budgetary
financing for the health sector will remnain executed at a level, not less in real, inflation-
adjusted terms than such total executed financing in 1994, and containing other
undertakings as elaborated in the text (para. 1.50);
(g)    Preparation of a list for review and comments to the Association of 30 ambulatory centers
and 30 rural hospitals in Chui Oblast and Bishkek City to be repaired and converted as
part of this Project (para.3.36);
7.2    During negotiations, is was agreed with the Borrower that:
(a)    The Borrower shall carry out an action plan agreed with the Association in a manner
satisfactory to the Association (para. 3.7 and Annex 11);
(i)    By December 31, 1996, The Borrower, through its Ministry of Health, will:
(a)    Present to the Association for review and comments its MANAS Health
Care Reform Program and a schedule of rationalization of health
facilities and thereafter carry out the program in accordance with that
schedule, taking into account the comments of the Association (para.
1.49);
(b)    Combine services in the health facilities selected as Oblast Model
Polyclinics where training under the PHC component will be carried out,
so that services for pediatrics, women's health and general adult health
will be offered in one building (para. 3.19).
(c)    Ensure timely supply and regular replenishment to all facilities where
training under the PHC component is carried out of project financed
equipment, drugs and other materials, and ensure that part of these drugs
are provided free of charge to personnel of FAPs and ambulatory centers
participating in the training programs as trainees (para. 3.19);
(d)    Establish new national case management guidelines, treatment protocols
and enabling legislation (para. 3.9, 3.13, 3.25, 3.28, 3.62);
(e)    Issue guidelines, acceptable to the Association, to health authorities at all
levels on leasing of publicly owned health premises to family group
practices (para. 3.64 (a));
(f)    Carry out a study of the levels of patients' referrals from primary care
physicians to specialists and for diagnostic tests in Bishkek City and Chui
Oblasts. Not later than June 30, 1997 it will submit this study to the
Association for review and comments, and it will subsequently
implement the agreed recommendations (para. 3.64 (b));
(g)    Appoint a standing committee for the Essential Drugs Program,
consistent with authority provided by the "Law on Medicines" and as



67
provided by the rules adopted on compiling and maintaining its EDL
(para. 3.78).
(ii)    By June 30, 1997 and thereafter at the end of each annual drug procurement
cycle, the Borrower's MOH will review drug procurement and distribution so as to
assure that privately owned drug wholesalers and retailers are not disadvantaged
compared to remaining state-owned companies (para. 3.80).
(iii)   By December 31, 1997, the Borrower, through its Ministry of Health, will:
(a)    Design and implement a national health accounts system to be able to
track allocation of resources for health and the flow of funds in the
health sector (para. 3.64 (c));
(b)    Establish a data base of National Case Management Guidelines for
women's reproductive health, STDs, ARI/CDD and TB, based on the
WHO recommended guidelines, together with treatment protocols for all
those conditions, indicating that drugs used should be from its Essential
Drug List only, and thereafter update and distribute these protocols
regularly to health workers nationwide (para. 3.23);
(c)    (i) establish and thereafter maintain a Health Fund into which national,
oblast, municipal and raion level health authorities will contribute and
out of which medical providers will be paid; (ii) issue guidelines on the
manner and level of contribution by these health authorities and the
characteristics and costs of the services to be purchased; and, (iii) pass
legislation allowing establishment of primary health care provider groups
as non-profit entities and opening of bank accounts by such groups (para.
3.64 (c));
(iv)   By January 31, 1998 and thereafter, the Borrower will allocate budget resources
for procurement and reimbursement of pharmaceuticals solely to pharmaceuticals listed
on its Essential Drug List and registered in the country (para. 3.77);
(v)    In each medical facility to be renovated under the project the Borrower, through
its MOH, will establish a stakeholder group consisting of health authorities and local
government officials, before renovation is undertaken (para. 3.36 and Annex 3).
(b)    The Borrower would prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association,
on or aboiit August 31 of each year, an annual progress report integrating the results of
its monitoring and evaluation activities on the progress achieved in the carrying out of
the Project and the action plan during the period preceding the date of said report and
setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project
and the achievement of the Project's objectives during the period following such date; and
review with the Association, by October 15 of each year, or such later date as the
Association shall request, said report and thereafter take all measures required to ensure
the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof,
based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Association's
view on the matter. (para. 5.9 and Annex 11);
(c)    The Borrower shall ensure that annual budgetary resources are allocated and executed for
the MOH consistent with the funding requirements of the project and in accordance with
the policy statement dated April 5, 1996 to the Association (para. 1.50, 5.9);



68
(d)    The Borrower's contribution to the Project will be deposited quarterly and in advance in
the project account (para. 4.8);
(e)    No later than December 31, 1996 the Borrower will carry out an evaluation of the Issyk-
kul provider payments pilot program exploring the feasibility of introducing a provider
payment mechanism for health care workers and present the results of the evaluation to
the Association for its review and comments and it will subsequently apply the agreed
recommendations to the implementation of the expanded provider payments component
(para. 3.64);
(f)    Borrower shall not during the execution of the Project, undertake any new construction
of health facilities without prior consultation with the Association (para. 3.33).
(g)    During execution of the Project, the Borrower shall:
(i)    maintain the TCC with adequate authorities to effectively coordinate the
activities under the Project under the management of a director and four
component coordinators, all with qualifications and experience acceptable
to the Association, assisted by an administrative assistant; and
(ii)    maintain the PCU and vest it with the responsibility for procurement,
preparation of disbursement requests and reporting in respect of the
Project under the management of a director, with qualifications and
experience acceptable to the Association, assisted by support staff in
adequate numbers (para. 5.8, 5. 11).
7.3    As a condition of Board Presentation the Borrower sent to the Association its policy statement,
outlining its health sector reform strategy, in a form acceptable to the Association (para. 1.50).
7.4    As conditions of Credit effectiveness the Borrower would:
(a)    Open a Project Account in a commnercial bank (para. 4.8).
(b)    Adopt the Law on Medicines and formal rules and procedures for compiling and
maintaining the EDL, including provisions for its periodic review and, if necessary,
revision in the future in a form acceptable to the Association (para. 3.68, 3.74);
(c)    Prepare the bidding documents for the first annual tranche of drugs procurement, and
distribution agreements for these drugs in six oblasts, in a form acceptable to the
Association (para 3.80, 4.12, 4.13).
Recommendation
7.5    Subject to the agreements above, the proposed project is suitable for an IDA Credit of SDR 12.6
million (US$18.5 million equivalent) to the Kyrgyz Republic on standard IDA terms with a maturity of
35 years.
April 22, 1996
Human Resources Division
Europe and Central Asia Department IH



69                              ANNEX 1
Translated version of policy statement letter from the Prime Minister of the Kyrgyz Republic
Parliament of the Kyrgyz Republic
Parliament Building
Bishkek
April 5, 1996
Regional Vice President
World Bank
Mr. Johannes Linn
Dear Mr. Linn:
I am pleased to present to the Board of Directors of the International Development Association
for its consideration a Statement by the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic regarding its Policy toward
the future development of health care services in our country. This Policy Statement is an accurate and
concise distillation of the comprehensive strategy and detailed plan for health care reform that has been
developed under the MANAS program. The MANAS program, as you know, is the result of more than
two years' intense, collaborative work between the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic, the World
Health Organization, and other donors, and it commands the full support of the Ministry of Health. In
the very near future, this program will be presented to the Government for its review and endorsement,
after which it will be published. I relate these details in order to emphasize that the attached Policy
Statement is indeed a very carefully considered and true expression of our plans and intentions.
During preparation of the project to be financed under the proposed Credit from the Association,
a number of questions were raised in connection with the Government's policy. In this context, I wish
to take this opportunity to address these questions and to assure you that my Government is fully
committed to taking the following steps which, I believe, you will find reflected in the attached Policy
Statement:
(1)    during execution of the Project, the level of annual, consolidated state budgetary
expenditures implemented in the health sector will not be less than the level of such expenditures
implemented in 1994, taking into account adjustments for inflation, and savings resulting from
implementation of the Project will be re-invested in the health sector;
(2)    during execution of the Project, activities aimed at rationalizing and modernizing the
health sector will be continued, including gradual merging of specialized departments and health facilities,
an increase in the amount of resources allocated to primary and ambulatory care, and a reduction in
numbers of beds, staff, and other resources consumed in hospitals;
(3)    as part of this restructuring, the following specific actions will be taken: a) programs for
the treatment of AIDS and other STDs will be combined with other primary care treatment programs,
and new methods and protocols of treatrnent will be introduced in order to permit expanded ambulatory
treatment of STDs; b) results of pilot projects demonstrating the effectiveness of ambulatory treatment
of tuberculosis will be fully taken into account and reflected in the development of national standards for
treatment of TB and specialists and other staff will be re-allocated from in-patient TB facilities to primary
health care centers and specialized TB sanatoria will be gradually closed; c) capital expenditures will be



70                               ANNEX 1
concentrated, to the maximum extent possible, on the rehabilitation of existing health care facilities, and
capital expenditures will be made available for new construction of only general hospitals and other health
facilities that provide a broad range of services; d) during execution of the Project, the level of annual,
consolidated state budgetary expenditures allocated to the maintenance and repair of health care facilities
will not be less than the level of such expenditures implemented in 1994, taking into account adjustments
for inflation;
(4)    individuals and families will be allowed full freedom to choose from which health service
providers and physicians to receive treatment, and this freedom will be assured and protected;
(5)    a national policy concerning pharmaceuticals will be implemented, including: a) adoption
of all necessary legal, organizational and financial measures in order to ensure that only drugs which are
safe and of proven effectiveness will be available for use in the Republic; b) implementation of an
Essential Drugs Program; (c) starting from the third year of the Project, allocation of state budgetary
resources for the procurement, distribution, or provision of only pharmaceuticals which are contained on
the Republic's Essential Drugs List; d) continued elimination of obstacles impeding the establishment and
financial success of privately-owned pharmacies, distributors of pharmaceuticals, and pharmaceutical
manufacturers.
During negotiations of the Credit Agreement, held recently in Washington, another key question
was raised in connection with the Government's Policy, and I would like to take this opportunity to
clarify this as well.
The rationalization and modernization of the health care sector, and the allocation of increased
resources to support ambulatory methods of treatment, will necessitate the redeployment of a significant
number of specialists and other health care personnel. This will be a very complicated and at times
painful process and will have to be conducted with utmost care and concern for the people involved.
Considerable re-training will be required, some of which is envisioned to take place under the Project.
I wish to assure you, however, that the first priority of the Government is to improve the health of the
people of our Republic, and that we will not hesitate to take even painful steps if necessary in order to
achieve this goal.
Sincerely,
By Is/ A. Djumagulov
Prime Minister of the Kyrgyz Republic



71                             ANNEX 2.A
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
HEALTH SECTOR REFORM PROJECT
ANNEX 2.A: PRIMARY HEALTH CARE - WOMEN'S REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH
SUB-COMPONENT
A. Background
1.    There are one million women of reproductive age in the Kyrgyz Republic and, in 1993, just over
120,000 live births. This sub-component is designed to reach these women and impact upon their health
status and that of their newborns.
2.    Maternal, perinatal and reproductive health activities are implemented through the Maternal and
Child Health Department at the Ministry of Health (MOH). This department has shrunk from eight
positions to five positions in the last couple of years. There are plans to merge this department into the
Prevention and Treatment Department at the MOH, and thereby reduce staff positions even further. At
the regional level there is a Chief Pediatrician and a Chief Obstetrician for each of the 6 Oblast Health
Administrations and also for Bishkek City Health Department. There is one Medical Institute for training
medical students; 10 medical colleges for training paramedics; and a Department of Continuous Medical
Education for refresher training of doctors and paramedics. The Republican Institute for Obstetrics,
Gynecology and Pediatrics acts as a tertiary referral hospital and research center, and trains post-diploma
specialists.
3.    The Kyrgyz Republic has an extensive health service infrastructure from the district (Raion), to
the regional (Oblast) and Republican levels. The existing organizational structures in the health system
hamper the provision of optimnal care. For instance, the current system of urban health services is highly
specialized and fragmented. For gynecological problems and pregnancy a women must visit a women's
consultation center; for contraception and infertility, a marriage and family center; and for AIDS testing,
an AIDS center. Similarly, the separation of diagnosis of STDs in women's consultations from their
treatment in venerology clinics lessens the likelihood that women and their partners will in fact be treated.
Separating delivery in the maternity home from the provision of acute neonatal care in the children's
hospitals inhibits prompt treatment of sick babies. There is also a wastage of limited resources through
the duplication of services: for example normal maternal patients and "pathological" maternal patients are
treated in separate hospital departments with separate labor, delivery, surgical and post-delivery facilities.
Premature and sick and full-term babies are also kept in different departments.  Some of these
shortcomings are identified by the WHO/World Bank consultant Prof. H. Ramic in his report "Maternal
and Perinatal Health in the Kyrgyz Republic, June 1995 ". One of the aims of the Primary Health Care
Component is to merge specialist facilities and integrate their services at the primary health care level,
thereby streamlining the referral system and reducing the need for separate specialized hospitals,
departments and clinics.
Maternal Mortality Rates per 100,000 live births (MOH data)
1990             1991              1992              1993             1994
81.4             76.4              70.1             80.1              80.1
4.    The maternal mortality rate (MMR) at 80.1 per 100,000 live births, is far higher than that of
Russia (51), Ukraine (32), Costa Rica (20) or the European Union (10), despite the fact that over 95%
of births occur in hospitals and prenatal health care is widely available. The MMR remained stable



72                              ANNEX 2.A
between 1993 and 1994 at 80.1 per 100,000 live births having risen from a 1992 rate of 70. 1. The WHO
definition of maternal mortality and live births has not been adopted as yet and the true MMR may well
be 30% to 50% higher than the official Government rates. Birth intervals are short, only one year in
22% of women. Almost 10% of births are to women less than 19 years of age. The birth rate is
dropping in the current difficult socioeconomic conditions. Almost 75% of all maternal deaths are in
rural areas. Inter-oblast variation in maternal death rates can be quite substantial. Over the period 1992-
1993, in those oblast where the Ministry of Health made a concerted effort to supply drugs and train
primary health care workers, they were able to reduce the maternal death rates considerably. The
shortage of resources, constrained the Ministry of Health's ability to extend this support to all oblasts.
This sub-component aims to rectify this.
5.     The perinatal mortality in 1991 was 26 per 1000 births and is moderately high for a country with
universal coverage of maternal and child health services. It has however been dropping slightly since
1991. but the actual contribution of perinatal mortality to the infant mortality rate has been increasing;
from 25% in 1994 to 29% in 1995. The main cause of perinatal death are in descending order:
respiratory distress syndrome, birth hypoxia/asphyxia, intracranial birth trauma, and sepsis. The rate of
low birth weight in the Kyrgyz Republic is below 6 %, quite a low level even in developed countries, but
the birth weight specific mortality rates are somewhat high. Most of the problem lies in the survival of
newborns with 2,500 grams of birth weight or more. This is likely to be due to the quality of perinatal
medical care. The Kyrgyz Republic could probably reduce substantially this current level of perinatal
mortality if greater survival could be achieved for the heavier babies. The low rates of Caesarean section
(of which two thirds are emergency and only one third elective) and assisted deliveries could explain to
a large extent the high rates of mortality among the heavier babies.
6.    A comprehensive approach to the inpatient management of pregnant women, her labor and
delivery, and the care of her newborn infant has been shown to decrease mortality in other countries.
Cooperative efforts between obstetricians and pediatricians is essential to this success. Regionalization
of perinatal care consists of treating low risk pregnant women and newborns in raion centers and referring
high risk women, sick and/or premature infants to perinatal centers. The current list of risk factors for
pregnant women is too stringent and leads to the inclusion of almost 80% of women in the at risk
category, leading to unacceptably high referral rates to higher levels of care. As a result, minor problems
are overstated and serious ones may be overlooked. Given the difficult conditions for women in the
Kyrgyz Republic approximately 20-25 % of pregnant women can be expected to be at risk of morbidity
during pregnancy and childbirth. Internationally, the risk group is usually 10% or less. New protocols
will be introduced to rationalize this screening of pregnant women into high risk groups, thereby shifting
limited resources to the serious cases who need them the most.
7.    Deaths from eclarnpsia, hemorrhage and sepsis, the leading causes of maternal death in the
Kyrgyz Republic, can all be prevented using a range of cost-effective interventions at the primary health
care level. A third of maternal deaths are due to eclampsia (high blood pressure and swelling leading
to fits and coma) and these eclamptic deaths have increased in proportion to the other main causes,
hemorrhage and sepsis, over the last few years. This increase is thought to be due to lack of training and
basic equipment in prenatal care at the primary health care level coupled with a shortage of transport.
Abortion is also a leading cause of maternal deaths. Abortion rates are very high, with an average of
2.3 to 2.7 abortions per woman. Although reliable data on contraceptive prevalence is lacking, it would
appear that there is a large unmet need for contraceptives. Abortion remains the primary means of
fertility control. There is a particular need for contraceptive counselling in the postnatal period and after
an abortion. High rates of anemia in Kyrgyz women, about 30% of pregnant women, have consequences
for both the mother and her unborn child. Severe anemia in the mother will limit blood supply to the
fetus, increasing the risk of newborn asphyxia/hypoxia. In the event of hemorrhage during delivery,



73                              ANNEX 2.A
anemia greatly increases the likelihood of the women suffering from shock or death. As a result, routine
iron folate and multivitamin supplementation will be introduced for pregnant women.
8.    In general, hospital practices during delivery are fairly comparable to European practices, but
there are several major shortcomings which must be corrected: first and second stage of labor should be
limited in time; the use of forceps and vacuum extractors should be encouraged; the indications for
Caesarean section must be revised; the fetus should be monitored regularly; the prevention and
management of postpartum hemorrhage must be improved. This sub-component aims to upgrade the
obstetric skills of obstetricians and midwives to improve their monitoring of labor and their clinical
judgement on when and how to intervene with an intervention (labor induction, augmentation, vacuum
extraction, Caesarean section, etc.). Breastfeeding will also be encouraged in this sub-component, in
collaboration with UNICEF who plan to establish a Baby-Friendly Hospital Initiative, through the
development of a supportive environment in maternity homes (rooming-in, early mother-baby contact,
on-demand feeding, presence of family members, etc.).
9.     The current system does not sufficiently emphasize health education as part of prenatal care, nor
do sufficient educational and promotional materials exist. There is also a low level of knowledge of the
needs of pregnant women among the general population. In a country, such as the Kyrgyz Republic, with
very high literacy levels in males and females, this should not be the case. Information, education and
communications are essential to improve knowledge of family planning, nutrition and maternity care,
including recognition of danger signs of complications of pregnancy, among women, family members,
community leaders and health care providers. To rectify these shortcomings in the health system, this
subcomponent will focus on teaching counselling techniques to health workers; and will fund the
development, printing and distribution of a health education booklet for the general public.
10.   The epidemiological picture for syphilis and gonorrhea has fallen somewhere between the pattern
seen in developing countries; that is epidemic levels of diseases, and the picture seen in industrialized
countries; that is low and still falling rates of infection confined to high risk groups. Since 1993, there
has been a ten fold increase in the incidence of syphilis. This dramatic increase reflects a trend reported
in many other republics of the former Soviet Union. At the same time detection rates for gonorrhea have
declined after remaining at a stable level over the last two decades. This data suggests that the level of
unsafe sexual activity in the Kyrgyz Republic is increasing and less STD cases are seeking treatment in
the government health system. Little information is available on the incidence of chlamydia. Up until
1995, HIV had not been detected in the resident population despite a massive screening program. STD
and AIDS are managed through two separate vertical organizational structures that merge at the district
level. Access to STD treatment is limited to a few specialized dermatovenereal clinics in which people
must registers their names in order to obtain free treatment. The result is that most STD cases either treat
themselves or seek anonymous care from non-accredited private doctors. Adolescents are particularly
vulnerable because of their lack of money and information. More detailed information is available in the
World Bank report "Assessment of the Sexually Transmitted Diseases Program in the Kyrgyz Republic:
October 1994". One aim of this sub-component is to encourage the anonymous ambulatory management
of patients with syphilis and gonorrhea and the integration of venerology services into the primary health
care level.
11.   In sumnmary, the health infrastructure is extensive, women are educated and relatively mobile.
Family planning is still not readily available to the majority of women, but with donor assistance the
range of services are expanding. Safe abortion is offered through the government health system.
Maternal services are available at primary health care facilities, but are under-utilized. Delivery
attendants are trained, the vast majority of deliveries take place in hospital, but the clinical practices need
upgrading and a regular supply of essential drugs, supplies and equipment must be established. IEC



74                             ANNEX 2.A
capability is available but under-utilized. Improving the quality and efficiency of health care, including
decentralizing services, as well as developing a more comprehensive strategy for women's health, and
improving information, education and commnunication; will all be priority interventions in this sub-
component.
B. Role of Other Donors
12.   The German Government's KFW is supplying clinical equipment to all FAPS, SVAs and Central
Raion Hospitals in the Kyrgyz Republic. GTZ will fund a technical advisor to the Republican Health
Center to improve national health education and health promotion activities. USAID's Women's
Reproductive Health Program has been focusing on strengthening family planning services and
contraceptive supply. This extensive program has a number of contractors (Association for Voluntary
Surgical Contraception, JHPIEGO, The Futures Group, Population Communications Services)
implementing activities in the Kyrgyz Republic. UNFPA is supplying contraceptives, plans to establish
a regional office for Central Asia, and has a local country program officer in Bishkek. The Center for
Diseases Control, funded by USAID, and has an office with two regional advisors in Almaty and is
working on surveillance and computer training. UNICEF has a country office in Bishkek and plans to
develop a Baby-Friendly Hospital Initiative. The WHO/Euro and TICA supported MANAS Health Sector
Reform Project for the Kygryz Republic developed a national health reform masterplan in 1995, and will
assist with implementation of the masterplan in 1996. The WHO/Euro CAREC program will introduce
maternal and child health pilot sites and a sentinel surveillance system in two raions in the Kyrgyz
Republic (and five other Central Asian countries). WHO has a Central Asia regional advisor on AIDS
based in Almaty who could work closely on the integration of the STD/AIDS structures. There is a
WHO Information Center for Central Asia, in Bishkek, with a well stocked library of WHO materials
both in Russian and English. AIHA (American International Health Alliance) is working in various parts
of the former Soviet Union, and has conducted training courses on inmnediate neonatal resuscitation,
based on training courses developed by the American Pediatrics Association. Central Asian Partners, a
small NGO based in Bishkek, is working on the upgrading of obstetric skills in several health facilities.
13.   This sub-component complements the work of other donors (UNICEF, UNFPA, WHO CAREC
program, German Government KFW and GTZ, Central Asian Partners, BASICS, etc.).
C. Rationale for Bank Involvement
14.   This sub-component makes up for a major deficit in the assistance being provided by other donors
to priority health programs; namely a comprehensive safe motherhood and perinatal health intervention
for implementation nationwide. Many donors are providing small scale activities in a few selected health
facilities. USAID and UNFPA have focused on a specific element of safe motherhood; contraceptive
supply and family planning activities. This sub-component will focus on all the other components:
maternal health, perinatal health, and sexually transmitted diseases case management; and integrate them
with the family planning activities. The aim of this sub-component is to reduce the heavy burden of
maternal and perinatal deaths and ensure the long-term sustainability of a comprehensive maternal and
perinatal health program within the government health structure through a process of rationalization and
decentralization.
D. Women's Reproductive Health Sub-Component Description
15.   This sub-component will fund 5 months of technical assistance; a study tour; computers; training
equipment; clinical equipment for 206 health facilities- translation and printing of health worker training
materials; essential drugs for model Oblast training centers and 12 Raion hospitals, nationwide training



75                             ANNEX 2.A
of up to 2000 obstetricians, gynecologists, venereologist, neonatologists, pediatricians, and primary health
care workers.
16.   The long term goals of the Women's Reproductive Health sub-component are the:
(i)    Reduction of maternal deaths due to obstetric complications such as hemorrhage,
eclampsia, sepsis, obstructed labor
(ii)   Provision of a basic package of maternal care to all pregnant women
(iii)   Reduction of anemia in pregnant women
(iv)   Reduction of neonatal deaths and disabilities associated with birth asphyxia and hypoxia.
(v)    Reduction of ophthalmia neonatorum.
(vi)   Reduction of complications from sexually transmitted diseases in pregnant women
17.   To realize these goals, the activities within the four years of this sub-component are to:
(i)    Strengthen Program Management:
(a)    Develop a national policy;
(b)   Improve maternal and perinatal program management at the MOH and Oblast
Health Administration levels (training, study tour, supply computer).
(ii)    Upgrade Health Provider Skills:
(a)    Develop a training package;
(b)    Strengthen and decentralize training sites;
(c)    Train a core of National and Oblast trainers in adapted WHO "Mother-Baby
Package";
(d)    Train health providers in adapted WHO "Mother-Baby Package" at Republican,
Oblast and Raion levels;
(e)   Introduce adapted WHO "Mother-Baby Package" in pre-service and in-service
training curricula of doctors and paramedics
(iii)   Upgrade Health Facilities:
(a)    Develop a "model" hospital, polyclinic, and FAP in each oblast;
(b)    Provide essential maternal health drugs to selected health facilities nationwide.
(c)    Provide a basic list of clinical equipment for selected health facilities nationwide.
(iv)   Improve Public Awareness:
(a)    Make available culturally appropriate printed materials, for the general public,
on maternal and perinatal health and appropriate health seeking behavior.
18.   At the end of the project there would be:
(i)    Strengthened Program Management:
(a)   Increased management capacity in the Department of Maternal and Child Health
at the Ministry of Health and the Oblast Health Administrations;
(b)    A national policy for a comprehensive safe motherhood and perinatal health
program and a strategy to rationalize and integrate activities.
(ii)    Upgraded Health Provider Skills:
(a)   Increased training and management capacity within the Department of Continuous
Medical Education in Bishkek City and Osh; and a decentralization of training



76                              ANNEX 2.A
to the newly established Oblast Model Hospitals;
(b)    Core teams of trainers at central, Oblast and Raion level;
(c)    Training packages for four levels of health workers;
(d)    2000 Health workers trained in the WHO "Mother-Baby Package:
(e)    Obstetricians at Republican, Oblast and Raion Hospital levels trained to use
partograms and assisted delivery techniques (vacuum extraction and forceps).
(f)    Neonatologists, and midwives trained in newborn resuscitation;
(g)    Primary health care workers trained in maternal and perinatal care.
(iii)   Upgraded Health Facilities:
(a)    Model hospital, polyclinic and FAP in each Oblast with restructured, rationalized
and integrated health services;
(b)    Clinical equipment in 170 SVAS, 20 model health facilities, and 43 Central
Raion Hospitals.
(iv)   Improved Public Awareness:
(a)    Booklets on family health for the general public distributed free of charge from
primary health care facilities.
19.   Five months of international technical assistance will be required over the four and a half years
of the project: 2.5 months in Year 1, 1.5 months in Year 2, and 2 weeks in Year 3 and Year 4 (see
attached terms of reference in Table 3). The technical assistance will be required to conduct training
courses, organize and conduct the study tour, assist in the development of booklets for the general public.
Local technical assistance will be required for computer software training.
20.    The following range of foreign specialist skills will be required to undertake these activities:
(i)    Women's and Children's Health Program management specialist;
(ii)    Obstetrician/gynecologist with experience in teaching the WHO "Mother-Baby Package"
Guidelines;
(iii)   Neonatologist/pediatrician with experience in teaching the WHO "Mother-Baby Package"
Guidelines;
(iv)   Venereologist with experience in teaching the WHO Standard Guidelines on Sexually
Transmitted Diseases.
21.   The activities of the sub-component are described in greater detail below:
(i)    Strengthen Program Management:
22.   Develop a national policy: The various Republican level institutions involved in maternal and
child health will be encouraged to coordinate activities with the MOH and Oblast Health Administrations
through the formation of a national task force: Kyrgyz State Medical Institute, Faculty of Continuous
Medical Education, Republican Paramedic Medical College, the Republican Institute for Obstetrics,
Gynecology and Pediatrics, Republican Maternity Hospital, the Republican Marriage and Family Center,
the Republican Dermatovenereal Dispensary, and the Republican AIDS Center. A national policy and
planning workshop is scheduled to prepare the policies and plans of action to define national objectives,
establish targets and subtargets for the major activities: training, supervision, logistics, commnunication,
monitoring and evaluation. The task force will develop a national policy on safe motherhood and
perinatal health which will include the rationalization of services and integration into the primary health
care level. Special attention will be paid to programs for marginal groups, including adolescents.



77                             ANNEX 2.A
23.   The WHO definitions for health indicators will have to be adopted and medical audit and quality
assurance procedures put into place. A new system of supervision will replace the old style punitive
approach based upon the use of orders and decrees, which have largely ossified in time. Existing
maternal and child health management information systems will be improved through a rationalization
of all reporting (introduce new home-based mothers records, tally sheets, referral letters, report forms,
etc.). The registration of newborns should be improved with direct referral of the newborn card to the
registration office with minimal costs to the parents. Linkages between the different levels of health
facilities needs to be improved. Service provision by the private sector and non-government organizations
must be encouraged for cost saving purposes, and these new services coordinated and integrated into the
general referral system. A basic package of essential services for pregnant women and newborns to be
funded and provided by the government health system will have to be negotiated.
24.   A small baseline health facility survey will aim to establish baseline data in maternal and perinatal
health practices against which improvements in the standard management and clinical can later be
measured. This survey will be undertaken by the MOH and Oblast program managers as part of the
policy and planning workshop. The survey coupled with a focused program review (FPR) will then be
repeated mid-project and at the end of the project. The results of this health facility survey, which is
really an internal phased evaluation mechanism for the program managers, will allow them to "tailor"
the national maternal and perinatal care program, monitoring progress and identifying priority areas which
will require special attention at different points in the project.
25.   Improve maternal and perinatal program management at the MOH and Oblast Health
Administration levels: Special emphasis will be placed on strengthening the MOH Central, Oblast and
Raion management to ensure adequate surveillance, supervision and monitoring of the programs. A range
of workshops and on-the-job training will be conducted for MOH and Oblast Health Administration
program managers and other key people (management training, computer software training, national
policy development workshop, regular program review workshops). The sub-component will provide
equipment for the Chief Obstetrician at the Ministry of Health to strengthen surveillance, training,
supervision and management (computer, printer & software training).
26.   The MOH has been compiling the essential drug list and will be responsible for maintaining and
regularly updating a database on rational drug prescribing and the WHO case management protocols.
The MOH Chief Obstetrician and Chief Pediatrician will be trained to allocate their time more efficiently
by refocusing their work to policy development and monitoring. However, the major work must be
largely decentralized to the Oblast Health Administration.
27.   A study tour will be arranged in the first year of the project for 10 people over a two week
period. Participants will include maternal and child health program managers from the Ministry of Health
and Oblast Health Administrations (Chief Pediatricians and Chief Obstetricians), and national specialists
in obstetrics, neonatology and venereology. The group will travel with one facilitator and one interpreter.
The objective of the study tour is to observe cost-effective and comprehensive National Maternal and
Perinatal Health programs (following WHO guidelines both in program management and clinical case
management with integration of services at the primary health care level) in other countries. The study
tour participants should visit the following:
(i)    Ministry of Health to discuss the National MPH program with MOH program managers
(ii)   Regional Health Departments to discuss the Regional MPH programs with Regional
program managers
(iii)   Hospital maternity, pediatric and venereology departments providing shared care with the
primary health care levels.



78                              ANNEX 2.A
(iv)   Primary health care clinics with integrated services
(v)    Community based services
(ii)    Upgrade Health Provider Skills:
28.   The health worker training will be implemented in three phases as shown in the table below:
Phase 1. Training of National and Oblast Trainers
Phase 2. Training of Oblast Hospital and Central Raion Hospital staff and trainers
Phase 3. Training of Primary Health Care Teams
29.    This will require the following workshops:
(i)    Practical intensive "hands-on" training of hospital specialist trainers (obstetricians,
neonatologists, venereologist);
(ii)    Training of trainers workshop for National trainers;
(iii)   Training of trainers workshop for Oblast trainers;
(iv)   6 Oblast Model Hospital staff training workshops (one per Oblast);
(v)    Workshop for staff from 43 Central Raion Hospitals;
(vi)   Workshop for staff from 170 SVAS;
(vii)   Workshop for staff from 870 FAPS.
30.   A more detailed breakdown of the training is shown in the training timetable. A core national
and oblast team of trainers (14 obstetricians, 14 neonatologists, 14 midwives) and a total of 2000 health
workers will be trained in Phases 1, 2 and 3.
Implementation   National Level    Oblast Level (6    Central Raion     Primary Health
Phase                               Oblasts and       Hospital Level    Care Level
Bishkek city)     (43 Raions)       (1000 PHC
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   ~~~~units)
| Phase 1         National          Oblast Trainers:
Year 1           Trainers:         -Obstetricians 7
-Obstetricians 7    -Neonatologists 7
Training location  -Neonatologists 7  -Venereologist 7
CCME Bishkek   -Venereologist 7   -Midwives 7
-Midwives 7
Phase 2                             Year 2            Year 2-3
Year 2-3                            All Model         Obstetricians 43
Hospital,         Neonatologists43
Training location                   Polyclinic &      Venereologists43
Oblast Model                        FAP Staff         Midwives 43
Hospital and
Polyclinic
CCME Osh
Phase 3                                                                 All FAPS
Year 3-4                                                                All SVAS
Training location
Model FAPs



79                             ANNEX 2.A
31.   Develop a training package: National policies will be developed with a well defined basic health
care package for pregnant women and their infants to be funded and provided by the government health
system. These policies; together with the adapted WHO Mother-Baby Package; will be used as the basis
for the technical guidelines on maternal and perinatal health care and the case management of sexually
transmitted diseases. The following WHO training modules adapted from the "WHO Mother-Baby
Package" to the special health needs of the Kyrgyz Republic will be taught to hospital specialists and
primary health care workers:
(i)    Medical and nursing care of normal and high risk pregnancies.
(ii)    Medical and nursing care of normal and high risk deliveries (including partograms).
(iii)   Medical and nursing care of newborns (including resuscitation).
(iv)   Breastfeeding during the neonatal and perinatal period.
(v)    Principles and practice of family planning.
(vi)   Sexually transmitted diseases case management.
(vii)  Prenatal and postnatal counseling techniques
32.   Other WHO training modules could include:
(i)    Care of the mother and baby at a health center WHO/FHE/MSM/94.2E
(ii)    Detecting pre-eclampsia WHO/MCH/MSM/92.3E
(iii)   Detecting prolonged labor: The Partogram, WHO/FHE/MSM/93.8E
(iv)   Maternal and perinatal infections, WHO/MCH/9 1. 1 OE
(v)    Obstetric and contraceptive surgery at he district hospital, WHO/MCH/MSM/92.8
(vi)   Thermal control of the newborn, WHO/FHE/MSM/93.2E
(vii)  The prevention and management of postpartum hemorrhage, WHO/MCH/90.7.EF
(viii)  Essential elements of obstetric care at first referral level. WHO 1991, ISBN 924
(ix)   Maternal care for the reduction of perinatal and neonatal mortality, WHO/86.E
(x)   Integrating maternal and child health services with primary health care, practical
considerations. WHO/ISBN 92.4
33.   The policy and guidelines will be developed in Russian by a committee of national experts, with
the assistance of a team of international technical advisors during the project preparation phase (funded
by PPF). The guidelines will cover two major areas of the program activities: one - upgraded hospital
practices in prenatal care, delivery care (including partograms to monitor labor; augmented labor; and
assisted delivery techniques such as vacuum extraction, forceps) and newborn resuscitation and
management of sexually transmitted diseases; and two - upgraded primary health care practices in
maternal health, perinatal health and sexually transmitted diseases management. Guidelines with clinical
management and criteria for referral will be developed for four different levels of health facilities:
Level 1.     Specialist tertiary and Oblast Hospitals
Level 2.     Central Raion Hospitals
Level 3.     Polyclinics, SVAs and APTKS.
Level 4.     Feldsher/Accoucheur Posts
34.   The guidelines will be printed early in the project to coincide with the start of training activities.
All health workers trained will be provided with case management charts and other materials adapted
from the original WHO management charts, as work aids for effective case management.
35.   Strengthen and decentralize training sites: An objective of this sub-component is to increase
training capacity within the country through a process of institution strengthening and decentralization
to implement these guidelines in a sustainable way. The quality of practical training will be improved
through a focus on intensive "hands-on" training in a clinical setting with real patients. The training will
take place at the two already established Centers of Continuous Medical Education in Bishkek and Osh



80                             ANNEX 2.A
(both faculties of the Medical Institute)-, and the model health facilities (one multispecialty hospital, onie
multispecialty polyclinic, and one FAP) to be developed during the project in each of the 6 Oblasts.
36.   The Center of Continuous Medical Education (CCME), in Bishkek City, will act as the focus for
all training activities in Phase I of the project and will be responsible for training coordination nationwide.
The CCME has a sub-department in Osh City, and this sub-department will play a training and
coordinating role for the south Kyrgyz Republic. The following set of office and training equipment will
be provided under the Primary Health Care Component for each of these CCMES: one computer, one
printer & software (plus training), one heavy duty photocopier, one fax machine, one television, one
VCR, one slide projector, one overhead projector and screen; I flipchart stand and a set of training
physiological models (women's pelvis to practice assisted delivery; and newborn baby to practice newborn
resuscitation).
37.   Train a core of National and Oblast trainers in adapted WHO "Mother-Baby Package": In
Phase 1. of the training program the National and Oblast Trainers will receive training at the CCME in
Bishkek City and the Republican hospitals. These trainers will be selected from medical and paramedical
colleges and the Republican Postgraduate Institutes. Intensive in-hospital training of these national and
oblast hospital specialists by foreign experts in obstetrics, neonatology and venereology will be required
in the initial phase of the project; followed by a training of trainers course.
38.   Train health providers in adapted WHO "Mother-Baby Package" at Republican, Oblast and
Raion levels: In Phase 2 the Oblast model hospitals will be trained and they will then be responsible for
training Central Raion Hospital staff. Local part-time training coordinators will be funded by the project
to work in each of the 6 Oblast model hospitals. The practical "hands-on" training will consist of
maternal and perinatal care in the hospital inpatient, hospital outpatient, polyclinic, and FAP setting. The
following sets of training equipment will be provided to each Oblast Model Hospital under the PHC
Component (and must be shared by both the Women's Reproductive Health sub-component and the
ARI/CDD subcomponent): Television, VCR, slide projector, overhead projector and screen; I flipchart
stand and a set of physiological training models (women's pelvis to practice assisted delivery; and
newborn baby to practice newborn resuscitation). A limited list of essential maternal health care drugs
and clinical equipment will be provided to the upgraded model hospitals, polyclinics and FAPs for the
ongoing training activities.
39.   In Phase 3. of the training program, Primary Health Care Teams from  the peripheral
Feldshers/Accoucheur Posts (FAPs), Ambulatories (SVAs), Polyclinics and Rural Hospitals will be
trained by Oblast Hospital and Central Raion Hospital staff (this will depend on distances to be travelled
and the arrangements for training will vary in different Oblasts).
40.   Introduce adapted WIHO "Mother-Baby Package" in pre-service and in-service training
curricula of doctors and paramedics: To ensure longterm sustainability of these training activities the
newly developed guidelines will be integrated into the pre-service and in-service training at the medical
and paramedical colleges. Trainers from these schools to be trained as National and Oblast trainers.
(iii)   Upgrade Health Facilities:
41.   Develop a "model" hospital, polylinic, and FAP in each oblast: Maternal, gynecological and
children's departments in Oblast hospitals will be rationalized to form a model hospital complex in each
Oblast (merging of departments and buildings, redeployment of staff, pooling of equipment and
spareparts, etc.). An adult therapy clinic, women's consultation clinic, and children's clinic will be
merged (if not already merged) to form a model polyclinic nearby the model hospital in each Oblast . A



81                             ANNEX 2.A
nearby FAP will also be selected as a model FAP. These 20 facilities (2 CCMEs, 6 Model Hospitals,
6 Model Polyclinics and 6 FAPS) will be upgraded with equipment, essential drugs and staff training and
used as model health facilities for the training activities in each Oblast. The longterm goal is that the
upgrading and rationalization process that takes place in these model sites will be replicated in health
facilities throughout each Oblast.
42.   Provide essential maternal health drugs to selected health facilities: The sub-component will
provide essential drugs in two annual tranches (see Table 5 for proposed list). These drugs will be
earmarked for maternal and perinatal health training activities in 20 model training centers. After specific
training a small pack of essential drugs and supplies for obstetric emergencies will be given to every FAP
and SVA team attending the training course. The remaining essential drugs will be distributed to 12
Raions (28 % of all Raions) for distribution to SVAs and FAPS. The Raions will be selected on the basis
of having the worst maternal, perinatal and infant health indicators in that Oblast.
43.   Provide a basic list of clinical equipment for selected health facilities nationwide: The
following basic clinical equipment will be provided to 170 SVAs nationwide (this will complement the
equipment donated by the German Government's KFW) to strengthen the work of the primary health care
level: 1 Tuning fork, I Reflex hammer, 1 Stethoscope, I Auriscope, 1 Sphygmomanometer, I Needle &
syringe sterilizer, 5 Glass syringes, 1 Thermometer adult, I Thermometer infant, 1 Nurses Instrument
Suture kit, I Glucometer sei, I Examination lamp, I Sterile instrument container set for autoclave, 2 Trash
cans, 1 Flashlight, 1 Peak flow meter, 1 Basic light microscope, I Fetoscope, I Tongue depressor, 10 sets
Urine analysis dipsticks (see Table 7 for specifications). This basic equipment will also be provided for
the model hospitals (2 sets), polyclinics (2 sets) and FAPs (2 sets) in each Oblast to strengthen their role
as model training sites. A more extensive set of equipment will be provided to the 30 converted Rural
Hospitals being refurbished under the Facilities Rehabilitation Component. These 30 sets will include
equipment for infant resuscitation, a fetoscope, a hemoglobinometer and infant beds. All 43 Central
Raion Hospitals will be provided with a basic instruments to handle complicated delivery cases.
(iv)   Improve Public Awareness:
44.   Make available culturally appropriate printed materials, for the general public, on maternal
and perinatal health and appropriate health seeking behavior: This activity strengthens the capacity
of MOH's Republican Health Education Center to inform the general public about women's reproductive
health issues and appropriate utilization of the primary health care services. In an effort to integrate the
different activities of the primary health care component; namely maternal and newborn care, home
management of common childhood diseases such as respiratory and diarrheal diseases, and adult health
care to prevent and control sexually transmitted diseases, tuberculosis, smoking and diet related
conditions; funds will be provided for the development, printing and distribution of one booklet providing
information on all these conditions in the context of family life. This book will be printed in Russian and
Kyrgyz. The Republican Health Center will develop the booklets with technical assistance provided by
a GTZ funded technical advisor who will provide technical assistance in pretesting messages through
techniques such as target group surveys and focus group discussions. The objective is to conduct field
testing during development of the booklet so that it is both visually pleasing to the population and contains
appropriate and understandable information. Topics to be covered will include preparing for pregnancy
(including nutrition), what to expect in pregnancy and delivery; recognition of danger signs, problems
and emergencies; what health services are available for pregnant women, whom to contact for help, how
to contact them and the means available to travel to the health facility in the case of an emergency;
breastfeeding, and caring for an infant. The booklets will be distributed free of charge to the general
public by health facility staff at the primary health care level.



82                             ANNEX 2.A
E. Program Supervision
45.   Regular supervision of the National Maternal and Perinatal Program, by MOH and Oblast
program managers is essential, to ensure implementation of the sub-component's activities, particularly
regarding case management and reporting. The MOH and Oblast Health Administrations must ensure
that their supervisory staff are mobile enough to perform adequate supervision. These travel costs should
come out of the counterpart funding of the project.
F. Project Management
46.   The MOH will have overall responsibility for the PHC component, including the Women's
Reproductive Health sub-component, in close coordination with Oblast and Raion Health Administrations.
The TCC will have one full-time advisor to coordinate all PHC activities. To strengthen MOH
management capacity management training courses will be conducted by the project and a computer,
printer, and software training will be provided to the Chief Obstetrician.
G. Benefits and Risks
47.   The Ministry of Health, has been downsized, and plans are underway to cut staffing levels even
further. This is coupled with a lack of management capacity. The ability of the MOH to supervise the
program effectively is in doubt. However, there is tremendous government commitment to health reform
and safe motherhood programs and some very talented and dedicated people in the government health
system. The project design includes a phased implementation of the PHC Component to avoid excessive
burden on the MOH. Changing case management protocols is notoriously difficult, particularly at the
tertiary health facilities level. Unless case management at these Republican hospitals (the training ground
for future doctors) are improved, it will be difficult to make changes lower down the health system.
Attempts to integrate services will meet with strong opposition from health personnel at all levels of the
health system whose jobs are at stake. There is some resistance in the government to the treatment of
certain social groups with STDs on an anonymous ambulatory basis.
H. Monitoring and Evaluation
48.   Three sets of indicators will be used to monitor the implementation of this sub-component: input
indicators, process/output/service indicators, and outcome indicators. The data will be collected through
current reporting mechanisms and additional health facility surveys (baseline, mid-project, end-of-project).
The TCC Primary Health Care coordinator and MOH can use the following indicators to monitor the
progress of the project. These can be converted into checklists and used as spot checks on field visits.
A more limited list of Performance Monitoring Indicators have been selected for the monitoring of the
project by the World Bank.
49.   Input Indicators will track planned resource inputs such as the following:
(a)    Study tours in the first year of project.
(b)    Person weeks of technical assistance per year.
(c)    Procurement and disbursement of essential drugs.
(d)    Procurement and disbursement of clinical equipment.
(e)    Procurement and disbursement of training equipment (TV, VCR, models, etc.).
(f)    Procurement and disbursement of computers and printers.
50.   Process indicators will track the training activities:



83                              ANNEX 2.A
(a)    Actual number of trainers trained at Republican level compared with planned number
(b)    Actual number of trainers trained at Oblast level compared with planned number
(c)    Actual number of training manuals printed compared with planned number
(d)    Actual number of booklets printed compared with planned number
51.   Output/service indicators will track the impact of the sub-component on health services:
(a)    Percentage of pregnant women receiving prenatal care in the first trimester of pregnancy.
(b)    Percentage of pregnant women receiving iron supplements.
(c)    Percentage of newborns breastfed within half an hour of birth.
(d)    Percentage of pregnant women treated correctly for pre-eclampsia at the FAP, SVA,
rural hospital and central rayon hospital levels.
(e)    Percentage of deliveries that are monitored with a partograin.
(f)    Percentage of deliveries that are assisted with forceps, vacuum extraction or cesarean
section.
(g)    Percentage of newborns that are resuscitated correctly.
(h)    Percentage of syphilis cases treated on an anonymous ambulatory basis.
(i)    Average length of hospital stay for pregnant women.
(j)    Average length of hospital stay for women after delivery.
(k)    Average length of hospital stay for STDS.
(1)    Number of beds for the treatment of STDS.
(m)   Percentage of raion hospitals equipped and functioning as referral centers.
(n)    Percentage of communities with organized transport systems in place to effect referral.
(o)    Percentage of health centers with referral links (eg., communication, transport) to
facilities that can provide emergency obstetrical care.
(p)    Time required for an emergency patient to receive appropriate treatment at referral site.
52.   Outcome indicators will track change in health status of the mothers and infants. The
mortality rates are not expected to change significantly in the four year life of the project.
(a)    Maternal Mortality Rate.
(b)    Perinatal Mortality Rate.
(c)    Infant Mortality Rate.
(d)    Percentage of women of reproductive age with anemia.
(e)    Proportion of maternal deaths due to eclampsia, sepsis, hemorrhage.
(f)    Caesarian section rate.
(g)    Forceps/vacuum extraction rates.
(h)    Percentage of newborns with Apgar scores over 7.



84                             ANNEX 2.A
Table 1.
Implementation Schedule for the Women's Reproductive Health Subcomponent
PROJECT PREPARATION ACTIVITIES (funded by Project Preparation Fund & implemented
prior to effectiveness)
- Expert committee to adapt Russian translation of WHO "Mother- Baby Package" for the Kyrgyz
Republic;
- Develop clinical guidelines for 4 levels of health facilities.
1. STRENGTHEN PROGRAM MANAGEMENT
-Baseline Maternal and Perinatal Health Facility Review & National Policy Development
Workshop (Year 1, Quarter 1);
-Management training workshop for MOH & Oblast program managers (Year 1, Quarter 1);
Study tour for key health personnel to see comprehensive maternal and perinatal health
programs (Year 1, Quarter 4);
-Supply of computer, printer & software to Chief Obstetrician as MOH (Year 1, Quarter 1);
-Software training for program managers by local consultant (Year 1, Quarter 2);
-Mid-project Mini-Health Facility Survey & Focused Program Review (Year 2, Quarter 4);
-End-of-project Mini-Health Facility Survey, Focused Program Review & Strategy Workshop
(Year 4, Quarter 4).
2. UPGRADE HEALTH PROVIDER SKILLS
-Print adapted "Mother-Baby Package" guidelines for 4 health facilities levels (Year 1, Quarter
1) Supply training equipment to Centers of Continuous Medical Education in Bishkek & Osh
(Year 1, Quarter 1);
-Practical in-service training of hospital specialist trainers (obstetricians, neonatologists,
venereologist); (Year 1, Quarter 2);
-Training of trainers workshop for National trainers (Year 1, Quarter 3);
-Training of trainers workshop for Oblast trainers (Year 1, Quarter 3);
-Supply training equipment to other 5 Oblast Model Hospitals (excluding Osh); (Year 1, Quarter
4);
-6 Oblast Model Hospital staff training workshops (one per Oblast); (Year 2, all quarters);
-Workshop for staff from 43 Central Raion Hospitals (Years 2 & 3);
-Workshop for staff from 170 SVAs (Years 2,3,4);
- Workshop for staff from 870 FAPs (Years 3 & 4).
3. UPGRADE HEALTH FACILITIES
-Rationalize maternal, gynecological and children's departments in Oblast hospitals to form a
model hospital complex in each Oblast (Year 1. Quarters I & 2);
-Merge adult therapy, women's consultation, and children's clinics to form a model multiprofile
polyclinic in each Oblast (Year 1, Quarters I & 2);
-Supply clinical equipment to all 20 model health facilities (Year 1, Quarter 4);
-Supply simple obstetric equipment to 43 Central Raion Hospitals (Year 1, Quarter 4);
-Supply clinical equipment to 170 SVAs (Year 2, Quarter 2);
-Supply essential drugs to 20 model health facilities (Two tranches in Year 1, Quarter 4 & Year
3, Quarter 2)
-Supply essential drugs to 12 Raions (Two tranches in Year 1, Quarter 4 & Year 3, Quarter 2)
4. IMPROVE PUBLIC AWARENESS
- Develop, translate into Russian & Kyrgyz, field test and print a booklet on family health for
the general public (Year 2, Quarters I & 2);
- Distribute booklet through primary health care system (Years 2-4).
In collaboration with GTZ technical assistance



85                             ANNEX 2.A
Table 2. TERMS OF REFERENCE
Contractor: WHO
Scope: Maternal Health, Perinatal Health and Sexually Transmitted Diseases National Policy and Case
Management Guidelines Development for the Kyrgyz Republic (Project Preparation Phase)
Activity: Technical Assistance and Translation of Materials into Russian
Supervisor: Government of the Kyrgyz Republic and the Technical Coordination Committee of the World
Bank/MOH Health Sector Reform Project
Timing: Jan-June 1996 (4 weeks of technical assistance will be required (3 weeks for "Mother-Baby
Package" and one week for sexually transmitted diseases case management).
Specific requirements: The consultants should preferably be Russian speaking, and have some previous
experience working on health programns in the former Soviet Union. The team should include specialists
with the following skills: obstetrics, neonatology and venereology.
Scope of work:
a)    Assisting the Kyrgyz Republic Ministry of Health in the development of National Policy and Case
Management Guidelines based on WHO's "Mother-Baby Package" and other associated safe motherhood
and perinatal packages.
b)    Assisting the Kyrgyz Republic Ministry of Health in the development of "National Policy and
Case Management Guidelines for Sexually Transmitted Diseases". This will involve reviewing the
antibiotic sensitivity patterns for the Kyrgyz Republic and laboratory facilities. The focus should be to
treat STD cases on a confidential ambulatory care basis and extend the capacity to treat cases away from
specialist centers and towards an integrated primary health care system.
The above activities will require the following steps:
1. Translation of "Mother-Baby Package" and Sexually Transnitted Diseases Case Management
materials into Russian.
2. Review and revision of the Russian materials by a committee of national experts and the WHO
technical team and development of guidelines for 4 levels of health facilities:
1. Specialist tertiary and Oblast hospitals
2. Central Raion Hospitals
3. Polyclinics and SVAs.
4. Feldsher Accoucheur Posts



86                             ANNEX 2.A
Table 3. TERMS OF REFERENCE
Contractor: Competitive Bidding
Scope: National and Perinatal Health Program for the Kyrgyz Republic (see attached Implementation
Schedule, Training Schedule, and Terms of Reference for study tour)
Activity: Technical Assistance
Supervisor: Government of the Kyrgyz Republic & Technical Coordination Committee of the
GOK/World Bank Health Sector Reform Project
Timing: From the middle of 1996-2000, five months of international technical assistance will be
required over the four years of the project: 2.5 months in Year 1, 1. 5 months in Year 2, and 2
weeks in Year 3 and Year 4.
Objective: To provide technical assistance to the Ministry of Health in the implementation of the
Women's Reproductive Health sub-component of the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic/World
Bank Health Sector Reform Project.
Specific Requirements: The following range of foreign specialist skills will be required:
(a)    Maternal and Perinatal Health Program management specialist;
(b)    Obstetrician/gynecologist;
(c)    Neonatologist/pediatrician;
(d)    Venereologist.
This consultancy team should preferably be Russian speaking, and have previous experience working
on maternal and perinatal programs in former Soviet countries. The consultants should be familiar
with the WHO Mother-Baby Package and other WHO safe motherhood, perinatal health and sexually
transmitted disease management guidelines, and should have experience in conducting program
management courses, training of trainer courses; and practical "hands-on" training in a clinical
setting.
The goals of the Women's Reproductive Health sub-component within the four years of the project
are to:
1.    Strengthen program management;
2.    Upgrade health provider skills;
3.    Upgrade health facilities;
4.    Improve public awareness.
To realize these goals the consultancy team will organize and conduct the following activities within
the four years of the project:
1. Strengthen Program Management:
- Baseline Maternal and Perinatal Health Facility Review & National Policy Development
Workshop (this will include targets, supervision, management, surveillance, health information
systems, rationalization and restructuring of health system, etc.);
- Management training workshop for MOH & Oblast program managers;
-  Provide ongoing technical assistance to the MOH and Oblast program managers,
- Study tour for key health personnel to see comprehensive maternal and perinatal health programs;



87                             ANNEX 2.A
-  Monitor software training for program managers by local consultant;
- Mid-project Mini-Health Facility Survey & Focused Program Review,
- End-of-project Mini-Health Facility Survey, Focused Program Review & Strategy Workshop.
2. Upgrade Health Provider Skills
Assist in the introduction of the adapted WHO "Mother-Baby Package" at national, Oblast and Raion
levels. This will upgrade hospital practices in prenatal care, delivery care (partograms, assisted delivery
techniques such as vacuum extraction and forceps) and newborn resuscitation and management of sexually
transmitted diseases; and primary health care practices in maternal health, perinatal health and sexually
transmitted diseases management.
-  Practical in-service training of hospital specialist trainers (obstetricians, neonatologists, venereologist);
-  Training of trainers workshop for National trainers,
-  Training of trainers workshop for Oblast trainers-,
-  6 Oblast Model Hospital staff training workshops (one per Oblast);
-  Ongoing training evaluation through spotchecks
3. Upgrade Health Facilities:
-  Monitor procurement and distribution of clinical equipment and essential drugs provided by the
project to selected health facilities.
4. Improve Public Awareness:
-  Monitor the development and field testing of the booklets on family health for the general public
funded by the project.
At the end of the 4 year project the MOH with technical assistance from the consultancy team should
have achieved the following:
1. Strengthened Program Management;
- Increased management capacity in the Department of Maternal and Child Health at the Ministry of
Health and the Oblast Health Admninistrations;
-  A national policy for a comprehensive safe motherhood and perinatal health program and a strategy
to rationalize and integrate activities.
2. Upgraded Health Provider Skills;
-  Increased training and mnanagement capacity within the Centers of Continuous Medical
Education in Bishkek City and Osh; and a decentralization of training to the newly established Oblast
Model Hospitals;
-  Core teams of trainers at central, oblast and raion level;
-  Training materials for four levels of health workers;
-  2000 Health workers trained in the WHO "Mother-Baby Package:
-     Obstetricians at national, Oblast and Raion Hospital levels trained to use partograms and
assisted delivery techniques (vacuum extraction and forceps).
-     Neonatologists, and midwives trained in newborn resuscitation;
-     Primary health care workers trained in maternal and perinatal care.



88                             ANNEX 2.A
3.    Upgraded Health Facilities;
- Model hospital, polyclinic and FAP in each Oblast with restructured, rationalized and integrated
health services;
- Clinical equipment in 170 SVAS, 20 model health facilities, and 43 Central Raion Hospitals.
4. Improved Public Awareness.
- Booklets on family health for the general public distributed free of charge from primary health care
facilities.



89                             ANNEX 2.A
Table 4. TERMS OF REFERENCE
Scope: Maternal and Perinatal Health Study Tour
Nunber of Participants: 10
Type of Participants: Ministry of Health and Oblast Health Administration maternal and perinatal health
program managers, and national specialists in obstetrics, neonatology and venereology.
Number of Facilitators: 1 (plus interpreter if required)
Location: Possible countries could include the United Kingdom, a Scandinavian country and a former
Soviet or Eastern European country.
Timing: First year of Women's Reproductive Health sub-component. Maximum length 2 weeks.
Objective: Study Tour to observe cost-effective national maternal and perinatal health programs (following
WHO guidelines both in program management and clinical case management with integration of services
at the primary health care level) in several countries.
The study tour participants should visit the following:
-   Ministry of Health to discuss the National MPH program with MOH program managers
-   Regional Health Departments to discuss the Regional MPH programs with Regional program
managers
-   Hospital maternity, pediatric and venereology departments providing shared care with the primary
health care levels.
-   Primary health care clinics with integrated services
-   Community based services



90                            ANNEX 2.A
Table 5. LIST OF PROPOSED ESSENTIAL DRUGS (to be procured by this project)
For Maternal Health:
Lidocaine 5 % 50 mls.
Ampicillin 250 mg tablets
Metronidazole 200 mg. tabs
Tetracycline 250 mg. tabs
Procaine benzylpenicillin 1 gram.
Cotrimoxazole 480 mg
Gentamicin 80 mg.
Silver nitrate sol I % 10 mls.
Tetracycline eye ointment 3 grams.
Ferrous sulphate 300 mg. tablets
Folic acid 5 mg.
Methyldopa 250 mg. tabs
Hydralazine 25 mg.
Propranolol 80 mg.
Promethazine 25 mg/ml (2 ml vials)
Diazepain 20 mg. inj
Magnesium sulphate 500 mls
Ergometrine tablets
Ergometrine inj.
Oxytocin 5 unit inj.
Glucose/Sodium Chloride 1 liter
Dextran 70
For Sexually Transmitted Diseases:
Benzathine penicillin 2.4 megaunits
Procaine penicillin i megaunit
Tetracycline 250 mg. tabs
Amoxacillin 250 mg. tabs.
Probenecid 500 mg.
Spectinomycin 2 grams. inj.



91                             ANNEX 2.A
Table 6. LIST OF OFFICE & TRAINING EQUIPMENT WITH SPECIFICATIONS
- Ministry of Health, Chief Obstetrician and Pediatrician will receive one computer and printer
each.
- Centers of Continuous Medical Education in Bishkek & Osh will receive one piece of all the
items listed below.
- Oblast Model Hospitals will receive 1 Overhead projector, 1 Overhead screen, I Slide projector
with carousel, I Television, I Video cassette recorder, I Flipchart stand, I Physiological training
model of women's pelvis to practice assisted delivery; 1 Physiological training model of newborn
infant to practice newborn resuscitation.
4 Computers
4 Printers, Hewlett Packard, Laserjet 4L
2 Photocopiers, heavy duty
2 Fax machines
9 Overhead projectors, portable
9 Overhead screens, portable
9 Slide projectors with carousels
9 Televisions, colored, large screen
9 Video cassette recorders, multisystem
9 Flipchart stands
9 Physiological training models: women's pelvis to practice assisted delivery, plastic
9 Physiological training models: newborn infant to practice newborn resuscitation, plastic






93                             ANNEX 2.B
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
HEALTH SECTOR REFORM PROJECT
ANNEX 2.B: PRIMARY HEALTH CARE - ACUTE RESPIRATORY INFECTIONS AND
DIARRHEAL DISEASE CONTROL SUBCOMPONENT
A. Background
1. In 1991, the corrected infant mortality rate (IMR) for the Kyrgyz Republic, 40 per 1000 live births,
was slightly lower than the average IMR for upper middle income countries (about 45 per 1,000 live
births). A few countries (such as China and Sri Lanka) with lower income per capita report an IMR better
than that of the Kyrgyz Republic, but most have an IMR even higher. The mortality indicators however,
have shown little improvement over the past ten to fifteen years (the IMR declined only ten percent from
1970 to 1985).
Uncorrected Infant Mortality Rates per 1000 live births (source MOH)
1988        1989         1990        1991         1992        1993         1994
36.6        32.7         29.9        29.6         31.5         31.9        29.4    l
2.    In the Kyrgyz Republic, as shown in the table below, acute respiratory infections, perinatal
conditions and diarrheal diseases are responsible for over 90% of infant deaths. As can be seen in the
"Prioritization Framework" table, acute respiratory infections and diarrheal diseases account for most of
the potential Disability Adjusted Life Year (DALY) loss per year. An acute respiratory infections
program and diarrheal diseases control program (ARI/CDD program) are the most cost-effective health
interventions to reduce the IMR in the Kyrgyz Republic. However, international experience has shown
that a reduction in IMR would not be expected until 5-6 years after the introduction of the program.
Respiratory infections accounted for over half of infant deaths in Naryn, Osh, Djalal Abad and Talas
Oblasts. The proportion of diarrhea deaths are particularly high in Osh and Djalal Abad Oblasts in the
south of the country. Most acute respiratory disease deaths occur in the long winter months (90% of the
Kyrgyz Republic is covered in high mountains) and most diarrhea related deaths in the summer months,
particularly in the warmer southern regions. A child who is malnourished and has an acute respiratory
infection or diarrhea is more likely to die than a child who is not malnourished and has an acute
respiratory infection or diarrhea. Malnutrition is on the increase in the Kyrgyz Republic. Over 7% of
all pre-school children are acutely malnourished, and this rises to 15% in some regions (Kyrgyz Multi-
Purpose Survey 1994).
Percentage of Infant Deaths due to Acute Respiratory Infections, Perinatal Causes and
Diarrhea by Oblast in 1993
Kyr    Bish    Issy    Naryn    Osh        Djal    Talas    Chui
ARI              45       8      48       52        50      53        52       37
Perinatal        26      76       15       27       18      16       21       29
Diarrhea         14       4       15       3        19      15        16       12



94                               ANNEX 2.B
3.     Most of the infant deaths due to infectious diseases such as acute respiratory infections and
diarrhea are concentrated in the rural areas of the Kyrgyz Republic, where the rates of mortality due to
these causes is two to three times higher than that of urban areas. The rural areas are more mountainous
and health facilities more limited. The infant mortality in rural areas increases sharply during the winter
months, probably reflecting variations in mortality rates due to acute respiratory infections, as seasonality
is negligible in urban areas. Children reach the health facility too late: leading to a high proportion of
deaths within the first 24 hours of admission (32% of admissions in 1993). At the same time
hospitalization rates for children with ARIs is very high and the majority of children with ARI do not
need to be admitted. The high rates of acute respiratory infections is probably due to a combination of
three factors: intra-household combustion of wood, the ignorance of parents of the early signs and
symptoms of severe acute respiratory infection, and inadequate clinical management of the disease. These
ARI deaths are concentrated particularly in under 5 year olds.
4.     Although the rate of mortality due to diarrheal diseases is only one fourth of the rate due to acute
respiratory diseases, the majority of the deaths are probably preventable. The average case fatality rate
of 1.2% and hospital case fatality rate of 3% are very high, but could be due to the high under reporting
of diarrhea cases. Two main strategies are needed: promotion of exclusive breastfeeding for the first four
months of life and prolonged to one year, and better home and health facility case management of
diarrheal episodes following WHO guidelines, including rehydration therapy with home fluids and ORS
packets and antibiotics for dysenteric cases. Oral rehydration therapy has been promoted in the Kyrgyz
Republic since 1985. ORT corners were established at primary health care facilities. The Ministry of
Health in collaboration with UNICEF initiated a control of diarrheal disease program in 1992, and
UNICEF is supplying 500,000 ORS packets annually. Despite these efforts ORS is not on the newly
developed national list of essential drugs. Outmoded treatments such as bacterium bifidum and
"biostimulators" are still recommended for diarrhea treatment in MOH guidelines and the major teaching
hospitals. USAID (through Wellstart) and UNICEF have funded breastfeeding promotion activities and
UNICEF plan to launch a Baby Friendly Hospital Initiative.
Acute Respiratory Infections in the Kyrgyz Republic, 199 1-1993
1991              1992               1993
Number ARI            425,910            422,213            400,609
Cases up to 14
yrs
ARI per 1000            254.5             252.3              238.4
5.    It is the practice, in all the former Soviet countries, to have pediatricians treating ARIs; and
infectious diseases specialists treating diarrhea in separate infectious disease wards and hospitals. Acute
respiratory infections and diarrheal diseases are also the most common childhood diseases seen in clinics
and admitted to hospitals. In 1991, 47% of all children under one year suffered from a respiratory
infection. Nearly half of all hospital admissions in children are for respiratory diseases. In 1991, 70%
of all under one year olds seen in the outpatient department with a respiratory infection were admitted
to hospital. In the same year, 40% of all under fifteen year olds were hospitalized. These very high
hospitalization rates for what is usually a mild viral infection, are quite inappropriate. This is confirmed
by observations in the field. Hospital beds are indeed occupied by children with mild respiratory
infections who could be equally well managed at home. At the same time there are very sick children in



95                             ANNEX 2.B
the community, who are arriving at the hospital too late. What is required is a comprehensive mass media
campaign for the general public, combined with major retraining of health workers. In addition, reduced
capacity in the government drug procurement and distribution agency, Pharmacia, has resulted in a
shortage of ARI/CDD drugs throughout the government health system.
6.    Acute respiratory infections and diarrheal disease in under five year olds have already been
identified by the government and the donor community as priority health problems. In the government's
"Health For All 1994-2000" program, breastfeeding, ARI and diarrheal disease control have been
included as the priority interventions. In collaboration with the Ministry of Health (MOH), a UNICEF
funded ARI/CDD program started in 1993. In 1994, the MOH developed a National ARI/CDD Program
and appointed a National ARI/CDD programn manager, Dr. Apisa Kushbakeeva, the Chief Pediatrician
at the MOH. A National ARI/CDD Policy has not been finalized or endorsed. A report of a World
Bank/WHO consultant, Dr. E. Kudlova, "Evaluation of the Status of ARI/CDD Program in Kyrgyzstan-
July 1995" revealed that even in the Republican Institute hospitals, children with ARIs and diarrhea are
admitted unnecessarily and treated with inappropriate case management protocols. Her report identified
the following shortcomings in the MOH/UNICEF ARI/CDD programs:
(i)    Lack of national CDD/ARI policy and case management guidelines;
(ii)   Inadequate supervision, management, surveillance of ARI/CDD activities at all levels;
(iii)   Lack of WHO ARI/CDD Russian materials in the Kyrgyz Republic, despite being
available.
(iv)   Lack of ARI/CDD case management training including clinical "hands-on" practice;
(v)   Inappropriate use of drugs for the treatment of diarrhea and ARI, inappropriate
rehydration of dehydrated cases, unnecessary hospitalization of CDD/ARI cases at
tertiary, secondary and primary health care levels; and
(vi)   Some incorrect mass media health messages on the home management of ARI/CDD.
B. Role of Other Donors
7.     UNICEF, in collaboration with the MOH, began an ARI/CDD control program in 1992, using
the case management guidelines developed by WHO. UNICEF funded some training activities, provided
a television and VCR (which were lost), and supplied and transported essential drugs to primary health
care facilities bypassing the Government system. This case management training has not reached health
workers at all levels of the health system. The Republican Health Education Center has limited capacity
to mobilize the general public in appropriate health seeking behavior for ARI/CDD and UNICEF has
been forced to use the private sector to get ARI/CDD television messages out to the general public. The
full implementation of this program has been patchy due to limited resources and the diminished capacity
in several MOH departments. UNICEF will continue to take the lead in the training of health workers
at the primary health level and the World Bank subcomponent will focus on the development of model
training centers and a core of trainers. UNICEF will continue to supply ARI and CDD drugs through a
series of winter and summer programs, targeted at under 5 year olds. The World Bank/WHO consultant
calculated that the UNICEF contribution of 500,000 ORS packets cover about 70% of the estimated need.
The World Bank supply of ARI/CDD drugs will cover this shortfall in national drug requirements. The
UNICEF and World Bank drug supplies to the primary health care level will need to be closely
coordinated.
8.    GTZ, the German Government's technical assistance program, plan to fund short term technical
assistance to the Republican Health Education Center over a 10 year period, starting in 1996. The
German Government's KFW, is supplying over US$2 million worth of equipment to all Feldsher
Accoucheur Posts (FAPs), Rural Physician Ambulatories (SVAs) and Central Rayon Hospitals and the
shipment is expected to arrive in early 1996. The equipment provided under the PHC Component will



96                             ANNEX 2.B
complement this equipment. WHO has an Information Center and full-time liaison officer based in
Bishkek city. The Information Center has a library with a wide selection of WHO books including some
on ARI/CDD in Russian and English and can be contracted to translate materials into Russian.
C. Rationale for Bank Involvement
9.     In the short term, the current economic crisis will slow down or reverse improvements in living
conditions, but a significant reduction in the burden of disease can still be achieved at low cost through
improving the coverage and quality of some health interventions. This should be possible in view of the
high level of education of the population, and the vast health infrastructure. About sixty percent of the
Kyrgyz Republic's infant mortality is caused by acute respiratory infections and diarrhea. ARI and CDD
programs using WHO guidelines are two of the most cost-effective programs; as shown in the 1993
World Development Report: Investing in Health.
10.   The World Bank activities will complement the more comprehensive nation-wide primary health
care training program planned by UNICEF for 1996-2001, by focusing on the hospital level. An
evaluation of the ARI/CDD program in 1995, by a WHO consultant, showed that although some progress
had been made in training at the peripheral level, case management is patchy, and a comprehensive
retraining program throughout all levels of the health system, from the major teaching institutes
downwards, is required. The Bank project will focus on improving the quality of "hands-on" case
management training and institutionalizing this practical training within the Department of Continuous
Medical Education and a network of Oblast model health facilities (one hospital, one polyclinic and one
FAP per Oblast) to be developed under the PHC component. The Bank project will also strengthen the
capacities of government institutions to provide essential ARI/CDD drugs and promote health education.
D. ARI/CDD Subcomponent Description
I 1. - The long term goals of the Acute Respiratory Infections and Control of Diarrheal Disease
subcomponent are to reduce deaths in children from acute respiratory tract infections and diarrhea.
12.   To realize these goals, the activities within the four years of this project are to:
(i)    Strengthen Program Management:
(a)   Improve ARI/CDD program management at the Ministry of Health and Oblast
Health Administration levels (training, study tour, supply computer);
(b)    Develop a national strategy for the rationalization and integration of ARI/CDD
services.
(ii)    Upgrade Health Provider Skills:
(a)    Develop a training package;
(b)    Strengthen and decentralize training sites;
(c)    Train a core of National and Oblast trainers
(d)    Train hospital health providers at national, Oblast and Raion levels;
(e)   Introduce adapted WHO ARI/CDD case management guidelines in pre-service
and in-service training curricula of doctors and paramnedics.
(iii)   Upgrade Health Facilities:
(a)    Develop a "model" hospital, polyclinic, and FAP providing WHO recommended
ARI/CDD case management in each Oblast;
(b)    Provide essential ARI/CDD drugs to selected health facilities nationwide



97                              ANNEX 2.B
(coordinating with UNICEF's drug supply to the PHC level).
(c)    Provide a basic list of clinical equipment for selected health facilities nationwide.
(iv)   Improve Public Awareness:
(a)    Make available culturally appropriate printed materials, for the general public,
on the home management of ARI and diarrheal diseases and appropriate health
seeking behavior.
13.   At the end of the project there will be a:
(i)    Strengthened Program Management:
(a)    Trained child health program managers at the Ministry of Health and Oblast
Health Administrations;
(b)    A national strategy, as part of the National Policy for ARI/CDD Control
activities, to rationalize and integrate activities.
(ii)    Upgraded Health Provider Skills:
(a)    Increased training capacity and management capacity within the Centers of
Continuous Medical Education in Bishkek and Osh; and a decentralization of
training to the newly established Oblast Model Hospitals;
(b)    Core teams of trainers at national, Oblast and Raion level;
(c)    500 health providers trained in the adapted WHO ARI/CDD case management
guidelines;
(d)    Pediatricians and infectious disease specialists at national, Oblast and Raion levels
(UNICEF will train all primary health care level staff).
(iii)   Upgraded Health Facilities:
(a)    Model hospital, polyclinic and FAP in each Oblast with restructured, rationalized
and integrated pediatric and infectious diseases services.
(b)    Essential drugs for ARI/CDD training activities provided to 20 model training
centers. After specific training a small pack of essential drugs and supplies for
ARI/CDD will be given to every FAP and SVA team attending the training
course.
(c)    Essential drugs provided in two annual tranches for ARI/CDD to 12 Raions (28%
of all Raions) for distribution to SVAs and FAPs. The Raions will be selected on
the basis of having the worst maternal, perinatal and infant health indicators, in
close coordination with UNICEF.
(iv)   Improved Public Awareness:
(a)    Booklets on family health for the general public distributed free of charge from
primary health care facilities.
14.   Technical Assistance: Four months of international technical assistance will be required over
the four years of the project: 2 months in Year 1, one month in Year 2, and 2 weeks in Year 3 and Year
4. The technical assistance will be required to conduct training courses and a study tour (see attached
terms of reference in Table 2). A doctor with considerable experience in pediatrics, and the management
of diarrheal cases and acute respiratory infections is preferred. The consultant(s) should be familiar with
WHO training materials on ARI/CDD, and should have experience in conducting case management and
program management training courses. Local technical assistance will be required for computer software
training.



98                             ANNEX 2.B
15.   The activities of the subcomponent are described in greater detail below:
(i)    Strengthen Program Management:
16.   Improve ARI/CDD program management at the Ministry of Health and Oblast Health
Administration levels: Special emphasis will be placed on strengthening the MOH national, Oblast and
Raion management to ensure adequate surveillance, supervision and monitoring of the ARI/CDD
programs. A range of workshops and on-the-job training will be conducted for MOH and Oblast Health
Administration program managers and other key people (management training, computer software
training, national policy development workshop, regular program review workshops). The subcomponent
will provide equipment for the Chief Pediatrician at the Ministry of Health (computer, printer & software
training). The Chief Pediatrician will be trained to allocate her time more efficiently by refocusing their
work to policy development and monitoring. The major work must be largely decentralized to the Oblast
Health Administration.
17.   An Acute Respiratory Diseases and Control of Diarrheal Diseases Study Tour will be arranged
in the second year of the project for 10 people over a two week period. Participants will include child
health program managers from the Ministry of Health and Oblast Health Administrations (Chief
Pediatricians), and national clinical specialists in pediatrics and infectious diseases. The group will travel
with one facilitator and one interpreter. The objective of the study tour is to observe effective National
ARI/CDD programs (following WHO guidelines both in program management and clinical case
management with integration of services at the primary health care level) in other countries. The study
tour participants should visit the following:
(i)    Ministry of Health to discuss the National ARI/CDD program with MOH program
managers (including mass media campaigns, surveillance, ORS supply and distribution,
etc.);
(ii)   Regional Health Departments to discuss the Regional ARI/CDD programs with Regional
program managers
(iii)   Oral Rehydration Units in a primary health care level facility
(iv)   ARI/Diarrhea Training Units to observe the "hands on" case management training of
workshop participants and to gain "hands on" experience in treating children with
diarrhea and dehydration. The participants should spend a couple of days gaining
experience in the administration of ORS to a dehydrated child. There should be an
adequate number of dehydrated cases to allow this.
(v)    Hospital pediatric wards to demonstrate that ARI and diarrhea cases can be treated in the
same ward;
(vi)   Primary health care clinics with integrated services;
Community based services.
18.   A Terms of Reference for this study tour is attached in Table 3. Possible countries could include
Egypt, Bangladesh (International Center for Diarrheal Disease Control in Dacca); and Pakistan (USAID
funded Diarrhea Training Units).
19.   Develop a national strategy for the rationalization and integration of ARI/CDD services: The
various Republican level institutions involved in child health will be encouraged to coordinate activities
with the MOH and Oblast Health Administrations through the formation of a national task force: Kyrgyz
State Medical Institute, Faculty of Continuous Medical Education, Republican Paramedic Medical
College, the Republican Institute for Obstetrics, Gynecology and Pediatrics, and the Republican Institute
for Infectious Diseases. A national strategy and planning workshop is scheduled to prepare the policies



99                              ANNEX 2.B
and plans of action to define national objectives, establish targets and subtargets for the major activities:
training, supervision, logistics, communication, monitoring and evaluation. The task force will develop
a strategy on the rationalization of services and integration into the primary health care level, to be
incorporated into the National ARI/CDD Program.
20.   The WHO definitions for health indicators will have to be adopted and medical audit and quality
assurance procedures put into place. A new system of supervision will replace the old style punitive
approach based upon the use of orders and decrees, which have largely ossified in time. Existing child
health management information systems will be improved through a rationalization of reporting (introduce
new home-based mothers records, tally sheets, referral letters, report forms, etc.). At present health
providers and managers spend a large proportion of their work day on data collection and report writing,
detracting from their other duties. The registration of newborns should be improved with direct referral
of the newborn card to the registration office, with minimal costs to the parents. Linkages between the
different levels of health facilities needs to be improved through rationalization of referral criteria. Service
provision by the private sector and non-government organizations must be encouraged for cost saving
purposes, and these new services coordinated and integrated into the general referral system. The MOH
has been compiling the essential drug list and will be responsible for maintaining and regularly updating
a database on rational drug prescribing and the WHO case management protocols. Regular updates should
be circulated to health providers.
21.   A small baseline health facility survey will aim to establish baseline data against which
improvements in the standard ARI/CDD case management can later be measured. This survey will be
undertaken by the MOH and Oblast program managers as part of their case management training
workshop. The survey and a focused program review (FPR) will then be repeated mid-project and at the
end of the project. The results of this health facility survey, which is really an internal evaluation
mechanism for program managers, will allow them to "tailor" the national CDD and ARI program,
monitoring progress and identifying priority areas which will require special attention at different points
in the project. UNICEF will organize the equally important household surveys on ARI/CDD home
management, the first one having been conducted in November 1995.
(ii)    Upgrade Health Provider Skills:
22.   The health worker training will be implemented in three phases as shown in the table below:
Phase 1. Training of National and Oblast Trainers
Phase 2. Training of Oblast Hospital and Central Raion Hospital staff and trainers
Phase 3. Training of Primary Health Care Teams (UNICEF program).
The project will fund Phases 1-2 and UNICEF will fund Phase 3.
23.   This will require the following workshops:
(i)    Practical intensive "hands-on" training of pediatricians and infectious disease specialists;
(ii)    Training of trainers case management training for National trainers;
(iii)   Training of trainers case management training for Oblast trainers;
(iv)   Case management training for staff from 6 Oblast Model Hospitals (one workshop per
Oblast);
(v)    Case management training for staff from 43 Central Raion Hospitals;
24.   A more detailed breakdown of the training is shown in the training timetable. A core National
and Oblast training team of 14 pediatricians, 14 infectious disease specialists, and 14 nurses will be
trained in Phase 1. They will then train Oblast model health facility (15 per Oblast) and Central Raion
hospital staff (6 per Central Raion Hospital). A total of 420 health providers will be trained in Phases 2.



100                             ANNEX 2.B
Implementation   National Level    Oblast Level       Central Raion    Primary Health
Phase                               (6 Oblasts &      Hospital Level   Care Level
Bishkek City)     (43 Raions)     (1000 PHC units)
Phase 1          National           Oblast Trainers:
Year 1           Trainers:         -Pediatricians 7
-Pediatricians 7    -Infectious
Training location  -Infectious      Disease
CCME Bishkek    Disease             Specialists 7
Specialists 7    -Nurses 7
-Nurses 7
Phase 2                             Year 2            Year 2-3
Year 2-3                           All Model          Pediatricians 43
Hospital,         Infectious
Training location                   Polyclinic &      disease
Oblast Model                        FAP Staff        specialists 43
Hospital &                                            Nurses 43
Polyclinic                         Total 6
workshops (15     Total 20
participants)     workshops (12
participants)
Phase 3                                                               All FAPS
UNICEF                                                                ALL SVAs
Programl
Year 1-4
Training location
FAPs
25.   Develop a training package: A well defined set of national policies will be developed and these
will be used as the basis for the technical guidelines on case management of diarrheal diseases and acute
respiratory infections. The guidelines will be developed by a team of national experts, with the assistance
of an international technical advisor. The guidelines will cover two major areas of the program activities:
first - management of the patient at home and in the outpatient departments, and, second - management
of complicated cases in hospital. Different types of guidelines will be developed for different types of
health workers and different types of program activities: rational use of drugs, community involvement,
prevention, etc.. These guidelines will involve reduction in the inappropriate use of antibiotics and other
drugs; in order to decrease the cost of treatment, the need for hospitalization, and the harmful
consequences of inappropriate drug treatment.
26.   The focus of the case management training is on the recognition of clinical signs in the child and
the appropriate use of antibiotics for a few specified disease categories. Participants will learn how to give
oral rehydration salts to a child with different grades of dehydration. The current case management of
respiratory diseases and diarrheal diseases in the major hospitals will need considerable upgrading before
they can be used as training units. Many children with respiratory infections and diarrheal diseases
receive multiple antibiotic therapy and unnecessary hospitalization. Children with diarrhea and no signs
of dehydration receive intravenous fluids often under sedation. The outmoded hospital case management
practices have considerably impeded the impact of the UNICEF funded training at the PHC level. Unless



101                            ANNEX 2.B
the tertiary and secondary levels adopt the new treatment protocols it is very difficult for the primary
health care level to adopt these protocols. This subcomponent will focus on training at these tertiary and
secondary levels to enhance the work of UNICEF at the primary health care level. Intensive on-site
training of model health facility staff by ARI and CDD clinical experts will be required in the initial
phase of the project to bring them up to the standards of WHO recognized ARI and CDD training units.
These training courses will use WHO case management guidelines which are already available in Russian.
ARI training should take place in the winter season and CDD in the summer season. It may be possible
to do combined training in September-October when the seasons merge and both types of clinical cases
will be present in the hospitals.
27.   The following WHO training modules will be taught to hospital level pediatricians, infectious
disease specialists and pediatric nurses (and Model Polyclinic and FAP staff) under this subcomponent:
(i)    Outpatient management of young children with ARI
(ii)    Hospital management of young children with ARI
(iii)   Outpatient management of young children with diarrhea
(iv)   Hospital management of young children with diarrhea
28.   Facilitator's Manuals and Participant's Manuals for the training modules above are already
available in Russian and will be printed in this subcomponent and distributed to the trainers and
participants. The guidelines will be printed early in the project to coincide with the start of training
activities. All health workers trained will be provided with case management charts and other materials
adapted from the original WHO management charts, as work aids for effective case management. Other
WHO training modules for CDD will include:
(i)    Management of bloody diarrhea in children
(ii)    Management and prevention of acute diarrhea
(iii)   Rational use of drugs in diarrhea in children
(iv)   Guidelines for treatment of cholera
(v)    Dietary management of a child with diarrhea
(vi)   Readings on diarrhea - Student manual
Other WHO training modules for ARI will include:
(i)    Antibiotics in the treatment of ARIs in small children.
(ii)    Oxygen therapy for ARI in young children.
(iii)   Management of fever in young children with ARI.
(iv)   Bronchodilators and other medications for wheeze associated illness in young children.
The WHO Information Center, in Bishkek, has a library with many of these materials and can be
requested to order updated WHO guidelines as they become available over the course of the project.
29.   Strengthen and decentralize training sites: An objective of this subcomponent is to increase
training capacity within the country through a process of institution strengthening and decentralization
in order to implement the ARI/CDD guidelines in a sustainable way. The quality of practical training will
be improved through a focus on intensive "hands-on" training in a clinical setting with real patients. The
training will take place at the two already established Centers of Continuous Medical Education in
Bishkek and Osh (both faculties of the Medical Institute); and the model health facilities (one
multispecialty hospital, one multispecialty polyclinic, and one FAP) to be developed during the project
in each of the 6 Oblasts.
30.   The Center of Continuous Medical Education (CCME), in Bishkek City, will act as the focus for
all training activities in Phase 1 of the project and will be responsible for training coordination
nationwide. The CCME has a sub-department in Osh City, and this sub-department will play a training



102                            ANNEX 2.B
and coordinating role for the southern Kyrgyz Republic. The following set of office and training
equipment will be provided under the Primary Health Care Component for each of these CCMEs: one
computer, one printer & software (plus training), one heavy duty photocopier, one fax machine, one
television, one VCR, one slide projector, one overhead projector and screen; 1 flipchart stand).
31.   Train a core of National and Oblast trainers: In Phase 1 of the training program, the National
and Oblast Trainers will receive training at the CCME in Bishkek City and the National hospitals. These
trainers will be selected from medical and paramedical colleges and National Postgraduate Institutes.
Intensive in-hospital training of these national and oblast hospital pediatric and infectious disease
specialists by foreign experts will be required in the initial phase of the project; followed by a training
of trainers course. Some trainers will also participate in the study tour to practice "hands-on" case
management in other countries.
32.   Train health providers at National, Oblast and Raion levels: In Phase 2, the Oblast model
hospitals will be trained and they will then be responsible for training Central Raion Hospital staff. Local
part-time training coordinators will be funded by the project to work in each of the 6 Oblast model
hospitals. The practical "hands-on" training will take place in the hospital inpatient, hospital outpatient,
polyclinic, and FAP setting. The following sets of training equipment will be provided to each Oblast
Model Hospital under the PHC Component (and must be shared by both the Maternal and Perinatal
Health subcomponent and the ARI/CDD subcomponent): Television, VCR, slide projector, overhead
projector and screen; 1 flipchart stand. A limited list of essential ARI/CDD drugs and clinical equipment
will be provided to the upgraded model hospitals, polyclinics and FAPs for the ongoing training activities.
33.   In Phase 3. of the training program, Primary Health Care Teams from the peripheral FAPs,
SVAs, and Rural Hospitals will be trained by the Ministry of Health and UNICEF. They can draw upon
the core of Oblast trainers trained under this subcomponent.
34.   Introduce adapted WHO ARI/CDD case management package in pre-service and in-service
training curricula of doctors and paramedics: To ensure long term sustainability of these training
activities the newly developed guidelines will be integrated into the pre-service and in-service training
at the medical and paramedical colleges. Trainers from these colleges will be trained as National and
Oblast trainers.
(iii)   Upgrade Health Facilities:
35.   Develop a "model' hospital, polyclinic, and FAP providing WHO recommended ARI/CDD
case management in each Oblast: Pediatric infectious diseases departments (where children with diarrhea
are treated) and pediatric departments (where children with ARIs are treated) in Oblast hospitals will be
rationalized to form a model hospital complex in each Oblast (merging of departments and buildings,
redeployment of staff, pooling of equipment and spare parts, etc.). An adult therapy clinic, women's
consultation clinic, and children's clinic will be merged (if not already merged) to form a model
polyclinic nearby the model hospital in each Oblast. A nearby FAP will also be selected as a model
FAP. These 20 facilities (2 CCMEs, 6 Model Hospitals, 6 Model Polyclinics and 6 FAPs) will be
upgraded with equipment, essential drugs and staff training and used as model health facilities for the
ARI/CDD training activities in each Oblast. The long term goal is that the upgrading and rationalization
process that takes place in these model sites will be replicated in health facilities throughout each Oblast.
36.   Provide essential ARI/CDD drugs to selected health facilities (coordinating with UNICEF's
drug supply to the PHC level): The subcomponent will provide essential drugs in two annual tranches.
See suggested list in table . These drugs will be earmarked for ARI/CDD case management training



103                            ANNEX 2.B
activities in 6 Oblasts (6 Model Hospitals, 6 Model Polyclinics and 6 FAPs). After specific training a
small pack of essential drugs and supplies for ARI/CDD will be given to every FAP and SVA team
attending the training course. The remaining essential drugs will be distributed to 12 Raions (28% of all
Raions) for distribution to SVAs and FAPs. The Raions will be selected on the basis of having the worst
maternal, perinatal and infant health indicators. UNICEF will also continue to donate and directly
distribute drugs for the summer diarrhea season and the winter ARI season. This UNICEF donation
covers about 60-70% of the total drug requirements. The project will provide the remaining 30-40% of
drugs.
37.   Provide a basic list of clinical equipment for selected health facilities nationwide: Under the
Primary Health Care Component, the following basic clinical equipment will be provided to 170 SVAs
nationwide (this will complement the equipment donated by the German Government's KFW) to
strengthen the work of the primary health care level: 1 Tuning fork, 1 Reflex hammer, 1 Stethoscope,
1 Auriscope, 1 Sphygmomanometer, 1 Needle & syringe sterilizer, 5 Glass syringes, 1 Thermometer
adult, 1 Thermometer infant, 1 Nurses Instrument Suture kit, 1 Glucometer set, 1 Examination lamp, 1
Sterile instrument container set for autoclave, 2 Trash cans, 1 Flashlight, 1 Peak flow meter, 1 Basic light
microscope, 1 Fetoscope, 1 Tongue depressor, 10 sets Urine analysis dipsticks (for specifications see
Table 5). The remaining 43 SVAs in Chui Oblast will be provided with equipment under the Medical
Provider Payment Component. This basic equipment will also be provided for the model hospitals (2
sets), polyclinics (2 sets) and FAPs (1 set) in each Oblast to strengthen their role as model training sites.
(iv)   Improve Public Awareness:
38.   Make available culturally appropriate printed materials, for the general public, on the home
management of ARI and diarrheal diseases and appropriate health seeking behavior: Dr. Eva
Kudlova's report highlighted some of the problems with the information available to the general public
on the home management of ARIs and diarrhea. Although many people know about ORS, they do not
seem to know how to give it correctly. Parents do not know when to seek medical help for the sick
children. In an attempt to correct this lack of public awareness funding will be provided for the
development and printing of a booklet. In an effort to integrate the different activities of the primary
health care component; namely maternal and newborn care, home management of common childhood
diseases such as respiratory and diarrheal diseases, and adult health care to prevent and control sexually
transmitted diseases, tuberculosis, smoking and diet related conditions; funds will be provided for the
development, printing and distribution of one booklet providing information on all these conditions in the
context of family life. This book will be printed in Russian and Kyrgyz. This activity strengthens the
capacity of the Republican Health Education Center to mobilize the general public in home-based
management of ARI and diarrhea and appropriate utilization of the primary health care services. The
booklets will be distributed free of charge through the primary health care system.
39.   The Republican Health Center will develop the booklets in collaboration with GTZ funded
technical advisor who will provide technical assistance in pretesting messages through techniques such
as target group surveys and focus group discussions. The objective is to conduct field testing during
development of the booklet so that it is both visually pleasing to the population and contains appropriate
and understandable information. Topics to be covered will include the home management of ARI and
diarrhea, the recognition of danger signs in children; what health services are available for children,
whom to contact for help, how to contact them and the means available to travel to the health facility in
the case of an emergency; breastfeeding, and caring for an infant. This booklet will also focus on
reducing ARI risk factors such as reducing adult smoking and improving ventilation in the house,
especially with cooking fires. Information on the home management of diarrhea and ARI will be available
after the UNICEF sponsored Household Survey due to be conducted in November 1995. Information



104                            ANNEX 2.B
obtained from this survey on home practices should be incorporated into the booklet.
E. Program Supervision
40.   Regular supervision of the National ARI/CDD program, by MOH and Oblast program managers
is essential, to ensure implementation of the subcomponent's activities, particularly regarding case
management and reporting. The MOH and Oblast Health Administrations must ensure that their
supervisory staff are mobile enough to perform adequate supervision. These travel costs should come out
of the counterpart funding of the project.
F. Project Management
41.   The MOH would have overall responsibility for the PHC component, including the ARI/CDD
subcomponent, in close coordination with Oblast and Raion Health Administrations. The TCC will have
one full-time advisor to coordinate all PHC activities. To strengthen MOH management capacity a
computer, printer and software training will be provided to the Chief Pediatrician.
G. Benefits and Risks
42.   It has been agreed between the World Bank mission and UNICEF, that UNICEF has the larger
budget for ARI/CDD and should be the lead agency. This subcomponent has been carefully designed with
the UNICEF Regional Mission for Central Asia, to complement UNICEF planned activities. There is
always a risk that these plans may change. In 1995, a World Bank/WHO consultant's review of the
UNICEF funded ARI/CDD program has revealed a rather patchy training strategy to date. Although
UNICEF now plans a more comprehensive approach, there is still a risk that their training activities will
not be institutionalized, and therefore not sustainable. One to avoid this is for UNICEF to use the
National and Oblast core trainers, the CCMEs, and model health facilities in their training program. The
benefit to UNICEF taking the lead, is that the MOH has been used to working with UNICEF on
ARI/CDD, and this collaboration will now continue.
43.   The Ministry of Health, has been downsized, and plans are underway to cut staffing levels even
further. This is coupled with a lack of management capacity. The ability of the MOH to supervise the
program effectively is in doubt. However, there is tremendous government commitment to health reform
and ARI/CDD programs and some very talented and dedicated people in the government health system.
The project design includes a phased implementation of the PHC Component to avoid excessive burden
on the MOH. Changing case management protocols is notoriously difficult, particularly at the tertiary
health facilities level. Unless case management at these Republican hospitals (the training ground for
future doctors) are improved, it will be difficult to make changes lower down the health system. Attempts
to integrate services will meet with strong opposition from health personnel at all levels of the health
system whose jobs are at stake.
H. Monitoring and Evaluation
44.   Three sets of indicators will be used to monitor the implementation of this subcomponent: input
indicators, process/output/service indicators, and outcome indicators. The data will be collected through
current reporting mechanisms and additional household (UNICEF survey) and health facility surveys. The
Technical Coordination Committee's Primary Health Care Coordinator and MOH can use the following
indicators to monitor the progress of the project. These can be converted into checklists and used on field
visits as spot checks. A more limited list of Performance Monitoring Indicators have been selected for



105                             ANNEX 2.B
the monitoring of the project by the World Bank.
45.   Input indicators will track planned resource inputs such as the following:
(a)    Person weeks of technical assistance per year
(b)    Procurement and disbursement of essential drugs to primary health care facilities.
46.   Process indicators will track the training activities:
(a)    Actual number of booklets printed compared with planned number
(b)    Number of workshops conducted
47.   Output indicators, focused on primary health providers who have received training and
the general public, will assess the unpact of the subcomponent on health services:
Acute Respiratory Infections:
(a)    Proportion of staff working with ARI cases who have been trained in WHO Case
Management
(b)    Proportion of health facilities receiving a regular supply of essential ARI drugs.
(c)    Proportion of ARI cases seen at the health facilities that have been correctly assessed.
(d)    Proportion of pneumonia cases seen at health facilities who will receive standard case
management of pneumonia.
(e)    Proportion of ARI patients seen at health facilities who should not receive antibiotics but
are given them.
(f)    Proportion of ARI cases without pneumonia who are hospitalized.
(g)    Proportion of caretakers of ARI patients who will receive advice on home treatment.
Diarrheal Diseases:
(a)    Proportion of staff working with diarrheal cases who have been trained in WHO Case
Management
(b)    Proportion of Model health facilities receiving a regular supply of essential drugs for
diarrheal diseases
(c)    Proportion of diarrhea cases seen at health facilities that will be correctly assessed.
(d)    Proportion of dysentery cases seen at health facilities who will receive standard case
management of dysentery.
(e)    Proportion of diarrhea patients seen at health facilities who should not receive antibiotics
but are given them.
(f)    Proportion of diarrhea cases without dehydration or other complications who are
hospitalized.
(g)    Proportion of caretakers of diarrhea patients who will receive advice on home treatment.
48.   Outcome indicators will track change in health status of the children. These are not expected
to change significantly in the four year life of the project. Changes occur only 5 to 6 years after the
implementation of a fully comprehensive ARI/CDD program.
(a)   Infant Mortality Rate
(b)    Under 2 and Under 5 Mortality Rate
(c)    Proportion of infant deaths due to acute respiratory tract diseases
(d)    Proportion of infant deaths due to diarrheal diseases



106                             ANNEX 2.B
Table 1.
Implementation Schedule for the Acute Respiratory Infection and Control of Diarrheal
Disease ARI/CDD Subcomponent
ACTIVITIES
1. STRENGTHEN PROGRAM MANAGEMENT
- Baseline ARI/CDD Health Facility Review & National Strategy Development
Workshop (Year 1, Quarter 2);
- Management training workshop for MOH & Oblast program managers (Year 1, Quarter 2);
- Study tour for key health personnel to see comprehensive ARI/CDD programs
(Year 2, Quarter 2);
- Supply of computer, printer & software to MOH Chief Pediatrician (Year 1, Quarter 2);
- Software training for program managers by local consultant (Year 1, Quarter 3);
- Mid-project Mini-Health Facility Survey & Focused Program Review (Year 3, Quarter 1);
- End-of-project Mini-Health Facility Survey, Focused Program Review & Strategy Workshop
(Year 4, Quarter 4).
2. UPGRADE HEALTH PROVIDER SKILLS
- Print adapted ARI/CDD guidelines (Year 1, Quarter 2)
- Practical in-service training of hospital specialist trainers (Year 1, Quarter 3);
- Training of trainers workshop for National trainers (Year 1, Quarter 4);
- Training of trainers workshop for Oblast trainers (Year 1, Quarter 4);
- 6 Oblast Model Hospital staff training workshops (one per Oblast); (Year 2, all quarters);
- Workshop for staff from 43 Central Raion Hospitals (Years 2,3,4);
3. UPGRADE HEALTH FACILITIES
- Rationalize pediatric and infectious disease departments in Oblast hospitals to form a
model hospital complex in each Oblast (Year 1, Quarters 1 & 2);
- Merge adult therapy, women's consultation, and children's clinics to form a model
multispecialty polyclinic in each Oblast (Year 1, Quarters I & 2);
- Supply ARI/CDD drugs to 16 model health facilities (Two tranches in Year 1, Quarter 4; &
Year 3, Quarter 2)
- Supply ARI/CDD drugs to 12 Raions (Two tranches in Year 1, Quarter 4; &
Year 3, Quarter 2)
4. IMPROVE PUBLIC AWARENESS
- * Develop, translate into Russian & Kyrgyz, field test section of booklet on ARI/CDD for
the general public (Year 2, Quarters 1 & 2);
- Distribute booklet through primnary health care system (Years 2-4).
* In collaboration with GTZ technical assistance



107                            ANNEX 2.B
Table 2               TERMS OF REFERENCE
Contractor: Competitive Bidding
Scope: National Acute Respiratory Infection and Diarrheal Disease Control (ARI/CDD) Program for the
Kyrgyz Republic (see attached Implementation Schedule, Training Schedule, and Terms of Reference for
study tour)
Activity: Technical Assistaice
Supervisor: Government of the Kyrgyz Republic & Technical Coordination Committee of the
Government of the Kyrgyz Republic/World Bank Health Sector Reform Project
Timing: From the middle of 1996-2000, four months of international technical assistance will be required
over the four years of the project: 2 months in Year 1, 1 month in Year 2, and 2 weeks in Year 3 and
Year 4.
Objective: To provide technical assistance to the Ministry of Health in the implementation of the Acute
Respiratory Infection and Diarrheal Disease Control Program subcomponent of the Government of the
Kyrgyz Republic/World Bank Health Sector Reforn Project.
Specific Requirements: The consultant(s) should preferably be Russian speaking, and have previous
experience working on ARI/CDD programs in the Kyrgyz Republic or another former Soviet country.
A doctor with considerable experience in pediatrics, and the management of diarrheal cases and acute
respiratory infections is preferred. The consultant(s) should be familiar with WHO training mnaterials on
ARI/CDD, and should have experience in conducting program management courses, training of trainer
courses; and practical "hands-on" training in a clinical setting.
Background: The following shortcomings were identified by a World Bank/WHO Consultant in the 1995
evaluation of the Kyrgyz Republic's National ARI/CDD Control Program:
1.    Lack of national CDD/ARI policy and case management guidelines.
2.    Inadequate supervision, management, surveillance of ARI/CDD activities
at all levels.
3.    Lack of WHO ARI/CDD Russian materials in the Kyrgyz Republic, despite being available.
4.    Lack of ARI/CDD case management training including clinical "hands-on" practice.
5.    Inappropriate use of drugs for the treatment of diarrhea and ARI, inappropriate rehydration of
dehydrated cases, unnecessary hospitalization of CDD/ARI cases at tertiary, secondary and
primary health care levels
6.    Some incorrect mass media health messages on the home management of ARI/CDD.
The goals of the ARI/CDD subcomponent within the four years of the project are to rectify these
shortcomings and achieve the following:
1. Strengthen program management;
2. Upgrade health provider skills;
3. Upgrade health facilities;
4. Improve public awareness.
To realize these goals the consultancy team, in collaboration with the MOH, will organize and conduct
the following activities within the four years of the project:



108                            ANNEX 2.B
1. Strengthen Program Management:
- Baseline ARI/CDD Health Facility Review & National Strategy Development Workshop;
- Management training workshop for MOH & Oblast program managers;
- Provide ongoing technical assistance to the MOH and Oblast program managers;
- Study tour for key health personnel to see comprehensive ARI/CDD programs;
- Monitor software training for program managers by local consultant;
- Mid-project Mini-Health Facility Survey & Focused Program Review;
- End-of-project Mini-Health Facility Survey, Focused Program Review & Strategy Workshop.
2. Upgrade Health Provider Skills
Assist in the introduction of the adapted WHO ARI/CDD case management guidelines at Republican,
Oblast and Raion levels. The guidelines will cover management of the patient at home and in the
outpatient departments, and, management of complicated cases in hospital. The training will be on
intensive "hands-on" experience in a clinical setting with real patients. The following training activities
are required:
- Development of training package;
- Practical in-service training of hospital specialist trainers;
- Training of trainers workshop for National trainers;
- Training of trainers workshop for Oblast trainers;
- 6 Oblast Model Hospital staff training workshops (one per Oblast);
- Ongoing training evaluation of Central Raion Hospital staff through spot checks.
3. Upgrade Health Facilities:
- Monitor procurement and distribution of clinical equipment and essential drugs provided by the project
to selected health facilities.
4. Improve Public Awareness:
- Develop section on ARI/CDD in family health booklet and monitor field testing of the booklets on
family health for the general public funded by the project.
At the end of the 4 year project the MOH with technical assistance from the consultant(s) should have
achieved the following:
1. Strengthened Program Management:
- Trained child health program managers at the Ministry of Health and Oblast Health
Administrations;
- A national strategy, as part of the National Policy for ARI/CDD Control activities, to
rationalize and integrate activities.
2. Upgraded Health Provider Skills:
- Increased training capacity and management capacity within the Department of Continuous
Medical Education in Bishkek and Osh; and a decentralization of training to the newly
established Oblast Model Hospitals;
- Core teams of trainers at national, Oblast and Raion level;
- 500 health providers trained in the adapted WHO ARI/CDD case management guidelines:
-Pediatricians and infectious disease specialists at Republican, Oblast and Raion levels --
(UNICEF will train all primary health care level staff).



109                             ANNEX 2.B
3. Upgraded Health Facilities:
- Model hospital, polyclinic and FAP in each Oblast with restructured, rationalized and
integrated pediatric and infectious diseases services.
- Essential drugs for ARI/CDD training activities provided to 20 model training centers. After
specific training a small pack of essential drugs and supplies for ARI/CDD will be given to
every FAP and SVA team attending the training course.
- Essential drugs provided in two annual tranches for ARI/CDD to 12 Raions (28% of all
Raions) for distribution to SVAs and FAPs. The Raions will be selected on the basis of
having the worst maternal, perinatal and infant health indicators.
4. Improved Public Awareness:
- Booklets on famnily health, containing an ARI/CDD section for the general public distributed
free of charge from primary health care facilities.



110                             ANNEX 2.B
Table 3.            TERMS OF REFERENCE
Acute Respiratory Diseases and Control of Diarrheal Diseases Study Tour
Number of Participants: 10
Type of Participants: Ministry of Health and Oblast Health Administration child health program
managers, pediatricians, infectious disease specialists.
Number of Facilitators: 1 (plus interpreter if required)
Location: Possible countries could include Egypt, Bangladesh (International Center for Diarrheal
Disease Control in Dacca) and Pakistan (USAID funded Diarrhea Training Units).
Timing: Second year of ARI/CDD subcomponent, Maximum length 2 weeks.
Objective: Study Tour to observe cost-effective National ARI/CDD programs (following WHO
guidelines both in program management and clinical case management with integration of services at
the primary health care level) in several countries.
The study tour participants should visit the following:
- Ministry of Health to discuss the National ARI/CDD program with MOH program managers
(including ORS supply and distribution, mass media campaigns, surveillance, management
information systems,  etc.);
- Regional Health Departments to discuss the Regional ARI/CDD programs with Regional program
managers;
- Oral Rehydration Units in a primary health care level facility;
- ARI/Diarrhea Training Units to observe the "hands on" case management training of workshop
participants and to gain "hands on" experience in treating children with diarrhea and dehydration.
The  participants should spend a couple of days gaining experience in the administration of ORS to a
dehydrated child. There should be an adequate number of dehydrated cases to allow this;
- Hospital pediatric wards to demonstrate that ARI and diarrhea cases can be treated in the same
ward;
- Primary health care clinics with integrated services;
- Community based services.



111                             ANNEX 2.B
Table 4.         PROPOSED ESSENT4IAL DRUGS LIST (for procurement by project)
ARI
Cotrimoxazole 120 mg.
Amoxycillin 250 mg.
Benzyl penicillin vials 1 million units
Gentamicin vials 40 mg.
CDD
ORS packets
Ringer's Lactate i.v. solution
Cotrimoxazole 120 mg.
Paracetamol 100 mg.






113                            ANNEX 2.C
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
HEALTH SECTOR REFORM PROJECT
ANNEX 2.C: PRIMARY HEALTH CARE - TUBERCULOSIS CONTROL
SUB-COMPONENT
A. Background
1.    A WHO analysis in March 1995 found the tuberculosis situation in the Kyrgyz Republic to be
grave. Even during the Soviet period, tuberculosis case notification rates were among the highest of the
whole USSR. More recently, after a few years of decline, case rates have increased by an average 3.9%
annually between 1989 and 1994, when 60 cases per 100,000 population were reported. In Bishkek city
this rate was 90.7 per 100.000 in 1994, i.e., similar to that of some of the most affected developing
countries. The largest proportion of cases still occurs in the young adult age groups, i.e., the most
productive segment of the population, and in 1994, over two thirds of all cases occurred in persons less
than 45 years of age. Using the very scarce data available from tuberculin surveys, 25 cases of smear
positive tuberculosis would occur annually in the Kyrgyz Republic. However, this estimate must be taken
with caution. Considering the poor attractiveness of the current Program, the fact that many patients may
not be diagnosed because of the current constraints, and the very high rate among the young adults, the
incidence of tuberculosis (all cases) in the Kyrgyz Republic may be higher than reported, i.e., up to 70
per 100,000.
2.    Mortality from tuberculosis has increased by an average 13.6% per year between 1988 and 1994,
when it was 13.6 per 100,000 population, i.e., the one of the highest in the whole Europe and the former
USSR. In Bishkek city the mortality rate was 29.7 per 100.000 in 1994. Because of reduced case finding
activities, the mortality rate could be much higher than reported. At present, it can be estimated that more
20% of all cases result in deaths; therefore, true tuberculosis mortality may be in the order of 15-20 per
100,000, if undiagnosed and untreated cases are included.
3.    In addition to this serious epidemiological situation, drug resistance levels, particularly to the most
important antituberculosis drugs, isoniazid and rifamnpicin, are reported to be on the increase from already
very high levels recorded in 1985-1987. This situation may even be worsening due to the current
inadequate treatment regimens and the increasing defaulting rate.
4.    The are two types of problems which are compromising the effectiveness of the Tuberculosis
Program. The first is that the economic crisis is affecting the budget for health, resulting in lack of drugs
and supplies. The second is that the existing well developed infrastructure is not utilized in a cost-
effective manner, as the policies of the National Tuberculosis Program are not in line with the recent
WHO strategy for global tuberculosis control, which is based on provision of short-course chemotherapy
to, at least, all sputum smear-positive cases.
5.    The analysis of the findings on TB control activities revealed a number of major problems. The
expensive and poor-yielding active screening of large proportions of the population by mass miniature
radiography is still being conducted, although to a limited extent due to lack of funds for maintenance
of the mobile van teams. Diagnosis is based on various tests and gives priority to chest radiography rather
than emphasizing smear microscopy. Tuberculosis patients are hospitalized for an excessive period of
time, although recently less than in the past due to lack of funds, and often kept in a convalescent status
in sanatoria for months. Patients are not treated with standard regimens, but drug combinations are often
individualized, also due to a serious lack of essential drugs; this results in low cure rates and the
production of chronic infectious cases, often infected with strains of M. tuberculosis resistant to drugs.



114                            ANNEX 2.C
In addition, because of the weaknesses of the Program, defaulting rates are increasing rapidly, therefore
favoring continued transmission of tubercle bacilli in the community and onset of drug resistance. Finally,
WHO recommended recording and reporting systems are not in place; therefore, evaluation of treatment
cannot be accomplished.
6.    The WHO tuberculosis Program consultants made specific recommendations in order to have a
5-point policy package for effective tuberculosis control adopted by the Government. Discussions with
Dr A. Alisherov (Director of the National Tuberculosis Research Institute - NTRI) and Dr P.I. Limarev
(NTRI Chief Epidemiologist) during the October mission, as well as the recommendations from the First
Meeting of the National Tuberculosis Program Managers from the countries of Eastern Europe and the
former USSR held in Warsaw, Poland on 20-22 June 1994, resulted in the production of a document
adopting the WHO modern strategy of tuberculosis control in a cost-effective manner. This document,
already approved by the MOH, will be submitted for approval to the Cabinet of Ministers, showing the
commitment of the Program managers seriously to renovate the control strategy.
B. Role of Other Donors
7.    Despite the severity of this public health problem, no donor agency has undertaken any serious,
comprehensive and sustainable activity to help the National Program cope with the ongoing deterioration
of tuberculosis control.
C. Rationale for Bank Involvement
8.    Tuberculosis control, according to the "World Development Report 1993" is among the most
cost-effective of all interventions. A new strategy of tuberculosis control in the Kyrgyz Republic may
indeed have a profound impact, as it will prevent deaths and disabilities among the most productive age
groups, and, at the same time, make more effective'use of scarce resources by simply reducing length
of hospitalization, number of beds, and other costly interventions.
D. The Sub-Component
9.    The overall goal of the sub-component is to improve the management of the tuberculosis control
program in the Kyrgyz Republic. The two specific objectives are:
(a)    To reduce the risk of tuberculosis transmission in the community and tuberculosis
morbidity and mortality. The project would aim at expanding and improving free, mostly
ambulatory, treatment with short course chemotherapy of patients with infectious
tuberculosis to achieve reduction of infection rate in the population of the Kyrgyz
Republic.
(b)    To institute policy reforms and improve program management to achieve greater
efficiency and effectiveness of tuberculosis control activities. The project would aim at
a better integration within the revitalized primary health system, at strengthening the
institution management and financing system, personnel and operational methods for
disease control, and at developing and disseminating cost-effective methods and materials
for improving control and sustaining the progress made.
10.   The project would revitalize the National Tuberculosis Program (NTP) by providing support for
program implementation to the existing central (NTRI), oblast, and raion structures and to the primary
health care services countrywide.



115                              ANNEX 2.C
11.   The tuberculosis control sub-component will consist of the following activities implemented during
the period 1996-2000.
(a)    Improvement and free provision of tuberculosis diagnostic services in at least one facility
per raion or city (be it a tuberculosis dispensary or a general health facility), and
upgrading of the quality of bacteriological services at raion and city level.
(b)    Provision of free short course chemotherapy and other treatment services to all
tuberculosis cases, with directly observed therapy during, at least, the initial phase of
chemotherapy, and achievement of high cure rates among all smear positive pulmonary
cases.
(c)    Improvement of case management by adoption of WHO recommended recording and
reporting system, and adequate supervision.
12.   Institutional strengthening of tuberculosis control will include the following:
(a)    Establishing, within the MOH, a formal NTP and under its leadership guarantee the
operational support to the three levels of tuberculosis care, i.e., the oblast, the raion/city
and the primary health care structure. The central unit of the NTP, based at the NTRI
should have adequate staff facilities and budgets to be responsible for formulating,
supervising and enforcing national tuberculosis control policies.
(b)    Reorganizing and upgrading the oblast level of the NTP within the oblast tuberculosis
Dispensary to plan, manage and supervise activities conducted within the oblast.
(c)    Reorganizing and upgrading the raion level of the NTP in each raion in order to plan,
manage and supervise control activities within the PHC system.
(d)    Implementing administrative, technical and financial reforms to improve the system by
which the central unit finances and manages control activities through the oblast level.
13.    The following investment and activities will be implemented in the Kyrgyz Republic during a 5-
year period of implementation (1996-2000). A detailed tuberculosis policy package of administrative and
technical reforms governing tuberculosis control activities has been agreed with the NTRI. Assurances
were obtained that the Kyrgyz MOH will guarantee that the tuberculosis policy package is implemented
stepwise in the country in all its terms and conditions, and maintain its provisions in effect for the full
project implementation period. The tuberculosis policy package constitutes the basis for the development
of a national manual for tuberculosis control. It addresses the main issues currently facing the Kyrgyz
control program and provides a basis from which rapid progress on tuberculosis control can be expected.
Its main features provide:
(a)    Chemotherapy for eligible patients and all case detection examinations, follow up, and
other procedures done by existing tuberculosis and PHC facilities, and supervision of
chemotherapy within hospitals or by feldshers and polyclinics, shall be free of charge to
the patient.
(b)    Only approved short course chemotherapy (SCC) regimens would be stocked and
prescribed by the raion tuberculosis coordinator.



116                               ANNEX 2.C
14.    Diagnostic services will rely on self referral by symptomatic cases (passive case finding).
However, health workers at all levels, and particularly, peripheral doctors and feldshers, will be
encouraged to actively identify suspected tuberculosis cases and refer them to the nearest raion facility
for confirmation of diagnosis. The project encourages reorganization of the diagnostic services by which
at each raion there is at least one facility (preferably a raion hospital, alternatively a tuberculosis
dispensary or a general health polyclinic) where a microscopy center and an X-ray unit are
accommodated. These facilities should be supervised for their tuberculosis component by the raion
coordinator who should, therefore, be based ideally at the central raion hospital. Each microscopy center
will have at least one binocular microscope for rapid and reliable screening of stained sputum smears.
In raions where distances or population densities are such that reliance on one single facility for diagnosis
is inappropriate, additional diagnostic services located at polyclinics or ambulatories must be available.
15.    Chest radiography examination will be provided to all persons with symptoms suggestive of
tuberculosis referred by doctors or feldshers at the designated raion facility (a general hospital or a
tuberculosis dispensary, if available) capable of accommodating the X-ray unit and the microscopy center.
Patients with abnormal films will have at least three sputum specimens examined for tubercle bacilli. For
patients living in distant parts of the raion, a brief 6-7 day hospitalization may be necessary to complete
the diagnostic screening and make the decision on treatment. Procedures to be followed for diagnosis will
be based on clear instructions. In brief, patients with abnormal chest X-ray and positive sputum smears
will be considered tuberculosis cases and treated accordingly. Those with abnormal chest X-ray and
negative sputum will be reviewed by a doctor of the facility where the diagnostic screening was done
(preferably a tuberculosis specialist or a physician who has been trained on tuberculosis) and a decision
on treatment will be made; in these cases, sputum cultures should be obtained. Those with negative chest
X- ray will receive broad spectrum antibiotics and be discharged to their referring health care worker for
reevaluation. Naturally, as treatment decisions will depend largely on primary health care doctors,
adequate training will be required by the tuberculosis specialists available in the Raion. It would be
preferable if, during the process of primary health care reorganization, tuberculosis specialists are
designated to work in primary health care facilities or at general hospitals, so that a specialist is present
for rapid consultation in each institution where decisions on treatment are made.
16.    About 30,000 chest X-ray films and about 350,000 smears are expected to be required. As
radiographic screening to rule-out tuberculosis will be performed within primary health care facilities,
cost of films should be covered by the primary care structure, except in those cases where tuberculosis
is confirmed (in such instances, the project will cover the cost of the initial film and of a second one
when this is necessary). The project provides appropriate equipment (about 170 binocular microscopes,
1 fluorescent microscopes and other essential laboratory equipment), along with ancillary supplies for
microscopy (containers, slides, and stains), and radiography (X-ray films). Training for PHC doctors
and feldshers to recognize and refer tuberculosis symptomatics will be provided by the raion tuberculosis
coordinators.
17.    Chemotherapy:         The primary target of the tuberculosis component is the achievement of
high cure rates (usually more than 85%), as rapid case detection and sputum conversions of infectious
cases are the best means for prevention of tuberculosis transmission. The cure rate indicates not only the
proportion of cases who convert to negative sputum smear, but also the proportion of those who remain
sources of infection. Since the lives of patients not cured are prolonged by inadequate treatment over the
expected survival of untreated cases, their cumulative number increases the pool of infectious cases. In
addition, inadequate treatment is likely to produce drug resistant strains and their spread. Therefore, the
main target of tuberculosis control is to reduce drastically the sputum smear positive sources of infection.
In order to achieve this target, specific technical criteria must be strictly followed. In brief, regimens
must be adequate, and standardized according to specific patient categories. In addition, chemotherapy



117                               ANNEX 2.C
must be supervised, i.e., drug intake must be directly observed by the administering doctor, feldsher or
nurse, at least during the 2-month initial phase of treatment. Treatment will be mostly on an ambulatory
basis, although hospitalization may be necessary for advanced and severe forms of tuberculosis. A final
decision on treatment modality (fully ambulatory vs. hospitalization for the initial phase) will be made
only after analysis of results from pilot projects. Finally, to facilitate drug administration, to improve
patient compliance, especially during the continuation phase, and to protect against the onset of drug
resistance to isoniazid and rifampicin, drug combinations are essential. The project would provide for the
purchase and distribution of the five basic drugs required. Drug types and dosages have been estimated.
18.    Monitoring of treatment results is indispensable to evaluate efficacy of chemotherapy. This is
accomplished by regular sputum smear microscopy at the end of the initial phase of treatment, and at least
twice during the continuation phase, of which one at the end of it. Therefore, an additional 6 sputum
smears per patients enrolled, i.e., about 50.000 sputum smears, will be done. Treatment results will be
monitored utilizing cohort analysis of all enrolled patients based on six clearly defined categories of
treatment outcomes.
19.    Case management: The revitalized NTP will adopt and maintain a standard WHO recommended
recording and reporting system. This include the following forms: tuberculosis raion register, laboratory
register, tuberculosis treatment card, request for sputum examination, and quarterly and yearly reports.
These forms will be approved by the MOH. Translation and printing of the forms will be supported by
the project.
20.    Financial Incentives:  The government should approve and introduce a system of financial
incentives for case detection and cure of tuberculosis patients. Funds can be derived from the savings
resulting from ambulatory treatment and abandoning previous expensive practices. Key elements for
incentives will be:
(a)    A 30 som payment to any health worker who originally refers tuberculosis suspects for
examination, if the diagnosis of tuberculosis is confirmed by microscopy.
(b)    Primary health workers who manage a tuberculosis case will be paid 60 soms at the end
of treatment of a smear-positive patient in whom cure is documented. Health workers
will be paid 30 soms for the management of smear negative patients after treatment
completion. These additional payments, as well as the regular salaries, will be ensured
by the Government and paid by the raion health administration on a regular basis. If
drug administration is not fully supervised in the initial phase, as shown by the treatment
cards and registry, payment will not be made. Payment will not be made to the
tuberculosis facilities staff and to hospital staff managing hospitalized patients.
21.    All oblasts implementing the new program will adopt the standard registry and forms at the
beginning of the project. The registry will make it possible to identify raions with lower than average case
detection rates and low proportion of bacteriologically confirmed cases. This will allow the oblast
supervisors and the central unit to target management efforts and training to improve the situation. It will
allow the oblast tuberculosis coordinator to monitor and evaluate treatment results in each raion and to
identify those who need additional training and supervision. These registry, forms and reports will
provide the most important tool for program supervision and monitoring.
22.   Institutional strengthening:  Selected staff at the NTRI have been historically responsible for
control activities in the Kyrgyz Republic. The MOH will need to formalize the establishment of a central
unit responsible for planning of the operational steps in implementing, monitoring, and evaluating the



118                                ANNEX 2.C
NTP; for coordination of the NTP at Oblast level, Raion level, and primary health care level; for
purchase and distribution of the needed supplies, especially antituberculosis drugs, laboratory equipment
and stains, forms, registers, manuals, and other materials; and for training of the personnel involved in
the NTP. The MOH will guarantee that it will maintain the central unit with facilities, budgets, functions
and staffing ensuring implementation and sustainability of the project. The staff for the Central unit
should consist of at least: I director, 1 supervisor, I person responsible for drug supply, and 1 training
coordinator. Computer and printer, their maintenance and a course on computer use for 4 persons will
be covered in order to provide adequate management skills. Eight photocopy machines and 8 telefax
machines for NTRI and the oblast coordinators will be provided to allow rapid flow of information. The
clinical staff of the NTRI should consist of the necessary number of clinicians to cover a rationalized
number of beds, which should be reserved to serious or difficult-to-treat cases.
23.    Within, the central unit, the Central Reference Laboratory (CRL) should consist of:   I
Bacteriologist responsible for supervision of Oblast and Raion mycobacteriology laboratories (2
laboratories should be visited every month), 1 Microbiologist, I Senior Technician, 2 microscopists and
1 technician for culture and drug susceptibility testing. The CRL will be primarily responsible to
supervise the network of microscopy services and to train oblast dispensary laboratory technicians. The
second priority of the CRL should be to determine reliable primary and acquired resistance patterns in
the country, which constitute a valid indicator of treatment efficacy. This surveillance of drug resistance
should be done on a representative sample of smear positive cases.
24.    The Oblast unit, based at the Oblast Tuberculosis Dispensary, is responsible for coordination of
control activities in the whole Oblast and supervision of personnel with visits to each Raion/City every
two months; for organizing training programs for staff in Raions/Cities; ensuring that quarterly reports
on case-finding and treatment outcomes are carefully prepared in each Raion/City and sent to the Oblast
level; for acquisition and distribution of needed supplies and for coordination of the tuberculosis activities
with the primary care level. Once the NTP is fully implemented, the staff of the Oblast unit should
consist of at least: 1 director, 1 supervisor, 1 officer responsible for training, statistical and
epidemiological analyses, coordination of supplies, and financial matters. The clinical staff of the Oblast
Tuberculosis Dispensary and/or hospital should consist of the necessary number of clinicians to cover a
rationalized number of beds. The Oblast Laboratory should consist of: I Microbiologist, 1 Senior
Technician, and 1 microscopist. The oblast laboratory will be primarily responsible to supervise the
network of microscopy services and to train raion laboratory technicians involved with smear microscopy.
Oblast laboratories will be responsible for culture examination of smear negative patients.
25.    The Raion/City unit is responsible for implementing the NTP at the Raion or City level through
the staff of the primary health care facilities; for supervision of treatment ensuring that recommended
regimens are prescribed, that patients on the initial phase of treatment are closely supervised, that
regimens are given for the required period, that patients completing treatment are discharged from
treatment, and that sputum smears are examined at the given intervals; for supervision of the Raion or
City tuberculosis register; and for the procurement of the necessary supplies for the Raion or the City.
The staff for the Raion or City unit should consist of one raion tuberculosis coordinator, also responsible
for training, statistical and epidemiological analyses, coordination of supplies, and financial matters. As
the number of patients expected per raion does not justify the maintenance of a specific tuberculosis
laboratory, microscopy services within the raion should be accommodated into general polyclinics or
hospitals. The Raion or City Laboratory should consist of at least 1 laboratory technician trained in smear
microscopy.
26.    Health education: Patient's commitment to adherence to and completion of chemotherapy is
essential. Therefore, some health education material needs to prepared, tested and disseminated for this



119                             ANNEX 2.C
purpose. Some should aim at patients and their families, some at health care workers. The NTRI will be
responsible for the development and testing through the primary health care network.
27.   Program supervision: Regular, frequent supervision of each level of the program will be critical
to ensure implementation of the project component, particularly regarding the appropriate use of the new
registry system, to ensure improved diagnosis, chemotherapy and case management. Central, oblast and
raion supervisors must be mobile and have adequate operating budgets. One vehicle for the NTRI and
transportation costs in fuel for all supervisors will be provided. It is estimated that staff from the NTRI
will visit each Oblast quarterly; staff from Oblast level will visit each Raion monthly; and raion
coordinators will visit primary health care facilities where patients are diagnosed and treated on a constant
basis. Cost of regular national and oblast management meetings should be provided by the GOK.
28.   Training and Technical assistance: Training and technical assistance will be crucial for staff at
all levels to successfully adopt modern supervised, short course chemotherapy and the new policy.
Beginning in late 1995 two pilot projects in selected raions will start to evaluate the operational aspects
of the new program. These raions will form the core national training field base for future project
implementation. Basic training equipment will be provided for the raions selected for the pilot projects
and, later, for the whole country. The cost of conducting the training programs (central and oblast
managers - one course every other year; oblast and raion/city staff - seven courses, one per oblast every
other year; for PHC workers - two brief courses per raion every year; laboratory personnel at central and
oblast level - one course every other year; peripheral laboratory personnel - one course in each oblast
every year), and of the materials used will be covered by the project. The raion coordinator should
maintain close relationship with primary health care workers and ensure continuous education on
tuberculosis control. External consultants to assist and help in the national training courses will be
necessary.
29.    Project management: Technical guidance and supervision of the project will be provided by the
NTRI. The creation of the new Programn will imply some reorganization of the NTRI staff activities and
training. However, it should not require hiring of new staff. The recent development of a framework
for effective tuberculosis control adapted from the WHO document by the director of NTRI reflects the
commnitment to revitalize the NTP and the approval of pilot projects confirms this commitment. While
the MOH has already approved the new frarnework for tuberculosis control, the GOK is expected to adopt
the new WHO strategy before initiation of the project.   At oblast level, technical guidance and
supervision will be provided by the oblast tuberculosis coordinators. As the tuberculosis component will
depend on proper case management by primary health care workers, the strengthening of primary health
care of the Kyrgyz Republic will need to include adequate training and support related to tuberculosis
activities. In addition, as incentives will be provided to PHC workers for diagnosing and curing
tuberculosis cases, financial management reforms should include the mechanism of payment of incentives.
The GOK will bear a considerable supervision load for the project in terms of staff training and support.
External monitoring of the project will require a consultant to visit the country twice a year for the entire
duration of the project. A supervision input of the WHO tuberculosis Program is planned for about 4-6
staff weeks per year.
Benefits and Risks
30.   Benefits: There will be various types of benefits: disease transmission benefits and illnessideath
avoided benefits. They will result from rapid reduction in the pool of previously treated smear-positive
cases, and more rapid treatment and cure of new smear positive cases, and, as a consequence, from a
decrease in infection rate, resulting in permanently lowered incidence rates. The project would increase
the cure rate to over 85 % of newly treated infectious cases and improve the case detection rate to at least



120                              ANNEX 2.C
70%. In epidemiological terms, the benefits should be a rapid reduction of tuberculosis prevalence by 50-
60% from current levels and a, at lest, 5% yearly decline in the annual risk of tuberculosis infection. In
addition, mortality from tuberculosis will sharply decline within as short a period of one or two years.
Eventually a decline of the annual number of new cases due to reduced transmission of tubercle bacilli
in the community will follow. Thus, enormous benefits could be achieved in a relatively short period of
time, considering that the health infrastructure is still largely in existence. However, further delays in
addressing this key health issue would definitely impact on future efforts of control, particularly if a high
number of chronic cases resistant to drugs are produced.
31.    By the end of the project, a few thousand people will be saved from premature deaths due to
tuberculosis and thousands of new infectious cases will be prevented. Patients, their families and
communities will directly benefit from avoidance of illness costs, disability and from preservation of
productive capacity. In addition, long term benefits can be expected for the next several years as incident
cases will start to decrease significantly.
32.    Finally, since hard-to-justify numbers of facilities and beds dedicated to tuberculosis control are
available in the Kyrgyz Republic, the project will, by its accompanying changes, rationalize the number
of beds and reduce the number of facilities.
33.    Risks: If implemented as conceived and designed, risks of this project component are small.
However, strong guidance from the central unit to oblast and raion units is necessary to ensure that the
new control strategy is strictly implemented. In fact, the main risk is that the lower levels of the Program
will persist with old technical practices emphasizing case finding rather than focusing on the achievement
of high cure rates. This may result from an ineffective adoption of the new strategy of diagnosis,
treatment and monitoring, and from defective implementation of the new policy changes. To help guard
against these risks, the government must guarantee that financial and technical policy changes are
adequately implemented at all levels.
34.    Another major risk, linked with the difficult transition phase of the Kyrgyz economy and political
system, could be the failure by the GOK to provide salaries for the officers involved with tuberculosis
control at various levels and the failure to introduce and sustain incentives for primary health care
workers diagnosing and treating tuberculosis cases. Government commitment on this issue is essential.
35.    As the new tuberculosis control strategy relies on adequate organization and structure of the
revitalized primary health care system, a failure or delay in implementing such a system will negatively
impact on efforts to successfully shift from hospital based-treatment to fully ambulatory treatment. In
addition, lack of training of general practitioners on tuberculosis control may endanger the project
effectiveness to diagnose cases. This can be addressed by the inclusion of tuberculosis in the educational
curriculum of primary health care workers, as well as by the reallocation of tuberculosis specialists within
primary health care facilities to guarantee adequate assistance to general practitioners during the initial
years of the project.
Monitoring and Evaluation
36.    Detailed reporting forms for monitoring of project progress and criteria to be used following
WHO recommendations have been agreed with the NTRI. Indicators for measuring progress towards
project implementation are:



121                             ANNEX 2.C
37.   Indicators for measuring progress towards project development objectives
(i)    Achievement of an organizational structure of the program  based on the WHO
recommendations (central, oblast, raion, and phc);
(ii)   Production of a project protocol reflecting the WHO strategy for tuberculosis control
from which a national manual will be eventually obtained;
(iii)   Rationalized use of beds for tuberculosis;
(iv)   Number of trained staff at all levels (4 at central level, 3 per each oblast, 1 per each
raion). Trained staff will be aware of the new tuberculosis control strategy, be able to
supervise staff, set objectives, develop work-plans, prepare quarterly reports, and will
be able to identify and correct management problems.
38.   Indicators of Program Management: The maintenance of accurate records on each individual
patient, and periodic reporting is essential to the good management of the NTP at each level.
(i)    Recording: Data collected should give as true a picture as possible of what is actually
happening in the program of diagnosing and treating. The data should be reliable,
relevant, and uniform. To achieve this a standard set of documents and reports will be
used in all units involved in the sub-component. These are attached and shall not be
modified by the Kyrgyz in any way.
(ii)    Reporting: Reports on case finding and treatment results will be reported from the Raion
or City TB coordinator to the Central Unit via the Oblast TB coordinator. Three forms
(attached) to be used are:
(a)    Quarterly report on new cases and relapses of tuberculosis;
(b)    Quarterly report on the results of treatment of the patients registered 12 - 15
months earlier;
(c)    Quarterly report on Program management.
These three fonns will be completed by each Raion or City TB coordinator, checked by
the Oblast coordinator and submitted to the Central Unit where the results will be
computerized for easy retrieval and production of analytical reports.
39.   These indicators will be verified respectively by the following means:
(i)   training course participation and trainers' feed-back;
(ii)   site visits and progress reports by WHO consultants (twice a year);
(iii)   assessment of the quality of documents produced;
(iv)   surveillance data sent to WHO;
(v)    cohort analysis reports sent to WHO.
40.   Progress indicators will clearly show whether and where project objectives are being achieved.
A quarterly report system will allow to assess the progress of case finding and treatment results.



122                             ANNEX 2.C
41.   Loan covenants requiring special attention. To ensure success of the project there must be
commitment by the GOK to approve the following conditions:
(a)    Formalization of the proposed three-level structure of the revitalized National
Tuberculosis Program (central, oblast, raion) and approval of the policy package for
tuberculosis control prepared by the NTRI based on the following 5 elements;
(i)    The Kyrgyz Government must be committed to a National Tuberculosis Program
aiming at a nation-wide coverage, as a permanent health system activity, better
integrated into the existing primary health structure with technical leadership
from a strong central unit based at the National Tuberculosis Research Institute
in Bishkek. The structure should be appropriate to the country health system and
guarantee rational utilization of existing health services;
(ii)    Case detection through predominantly passive case-finding (i.e., detection of
cases which spontaneously present at the health services) ensuring that 3 smears
are obtained from every patient with radiologic abnormalities;
(iii)   Standardized case definitions of all tuberculosis cases, with supervised
administration of short-course chemotherapy in, at least, the initial phase for all
smear-positive cases;
(iv)   A system of regular drug supply and adequate stocks of drugs at each level
(Central, Oblast, Raion);
(v)    A standardized recording and reporting system for monitoring case detection and
treatment outcomes.
(b)    In order to ensure adequate case management of tuberculosis patients through the primary
health care system, the government should introduce a system of financial incentives for
case detection and cure of tuberculosis patients utilizing its own resources (part of them
could be derived from savings resulting from ambulatory treatment and abandoning of
previous expensive services). Elements of this system are:
(i)    A 30 som payment to any health worker who originally refers tuberculosis
suspects for examination, if the diagnosis of tuberculosis is confirmed by
microscopy.
(ii)   Primary health workers who manage a tuberculosis case will be paid 60 soms at
the end of treatment of a smear-positive patient in whom cure is documented.
Health workers will be paid 30 soms for the management of smear negative
patients after treatment completion. These additional payments, as well as the
regular salaries, will be ensured by the Government and paid by the raion health
administration on a regular basis. If drug admninistration is not fully supervised
in the initial phase, as shown by the treatment cards and registry, payment will
not be made. Payment will not be made to the tuberculosis facilities staff and to
hospital staff managing hospitalized patients.
(c)    As the case detection and treatment of tuberculosis patients will become the responsibility
of primary health care workers, the GOK should consider reallocating current



123                             ANNEX 2.C
tuberculosis specialists from tuberculosis in-patient facilities to primary health care
facilities. It will be desirable to have in each facility where major decisions are made on
diagnosis and treatment (Raion hospital and/or polyclinic) a tuberculosis specialist who
could train and assist primary health care physicians until they acquire adequate
knowledge on tuberculosis case management. It is essential that tuberculosis be
established as a major topic in the educational curriculum of a primary health care
physician and/or feldsher, in view of the larger role they will have in tuberculosis case
management. These conditions should be met in order to safely shift from a vertical
tuberculosis control program to the one integrated into the primary health care.
(d)    As ambulatory care seems an adequate and cost-effective manner to provide tuberculosis
treatment, two pilot projects before countrywide program implementation should be
established to evaluate the feasibility of providing ambulatory treatment during the initial
phase of chemotherapy through the primary health care system, as compared to drug
administration through hospitalization of all patients. The GOK should be committed to
approve fully ambulatory treatment of tuberculosis, if results of the pilot projects
demonstrate similarity of treatment outcomes. In addition, the GOK should limit the
provision of antituberculosis drugs to the raion coordinators or to institutions directly
involved with the tuberculosis program.
(e)    Study protocols similar to that for pilot project should be prepared by NTRI with the
assistance of WHO, and, translated in Russian should be ready by the project
effectiveness. All necessary documentation, i.e., treatment cards, registers, and forms
should be reproduced and distributed to the areas proposed for implementation in the year
1.
42.   ImDlementation plan: The first step towards implementation of the project is government's
agreement on the proposed framework for tuberculosis control and on the commitment to support the
project. As it is essential to define the operational problems which might arise from a completely new
approach to tuberculosis control, pilot projects are necessary which implement the new strategy of
tuberculosis control. Two 1-year pilot projects covering each between 100.000 and 150.000 population
have been established. Both these projects, expected to cover up to 200 patients in one year, would call
for better integration within the existing primary health care system regarding diagnostic procedures and
provision of treatment. One project will evaluate treatment results hospitalizing patients during the initial
phase of chemotherapy, whereas the other will assess the feasibility of fully ambulatory treatment through
primary health care providers. Funding for these projects has been obtained from a separate World Bank
grant. These pilot projects began in November, 1995. In order to ensure adequate methodology, pilot
project principal coordinators from NTRI were trained on the modem strategy of tuberculosis control
during the International Training Course held at the WHO Collaborating Center in Warsaw, Poland on
24-29 April 1995. Travel and accommodation costs were covered by WHO. The training course for
selected raion coordinators involved in the pilot project was held in Bishkek in September 1995. The
Central Reference Laboratory Coordinator was retrained in smear-microscopy during a course organized
by WHO in Tbilisi, Georgia in June 1995. In September 1995 the training course in smear-microscopy
for raion laboratory technicians was established in Bishkek. Training tools consisting of standard WHO
training modules translated in Russian, WHO treatment guidelines and laboratory manual in Russian were
provided by WHO. A protocol for a pilot project of tuberculosis control programs was prepared by the
NTRI with the assistance of WHO. This protocol translated in Russian and reproduced, was distributed
among the pilot project raions TB coordinators. Registers, treatment cards and report forms were
translated in Russian and distributed. Drugs and necessary laboratory equipment were purchased and



124                            ANNEX 2.C
stocked by the project coordinators, and will be disbursed gradually during the entire period of pilot
project.
43.   The results of the pilot projects, as well as the progress of implementation of the new primary
health care system, will guide the final choice of diagnostic and treatment policies for the nationwide
World Bank assisted project. A detailed project manual will be produced by the central unit with the
assistance of WHO. In the first year of the project the oblast of Issyk-kul and Chui and the city of
Bishkek will be covered. Before implementation of the full project, a number of training courses will be
held. Training tools tested during the pilot projects will be reproduced and distributed. Training of
primary health care workers must be particularly intensive in order for them to become acquainted with
tuberculosis diagnosis and treatment. In addition, as the decision of enrolment of a patient for treatment
will become responsibility of primary health care workers, consideration should be made to reallocate
current tuberculosis specialists from tuberculosis in-patient facilities to primary health care. Diagnostic
services will be upgraded with necessary equipment and provided with necessary supplies. Procurement
and distribution of those will be coordinated by the central unit. The necessary drugs will be purchased
and stocked by the project coordinator according to the expected number of cases in each area. Based on
the progress of the initial implementation steps, the project will be expanded to the oblast of Naryn and
Talas during year 2 and to the rest of the country during year 3.
Plan of the implementation of TB sub-component
Year I        Year 2         Year 3         Year 4
Oblast participating  Bishkek,lssyk-  Bishkek,lssyk-  Bishkek,lssyk-  Bishkek,Issyk
kul, Chui     kul, Chui,     kul, Chui,     -kul, Chui,
Talas, Naryn   Talas, Naryn   Talas, Naryn
Osh, Djalal-    Osh, Djalal-
Abad          Abad
Raions                22             31             56            55
Expected No. of       1300/130       1770/180       3500/350      3850/385
new/relapse patients
Expected No. of total   1430         1950           3850          4235
patients



125                               ANNEX 2.C
1.     Diagnostics
Improvement and upgrading of tuberculosis bacteriology services in at least one facility per raion
or city and provision with adequate supply. Provision of modem bacteriology equipment to the
central and the oblast laboratory.
Laboratory equipment     Unit    Year 1  Year 2  Year 3  Year 4  Total   Contingency
price
I .Binocular microscopes,    250  12500   7500    22500              42500   46750
for selected laboratories at
all levels
2.Fluorescent microscopes,  10000   10000                            10000   11000
for central laboratory
3. "Flotators" (shakers for   300  9000    3000    6000              18000   19800
sputum), for selected
laboratories at all levels
4. Refrigerator, for 1   300      1200    600      600               2400    2640
central and 7 oblast
laboratories
5. Incubator, for and 7   1300    3900    2600    2600               9100    10010
oblast laboratories
6. Safety hood, for I     1000    4000    2000    2000               8000    8800
central and 7 oblast
laboratories
Sub-total lab. equipment: 90,000 /10% contingency 99,000 from World Bank Loan
Laboratory supplies      Unit    Year 1  Year 2  Year 3  Year 4  Total   Contingency
price                                                            l
1. Sputum transportation  20      4000    2000    2000               8000    8800
boxes to transport sputum
samples from primary
health care facilities to
laboratories
2. Slides to prepare smear   0.02  1100    1400    3000    3500    9000    9900
3. Sputum containers to  0.50     2000    2000    4000    4000    12000   13200
collect sputum samples                                                                     l
4. Reagents to prepare            3000    5000    8000    9000    25000   27500
smears
5. Culture media                  2000    3000    6000    6000    17000   18700
(Loewenstein-Jensen)
6. Antibiotics for drug           1000    2000    4000    4000    11000   12100
susceptibility testing



126                               ANNEX 2.C
7. Miscellaneous laboratory     T20000   10000  | 20000   -          50000  | 55000
||supplies               lllllll1
sub-total lab. supplies: 132,000 /10% contingency 145,200 from World Bank Loan
Radiology supplies        Unit    Year 1  Year 2 | Year 3  Year 4  Total  | Contingency
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ p rice _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
| 1. Chest radiography film    1.1  4000    5000  T9000    10000   28000   30800
sub-total radiology supplies: 28,000 /10% contingency 30,800 from World Bank Loan
Total diagnostics 250,000/10% contingency 275,000 from World Bank Loan



127                               ANNEX 2.C
H.     Strengthening of central and oblast levels of tuberculosis program, improving communication in
order to facilitate flow of information for supervision and monitoring of the program.
Equipment and supplies    Unit    Year 1  Year 2  Year 3  Year 4  Total   Contingency
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ p rice   _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
1. Computer for central   2500    2500          -            -        2500    2750
levelI
2. Printer for computer   1500    1500    -         -        -        1500    1650
4. Photocopy machines for   2500    10000   5000    5000    -         20000   22000
oblast and central unit
5. Telefax machines for   1000    4000    2000    2000    -           8000    8800
oblast and central level
6. Office supplies                2000    2000    2000    2000    8000    8800
7. Maintenance and                500      500      500      500      2000    2200
Operation of Office
Equipment
Total         42,000 / 10% contingency 46,200 from World Bank Loan



128                                ANNEX 2.C
Ill.    Strengthening of central, oblast, raion, and primary health care workers on tuberculosis control
activities.
Training activities.
Training courses          Unit    Year 1  Year 2  Year 3  Year 4  Total   Contingency
______ _____ _____ _____ price                          _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _
1. 7-day National course           2500              2500              5000    5500
for central and oblast
officers (18 persons), every
other year
2. 7-day oblast courses for        4700    3000       10700   3000    21400   23540
oblast and raion officers
3. 3-day raion courses for         5500    8000       14000    14000   41500   45650
primary health care
officers, 2 courses a year
4. 7-day national                  4000               2000              6000    6600
laboratory course for
central and oblast
technicians, every other
year__                                _ _ _ _ _ _ ___            _ _ _ _ _ _ _  __ _ _ _ _  _
5. 7-day oblast laboratory         3750    5400    9450    9450    28050   30855
courses, once a year
6. Computer course for              1000    -        -         -        1000     1100
central level officers (4
persons)
sub-total             102,950 / 10% contingency 113,245 from World Bank Loan
Training tools            Unit     Year 1  Year 2  Year 3  Year 4  Total   Contingency
p rice  __ _ _   __  _ _  __ _ ___                      _ _ _  _ _
1. 250 copies of WHO      30       3000    4500                        7500    8250
training modules on
tuberculosis control
2. 500 laboratory training    2     1000    -                          1000     1100
manual on smear
microscopy
4. 2500 national manual on  2               5000    -         -        5000    5500
tuberculosis control
5. Educational leaflets for    1   3000    2000    2000    2000    9000    9900
patients and primary health
care workers
subtotal              22,500 / 10% cning               fomMWoI            oan



129                             ANNEX 2.C
Study tours for central    Unit    Year 1  Year 2  Year 3  Year 4  Total   Contingency
coordinators            price
Study tour to China             10000   -                        10000   11000
National Tuberculosis
Program for 2 persons  I               .I.
sub-total 10,000 /10% contingency 11,000 from World Bank Loan
Total training 135,450 / 10% contingency 148,995 from World Bank Loan



130                               ANNEX 2.C
IV.    Monitoring and supervision of the program
Equipment and supplies    Unit    Year 1  Year 2  Year 3  Year 4  Total   Contingency
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ p rice  I__ _   _ _ _   _ _ _   _ _ _
1. One vehicle for central         12000                              12000   13200
coordinator
3. Registers, cards, forms,        5000    5000    5000    5000    20000   22000
etc.I
sub-total             32,000 / 10% contingency 35,200 from World Bank Loan
Supervisory visits        Unit    Year 1  Year 2  Year 3  Year 4  Total   Contingency
price
1. Central level coordinator      2000    4000    8000    8000    22000   24200
visits to each oblast every
3 months (2 persons, I for
program monitoring, one
for laboratory quality
control)                         .
2. Oblast level coordinator       4000    8000    16000   16000   44000   48400
visits to each raion every
month (2 persons, 1 for
program monitoring, one
for laboratory quality
control)
3. Raion coordinator visits       5000    8000    10000   10000   33000   36300
to primary health care
faiities (regular daily
visits)
sub-total     99,000 /10% contingency 108,900 from the World Bank Loan
Total supervision     131,000 / 10% contingency 144,100 from World Bank Loan



131                               ANNEX 2.C
V.    Antituberculosis drugs according to WHO recommendations for treatment of tuberculosis
Drugs                    Unit    Year    Year 2  Year 3  Year 4  Total   Contingency
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ p rice _ _ _ __ _ _ __         _ _ _ _ _ _
1. Drugs for new         57       37050   50445   99750   109725  296970  326667
pulmonary smear positive
cases: regimen
2HRZS/4H3R3
2. Drugs for retreatment    75    9750    13500   26250   28875   78375   86213
cases:
regimen
2HRZSE/IHRZE/5H3R3E
3. Drugs for smear-      17       11050   15045   29750   32725   88570   97427
negative and extra-
pulmonary cases:
regimen 2HRZ/2HR
Total Drugs   463,915 / 10% contingency 510,307 from World Bank Loan/Pharmaceuticals



132                              ANNEX 2.C
VI.   Technical assistance
Technical assistance for    Unit    Year 1  Year 2  Year 3  Year 4  Total   Contingency
training                 price
1. One consultants for           5000    -        5000             10000   11000
national courses
2. One consultant for             10000   -       5000    -15000   16500
laboratory courses                                                                       l
sub-total            25,000 / 10% contingency 27,500 from World Bank Loan
[Technical assistance for  |   Unit    Year 1  Year 2   Year 3 | Year 4 [ Total  | Contingency
monitoring               price
One WHO consultant                5000    10000    5000    10000 | 30000 |   33000
nonitoring visits twice a                                l        l       l             l
in year 1 and 3 - once a year (as the same consultant will run the National Seminar, and after it will
monitor the Project)
sub-total     30,000 /10% contingency 33,000 from World Bank Loan
Total technical assistance: 55,000 /10% contingency 60,500 from World Bank Loan
Total from World Bank Loan
1073,365 USS / Contingency budget 10%: 1185,102 USS



133                                ANNEX 2.C
VII.  Incentives for primary care workers at diagnosis and cure of tuberculosis patients. In Kyrgyz Som
Incentives                Unit    Year I  Year 2  Year 3  Year 4  Total    Contingency
price
1. Incentives for correct  30 som   23400   31950   63000   69300    187650
diagnosis of sputum smear
positive cases
2. Incentives for cure of  60 som   46800   63900    126000  138600  375300
sputum smear positive
cases
3. Incentives for         30 som   19500   26550   52500   57750    156300
completion of treatment off
sputum smear negative
cases
Total          719,250 som / 10% contingency 791,175 from GOK
(1 US$ = 11 soms)



134                                            ANNEX 2.C
Implementation plan - TB sub-component
Start of activity                                    1995          1996    1997    1998    1999
1.      Training of the Program                              July--------------------------------------------
coordinators:
2.      Training of PHC  workers involved in    September--------------------------------------
TB diagnosis and treatment
3.      Training of laboratory technicians                   September-------------------------------------
4.      Reproduction of training materials,                  September----------------------------------
forms, and registers
5.      Start of procurement of drugs and                    August----------------------------------------
laboratory supplies
6.       Start of Program  implementation                    October----------------------------------------
(pilot project)
- 2 raions in Issyk-kul obl.
- 2 raions in Chui obl.
7.      Program  expansion                                                 October-----------------------------
- Bishkek, Issyk-kul, and Chui
oblasts
- Naryn and Talas oblasts                                                         July------------
- Djalal-Abad and Osh oblasts                                                                July----------



135                            ANNEX 2.C
Technical assistance plan
Activity                 Time        Year
1.      1 consultant'            National training course    7 days   June 1996
2.      1 consultant'            Monitoring of the        7 days       June 1996
Program implementation
3.      1 consultant (specialist in   Laboratory course in  15 days    June 1996
microbiology)            smear microscopy
4.      1 consultant             Monitoring of the        15 days      November
Program implementation               1997
5.      1 consultant"            National training course    7 days    May 1998
6.      1 consultant-            Monitoring of the        7 days       May 1998
Program implementation
7.      1 consultant (specialist in   Laboratory course in  7 days     May 1998
microbiology)            smear microscopy
8.      1 consultant             Monitoring of the        15 days      November
Program implementation               1999
Total during 4 years: 11 weeks of foreign consultants (technical assistance).
In addition, WHO will provide a consultant once a year for monitoring.



136                             ANNEX 2.C
Training Plan
I.    TB Pro,ramn coordinators' and PHC training
No.   Activity                              Trainer         Location   Date
1.    2 Officers from Central Unit (NTRI)   WHO             Warsaw,   April 1995
trained                              consultant      Poland
(WHO)
2.     12 officers from 2 Oblasts (Issyk-kul  WHO           Issyk-kul  July 1995
and Chui), and 4 Raions (Issyk-kul,  consultant      Tokmok
Tyup, Chui, and Tokmok city) selected
for the pilot project
3.     7-day Seminar for TB and PHC         Central Unit    Bishkek    September
personnel who will be involved in the    coordinator            1995
pilot project (4 Raions in Issyk-kul and
Chui oblasts)
4.     7-day National course for central and  WHO           Bishkek    June 1996
oblast officers (from Bishkek and 6  consultant and
oblasts)                             Central Unit
coordinator
5.     Three 7-day oblast courses for oblast    Oblast TB   Bishkek,   July 1996
and raion officers (Bishkek, Issyk-kul,   coordinators  Issyk-Kul,
and Chui)                                            and Chui
6.     3-day raion courses for primary health   Raion TB    Bishkek,   August-
care officers                        coordinators    Issyk-Kul,  September
and Chui   1996
7.     Computer course for NTRI officers (4                 Bishkek    October
persons)                                                        1996
8.     7-day course for oblast officers (from  Central Unit  Naryn,    April 1997
Naryn and Talas)                     coordinator     Talas
9.     Two 7-day oblast courses for oblast and  Oblast TB   Naryn,    May 1997
raion officers                       coordinators    Talas
10.    3-day raion courses for primary health   Raion TB    Bishkek,   June 1997
care officers                        coordinators    Chui,
Issyk-Kul,
Naryn,
Talas
11.    3-day raion courses for primary health    Raion TB   Bishkek,   October
care officers                        coordinators    Chui,      1997
Issyk-Kul,
Naryn,
Talas



137                             ANNEX 2.C
12.    7-day National course for central and  WHO           Bishkek    April 1998
oblast officers                      consultant and
Central Unit
coordinator
13.    Two 7-day oblast courses for oblast and  Oblast TB   Djalal-    April 1998
raion officers                       coordinators    Abad
Osh
14.    3-day raion courses for primary health   Raion TB    Bishkek,   June 1998
care officers                        coordinators    Chui,
Issyk-Kul,
Naryn,
Talas
Djalal-
Abad
Osh
15.    3-day raion courses for primary health    Raion TB   Bishkek,   October
care officers                        coordinators    Chui,      1998
Issyk-Kul,
Naryn,
Talas
Djalal-
Abad
Osh
16.    3-day raion courses for primary health   Raion TB    Bishkek,   April 1999
care officers                        coordinators    Chui,
Issyk-Kul,
Naryn,
Talas
Djalal-
Abad
Osh
17.    3 day seminar for central and oblast  Central Unit   Bishkek    June 1999
officers                             coordinator
18.    3-day raion courses for primary health    Raion TB   Bishkek,   October
care officers                        coordinators    Chui,      1999
Issyk-Kul,
Naryn,
Talas
Djalal-
Abad
Osh



138                            ANNEX 2.C
II.    Laboratory training in smear microscopy
No.    Activity                          Trainer          Location    Date
1.     5-day training - Central Referral  WHO consultant  Tbilisi,    May 1995
Laboratory coordinator trained                    Georgia
2.      5-day training for technicians from    Central    Bishkek      September
2 oblasts (Chui and Issyk-Kul) and   Laboratory                1995
4 raions selected for the pilot  coordinator
project
3.      5-day training for technicians from    WHO consultant  Bishkek  June 1996
Central Unit, Bishkek and 6 oblasts  and Central Unit
Laboratory
Coordinator
4.      5-day training for raion technicians   Oblast     Bishkek,    July 1996
from 3 oblasts                   Laboratory       Chui, and
coordinators     Issyk-Kul
5.      5-day training for oblast and raion   Central     Bishkek,    April 1997
technicians from 5 oblasts       Laboratory       Chui,
coordinator      Issyk-Kul
Naryn,
Talas
6.      5-day training for technicians from    Central    Bishkek     April 1998
Central Unit, Bishkek and 6 oblasts  Laboratory
coordinator
7.      5-day training for oblast and raion   Oblast      Bishkek,    May 1998
technicians                      Laboratory       Chui,
coordinators     Issyk-Kul,
Naryn,
Talas,
Djalal-
Abad, and
Osh
8.      5-day training for oblast and raion    Oblast     Bishkek,    April 1999
technicians                      Laboratory       Chui,
coordinators     Issyk-Kul,
Naryn,
Talas,
Djalal-
Abad, and
Osh



139                              ANNEX 2.C
National Tuberculosis Program - The Kyrgyz Republic
Quarterly report No I                                    |Patients registered during
New cases and relapses of tuberculosis                     .... quarter of 19...
Name of Raion TB coordinator                               Name of
Raion.
Date of completion of this form........................
Signature...................
Block 1
PULMONARY TUBERCULOSIS               SMEAR-         EXTRA-           TOTAL (5)
SMEAR-POSITIVE CASES                 NEGATIVE    PULMO-
(3)           NARY TB
(4)
New cases (1)         Relapses (2)
M      F    Total    M        F      M       F      M       F    M    F   Tota
Block 2
NEW SMEAR-POSITIVE CASES (from column 1 above)
|  uAge g s (yrS)                                                   TOI
014     15-24    2S44      35-44      45-54     5544       65-l
M| F   M |F   M| F   M             | F    M|F    M I F   M    F    M    F    TOW
Explanation on how to fill the form:
Quarters:     1 quarter     -      January, February, March
2 quarter     -      April, May, June
3 quarter     -      July, August, September
4 quarter     -      October, November, December
Block 1: New cases and relapses of tuberculosis registered during .......... quarter of 19



140                             ANNEX 2.C
Column 1    New smear positive cases      Patients with pulmonary tuberculosis sputum
smear positive who have never received anti-
tuberculosis treatment (or have had less than I
month treatment)
Column 2    Smear-positive relapses       Patients with pulmonary tuberculosis, sputum-
smear positive who have been declared cured
but are now smear-positive again
Column 3    Smear-negative cases          Patients with pulmonary tuberculosis having a
negative sputum smear for AFB in whom the
diagnosis of TB was made by means other than
sputum microscopy
Column 4    Extra-pulmonary tuberculosis   Patients with tuberculosis of organs other than
the lungs
Column 5    Total: Males                  Add all male patients in columns 1+2+3+4
Females               Add all female patients in columns 1+2+3+4
Total                 Add all patients (males and females) in columns
1+2+3+4
Block 2: NEW SMEAR-POSITIVE CASES from Column (1) above
In this block enter the patients (already recorded in Block 1, column 1) according to their sex and age
group.



141                   ANNEX 2.C
National Tuberculosis Program - The Kyrgyz Republic
Quarterly report No. 2
QUARTERLY REPORT ON THE RESULTS OF TREATMENT OF SMEAR-POSITIVE
PULMONARY TUBERCULOSIS PATIENTS REGISTERED 12 - 15 MONTHS EARLIER
Name of Raion  ...........................                      Patients registered during                                       Date of completon of this form
|....  quarter of 19...
Name of Raion TB Coordinator                                  j
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~intr .....nature...
Total number of patients registered   Regimen                  (1)               (2)               (3)              (4)               (5)              (6)         Total number
during the quarter                                                                                                                                                 evaluated (sum of
Cured (smear    Treatment          Died             Failure (smear    Defaulted        Transferred to    columns I to 6)
negative)        completed (no                      positive)                          another Raion
smear results)
New cases                 1. New casm
M           F           Total
1.1I Smear
___________          ~~~positive        _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _    _ _ _ _ _ _ _    _ _ _ _ _ _  _
1.2 Smear
negative
Retavses                 2. Retreatmient
M           F           Total
2.1 Relapses
2.2 Others
(failure,
treatmnent after
default)                                              _ _ _ _ _  _ _    _ _ _  _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _  _
2.3 Towa (2.1 +
2.2)                                 _  _ _ _ _ _  _  _ _ _ _ _  _ _    _ _ _  _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _   _
at aTub                   Progiram  TEe KyrgyzRepubfic



142                                  ANNEX 2.C
Quarterly report No. 3
PROGRAM MANAGEMENT AT RAION/CITY LEVEL
Name of Oblast                         .........               Year .         Quarter
Name of the TB Oblast Coordinator............................................................
Date of completion of the report.......................................................
1.   NUMBER OF RAIONS/CITIES INVOLVED IN THE TB PROGRAM
1.1    Number of Raions/Cities TB and PHC services which started
the new NTP during the quarter                                         ....................
1.2.   Total number of TB and PHC services participating
in the new NTP at the end of the quarter                               ....................
1.3    Total number of TB and PHC services in the Raion/City                  ....................
2.  NUMBER OF QUARTERLY REPORTS ON PROGRAM MANAGEMENT RECEIVED
FROM THE PARTICIPATING RAIONS/CITIES
2.1     Received and enclosed                                                  ....................
2.2     Reports not received from the following units                          ...................
........................       ............
........................       ............
3.   SUPERVISORY ACTIVITIES
3.1     Total number of supervisory visits by Oblast staff
to Raion/City facilities during the quarter
3.2     Number of Raions/Cities received supervisory visits at least once
during the quarter                                                   ......................
3.3     Number of Raions/Cities not visited by the Oblast staff during the quarter
Names  ..............................................



143                                   ANNEX 2.C
National Tuberculosis Program - The Kyrgyz Republic
Quarterly report No. 4
PROGRAM MANAGEMENT AT RAION/CITY LEVEL
Name of Raion/City .............                Year .        Quarter.
Name of the Raion/City Coordinator......................................................
Date of completion ..................................................
1.   NUMBER OF TUBERCULOSIS CASES REGISTERED DURING THE ABOVE
QUARTER BY TREATMENT STATUS
Started on       Not treated      Total
free SCC
1.1    Initial Smear ()       2HRZS(E)/4H3R3
1.2     Initial  Smear  (-)    2HRZ/2H3R3               ..................  ................. ........
....             .........   .    ........... ........
2HRZS(E)/4H3R3
..................  ................. . ....... ..............
1.3     Retreatment (S+)       2HRZSE/IHRZE/            ..................  .........................
53R3E3                  ......            .......         ......
Total
2.  PAYMENT MADE TO PHC WORKERS FOR CASE DETECTION AND
SUPERVISION OF DRUG ADMINISTRATION DURING THE ABOVE QUARTER
Number of        Total amount
payments         paid
2.1   For case detection of new cases of TB                  ..................  ..................
2.2   For supervision of patient treatment - for             ..................  ..................
confirmation of smear conversion (after initial        ..........
phase of SCC)



144                                       ANNEX 2.C
2.3    For supervision of patient treatment -                       ..................   ..................
for cure (after collection of final sputum)                  ..........         ..........
2.4    For supervision of patient treatment -                       ..................   ..................
after treatment completion of smear negative                 ..........         ..........
patients.
3.   SPUTUM CONVERSION RATE AT 2 (3) MONTHS IN SMEAR POSITIVE PATIENTS
ENROLLED ON SCC ONE QUARTER PREVIOUSLY (4 - 6 MONTHS AGO)
Total smear              Of them  sputum  conversion
positive cases
enrolled on SCC
one quarter
previous
At 2 months                    At 3 months
No.              %              No.            %
3.1      New cases
Other initial
cases
3.2      R elapses         ........................  .............  .............  ..............  ..............
Other
retreatment
cases
T l.............         .....................                         .....
Total~ ~ ~ ~~......                           ...             ...                .....      .........



145                              ANNEX 2.C
4.   CONSUMPTION OF DRUGS DURING THE LAST QUARTER
REPORT NUMBER OF TABLETS, CAPSULES OR VIALS.
HR          Z            S            E            H
4.  Stock on 1 day
1   of the quarter    ....
4.  Drugs received
2   from the NTP
4.  Drugs
3   distributed to
patients
4.  Stock on last
4   day of the
quarter
5.   CONSUMPTION OF OTHER ITEMS
Microscope slides   Sputum containers  X-ray film
5.   Stock on 1 day of    .......................
1    the quarter         ..............
5.   Items received from   .......................
2.  the NTP               ...........
5.  Items used for        .......................
3.   patients             ..........
5.   Stock on last day of 
4    the quarter          ..............



146                            ANNEX 2.C
6.    NUMBER OF TB SUSPECTS EXAMINED PER 100.000 POPULATION
6.1            Examination of tuberculosis suspects
6.1.1    Number of suspects examined, based on clinical out-patient
registry
6.1.2   Number of active TB cases discovered
6.2            Number of persons examined by X-ray
6.2.1   By fluoroscopy
6.2.2   By radiography
6.3            Number of persons with sputum examined by microscopy
6.3.1   Number of persons examined
6.3.2   Of them:
New patients (number of persons)
Number of sputum examinations
Number of smear-positive cases discovered
6.3.3   Follow up (number of persons)
Number of sputum examinations



147                            ANNEX 3
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
HEALTH SECTOR REFORM PROJECT
ANNEX 3: FACILITIES REHABILITATION COMPONENT
A. Introduction
1.    The extent and content of facilities in a health infrastructure directly influence quality and
efficiency, and thereby the recurrent expenditure required in the health sector. The need for staff, their
production capacity, the need for consumables and supplies, maintenance services and energy can all be
measured in relationship to the buildings in which services are provided.
2.    At present an intense re-evaluation is being made in the Kyrgyz Republic, of the goals,
capabilities and responsibilities of the health as well as other public sectors. In particular attempts are
being made to address the consequences of the present drastic reduction in available resources. It was
therefore that the World Bank in the process of preparing a broad reaching health sector rehabilitation
project, included an evaluation of the physical and functional condition of health facilities and equipment,
and the frame-work within which the health infrastructure is financed and managed
3.    Four missions were undertaken in the periods between 3rd and 19th October 1994, 22nd February
to 10th March, 18th June to 11th July and 15th to 31st October 1995. During these missions meetings
were held in Bishkek with senior officers in the Ministry of Health, in particular those dealing with the
provision of health services, and the management of capital investment. Further meetings were held with
leading experts on architecture, capital projects management and equipment procurement.
4.    In the October 1994 mission visits were made to the Diagnostic Center, the National TB Institute
and the National Dermatology and STD Institute in Bishkek, the Raion Hospital at Kochkor, and various
facilities in the Naryn Oblast including the central hospital, the TB center, the Mental Diseases hospital
and the Dermatology and STD clinic.
5.    In the February and June 1995 missions, health facility sites in the Chui Oblast where emphasis
was made on visiting primary health care facilities including raion hospitals, rural hospitals, ambulatory
care centers and feldsher/midwife posts (FAP's)
6.    The following is a report based on those meetings and visits.
Summary of Findings
7.    In visiting a number of all types of health institutions in the Kyrgyz republic, the following main
problems are apparent:
(i)    The government is no longer making adequate funds available to pay for running and
maintaining buildings, plant and equipment in the health sector, and therefore correct
levels of efficiency and quality within the system are becoming increasingly difficult to
maintain
(ii)    A large amount of equipment is not working due to shortages of spare parts and lack of
servicing. Further important consumables are in short supply or are not available. These
factors seriously detract from the efficiency of the health delivery system.



148                                ANNEX 3
(iii)    The present over-provision of health facilities and equipment (working or not working)
at all levels, implies that correct financing of their use will require resources which at
present are not available
(iv)    Any introduction of new health programs aimed at improving efficiency in the provision
of services will often imply changes in the use of existing facilities, in some cases also
implying changes to the facilities themselves.
(v)    Very few norms and standards for health facilities have been formulated which relate to
the present situation.
(vi)    Administrators of health facilities are not well trained in estates management. They are
given very little support when introducing technical changes to their buildings and plant
(such as installing new heating systems, or when implementing changes or trying to
achieve savings.
(vii)   Though originally there was apparently a well functioning hierarchy of technical and
administrative expertise available to support MOH capital investment activities, including
MOH staff and sister ministry's architects, engineers and builders, this is no longer easy
to assemble. Further, although the Ministry of Health's office for Capital Investments is
still operating, though with a negligible work-load, the Ministry's Central Office for
Maintenance has been completely disbanded.
(viii)  The Ministry of Health has no overview of the buildings, plant estates etc, which
constitute the health service infrastructure. It is not able to make overall plans and
priorities for realignment activities.
8.     Where improvements are required to the efficiency and quality of health services provided in the
country in the existing health infrastructure, it is extremely difficult for the Ministry to implement the
changes required which will facilitate these.
9.     A significant reorganization is required within the Ministry of Health in order to re-orientate
present technical expertise on the repair, rehabilitation and reutilization of existing structures and plant.
That is to say to move away for the development of completely new and totally unnecessary capital
investment projects.
10.    In this new concept the Ministry will require tools to create an adequate organization, to collect
the necessary information and to implement the correct policies. It is suggested that the World Bank
project, through implementing limited constructional works in connection with the implementation of its
health reform project, could contribute significantly to helping the Ministry to develop these tools.
B. Background
11.    The health service system in the Kyrgyz republic is based on a very comprehensive infra-structure
of health facilities at all levels, which in spite of the country's difficult topological characteristics,
provides good access to the system for most members of the population.
12.    The health facilities include central hospitals, district hospitals, polyclinics, feldsher/midwife
stations, village ambulatory stations, as well as special separate institutions for tuberculosis,



149                              ANNEX 3
dermatology/sexually transmitted diseases. Together they provide a very wide range of services for both
out patients and in-patients, with an extensive portfolio of medical equipment and a large total of beds
Quality of the Health Infrastructure
13.   Usually planned on large open sites, the facilities making up the health infrastructure are generally
of very substantial construction with thick masonry walls both internally and externally and with heavy
reinforced concrete floors. Carpentry- and joinery work is also generally very substantially dimensioned,
though electrical and plumbing installations are usually of poor quality and less than adequate in terms
of the numbers and quality of installations and fittings.
14.   Generally the buildings reflect the quality of provision found in all other public buildings in the
country and no attempt has been made to pinch and save. However it is considered surprising that in an
environment with relatively extreme temperatures, passive means of energy conservation through the
improvement of insulation, -particularly in floors, ceilings and roofs, do not seem to have been given
very much attention
Central Health Institutes
15.   The central health institutes located in Bishkek, as typified by the Diagnostic Center and the
National Tuberculosis Center appear openly to have been establish on a 'no expense spared' concept.
These buildings are very impressive, in the case of the TB institute, almost flamboyant. There have
apparently been several approaches from different governments with a view to purchasing the hospital
to convert into an Embassy.
16.   Though still apparently functioning satisfactorily, there is evidence that both these institutes are
beginning to deteriorate functionally through a lack of routine maintenance and absence of spare parts.
The initial solution here is the injection of large amounts of finance which obviously is not available,
before the whole financing of the sector has been reorganized.
17.   It could also be relevant to encourage these institutes to pool the technical expertise that they
individually have access to and at the same time to carefully evaluate the appropriateness of the
technology that they use. It is suggested that any infusion of capital in present conditions would not
achieve any sustainable improvements.
Hospitals
18.   The hospitals are usually made up of a large number of individual departments. A relatively small
hospital with less than 400 beds, usually has separate self-contained departments for Urology, Pulmonary
/gastroenterology, Surgery, Trauma, Resuscitation, Ophthalmology, Paediatrics, Cardiology, Infectious
diseases.
19.   On the same site there is also usually a polyclinic containing units reflecting all these departmnents,
as well as a multi-disciplinary veterans hospital. On separate sites will often be located independent
institutions for obstetrics and gynecology, TB, dermatology and STD and psychiatric patients.
20.   It is suggested that this ensconcement of the departments in independent units does not easily
support modem coordinated nursing and treatment methods. It is also noted that there is very little cross-
utilization of equipment and facilities between departments, even when they are located in the same
building.



150                              ANNEX 3
21.    Generally space standards in hospitals are low and the rooms in the buildings are small in
relationship to the activities which go on there.
22.    Operating theater rooms are usually adequate in size, though many of the necessary secondary
rooms such as utility rooms, sterile set up rooms, duty rooms and change rooms for staff are missing.
23.    In the ward sections, rooms for in-patients often contain 8-9 beds, where there is only reasonable
space for 4-6 beds, and often other important rooms, (such as utility rooms, ward stores, patients and
staff toilets, bath rooms, staff duty rooms and patient day rooms) are either under-dimensioned or
missing.
Rural Hospitals
24.    There appears to be two distinct types of rural hospitals in the regions visited. One is the
'Blenheim Palace' type of building, with very heavy two story structure with often very elaborate
ornamentation in the form of columns, porticos and plinths. Usually containing as few as 30 in-patient
beds they are very inflexible in use. They are also very expensive to heat. In future use it is very difficult
to conceive what the upper story can successfully be utilized for.
25.    The other type of building is a one story rural type structure which is infinitely more appropriate
and flexible. These buildings lend themselves considerably more readily to the changes in function being
suggested
26.    The rural hospitals contain suites of different types of consultation rooms, for general medicine,
surgery, gynecology, dentistry and rehabilitation. Further there are often well equipped delivery suites
and operating rooms. Wards are usually very cramped. Throughout the buildings toilet, sanitary and
utility facilities are very minimal, and important functions are missing.
27.    A present large numbers of staff seem to be dealing with comparatively small numbers of patients
Health Centers
28.    Generally the health centers visited were reasonably well planned, with well dimensioned spaces
and adequate numbers of item of equipment and furniture. However conditions varied and the structural
problems seen, usually the result of leaking roofs, appear to be increasing. Equipment and furniture were
also generally in poor condition.
29.    Health centers generally seem to be still very well staffed, with usually 2 to 3 general clinicians,
as well as pediatricians, gynecologists and dentists. However the total 10-15 staff which appear to be
present at most health centers do not appear to be overflooded with patients, a staff to patient ratio of 1
to between 4 and 6 being typical on a daily basis.
FAP'S
30.    These are usually small buildings where a limited staff of a nurse and a midwife carry out
something comparable to a district nursing function on behalf of a small local population. These buildings
with 3-4 rooms are usually domestic in character, with few installations and little equipment.
31.    The neatness and cleanliness of these units was always impressive and on the basis of present
functions, there does not appear any need for technical or financial support.



151                               ANNEX 3
Health Facility Design
32.    There are many details of design in the institutions which were visited, which are not considered
appropriate for health buildings. For example; no effort is made to ease access to buildings, rooms,
toilets, etc., for patients on wheeled stretchers or wheel chairs, trolleys, or any other wheeled transport
or carrying vehicles. Door widths and the positions of doors do not give good access to buildings and
rooms; There are not sufficient hand wash basins in ward rooms and procedure rooms for staff to be able
to wash their hands between dealing with patients; and floor coverings, wall finishes, design and
installation of sanitary fittings, etc., do not easily facilitate the maintenance of correct conditions of
hygiene.
Installations
33.    Heating installations, electrical and sanitary reticulations and fittings, drainage and sewage
disposal facilities, are not always adequate. Further there appears to be no attempt to conserve energy.
34.    Hot water is not readily available in any areas of the institutions.
35.    Electrical reticulations appear very basic. Electrical fittings, such as socket outlets, switches etc.,
are often damaged, indicating that they are not strong enough for use in public buildings.
36.    Sanitary fittings are usually very inadequate. They are difficult to keep clean, and in many
institutions large amounts of water is allowed to run to waste due to the lack of simple maintenance to
sanitary fittings and to the water reticulation.
37.    Refuse disposal seems mostly well organized, both sites and buildings seem to be efficiently
cleared of refuse and litter. The exceptions here appear to be the central hospitals in Bishkek.
Medical Equipment
38.    Inspection of a limited number of facilities suggests that at present there is an adequate number
of items of equipment of all different types, which with correct redistribution where problems have
occurred, will in most cases be sufficient to reasonably satisfy requirements over the coming period.
39.    However the situation with spare parts is in many cases very acute, in particular as the total lack
of maintenance and thereby lack of use of the items of equipment involved will quickly lead to total
dilapidation, and the destruction of valuable resources.
40.    During the inspections it was observed that in many institutions, there were no autoclaves
available or functioning, and instruments and syringes required for patient procedures were usually
'sterilized' in ovens. It is very doubtful whether this treatment is adequate. There was also observed an
acute shortage of surgical instruments and syringes.
Supplies
41.    There is now an acute shortage of all types of software, such as mattresses, pillows, bed linen,
covers and uniforms, medical supplies such as bandages, syringes and utensils and consumable, such as
x-ray film, chemicals and reagents and filters etc., as well as all forms of detergents and cleaning
solutions. All contribute significantly in reducing the quality of the activities taking place in the



152                              ANNEX 3
institutions, and also increasing efficiency. In particular the shortages of consumables seriously inhibit
the satisfactory functioning of services provided at the institutions.
42.    These problems require urgent attention and action.
Maintenance
43.    Though there are standard allotments in the recurrent budgets for the different health institutions
to pay for maintenance, these monies have not during the last three years, been made available. The
Ministry of Health has further closed down its central maintenance department and in effect the concept
of providing maintenance for buildings and equipment outside the Bishkek area has mainly been
discontinued, at least until finance is again made available.
44.   It is recommended that in spite of the extreme shortage of resources for maintenance, a policy
is established by MOH on appropriate and feasible (possible) maintenance for health institutions.
Management of Buildings and Estates
45.   In the question of the management of health building complexes, in providing equipment and
furniture to the different rooms, in ensuring that cleaning procedures are correct and adequate, in carrying
out maintenance and in making adaptations to existing plant and facilities, (for example when adapting
heating systems for changes of fuel), the managers of health institutions do not seem to be getting
adequate technical support for their decisions.
46.   Managers of health institutions should be correctly instructed regarding different aspects of the
management of buildings and grounds of health facilities. They should be informed of correct procedures
for carrying out the various necessary procedures. They should also be provided with qualified technical
support for decision making, design, ordering and implementation.
47.   At central level the previously well functioning hierarchy of Ministry technicians, consulting
architects and engineers, appears to have been disbanded through lack of work. Members of the MANAS
project group have been assigned this area of interest but there is still urgent need to reconstitute a
qualified forum of technical expertise.
48.    This should not be too difficult, as it has existed previously. The difficulty may now relate to the
changed status of individual architects and engineers who previously provided technical guidance but who
now consider that their input should be correctly financed.
49.   It should be relatively simple to solve the financial problems. If civil works are carried out in the
project and are eligible for containing with Local Competitive Bidding, it will be necessary to include in
budgets for paying fees to local private consultants. Their activities in developing the documentation
required for carrying out the projects should also allow for them participating actively as consultants to
the MOH civil works advisory committee.
Norms and Standards for Health Facilities
50.   The MOH civil works advisory committee should also be the forum where relevant building space
and quality norms are determined for health facilities in the Kyrgyz Republic. This would apply both for
the evaluation and effective utilization and also repair of existing buildings, as well as the formulation
long term budgets and investment plans for future constructions.



153                             ANNEX 3
Building Costs
51.   Due to the apparent lack of recent examples of completed health facility construction in the
Kyrgyz Republic, the local architects and quantity surveyors did not feel able to give precise rates for
different types of building construction activities. However rough figures were given and in this respect
it was agreed that it would be appropriate (in view of the imminent (though limited) activities being now
considered), that a price system should be established and developed, in order that in the near future
reasonably accurate and transparent / adaptable / escalatable estimates can be made.
Rationale for Bank Involvement
52.   The Bank emphasizes strongly the need to iniprove efficiency in the delivery of health services
in the Kyrgyz Republic and, through concentrating on essentially primary health care programs,
emphasizes the potential for reorganizing activities from being essentially in-patient orientated, to be
essentially out-patient orientated.
53.   Improvement of Primary Health Care facilities will naturally improve the status and acceptability
of the services provided there to the population.
54.   The results which can be achieved through improving the effectiveness of different medical
programs, will be reinforced by systematic efforts made improve functional and hygienic conditions in
the health infra-structure to ensure that the necessary improvements in efficiency are achieved.
55.    Further benefits which can be a result of including civil works activities in the various sub-
components of this project is that it will be possible to influence the way in which the Ministry of Health
administers hospitals and other health buildings and their grounds. It will further encourage a greater
readiness to consider the recurrent costs effects of buildings and equipment, it will demonstrate the
potential for carrying out maintenance on minimal budgets, it will show how existing buildings can be
utilized reducing the need for new ones and it will involve different disciplines in a collaboration to
determine relevant norms and standards for use in the Kyrgyz Republic.
C. Activities Related to the Health Infrastructure
56.    Any effort to reduce the recurrent costs requirement for the health sector will imply significant
changes in the health service infrastructure. There are many possible strategies for this, all requiring
carefully planned and implemented programs. However it is recommended that future health programs
and activities should have the following main aims:
(i)    To reduce the extent of the health services delivery system
57.   This implies setting precise targets for future provision. (For example aiming to limit the numbers
of beds available in health institutions to 8 beds per 1000 population)
58.   These targets can be achieved by a number of means, including closing wards at lower level
institutions, by closing departments and by reducing the number of beds in individual wards, and by
reducing the average length of stay of in-patients in wards. This in turn can be achieved by improving
functional and hygienic conditions and thereby increasing efficiency at the institutions. (That is to say that
if all equipment is in working order and that there are sufficient drugs, reagents, X-ray film etc., and if
risks of cross-infection are kept a minimum and if the care programs aim to shorten the average length
of stay... .etc.).



154                             ANNEX 3
(ii)    To rationalize high technology within the health delivery system
59.   This can be achieved by concentrating surgical and specialized services at facilities at Raion level,
and also by evaluating carefully the distribution of equipment and installations to the lower levels.
(iui) To improve the efficient use of energy and promote the concept of enviromnental protection
60.   This can be achieved by introducing more economical heating systems which will also provide
water heating, by implementing water conservation and commodity material (eg. medical gasses)
conserving measures.
(iv)   To reintroduce appropriate maintenance services for both buildings and equipment
61.   This can be supported by establishing 'requirements for maintenance' as important procurement
criteria, and by the development of information systems for planning and administering maintenance. The
establishment of appropriate maintenance services can in the long term only be achieved by making funds
available through economies in other areas.
(v)    To inprove the overall management of the health infrastructure
62.   This can be supported by the development of app.opriate norms and standards for use in health
facility planning and evaluation. The norms would cover spacial provision norms , utilization criteria,
specification standards for materials and installations. It could further be supported by the development
and implementation of an information collecting system for providing data on the extent and condition
of facilities in the health service infrastructure.
63.   It should be emphasized that considerable more resources are used in hospitals and that the
potential in this sector for making savings is considerably greater. This fact in itself motivates for not
only focusing on Primary health.
COMPONENT ELEMENTS
64.   It can be anticipated that it will take a number of years to achieve the above goals, much longer
than the anticipated duration of the project. However, it is important to address the whole question of the
relationship of the Kyrgyz health infrastructure, its buildings, installations and equipment, to the quality
and efficiency of health services and thereafter to the recurrent costs required to finance those services
65.   The following activities would be included in the project and where possible integrated into the
various project components which are being proposed:
(a)    Carrying out pilot construction and procurement activities in connection with project components.
Essentially this will involve converting rural hospitals into polyclinics , upgrading ambulatory
centers and providing the equipment and supplies necessary to ensure efficient performance.
(b)    The training of technicians and administrators at all levels in estates management,
(c)    Development of norms and standards together with local experts,



155                              ANNEX 3
(d)    Development and implementation of information system for collecting data on health facilities and
for making masterplans for future development,
ANTICIPATED ACHEVEMENTS FROM THE INPUTS
66.   The results which can be anticipated from the input being proposed are as follows:
67.   In connection with programs being proposed in the project for the improvement of services, in
particular within the concept of primary care, Civil works and procurement activities will be carried
out as a basis for ensuring the successful implementation of the new services. Here in almost every case
works will concern the adaptation of existing facilities, and it is anticipated that the Ministry of Health
will here be able to obtain practical experience of the various (for them new) concepts being promoted.
'Reuse of existing structures', 'appropriate technology', 'user participation', 'energy conservation',
'estates management', will be concepts which it is anticipated will be demonstrated as essential for
incorporating in future work in connection with the health infrastructure of the Kyrgyz health services.
68.    As a consequence of the preparatory and development work necessary as a normal part of the
project development process for the above civil works and procurement activities, 'Estates management'
will be developed as an important concept which influences the efficient utilization of health facilities.
Using the norms and standards described below and participating in the implementation in the project of
an agreed information collection system, MOH managers will automatically be given a greater insight into
the means available to solve problems concerning the maintenance and development of the buildings and
plant under their supervision. Further in the procurement and contract management activities relating to
the project, it is aimed to effectively utilize resources available at local level. This is also anticipated to
fturther contribute to providing a basis for improving the performance of local managers in estates
management
69.   In order to carry out the intended civil works and equipment procurement activities it will be
necessary to develop in collaboration with Kyrgyz experts, appropriate Norms and Standards for
evaluating, planning, rehabilitating and constructing health facilities will be established. Generally these
norms will always refer to the present shortage of resources, and will strive to relate to accepted
concepts of appropriateness, and economy in use. The norms and standards will hopefully form the basis
for all future activities concerning the health infrastructure and will influence activities by both the
government and donors, influencing decisions which will be appropriate and sustainable.
70.   In the same way Masterplans will be developed to provide information of the condition and
content of the health facilities which will be the subjects of project activity. In this way the Ministry of
Health will be provided with a simple system for collecting comparable data on the scope and quality of
all facilities within the health infrastructure and at the same time a basis will be provided with tools for
making priorities and assessing the feasibility of making changes.
71.   The results of the project activities therefore are anticipated also to influence utilization and costs
in the secondary and tertiary health sectors.
D. Infrastructure
Objectives
72.   The main objective of this activity is to make repairs and functional changes required at raion
level health service facilities and provide specific items of equipment and consumables which will ensure



156                              ANNEX 3
that the correct conditions are available for both existing activities as well as for supporting the
implementation of new and revised programs
73.    A secondary objective is that through the development of the brief, in establishing norms and
standards, in developing routines for contracting and administration, in collecting data required for these
works, the Ministry of Health will be provided with a basis for improving its own Estates Management
and for defining the appropriate content and emphases for future rehabilitation projects.
Main Features
74.    The main feature of the activities proposed is the emphasis made on involvement of MOH/Kyrgyz
expertise, in order to ensure that the results attained are both appropriate and acceptable to local needs
and thereby are sustainable.
Requirements from the Ministry of Health
75.    The Ministry of Health would establish an appropriate policy with regards capital investments and
the management health infrastructure. It would acknowledge that every increase in buildings and plant
will imply unacceptable recurrent costs implications. The Ministry has already today many more square
meters of buildings than it requires to provide its different services, and the theme in future should be
acknowledged to be 'consolidate' 'rehabilitate', 'reuse', if possible 'decommission', rather than 'new
construction' and 'expansion'.
76.    New policy would therefore emphasize a complete freeze on the construction of new health
facilities and would indicate that investments and civil works activities should concentrate through repair
maintenance and adaption, on attaining maximum efficiency and appropriate functional quality in existing
structures.
77.   The organization of the Ministry's civil works administration would reflect this change of
emphasis, and present Ministry officers would have their Descriptions of Employment amended
accordingly.
78.   It is further desirable that the Ministry would establish advisory committees and stakeholder
groups, in order to receive technical support in matters dealing with both civil works activities and the
procurement and maintenance of medical equipment. The stakeholder groups are small communities of
users--both health authorities and local government officials, established at each facility to be
rehabilitated/upgraded. The work of the group will be to provide information as required on functional
problems and requirements, and to approve the proposals made for improvements and alterations. In this
way it is anticipated that the results of the investments will be better appreciated by local staff and users,
and log term aims regarding increased efficiency and quality will more easily be attained.
Needs for Rehabilitation of Facilities
79.    During the June/July 1995 mission a MOH/World Bank team carried out surveys at 27 selected
health facilities. Though mainly concentrating on ambulatory centers and rural hospitals which are agreed
will be the subject of the activities financed by the project, comprehensive data was also collected at
Raion Hospitals, District Hospitals etc., where it was considered that conditions were particularly acute,
and where it was anticipated that considerable savings could be made in recurrent costs requirements
through the consolidation and functional decondition of individual buildings.



157                               ANNEX 3
Results of the Inspections
80.    The result of the inspections is that more detailed information has been obtained on the actual
condition of a reasonable number of health facilities in one Oblast, and the requirements which exist for
rebuilding, renovation and refurbishing in order to provide conditions which are acceptable. Evaluation
of conditions at the different facilities has been based on assessment of two main factors, FUNCTIONAL
QUALITY considered in terms of OPERATIONAL EFFICIENCY.
81.    Observations confirm that in these areas there are a lot of improvements which should be made.
Especially that:
(i)    There are too many facilities (Provision norms,-beds, clinics, staff, are high, utilization and
productivity is low. Departments are over-institutionalized, there is no flexibility)
(ii)    Hygienic conditions are very poor (Wards are very cramped, toilet facilities limited, working
conditions for staff are poor, important equipment (such as sterilizing equipment etc..) is not
functioning, materials for cleaning is in short supply, staff are often badly motivated).
(iii)   Functional conditions are very poor (Shortages of working equipment, physical separation of
relating departments, lack of consunumables, etc.)
(iv)   Equipment and buildings are in bad repair (Equipment and buildings often are too difficult or
too costly to maintain. Resources for maintenance are not available, maintenance is giving low
priority by administrators)
(v)    Running costs are far too high (Over provision of facilities and amenities as mentioned above.
Further heating systems are often extremely expensive to run and maintain. Many district heating
systems have above-ground-none-insulated pipe reticulations which may be contributing to
atmospheric overheating but waste fuel and are not adequately heating the buildings).
82.    The implication of the surveys therefore is that it is easily apparent that refurbishment work is
required at all institutions, possibly with the exception of the FAP's. However it would be very wrong
for this or any other project to merely repair and repaint the facilities in their present form without
making an effort to correct the serious faults which have been observed which seriously detract from the
quality and efficiency with which services are provided, thereby incurring unreasonably high recurrent
costs.
83.    The costings included for the proposals made include for required functional changes. However
at this stage the detail of the provision still must be defined and agreed designs and specifications are
finally issued.
84.    Attached are illustrative drawings and specifications for three representative facilities; a raion
hospital, polyclinic, and health center. A complete set is in the project's working papers.



158                             ANNEX 3
E. Costs for Civil Works Activities
New Works
85.   It has been difficult to obtain reliable figures for the costs of new building construction in the
Kyrgyz Republic. There are two main reasons for this:
(i)    Very little new construction work has been implemented during the last 5 years,
(ii)    With regards the construction projects which were carried out before then, very little
attention seems to have been paid to costs.
86.   During project preparation, quite some time has been spent discussing costs with various clients,
technicians, 'experts', etc., and the following costs levels have been tabled and have generally been
accepted as being not unreasonable.
87.   The rates used do in fact compare generally to costs in other countries with similar conditions
to the Kyrgyz Republic, very low labor costs, some skills available, importation necessary of all but the
most basic building materials, etc.
Square Meter Rates
88.   The rates for construction used in compiling the proposals contained in this report therefore are
as follows:
Type of Facility            new construction
Rural Hospitals             US$ 240
Polyclinics                 US$ 240
Health centers              US$ 180
FAPS                        US$ 180
Elemental Rates for Renovation and Refurbishing Works
89.   In order to calculate the costs of the repair and replacement of various building materials it has
been necessary to apportion the above square meter rates to the different building elements used in
construction. This again is based at this stage on previous experience with other projects carried out in
other countries, adjusted for anticipated conditions in the Kyrgyz Republic.



159                            ANNEX 3
Elemental perentages of cost for an average square meter of building:
Foundations                4.54%
Concrete                   4.39%
Bricklayer                 12 08%
Roofer                     5.11 % (Roof covering 2.34% only)
Joiner                     20.18%
Metalwork                  5.45%
Plasterer                  6.26% (includes ceilings)
Flooring                   7.91 %
Plumber                   13.19%
Glazier                     1.51%
Painter                    5.12%
Electrical Installations   14.26%
TOTAL                     100.00%
(It must again be emphasized that it has not been possible so far to verify the rates locally).
On this basis the rates can be established for different types of building work
Polyclinic    Health center
Rate per m2                            USD 240      USD 180
% of each m2
Roof               2.34                USD  5.61   USD  4.21
Walls               12.08              USD 28.99   USD 21.7
Doors/windows       10.09              USD 24.21   USD  18.16
Floor              7.91                USD  18.98   USD 14.23
San inst           6.5                 USD 15.82   USD 11.88
San fittings       6.5                 USD  15.82   USD  11.88
Refurbish/Painter  5.12                USD 12.28   USD  9.21
Electrician         14.26              USD 34.22   USD 25.66
Ironmon,gery        2.72               USD  6.54   USD  4.89
90.   The following overall budget for the works reconunended at the different institutions is based on
the above figures. It is strongly recommended that the figures are further verified by comparing with
conditions in other FSU countries.



160                            ANNEX 3
Budget for Works Proposed to be Financed by the Project
91.   In line with its general emphasis on primary health care, the project will finance the improvement
of 30 Ambulatory Centers, (at an average cost of US$10 000 each) and the conversion of 30 Rural
Hospitals into Polyclinics (at an average cost of US$40 000 each). Further US$ 300 000 for equipment
and US$ 150 000 for supplies will be provided to ensure efficient performance of the renovated /
converted facilities
92.   The construction works will be split up into 4 lots. The facilities to be included in the first lot
have been provisionally identified from those in Chui Oblast which have been surveyed and are as
follows:
Institution
1     Bishkek Road - Polyclinic
2     Belogorka Village - Village Doctor Amb.
3     October Village - FAP
4     Shopokov Village - Polyclinic
5     Shopokov Village - Paediatric Clinic
6     Frunze Village - Rural Hospital
7     Voino-Ontonovka Village - Rural Hospital
8     Gravrilovka Village - FAP
9     Alamnedin Town - Dentist Center
10    Urevka Village - Rural Hospital
11    Leninskoye Village - Rural Hospital
12    Tomen-Su Village - Village Doctor Amnb.
13    Djardy Su Village - FAP
14    Keper-Apyr Village - FAP
15    Chirn-Korgan Village - Village Doctor Amb.



161                            ANNEX 3
93.   It is important to emphasize that the figures shown above are based on outline surveys and
budgets and are included to indicate the types of sections required at different institutions. During the
implementation of the project more detailed budgets will be drawn up for the 45 institutions listed but
which have not been surveyed so far. However it is anticipated that within the project as a whole the
investments in different types of institutions will reflect the averages given for ambulatories (US$10,000
each) and polyclinics (US$40,000). Final equipment lists and specifications for all institutions included
in the project must be submitted to the Association for approval before tendering is implemented.
94.   The following an illustrative budget for this component:
A. Civil Works--repair and refurbishment of health facilities
1. Improvement of 30 Ambulatory Centers                       US$ 300 000
2. Conversion of 30 Polyclinics                              USS 1 200 000
Total for Civil Works                                               US$ 1,500,000
B. Medical Equipment and Supplies
1. Equipment ambulatory centers                               US$ 150 000
I Turning fork
1 Reflex hammer
1 Stethoscope with cup for adults and cup for infants
1 Auriscope
1 Sphygmomanometer, portable, 3 cuffs (child, adult, large adult)
1 Needle and syringe sterilizer (pressure cooker type)
5 glass syringes (5,10, 20 mls) and metal needles (small, medium, large gauge)
1 Thermometer (adult)
1 Thermometer (infant, rectal)
I Suture kit (scissors, needle holder, scalpel, forceps, etc.)
1 Glucometer set, strips and lancets
1 Fetoscope
1 Examination lamp (small)
1 sterile container
1 Trash can (covered)
1 Trash can (regular)
1 Flashlight with batteries
1 Peak flow meter with reusable mouthpieces
1 Gynecological examination table
1 Basic light microscope
1 Tongue depressor, metal
10 Urine analysis dipsticks for protein, sugar, leukocytes
1 Autoclave
1 Steamer/instrument bath
1 Vacuum extractor
1 Hemoglobinometer, lancets and supplies
1 Foot pump suction
2 Mucus extractors
2 Aspirators, infant, nasal
1 Infant resuscitation mask and bag
1 Laryngoscope and bulbs



162                             ANNEX 3
I Endotracheal tubes, small, medium
2 Infant beds
+ spareparts
2.    Equipment for Polyclinics                                 US$ 300 000
Thermometers
Urine dip-stick sets
Gram Stain
Inter-venous starter
Intra-venous solution
Express Syphilis Test
Express Chlamydia Test
Slides
Unspecified Equipment
Total Medical Equipment and Supplies                     US$ 450 000
C. Technical Services                                                  US$ 114 500
TOTAL INVESTMENT BASE COSTS                                                 US$ 2 084 500



KYRGYZ REPUBLIC / WORLD BANK    PROPOSED HEALTH SECTOR PROJECT 1994
P I L O T S U R V E Y O F H E A L T H F A C I L I T I E S
Master plan for VAjrtqQ_r.e7nt&               ._W4t . S             L LjA   eAYOIW
I       BLOCK PLAN LAYOUT OF BUILDINGS ON SITE
_  __                                            _ ~~~1 r--
I  W)   )   (3 ~~~I I
10
0    .  . ._  ' .t^_        =                    @     J  r 
'1 b44 ''                               31.o   0            1
i qf                      4T'U0  \1 1J4~f 
b~~~~~~ Il
Michael Hopkinson, MAA, Architect, Initiatives, Boston and Copenhagen
1



VX%GyZ REPUBLIC / WORLD BANK PROPOSED HEALTH SECTOR PROJECT, 1995
pIL O T   S         U R V E Y    O F   H E A L T H   F A C I L I T I E S
.aster plan for Rural Hospital, Voino-Ontonvka Village, Sokuluk Raion
3      OVERVIEW OF INFORMATION
A      Good points
Attractive buildings, main building from 1935.
Solidly constructed main building on an adequate site
Good sized rooms
Well positioned in relationship to population
Originally 75 beds now reduced to 20 by closing down
timber structured building
Bad points
Some earthquake damage to ceilings of main building.
Poor standard of maintenance
Shortage of toilet facilities
C      Form of heating
Solid fuel boiler in boiler house providing heating
through radiators
D      Things which are missing
Equipment
Toilets
E      Utilisation
Population of approximately 10 000 About 20 patients
come each day. Beds are approximately 20% occupied
F      Short-term proposals
9~' Minor alterations and additions to facilitate polyclinic
functions
Toilet facilities
Waiting area
Repair of roof
Repair of floor
Improvement of sanitary and electrical installations
Refurbishment
Convert part of timber structure to physiotherapy, rest
to store.
Michael Hopkinson, MAA, Architect, Initiatives, Boston and Copenhagen



gC~YZ REPUBLIC / WORLD BANK : PROPOSED HEALTH SECTOR PROJECT, 1995
P L O T S U R V E Y O F H E A L T H F A C I L I T I E S
Mster plan for                                               .  4Lz . , .
4      SU.M.ARY OF COSTS
A      FLOOR AREA OF BUILDINGS  w6w IO$ (6oM&a.a- P^i- uS- Wa'd)
FLOOR AREA OF STORES       60 k" Z         d    ve   &OMFOU)
TOTAL AREA                (~75 ML
COSTS OF NEW BUILDINGS REQUIRED
Name of bdg.        Area     costm2   cost       comment
ro, lET  &LOCX..    1I  A'l -  9SD    AoD        _    __ 4_2_2
C6*VQMEP bjAv1nje    ___t __ t5D 14.0  LP $(o
St6r- (   s        _      __               ZOU.  6o% AStymei4t*  Cort
Total                                 L 
-0v   -_                         -U5 z^ 
C      COSTS OF REPAIRS AND RENOVATIONS
Building element  I repr %   | Area z2  | Cost m.2 | Cost     | Prty
Roof              | ____ _    __ |        |    4   | L45b  i3s
Walls----
Doors and windows      _          -      |        _
Floors              _______   V?1b2   v          (6 *8  4 A 7    I
-Sanitary               3o_       (L.ZAM   (O I S-g2  USji 2Z 46 _
Water reticulatn       zo1- 1L4.LZ  IAI 1.SZ LASO g2.'.    I
Electrical Instn.      "45e       ek5  . vw  4w.2Z  k    S 
Ironmongery                     _
Total                                              LWD 13 S9      =
D      COSTS OF REFURBISHING REQUIRED
Building                        Area      Cost .2  Cost        Prty
awOc    , Ar . CA,           _ _ 5h    us WA  2.zq  v" Se2 52.
Total
Michael Hopkinson, MAA, Architect, Initiatives, Boston and Copenhagen



KYRGYZ REPUBLIC / WORLD BANK : PROPOSED REALTH SECTOR PROJECT 1995
P I L O T S U R V E Y O F H E A L T H F A C I L I T I E S
master plan for V0QiV. .OyJttw .h  .k 4to.juA  S.LC 4~1OIj
2      BUILDING ELEMENTS   EXISTING CONDITION
bi  f   Az2  SaDe         f| rf |w   dv  fl  Si  va  el  ir  r
A         ajmi qlu kax4c        L. 7                3o1 S | Z   11o0
B    _ ...       -L .e.1 2            2 1 3   'a   3   3  2  1Z'wq
D _ =       -    --T---TLTTT    T
E  ___   _   _________  _0 
F            _      _      _-                                    -        
G = __                   I   I   I   I   I   I   I   Vl 
H    ___  = ____________                                    - 
L   __ _    _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _l  
R  ___      _______|_.__|_|_
w  - _ _-  _ 
F           __bl
flz bloCrs, sa t=snitr, el ="loF7vical,              dir ' d ionongrs/in
Description Of condition:   1  =  GOOD
2 = MEDIUM
3 = POOR
4 = W(&CCEPTAILE
5 u URGENT REPLACEMENT IS NECESSARY
Michael Hopkinson, MAA, Architect, Initiatives, Boston and Copeanagen
_ #~~~~



KYRGYZ REPUBLIC / WORLD BANK : PROPOSED HEALTH SECTOR PROJECT 1994
P I L O T S U R V E Y O F H E A L T H F A C I L I T I E S
Master plan for A           PP14E.RPM k A4*k4 VP '60            a 5OZUr- i
1      BLOCK PLAN LAYOUT OF BUILDINGS ON SITE
!    1]
IY~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
I  '               ~ ~~~~~I  I
1 ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                         I
I 6~( I eoxmquozz 1. my                                           i
31           -- - - - - -     -----I                                      I
| LAo IT A-T4
R. * g_N _ LW.* 2
Michael Hopkinson, MAA, Architect, Initiatives, Boston and Copenhagen



KYRGYZ REPUBLIC / WORLD BANK  PROPOSED HEALTH SECTOR PROJECT, 1995
P I L O T S U R V E Y O F H E A L T H F A C I L I T I E S
Master plan for Village Doctor 's Ambulatory, Belogorka, Sokuluk R.
3      OVERVIEW OF INFORMATION
A      Good points
Housed in a substantially constructed former school, the
clinic has well dimensioned rooms contained in a sub-
stantial building.
The building is situated on a well dimensioned site,
placed in the center of the community served.
8      Bad points
Over 50% of the building has been damaged by a (minor)
earth tremor and consequentially this part is un-used.
Sanitary facilites are very inadequate
Maintenance is required
C      Form of beating
Solid fuel stoves placed along the corridor heating
former class rooms.
D      Things which are missing
Many items of equipment
X-ray, laboratory, dentist, pharmacy.
Sanitary facilities
Reliable means of sterilization
Communications
E      Utilisation
The catchment population is approximately 3 800. On
average approximately 20 out-patients visit each working
day. There are 6 members of staff.
F      Short-term proposals
Repair of damaged structure to provide space for
required functions.
Refurbishment
Toilet facilities
Michael Hopkinson, MAA, Architect, Initiatives, Boston and Copenhagen



KYRGYZ REPUBLIC / WORLD MN  : PROPOSED HEALTH SECTOR PROJECT 1995
P I L O T S U R V E Y O F H E A L T H F A C I L I T I E S
Master plan for Y5                %.yiL4I.
2      BUILDING ELEMENTS   EXISTING CONDITION
bl  fl  n2  one            fu  rf  VI  dv  fl  $a  va   l  ir r
A      IL& 2W IC.Af_    2           -        a  -c'p 
A-B         tkin                a'#. 2    _   _Lj    L4         3 g
D           _1   ;"&P.__4__________ 3
C -_- _. ___                      -_ ____
G                                   __=_______=_=_
E            _____ __==__                        = _ = 
FJ        __=_=__=_-__=______    
K           __=_==_=__=____=_
L _    __  =___   _ _-  __    
M                              ___i______
_ ___=-___Z-_______
0
R
S
ZL   ________
hi = bloc :, .u - function, rf . roo f, vi 1 wal. s, d w = door s/windows
fli floors, sa = sanitary, el =electrical, ir = ironmongery.
Description of condition:    1  =  GOOD
2 = MEDIUM
3 = POOR
4 = UNACCEPTABLE
S = URGENT REPLACEMENT IS NECESSARY
Michael Hopkinson, MA.A, Architect, initiatives, Boston and Copenhagen



KYRGYZ REPUBLIC / WORLD BANK   PROPOSED HEALTH SECTOR PROJECT, 1995
P I L O T S U R V E Y O F M E A L T H F A C I L I T I E S
Master plan for Vl4j .pP,    4OaT. g
4      SUMMARY OF COSTS
A      FLOOR AREA OF BUILDINGS  902 AA
FLOOR AREA OF STORES        -
TOTAL AREA                 ;o2AA
B      COSTS OF NEW BUILDINGS REQUIRED
IName of bdg.        Area     costm2 |cost       |comment
C      COSTS OF REPAIRS AND RENOVATIONS
| Building element   repr %     Area m2   Cost m2   Cost        Pr
Roof                             Zcow  %u.p42t   VSP ewz
Walls                  *I5D*Z   V4 1AJ.7  4S                      I
Doors and windows                 I SD %A%   D W-1p  &Sb 2l       1
Floors                  3___       IO Wt I'   l.t3 L4Sb 'LIF _I
Sanitary                 Oo%       6o0'   LDP It .9A  KW  6Lf   I
Water reticulatn         O %      51  rt  UW.8b 4S* ,b   I j      l 2-
Electrical Instn.       to %    _ _____    tA.0* VU " iD. V 12 63    2
Ironmongery                       too_LUZ  W,0 t.". vAVt 6*5    2
|Total                                                 tS l3b       =
D      COSTS OF REFURBISHING REQUIRED
_ I
Building                         Area      Cost m2   Cost
Total                        ,.                           *(2
Michael Hopkinson, MAA, Architect, Initiatives, Boston and Copenhagen



KYRGYZ REPUBLIC / WORLD BANK: PROPOSED HLTH SECTOR PROJECT 1994
P ILO0T  S U RV EY  O F  HE A LTHN  F AC I L ITIE S
Master plan for .A, 4. SA f*                          *
1       BLOCK PLAN LAYOUT OF BUILDINGS ON SITE 
ID  t    A o   
T-- ~     ~       - 
~TE LL4  L4J    e         \a.
?%AkfDr- AN &-1INM,
MichelHpkison,M   A      e     - Init                ad Cp -
_~~~ - =                                          =                            =N   
-- - - - - -_                                                                              _ 
,   T VZg~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N
-'^.I  F 'M4 ''" .. N
MicaelHoPinlson, MAA, Architect, Initiatives, Boston and Copenhagen



KYRGYZ REPUBLIC / WORLD BANK : PROPOSED HEALTH SECTOR PROJECT, 1995
P I L O T S U R V E Y O F H E A L T H F A C I L I T I E S
Master plan for FAP, October Village, Sokuluk Raion
3      OVERVIEW OF INFOMRATION
A      Good points
Solidly constructed building on a large site
Adequate accommodation
Well organised
B      Bad points
Water coming through ceiling:- roof is in poor con-
dition.
Damage to floor at entrance.
There is no drainage
C      Form of heating
Solid fuel stoves placed in main roos and between
children's examination room and store.
D      Things which are missinq
Some items of equipment
Communications
Transport
E      Utilisation
Maximum 10-15 people per day. The Feldscer also makes
home visits
F      Short-tern proposals
Repair of floor and roof
_ . Refurbishment
Toilet facilities
Michael Hopkinson, MAA, Architect, Initiatives, Boston and Copenhagen



KYRGYZ REPUBLIC / WORLD BANK   PROPOSED HEALTH SECTOR PROJECT, 1995
p I L O T S U R V E Y O F H E A L T H F A C I L I T I E S
Master plan for -mp! vow. Ll44A  5Ow4e4  rjJ.......
4      SUMMARY OF COSTS
A      FLOOR AREA OF BUILDINGS  1431
FLOOR AREA OF STORES       IZ h2
TOTAL AREA                IS ^w
B      COSTS OF NEW BUILDINGS REQUIRED
Name of bdg.         Area     costm2 |cost        comment
~___                  I         I   i          1
Total C      O                             -
C      COSTS OF REPAIRS AND RENOVATIONS
[Building element   r-Area m2   Cost  -2 Cost                      Prty
Roof                   Lo4       C7         Lt 421  S.Z    bD qJ  I
Walls        _                     - _
Doors and windows       IOZ        LJ4Z   0kw it. L.  HD '2U_4 |I
Floors                 tO%         2JW    UD tI Z3 tno -3&    |      _ 
SanitarY
Water reticulatn                   _           _          _
Electrical Instn.        _        _
Ironmongery                       "l84A2 laS   L i     65 LAS 1k IT7  I
Total                                                 L4UD 10Z9
D      COSTS'OF REFURBISHING REQUIRED
Building                         Area      Cost m2   Cost
hw   i e 1419 4w"*k-              14 44   L4 0 0) . V   D  137 1...7.  2
MhTotal
Michael Hopkinson, MMA, Architect, Initiatives, Boston and Copenhagen



KYRGYZ REPUBLIC I WORLD BANK   PROPOSED HEALTH SECTOR PROJECT 1995
P I LO0 T S U R V E Y O F H E A L T H F A C I L I T I E S
Master plan for FAPIO=.                         u4     ,    ..........
2      BUILDING ELEMENTS   EXISTING CONDITION
bl  fl  =s2  namve fw   dw  fl  sa  va Iel  ir I r
A-I                                      3 3   _-
B |I  |                      -TO-            -     -=           _
c    e   s-me              _                 
D l--  _ __ _____ _                   -_             
F          _______________              -
G                                                          7  _
H            _______7__
J3        __=_-________                                     _   _ 
K                                            I A      I =I____=-
M   ______  =            _____                     __ 
N              _v_ _=_ __ __ __
T   =        _=___=-==_= =-___
0            _____ ___    _
R-             --_=                                            ____
L
T
U
V
_ Z ____ ._____   --
1=block, fu = function, rf= roof, wl   walls, dw = doors/windows
fl   floors, sa = sanitary, el   electrical, ir = ironmongery.
Description of condition:    1  =  GOOD
2  =  MEDIUM
3  =  POOR
4  =  UNACCEPTABLE
5 = URGENT P.EPLACEMENT IS NECESSARY
Michael Hopkinson, MAM, Architect, Initiatives, Boston and Copenhagen



175                                   ANNEX 4
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
HEALTH SECTOR REFORM PROJECT
ANNEX 4: MEDICAL CARE PROVIDER PAYMENT COMPONENT
A. Background
1.     The Kyrgyz Republic's health financing and delivery system reflects -- to a relatively large extent
-- the old regime of rational planning and hierarchic structure found throughout the former Soviet Union
health system.' Historically, the system has been financed in a centralized "top-down" bureaucratic
allocation process, based upon national budgets formulated and passed by the central legislative and
policy-making bodies.
2.      The health financing system has been beset by two significant issues, however, related to sources
of funds and uses of funds. The first is that allocated budget levels historically have tended toward
chronic underfunding. The old Soviet system allocated funds for health protection on a "residual" basis
from general tax revenues; levels of funds were determnined only after budgets were allocated for other
"productive" sectors such as industry, manufacturing, and defense. Over the last several years, national
independence and the general economic decline has exacerbated the issue of underfunding. Independence
from the Soviet Union has forced self-sufficiency for the Republic which historically enjoyed a positive
net transfer of resources from Moscow through the tax system (World Bank, 1992). The economic
decline that the Kyrgyz Republic (and most other parts of the NIS) has suffered over the past several
years has resulted in reduced tax revenues being generated locally. An emerging funding crisis in health
services has been the result.
3.      The share of the region's GDP devoted to health historically has been low, and also erratic since
the 1980s--falling from 6%  of GDP to just over 3%  for the New Independent States (NIS) as a whole.
In the Kyrgyz Republic, spending as a percent of GDP was 4.1 % in 1990, but has fallen for 3 of the last
four years. Schieber (World Bank, 1995) reports that the most complete information available is for
public spending including spending from the consolidated budget (including all Ministries not just the
MOH), extra-budgetary public expenditures on health, and enterprise spending on health. The ratio of
public health expenditures to GDP declined from 4.2% of GDP in 1990 to 2.6% in 1993, with an
increase to 3.6% in 1994. The GDP in 1994 is only 50% of the 1990 level. Similarly, 1994 real (GDP
deflator adjusted) health expenditures are only 46 % of the 1990 level, up from 40% of the 1990 level
in 1993. In short, there has been a 50% reduction in real output in the Kyrgyz Republic since 1990,
accompanied by a 54% reduction in real public health spending.2
4.      Schieber (World Bank, 1995) further found the picture even more bleak when per person
spending is converted into U.S. dollars using purchasing power parities (i.e., exchange rates which adjust
for cost of living differences across countries). Public budget health spending in the Kyrgyz Republic
in 1993 dropped to only one-fourth the 1990 level.
I Each individual in urban areas is assigned to a polyclinic and has a primary care physician (not a general practitioner, but a therapist,
pediatrician, or obstetrician/gynecologist); in rural areas, there is a basic health unit, called a FAP, of one or more physician-extenders (e.g.,
feldshers or nurses), and rural ambulatory centers.
2 According to Abel-Smith (1994), there has been a fall in output of the industrial sector of 50 per cent, and a drop in export revenue by
65 per cent between 1991 and the end of 1993. Between 1992 and 1993, there was a decline in real GDP by 16 per cent and tax revenue fell
from 14 per cent of GDP to 8 per cent. The economy has further suffered from hyperinflation. Retail prices have been rising by 15-25 per
cent a month.



176                                ANNEX 4
5.     A second problem with the former Soviet approach to health care delivery is that it does not
encourage the efficient use of resources by providers or between them. This was due in part to a system
which allocated resources based on traditional central planning production input measures, such as
occupancy and numbers of staff and beds, rather than services performed, relative complexity of services,
or changes in health status. Schieber (World Bank, 1995) reports that recent trends are somewhat
encouraging, but overall numbers suggest a system that remains bloated. The number of beds per 1,000
population has declined from 12 in 1981 to 9.5 in 1994, but is still some 15 percent above the OECD
average. Similarly, while hospital admissions rates have declined from 25 percent of the population being
admitted in 1987 to 18 percent in 1994, the Kyrgyz Republic is still 20 percent above the OECD average.
The average length of hospital stay has declined by about one day over the past 15 years to 15.6 days
in 1994, but remains slightly above the 14 day OECD average. The average number of inpatient days
of care per year per person has declined from 3.6 days in 1978 to 2.8 in 1994, but is still some 15
percent above the OECD average. The hospital occupancy has declined from 90 percent in 1978 to 81
percent in 1994, compared to an OECD average of 75 percent.
6.     The number of physicians per 1,000 population has increased by some 30 percent over the past
15 years to reach 3.1 in 1994 (of which 0.45 are dentists), somewhat above the OECD average of 2.2.
Only 35 percent are generalists (defined to include therapists, pediatricians, and obstetricians), whereas
the percent share in many OECD countries (excluding the U.S.) is closer to 50 (e.g., United Kingdom)
to 70 percent (e.g., Canada). The number of physician contacts per year is comparable to the high
utilization rates in the OECD countries.
7.     There are other health financing sector problems as well including an acute shortage of
pharmaceuticals, equipment, and supplies.3 These shortages have occurred partly at the expense of an
overemphasis of resources placed in staff and beds. Facility budgets based on production input measures
such as beds provide incentives to increase capacity. A high level of facility capacity within the system
results in high fixed costs. This problem has worsened over the last few years with the deregulation of
energy prices, exacerbated by inefficient heating systems. For example, in Issyk-kul Oblast utilities
consume approximately 30% of total costs. For small rural hospitals the problem is even worse, utilities
consume approximately 67 % of total costs. The decrease in financing and an increase in the proportion
of expenses allocated to fixed costs have combined to produce critical shortages and depletion of
inventory levels in pharmaceuticals, equipment, and supplies.
B. Current Flow of Funds for Health Care
8.     The health sector is financed (at least formally) from general taxation revenues. In general, the
responsibility of collecting general taxes has devolved over the last few years to the oblasts and rayons,
not the central government. At the same time, the scope and authority to tax remains inflexible and is
largely determined by the central govermnent. Once collected, money is either passed on to the central
Ministry of Finance or kept at the individual oblast level depending upon the central allocation formulas.
In some cases, the oblast receives additional subsidies beyond the general taxation base. Currently,
Bishkek and Chui pass along some of their revenues to the central goverrnent, while two oblasts -- Osh
and Djal Abad -- keep what they have collected. The remaining oblasts -- Naryn, Talas, and Issyk-Kul -
- receive central government subsidies in addition to what they collect. A few taxes (e.g., the road tax
' Many repons, including Abel-Smith (1994), a comprehensive review by Welsby (1994) and most recently Haycock (1995), report that
supplics of drags, equipment, asd consumables remain inadequate. Shortages mentioned specifically include anesthetics, X-ray plates, surgical
supplies, food for patients, gasoline for ambulances, fuel for heating water and even sheets. There is often no replacement or repair of equipment
needing spare parts. Equipment includes ambulances, incubators, respiratory equipment, autoclaves and washing machines. Schieber (1995)
nicely summarizes the pharmaceuticals problem.



177                                     ANNEX 4
and Presidential tax) remain strictly federal taxes.4
9.      The allocation or disbursement of funds works in a parallel fashion, with the central government
developing allocation norms across and within sectors, while the actual budget process has generally
devolved to the oblast and rayon levels.
10.    A  recent Bank study (May  1995) by Helga Muller found that in  1994 oblast and local
governments collected 84 percent of the health expenditure. The report suggests that while it makes sense
to delegate social programs to a subnational level, that there is increasing inequities across oblasts in
terms of revenues raised versus needs for social programs. Per capita public health spending varied by
1.7:1 across oblasts in the Kyrgyz Republic in 1994, but the report implies increased variations could
occur over time. The study recommends that the central government should mandate minimum service
levels and develop allocation formulas for critical expenditures in health in order to better equalize fiscal
capacity with actual collections as well as to better match collections versus actual needs and demands
for services.
11.      Within the health sector itself, there are four levels of disbursement of funds for facilities. The
first level is comprised of the Republican institutions, designed to serve the whole population and
generally highly specialized. At the second level the six oblasts and Bishkek city operate institutions of
a mixed primary and specialized nature, open to all citizens within the oblast. Each oblast is further
subdivided into rayons which operate primary care facilities, and local and district hospitals -- largely for
rural areas. After fourth sentence, add sentence: Finally, within the oblast, municipalities also operate
primary care facilities and hospitals, largely for urban residents. The central Kyrgyz Ministry of Finance
does allocate funds directly towards budgets for the national specialty facilities or the Republican
institutions. The central government also allocate budgets directly for medical education and research,
and more traditional public health activities.5 About six percent of the federal budget is earmarked for
certain pre-determined health care activities such as public health.
12.     The Ministry of Finance also sets expenditure norms for oblast and rayon level administrations.
With these norms, individual facilities at the oblast and rayon levels develop proposed budgets. For
inpatient facilities, the norms include nominal numbers of beds and senior medical personnel. For
outpatient facilities, the norms are based on capacity as measured by numbers of physicians and
"potential" numbers of visits. Budgets are reviewed and approved by local oblast and rayon finance
administrations, after consultation with facilities, the local ministries of health, and the local exchequer
office. The budgets are handed down in 18 restrictive budget categories such as salary, utilities, and
pharmaceuticals. Traditionally, funds could not be spent outside of categories, though there are reports
 A good example is the recent Presidential Decree on the Budget for the First Quarter of 1995 (dated January 25, 1995) which states that
'the size of allocations to the local budgets of provinces and Bishkek city in the following amounts:
o       from the VAT tax on Osh, Issyk-Rul, Naryn, Talas, Jalal-Abad provinces - 100 percent; on Chui province 42 percent, on Bishkek
city 22 percent;
o       from the excise tax on Osb, Issyk-Kul, Naryn, Talas, Jalal-Abad provinces -- 100 percent, on Chui province 42 percent, on Bishkek
city 23 percent;
o       from the profit tax on enterprises, incorporation, and organizations on all forms of ownership on Osh, Issyk-Kul, Naryn, Talas
provinces -- 100 percent; on Jalal-Abad province, 31.8 percent. Chui province 42 percent, on Bishkek city 23 percent;
o       from the tax on tumover in retail trade and service to the population on Osh, Issyk-Kul, Naryn, Talas, Jalal-Abad provinces -- 100
percent; on Chui province 42 percent, on Bishkek city 23 percent."
'These traditional public health categories include orphan homes, treatment of AlDs, support of infectious disease hospitals such as TB
sanitoria, basic sanitation and epidemiologic activities, emergency hospitals and transport vehicles, blood transfusion centers, cancer treatment,
narcotic addiction centers, and medical supply storage.



178                                         ANNEX 4
of some increased flexibility (Haycock, 1995). However, there is also anecdotal evidence that the
implementation of the Treasury system has acted to further restrict the flexibility of facilities to allocate
funds outside the budget categories.
13.      Local and oblast budgets are aggregated and returned to the central Ministry of Finance which
uses them to develop a tax plan to match expected revenue and spending.6 The central Ministry of
Finance then informs the oblast administrations of the final approval for public spending levels with a
recommendation (but not a necessary condition) for allocation between the sectors (Haycock, 1995). This
means that spending patterns between local sectors can be altered (for fiscal, political or other reasons),
though discussions with oblast and rayon leaders in other parts of the NIS suggest the shifts are minor
and infrequent (see Schieber, Back-to-Office Report, February 1995).
C. Recent Reforms
14.      The Kyrgyz Government proposed  a series of health sector reforms, including  the Health
Protection Act which was passed and signed into law in July 1992. The Health Protection Act calls for
a shift in priorities toward health promotion and disease prevention policies and a new emphasis on
primary and family-based care. It calls for changes in the form of property - conversion of pharmacies
and pharmaceutical institutions into private and joint-stock companies; conversion of medical institutions
into joint-stock companies; incentives to establish private hospitals, polyclinics, and physician practice;
and private pay and leasing arrangements within public facilities.
15.      The law provides for diversification and decentralization of sources of revenue as well. Financing
of health care can be moved "off-budget", and no longer be solely reliant on general government
revenues. At least one public health insurance fund ("Territorial Health Insurance Fund' -- or "THIF")
can be created in each oblast, to be financed through multiple sources of revenue.' Additional sources
of revenue include private or "voluntary" health insurance coverage, local user fees for pharnaceuticals
and outpatient services,8 and donor funding.
16.      More importantly, the recent legislation separates financing and payment for services from  the
I For example, the Prsidential Decree on the Budget for the First Quarter of 1995 (dated January 25, 1995) stated that the income tax 'levied
from the citizens by enterprises, institudons, and organizations in Chui province in the size of 58 percent and in Bishkek city 78 percent.'
' Sources of revenue include:
o        funds from the current 34.5% Social Insurance and Pension Fund payroll tax, which are currently used for payment of temporary
and permanent disability, social security, other forms of cash assistance, and health. (Approximately 86% of the payroll tax is used
for sick leave, pregnancy, adoption of children, child care up to 3 years of age, care of disabled children up to 14 years, sanitoria
and resort smy entitlements of from 18-24 days per year per worker. The remaining 14% is used for "other purposes".)
o        a new, minimum 6% payroll contribution paid by employers;
o        a capitated rate paid by the oblast govermment into the fund to cover non-working and exempted populations not contribudng through
the employer payroll - emnployees of "public budget organizations" (e.g., schools and hospitals), elderly, unemployed, disabled,
women and children. While the payments would continue to be made by the oblast government, actual source of funding would be
split about 75%/25% between revenues raised by the oblast and central government.
The oblast government would also continue to allocate funds directly to hospitals and clinics for construction/capital improvements, expensive
equipment, and education/training programs. The central government would continue support of medical education and research, and more
traditional public health activities.
While this funding approach decentralizes decision making, it also raises concems about perpetuating or exacerbating inequities in funding across
individual oblasts (see Haycock, 1995).
' See, for example, Haycock (World Bank, 1995) and Abt Associates (July, 1994) for more complete discussions of user fees and user
charges.



179                                      ANNEX 4
direct provision of care. This means that payers of health care services can contract with providers,
determine the method of payment, and the payment amounts or rates to providers. Third-party payers
of services act as a catalyst for the prudent purchase of care on behalf of individual consumers, by
changing the incentives faced by hospitals, polyclinics, and individual providers.9
17.     Likewise, administrators could receive payments based on the number of cases, the severity of
the case, and the performance of treatment. These payment changes would create incentives that
encourage more efficient organization and management of service delivery and improved quality of the
care. The focus of care could shift toward primary and outpatient care. Polyclinic and hospital
administrators would have increased flexibility to utilize resources as they see fit to produce services
efficiently. Public sector providers now provide the bulk of services, though private sector providers
could compete to provide services.
18.     Payment changes are consistent with donor organization recommendations over the last few years.
Bobodilla and Ellis (World Bank, 1992), for example, called for incentive-based payment systems to
replace the current budgeting approaches. Abel-Smith (1993) and Holmes (June 1994 Manas Conference)
have called for capitation-based physician payments and bulk-billing arrangements for inpatient care.
19.     The insurance reform  law was originally written to be implemented in 1993. Concerns about its
design and rapid implementation schedule, as well as problems with reforms in other sectors (e.g., the
banking system) and general lack of technical expertise have delayed the implementation date several
times since."' Other health sector changes have occurred. Most notably, direct payments for outpatient
services and for outpatient pharmaceuticals have been introduced. Haycock (1995) notes that current law
prohibits users fees for inpatient services. Nevertheless, there is a sizable base of anecdotal evidence
(e.g., discussions with hospital administrators) indicating user fees are applied to inpatient services.
Patients also frequently must provide their own food, drugs and consumables for inpatient stays." The
recent United Nations Development Program (UNDP) report (1995) found that user fees account for an
increasing and sometimes majority portion of revenues for some facilities. More troubling is the recent
ODA survey showing that user fees are both increasing rapidly but also affecting economically vulnerable
Importantly. the reform law generally follows an approach familiar to NIS countries that stems from initiates strting in 1989 when the
so-clled New Economic Mechanisms (NEM) were announced as approved in Moscow under the former Soviet structure. The NEM provided
for greater local autonomy and a number of demonstration sites in each of the republics. For example, Kemnerovo, Kaluga. Samira, and St.
Petersburg were demonstration sites in the Russian Federation.
Three areas of change were focused on:
o        restructuring of financing -- health budgets would be developed differendy. A formula of 18 production input categories was replaced
by a stndard per capita payment based on a mix of measures of resource use and historic trends;
o       organization and management restructuring - through greater autonomy and management systems;
o        improved internal efficiency in the delivery of care - through improved payments for services within nd across facilities.
The NEM demonstration sites were cancelled or superseded by subsequent health insurance laws in Russia and other NIS countries, but the
general principles of NEM took root in terms of the recognition of the need for greater flexibility of resource aflocation, payment to personnel
and some limited management restructuring approaches.
' Gmeater detail about the health insurance law and the masons for the delay in its implementation can be found in Abel-Smith. 1993. More
recendy, Abel-Smith (1994) noted some progress has probably been made in assuring a reasonably efficient and safe system of banking
transactions.
" Haycock (1995) has found that inpatient facilities also accept 'informal payments' for pharmaceuticals, food, consumables, even acess
to basic services.



180                                         ANNEX 4
groups and negatively affecting quality and access to care."2 Finally, a small number of employer groups
negotiate contracts with hospitals for services to their employees, public sector physicians accept private
pay patients through special leasing arrangements, and at least 4 new private or "voluntary" insurance
companies have emerged in Bishkek and elsewhere in the country.'3"4
20.      These activities point to a health sector in transition in the Kyrgyz Republic, moving from  a
publicly-based central planning scheme to a more privatized, public/private mix in the organization and
financing of care. At the same time, these activities are incremental and may have unintended
consequences for efficiency and access to care. As a result, the government decided to test its legislated
financing and delivery system reform model as a way of implementing a more comprehensive strategy
for change. While implementation of its 1992 law is still delayed, it has chosen to pilot test the model
in at least one geographic area, Issyk-kul Oblast.
21.      Initially, the demonstration did not cover the entire oblast; rather, it was designated to begin in
a "Free Economic Zone" (or FEZ) of the town of Karakol, and three surrounding raions within the
oblast. 5 The site was chosen because of the FEZ designation, the relatively strong industrial base and
potential mining resources, and the relatively high per capita level of spending on health care in this
oblast relative to the rest of the country (the Kyrgyz Republic MOH, 1994). The Issyk-kul pilot
requested that the pilot be extended to the entire oblast, the Ministry of Health approved this request.
Implementation of a comprehensive demonstration in a portion of the oblast creates political and technical
problems including cross-subsidies and competitive disadvantages across rayons, and the need to
determine how to reimburse for referrals across boundaries.
22.      In Spring 1994, the Ministry of Health requested technical assistance from  USAID/Abt Associates
in implementing the Issyk-Kul health reform experiment, as well as assistance in training personnel who
would help implement it. Many of the details of the demonstration follow from the principles of the
health reform legislation. At the same time, the legislation, left many specific implementation issues to
be addressed during the transition period. This was particularly true in the areas of organizational and
delivery system structure, payment methods, quality assurance, information systems design and cost
accounting methods.
"2Bank staff met with British ODA representatives during the June/July 1995 Mission to discuss the possibility of ODA developing a model
user fee framework for piloting and application. The ODA representative expressed considerable interest in pursuing technical assistance in 1995
in this area. Any user fee schedule should include several principles such as 1) free services for all communicable diseases; 2) free services for
non-communicable diseases for the economically vulnerable and partial fees for other groups; and 3) full cost recovery for more discretionary
(e.g., dermatology) services, with some rationing of access for the economically vulnerable.
1"These initiatives are described in greater detail in the Wein and Langenbrunner Trip Report of March 22-April 2, 1994, Abt Associates,
Inc. under its Health Financing and Sustainability Project for USAID.
"Among other things, these changes have greatly diversified and complicated the flow of funds in the health sector, and suggest the utility
of a broader national health accounts structure to better understand both sources and uses of funds in the health sector.
" The demonstration site is approximately 100 kilometers south and east of Almaty. The demonstration site has a population of about
253,000 according to the official Ministry statistics.
The town of Karakol has about 70,000 residents, and is best known for its production of submarine torpedoes and testing at nearby Lake Issyk-
Kul. The FEZ designation for Karakol allows the city to have more autonomy in raising and spending revenues. Karakol has initiated several
promising tax changes as of January 1994 to spur new investment: 5-year "tax holidays" for new businesses, 10 year "tax holidays' for new
finns employing more than 300 Kyrgyz and provide investments of at least 1.5 million com, tax deductions for all employers and individuals
for all spending on health, education, and "communal' activities.
The three adjacent rayons of Dzhetiougouz, Ak-Sou, and Tyup are largely agricultural, though there is some manufacturing in the three rayons.
Throughout the area there are mining deposits and increased mining activity related to gold, uranium, and other deposits. Sheep herding also
continues, especially near the mountainous areas which surround the area's lake.



181                             ANNEX 4
23.   The pilot demonstration provides the first opportunity to implement the new law in a systematic
way for a specified geographic area, and to use lessons from it for a longer-term national implementation.
An initial proposal was developed by USAID/Abt Associates (see report of July 15, 1994) for the
demonstration design and implementation; the proposal was subsequently finalized and agreed upon with
the oblast and central governments. A number of activities and initiatives started over the latter part of
1994 relative to implementation of the demonstration.
24.   The medical care provider payment component would extend the Issyk-kul pilot to Bishkek City
and Chui Oblast. For full implementation of the Issyk-kul pilot to occur, the government must ensure
that all legal and regulatory obstacles are removed. It is a condition of negotiation for the project that
a Presidential decree and Government edict are issued which remove any barriers to the implementation
of new provider payment systems in the Issyk-kul pilot. Meeting this condition requires that at least the
following three points be addressed:
(i)    Savings from rationalization of facilities or implementation of new provider payment
methods will be retained and reinvested.
(ii)    Establishment of a mechanism to enforce the pooling of funds at the national, oblast,
municipal and rayon level.
(iii)   Authority to establish new payment methods including at least the following:
(a)    The line-item budget system will not be used to reimburse providers.
(b)    Determination and resolution of conflicts with the Treasury System created by
new provider payment methods.
(c)    Capability to institute performance-based pay.
(d)    Facility management autonomy including hiring and firing.
25.   The USAID-funded Issyk-kul pilot program expects implementation to move forward rapidly after
these legal and regulatory issues are finalized. The program has experienced some problems including
turnover of local counterparts and difficulty in obtaining necessary commodities such as equipment for
Family Group Practices and computers. Most of these commodities were not included in the USAID-
funded program, so grants were secured from other donor agencies. The World Bank project should
provide enough commodities to facilitate the desired changes in behavior and produce visible change to
positively impact the attitude of the population toward health reforms.
26.   The project files contain an operational plan, accomplishments, next steps and responsible party
for the Issyk-kul demonstration as of October, 1995 (in November, 1995, progress continued on many
of the next steps).
27.    The most favorable geographic areas for extending the Issyk-kul demonstration would be Bishkek
City and Chui Oblast. These sites are preferable for several reasons: 1.) relatively dense, urban
population; 2.) most affluent geo-political units (in terms of per capita income and tax revenues paid);
3.) relative sophistication of medical institutions and trained personnel; 4.) relative excess of medical
providers, especially physicians per capita in Bishkek; 5.) contiguous geographically, effectively sharing
market areas for medical services; 6.) proximity to health sector leadership for observation and
evaluation; and, 7.) proximity to technical coordinating staff for implementation purposes under the
credit. Discussions with leadership (e.g., central and oblast-level MOH, MANAS tearn) indicated interest
and agreement in using these geographic areas as demonstration sites.



182                              ANNEX 4
28.   The conceptual plan for the World Bank project outlined below closely resembles the Issyk-kul
demonstration plan, except there is no additional source of financing from an employer-based health tax.
The Kyrgyz Republic can use the base of experience from the Issyk-kul demonstration to extend the
reforms to Bishkek City and Chui Oblast. Specifics aspects of each element may not be replicated
exactly, the demographic, epidemiologic, and economic features of a different geographic area may
dictate design modifications; local preferences and values will be important as well. These differences
will be identified in the technical assistance provided to refine the Issyk-kul products to fit Bishkek City
and Chui Oblast.
29.    Problem: The health care system in the Kyrgyz Republic is dominated by the hospital sector,
which consumes more than 70% of resources. One reason for this inefficient allocation of resources is
the financial incentives for facilities contained in the current line item budgeting system. The budgeting
system is based on input measures such as number of beds and staff, and rewards increases in capacity
rather than the efficient provision of high quality health services.
30.   Purpose and Benefits: The medical care provider payment component would create financial
incentives for all providers of health services to manage care provided to patients more efficiently and
cost-effectively while maintaining or improving the quality of health services provided to the population.
Decision-making on the allocation of resources would be decentralized so that both providers of health
services and the population have more responsibility and accountability for the efficient provision of high
quality health services.
31.   The methods used to pay hospitals, polyclinics, and physicians would be changed to foster
efficiency in the health care delivery system and promote the use of primary care. Payment for care
would no longer be made on the basis of production input measures but rather on the basis of
performance as measured by services provided, or episodes of care completed. The new provider
payment methods would strengthen the connection between the quantity and quality of services provided,
and the financial reimbursement received for those services. Incentives would encourage treatment of
patients on an outpatient as opposed to inpatient basis, reduce length-of-stay for those patients who do
require hospitalization, and reduce unnecessary referrals to specialists and for diagnostic tests.
32.   Benefits resulting from achieving the goal of increasing the efficiency of the health care sector
include the following:
(i)    Ability to provide more health services with current funding levels due to more efficient
allocation of existing health sector resources.
(ii)   Increased confidence in the health sector by businesses and the population leading to
greater willingness to invest in health.
(iii)  Increased responsibility and accountability of health providers for the outcome of health
services provided to the population.
(iv)   Increased consumer participation in decisions about their health care.
(v)    Improvements in the quality of health services.
(vi)   Increased access to health services for the population.



183                            ANNEX 4
(vii)   Greater satisfaction and prestige for medical professionals, including attracting and
keeping quality professionals.
33.   Provider payment reforns would change the financing and the organization of care in two
important ways. Payment for care would be separated from delivery of care. The payer would focus
on paying for the best care at the lowest cost -- it would purchase care rather than maintain facilities.
The provider would have more flexibility to focus on delivering the most optimal mix of services with
the best outcome. Secondly, providers would be "at risk" in that they would now be responsible for
differences between payments received and costs incurred. Providers would be accountable for more
efficient and higher quality of care.
34.   This provider payment component does not directly address the institution of new forms of
financing for the health sector, such as an employer tax, or the creation or organization of insurance.
General reforms already occurring in the Kyrgyz Republic exhibit a broad range of activity related to new
sources of financing and insurance. The German donor fund GTZ also is providing support and technical
assistance related to insurance. The Bank can provide only marginal benefit in including this component.
35.   Implementation: Although the Government is concerned about the level of foreign technical
assistance, by definition, the institution of new provider payment methods requires substantial technical
expertise in hospital payment, physician payment, clinical practice, cost accounting, clinical information
systems, management, finance and internal auditing, computer systems, accreditation, and quality
improvement. Although most of the products would have been developed in the Issyk-kul pilot, they will
need to be adjusted to fit Bishkek and Chui Oblast because the population composition is different.
36.   The implementation strategy of this component is to use foreign experts selectively to produce
defined products. Each product, for example hospital payment, would have a dedicated foreign expert
or module leader. Module leaders would have three goals in their work: 1.) Refine the Issyk-kul
products to fit Bishkek and Chui; 2.) provide initial training to a broad audience on the systems/products
through workshops, and intensively train a local expert in the specialty area; and 3.) work with the local
expert to implement this aspect of the project.
37.   The local expert for each programmatic area would be responsible for imnplementation of the
product and continued training of health personnel. Qualified computer specialists would support them.
They would both work for the fiscal intermediary or one of three associations formed to facilitate the
implementation of the provider payment reforms. The three associations are a Primary Care Physicians
Association, a Hospital Association, and an Accreditation Commission.  Establishing these three
organizations should contribute to the sustainability of the reforms. The Accreditation Commission needs
to be independent to objectively determine whether a facility meets the minimum standards required to
operate and receive payment for services. In the medium to long-term, the Primary Care Physicians
Association and Hospital Association will serve as representative bodies in a more decentralized, market-
oriented health sector. While the local experts serving as their employees are initially supported by the
project, they are developing marketable skills which will be in demand in the future.
38.   Description: The medical care provider payment component requires US$4.3 million in Bank
funds to implement over a four year period. The Government of the Kyrgyz Republic would be required
to provide contributions in terms of staff time and expertise. Implementation of this component requires
structural change in the health services delivery system as well as development of new provider payment
systems and the corresponding fmnancial infrastructure to support them.  There are four major
programmatic elements of the medical care provider payments component encompassing both structural
change in the delivery system and new provider payment systems.



184                               ANNEX 4
39.    The firt element is comprehensive restructuring of the primary care sector through the
establishment of new primary care group practices (called Family Group Practices in the Issyk-kul
pilot). Currently, there are very few general or family practitioners. A group consisting of a therapist
(internist), pediatrician, and obstetrician/gynecologist is required to provide comprehensive primary care
services. In order to reimburse providers a capitated rate for the provision of all primary health services
to an individual, a entity capable of providing the entire range of primary health services must exist.
40.    The primary care groups would be the focal point of the new provider payment methods: they
would enroll people and receive a capitated rate for providing a specified set of health services.
The financial incentive for the groups is to provide services rather than referring patients to other parts
of the health delivery system. Different models of primary care should be encouraged, and over time
clinical retraining and new medical institute curriculum will lead to the development of general and family
practitioners. The primary care groups should be independent, form voluntarily, and be organized as a
business. They can initiate the development of non-profit entities within the health sector and also
become private practitioners.
41.    Approximately 300 Family Practice Groups would be needed to serve the population of Bishkek
City and Chui Oblast, estimated at 1.6 million people. Each group would be capable of enrolling and
serving approximately 5,300 people. A significant portion of the provider payment component budget
will be directed at developing the capacity of these entities to respond to the financial incentives of the
new payment methods.
42.    The project activities included in this element are as follows:"6
(i)    Formation of a Primary Care Physicians Association to coordinate physician formation
of groups, and provide continuing education and representation for primary care
physicians. In addition, the Association would employ the local experts to implement this
element including practice managers, fundholding specialists, and computer specialists.
(ii)   Identification of potential locations for Family Practice Groups (FPGs), determination of
policies on leasing publicly owned health premises to FPGs, and initiation of process of
establishing FPGs as non-profit entities.
(iii)   Form approximately 150 FPGs in the first year of the project, 100 in the second year and
50 in the third year. Formation of the groups consists of physicians voluntarily choosing
their partners; funding minor renovations of new practice locations - allowing FPGs to
establish a separate identity and be dispersed throughout the community; funding
equipment to enable the groups to treat patients rather than refer them; funding clinical
training to increase clinical capability and begin development of a cadre of general
practitioners; and establishment of financial systems, including procurement of computers
and development of practice managers providing business skills for the groups. The
groups should be established in both urban and rural areas, the Issyk-kul experience
shows that the FPGs integrate well into the current rural health delivery system.
(iv)   Retraining of 1200 primary care physicians would occur over the first three years to
coincide with the establishment of primary care groups. Internists, pediatricians, and
obstetricians/gynecologists would receive both classroom and on-site training to improve
their capability to manage care on an outpatient basis and begin the conversion to general
16see the Gantt Chart for detailed implementation timeframe



185                            ANNEX 4
and family practitioners. This process would be enhanced by changes in the curriculum
for medical students. Training for specialists would be offered as they begin to redefine
their role in the new health care delivery system. To develop the business skills
necessary for the FPGs, one doctor from each group as well as practice managers, at a
ratio of one for each 20 FPGs, would receive training on FPG financial and information
systems. This in-country training would be enhanced by study tours for practice managers
and primary care physicians.
43.   A clinical training center would be established and provided with equipment and materials at the
Republican Department of Continuous Medical Education (DCME) to provide clinical training to
physicians. The development and provision of clinical training materials, books, and curriculum materials
will magnify and sustain the impact of training activities.
44.   The second element is free choice of primary care provider by the population and enrollment
of the entire population into primary care groups. Participation by the population in decisions about
their health care gives providers an incentive to provide high quality services. If patients are not
satisfied, they can change providers. Information would be provided to the population to help them make
informed choices about their medical provider.
45.   The project activities included in this element are as follows:
(i)    A public awareness and marketing campaign to inform the population about FPGs and
their right to choose their physician.
(ii)   Actual enrollment of the population in FPGs and establishment of a enrollment database
for the new provider payment methods.
(iii)   Production of information comparing the performance of FPGs across various indicators,
allowing the population to evaluate providers and make educated choices.
46.   The third element is new incentive-based provider payment systems for primary care
services, outpatient specialty and ancillary servlces, and hospital services. These payment systemns
replace line item budgets for facilities with payment for health services at the patient level. Although the
experience of the Issyk-kul pilot will determine the exact form of these systems, the main concepts are
a capitated rate and case-based hospital payment. A capitated rate is the payment of a set fee to a
provider for the provision of certain health services to an individual. A case-base hospital payment
system reimburses hospitals a prospectively set fee depending on the type and severity of the treated case.
47.   Currently, national, oblast, municipal, and rayon governments finance and control their own
facilities using a budgetary system which allocates funds through predetermined functional categories such
as salaries and medical supplies. The health reforms envision the population choosing providers and
providers receiving payment for specific services provided to patients. The focus of payment for health
services changes from the facility level to the patient level. A fiscal intermediary is needed to pool the
funds from the national, oblast, municipal, and rayon sources and reimburse providers for health services
they provide to the population. Funds would no longer be delineated by government level and separately
allocated to facilities; services would be purchased by the fiscal intermediary from one pool of funds.
48.   The fiscal intermediary requires institutional capacity to pool the funds and manage the new



186                               ANNEX 4
provider payment systems. The development and installation of new computer systems is especially
important. Provider payment on a treated case basis increases the base unit for reimbursement many
times. For example, in Issyk-kul, the base unit for hospital payment will increase from budgets for about
50 facilities to payment for about 50,000 treated hospital cases. This very large increase in the number
of transactions requires the development of automated systems to manage the payment process.
49.    Current accounting systems provide a good starting point; however, they could benefit from the
introduction of accrual accounting and more sophisticated financial reporting to present available
information in a more useful form. Internal auditing and control procedures are necessary. Relationships
between the fiscal intermediary and the treasury and banking system need to be clearly defined. The
transition to a stable market economy may require the banking system to gradually shift its focus toward
handling financial transactions efficiently, away from serving as a control mechanism.
50.    The project activities included in this element are as follows:
(i)    Formation of a Accreditation Commission to license and accredit providers to operate and
receive reimbursement. In addition, the Commission would employ the local experts to
implement this element including accreditation specialists, facility surveyors, quality
assurance specialists, and computer specialists.
(ii)    Formation of a Hospital Association to represent facilities. In addition, the Association
would employ the local experts to implement this element including hospital payment
specialists, cost accounting and clinical information specialists, management specialists
and computer specialists.
(iii)   Define organizational structure, build institutional capacity, create banking relationships,
and develop regulations for the fiscal intermediary required to pool funds from different
budget sources.
(iv)   Procure computer hardware, and refine computer and accounting systems for the fiscal
intermediary. Computer systems would handle enrollment of the population, construction
of rates for the payment systems, recording of clinical information from facility bills,
payment of providers for services, operation of a quality assurance system, and analysis
of health statistics. An accounting system would record all financial transactions from
defined source payment documents, interact with the banking system and provide
financial reports for the fiscal intermediary.
(v)    Development and implementation of a rationalization plan to close or consolidate some
facilities. Rationalization should result in initial capacity reduction, alignment of facilities
to improve competition, and savings which can be invested in more equitable payment
rates for providers.
(vi)   Refine and extend the provider payment methods developed in the Issyk-kul pilot (again,
the specific design will be adapted to the environment in Bishkek City and Chui Oblast
througlWa process of evaluating options). The provider payment systems include:
(a)    A fundholding system with FPGs as fundholders receiving a capitated rate
(predetermined fee per individual for provision of a defined set of health
services) for each person enrolled. They would provide all health services
required by their enrollees either directly or by purchasing them from specialists,



187                             ANNEX 4
diagnostic facilities, or hospitals. The capitated rate paid to FPGs would be
initially be adjusted for age and sex. FPGs would have the right to refer to any
accredited specialist or facility. To accomplish the objective of moving health
resources to the primary care sector, the FPGs would be the clinical and fmnancial
center of the health delivery system.
(b)    Payment methods for outpatient specialists and diagnostic tests. The Issyk-kul
pilot is developing a schedule of fees for different services which will serve as
the maximum amount the FPG would pay. However, these services can also be
based on rates negotiated between FPGs and specialists and providers of
diagnostic tests.
(c)    A case-based hospital payment system which could either reimburse hospitals on
a per case basis or establish a global budget based on the type and severity of
treated cases. The Medical Economic Standards system developed in Russia
should not be used. Payment on a per case basis requires a patient classification
system to group cases into categories based on clinical cohesiveness and
homogeneity of resource use. Costs are then estimated for the categories and a
relative weight calculated which reflects how much greater or less than average
the resource use is for this particular diagnosis. The relative weight for the
classified case is then used to reimburse hospitals a predetermined fee for that
particular hospital. Technical issues needing resolution include how to maintain
budget neutrality, how to avoid placing FPGs at too much risk, and
determination of other payment adjustments.
(d)    The payment systems are for operating costs only. Capital investments will
continue to be centrally allocated and can be used to enhance competition among
providers.
(e)    Determination of whether special payment approaches should be tailored to
specific categories of care under the loan program, such as tuberculosis,
ARI/CDD, or whether adjustments are needed to general payment policies for
high priority services such as preventive care.
(f)    Development of a health price index which can be used to update the payment
rates for providers.
(vii)   Approximately 100 facility managers and government officials would receive training on
the new payment methods. Intensive training would be provided for the staff of the fiscal
intermediary. This in-country training would be enhanced by a study tour on provider
payment methods.
(viii)  The Health Finance and Management Department of the Republican Department of
Continuous Medical Education (DCME) would be established as at training center for
provider payment and financial and management infrastructure. It will allow training to
be provided efficiently and build education capacity to provide the finance and
management skills needed within the health sector to sustain reforms.
51.   The fourth element is development of health sector infrastructure to support the
implementation of new provider payment systems. This infrastructure consists of three areas: 1.)



188                              ANNEX 4
integrated management information systems (MIS), such as cost accounting and clinical information
systems, to track resource use and utilization patterns and provide managers tools to improve their
decision-making ability; 2.) increased management autonomy, flexibility, and accountability for health
care providers; and, 3.) quality assurance systems to monitor care and prevent "gamning" or abuse under
different financial incentives of new provider payment systems.
52.    The project activities included in this element are as follows:
(i)    Procurement and installation of computer hardware and software for health facilities.
(ii)    Refinement and extension of the cost accounting and clinical information systems
developed in the Issyk-kul pilot. Cost accounting and clinical information systems are
needed to provide facility managers with information to make good decisions about the
type and mix of services produced by the facility. In addition, this informnation is
required by the government to determine payment rates for providers.  Finally,
improvement in financial accounting methods would allow more efficient management
of financial transactions and produce better financial reports. Training on these systems
would be provided for approximately 100 facility accountants. This in-country training
would be enhanced by a study tour on management and financial systems.
(iii)   Creation of a legal and regulatory framework to provide facilities with autonomy to
efficiently allocate payment received for health services, including the capability to hire
and fire staff and institute performance-based pay for employees. Training will be
provided for approximately 100 facility managers to help redefine organizational
structure, including the institution of some facility boards; improve resource management,
including planning and budgeting; and introduce new personnel policies.
(iv)   A licensing and accreditation program to determine the capability of a facility to provide
high quality services. The USAID-funded program is providing technical assistance to
implement a national licensing and accreditation program. The World Bank project will
fund refinement of the accreditation program, an independent Accreditation Commission,
and staff capacity to survey facilities.
(v)    Refinement and implementation of the quality assurance program developed in the Issyk-
kul pilot. Quality assurance is needed to counteract perverse financial incentives
potentially encountered under the new provider payment methods. Medical criteria and
sampling techniques would be used to ensure that referrals, hospital admissions and
discharges are appropriate. In addition, techniques for continuous quality improvement
would be implemented at the facility level.
53.    The goal of the provider payment component is to provide health services more efficiently,
producing savings which can be reinvested to improve the quality of health services and the access of the
population to health services. Determination of whether the component has achieved the desired impact
and savings in the health sector can be measured by the following indicators:
(i)    Reduction of hospital admission rate and length of stay.
(ii)    Reduction in referral rate of primary care physicians.
(iii)  Increase in proportion of health sector resources allocated to the primary care sector.
(iv)   Reduction of both number of beds and number of facilities, resulting in reduction of fixed
costs, such as utilities, in the health sector.



189                             ANNEX 4
(v)    Number of Family Group Practices formed.
(vi)   Percentage of the population enrolled in Family Group Practices.
54.   The provider payment component needs to establish an evaluation and monitoring element to
determine the status of program implementation and measure progress toward target indicators. A
baseline study of physician referrals is necessary, as this data is not currently collected. Most of the other
baseline data is available, although a lot of effort is required to collect and compile it into a form suitable
for analysis.
55.   The central Ministry of Health (MOH) would have overall responsibility for the component with
implementation managed by the Technical Coordinating Committee (TCC). The TCC would have one
full-time advisor to coordinate all provider payment activities. Close coordination is required with several
other critical organizational components -- the central Ministry of Finance (MOF) and the oblast (city in
the case of Bishkek) level administration, Department of Health, and Department of Finance. To
facilitate collaboration between the central, oblast and city level governments, Ministry/Department of
Health, and Ministry/Department of Finance, a task force would be formed with representatives of the
various stakeholders. The World Bank, TCC, and task force would continue its close collaboration with
other relevant donors -- notably USAID, ODA ant GTZ.
56.   A smooth transition of the provider payment reforms from the Issyk-kul pilot to Bishkek City and
Chui Oblast requires continuous coordination with the USAID-funded pilot over the next year. The TCC
and task force should meet regularly with the USAID-funded team, begin work on designing the program
and adapting the Issyk-kul products, communicate with and educate officials about the design,
implementation and results of the Issyk-kul pilot, and monitor the progress of the pilot program. The
three parties should continue to work to facilitate the rapid implementation of the Issyk-kul pilot by
identifying, communicating and helping to resolve any issues which arise.
57.   The conditions of negotiation for legal and regulatory requirements to implement the Issyk-kul
pilot were discussed above. In addition, two conditions of effectiveness will help ensure collaboration
and a smooth transition from the Issyk-kul pilot program. First, the TCC will evaluate the Issyk-kul
provider payments pilot program. Second, any additional legislation or regulation blocking the way to
provider payment reforms will be identified and specific recommendations made for changes in such
legislation and regulation submitted to appropriate decision-makers.
58.   The following covenants address critical issues which will improve the potential for successful
implementation of the provider payment component:
(i)    The Borrower shall keep its level of total executed budgetary financing of the health
sector, from all sources and by all means at a level not less, in real inflation-adjusted
terms, than such total executed financing in 1994.
(ii)   The Borrower shall, not later than December 31, 1996, abolish the restrictive legislation
identified under the conditions of effectiveness.
(iii)   The Borrower shall not carry out the provider payments component before reaching
agreement with the Association on the modalities, taking into account its evaluation of
the Issyk-kul pilot project.
(iv)   The Borrower shall, not later than December 31, 1997, establish and thereafter maintain
a Health Fund into which national, oblast, municipal, and rayon level health and finance



190                             ANNEX 4
authorities would contribute and out of which medical providers will be paid, together
with regularly updated guidelines on the manner and level of contribution by these
authorities.
(v)    Not later than December 31, 1997, the Borrower shall design and implement a national
health accounts system to enable the Borrower to track the allocation of resources and the
flow of funds in the health sector.
(vi)   The Borrower shall, not later than December 31, 1996, issue guidelines, acceptable to
the Association, to health authorities at all levels on leasing of publicly owned health
premises to family group practices.
(vii) The Borrower shall, not later than December 31, 1997, pass legislation allowing
establishment of primary care groups as non-profit entities and opening of bank accounts
by such groups.
(viii) The Borrower shall, not later than December 31, 1996, carry out a study of the levels
of patient referrals from primary care physicians to specialists and for diagnostic tests in
Bishkek City and Chui Oblasts.



191                            ANNEX 5
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
HEALTH SECTOR REFORM PROJECT
ANNEX 5: PHARMACEUTICAL MANAGEMENT AND REFORM COMPONENT
A. Introduction
1.    The availability of drugs in the Kyrgyz Republic has fallen precipitously since the breakup of the
Soviet Union in 1991, caused primarily by the collapse of public finances. According to rough estimates
by Kyrgyz Pharmacia, the partly Government-owned and still Government-controlled company that
dominates the drug wholesale market in the republic, total sales in 1995 for the country as a whole should
be approximately US$ 10 million, or a little more than US$ two dollars per capita. Annual sales
reportedly totaled 80 million Russian rubles in the late 1980s, i.e. approximately US$ 120 million at the
official exchange rate, or slightly more than US$ 26 per capita.
2.    The poor availability of medicines is significantly aggravated, however, by wasteful and cost-
ineffective pharmaceutical management. There are two major sources of waste and ineffectiveness in the
current management of pharmaceuticals in the Kyrgyz Republic. One is the inadequate regulation of
drugs. When the Kyrgyz Republic was part of the Soviet Union, all drug regulatory institutions and
functions were located in Moscow; since independence, the Republic has lacked an institutional capability
to assure the safety and efficacy of medicines produced and/or distributed locally. Moreover, the danger
of ineffective, or even unsafe, medicines being supplied may be rising, in light of the worsening
economic conditions, the growing shortage of drugs, and the unscrupulousness of low-quality
manufacturers. A more serious source of waste is undisciplined, cost-ineffective public spending. Despite
cuts in government funds for drugs, the funds that are available still are being used to buy an excessively
large number of drugs, many of which have never been proven to be effective. Expensive branded drugs
are sometimes purchased instead of less expensive, therapeutically equivalent generic products. And
because a large number of different drugs are purchased in relatively small quantities, the demand for
many important, widely used medicines often is not met, while the price that must be paid to obtain these
drugs is higher than would be the case if larger quantities of fewer drugs were purchased through
competitive bidding.
3.    The pharmaceutical management component of the project is designed to improve the availability
of essential drugs in the Kyrgyz Republic both (a) directly, by financing the procurement and distribution
of a large quantity of essential drugs, and (b) indirectly, by supporting the implementation of far-reaching
reforms designed to strengthen the Government's drug regulatory capabilities and to increase the
discipline and cost-effectiveness of public spending.  Financial support for the procurement and
distribution of essential drugs is contingent on the Government's continued determination to implement
these reforms. These reforms, taken together, will lead to a significant improvement in the availability
of essential drugs in the republic and to a permanent increase in the cost effectiveness of public and
private spending on drugs--that is, the amount of health provided by any given amount of public and/or
private resources.
4.    The financing of approximately US$ 6.0 million of essential drugs, besides helping to improve
directly the availability of needed medicines, also is intended to help improve the overall efficiency of
drug distribution, by supporting, albeit indirectly, the continued restructuring and privatization of the
government monopoly previously in charge of the drug trade in the republic. In view of the large size
of the contemplated procurement, the complex procedures that will be used to implement the procurement
and the subsequent distribution of drugs need to be described and explained in detail and that is the
primary purpose of this Annex.



192                              ANNEX 5
B. Pharmaceutical Management Reforms
5.     National Drug Regulatory Organization.  The national drug regulatory authority will be
responsible for:
(a)    the registration of all drugs and vaccines manufactured and/or marketed in the Kyrgyz
Republic, including pre-registration review of all technical information on safety and
effectiveness, the organization of clinical trials if necessary, and post-registration
monitoring of drug utilization and possible adverse drug reactions;
(b)    quality testing and quality assurance of all drugs and vaccines manufactured, imported
into, marketed, and/or otherwise distributed in the Kyrgyz Republic.
6.     A national drug regulatory organization was established in 1993 by decree of the Prime Minister.
Located within the MOH, the organization is known officially as the Administration for Standardization
and Oversight of the Quality of Medicines and Medical Technology. The authority and responsibilities
of this organization are reaffirmed in a proposed "Law on Medicines" that has been drafted. The
Administration for Standardization includes, among its subordinate departments, a national drug testing
laboratory which is responsible for (a) providing technical support of the Administration's registration
decisions and (b) ascertaining the quality of drugs manufactures, imported, and/or otherwise distributed
in the Kyrgyz Republic.
7.     The Drug Regulatory Organization and its subordinate testing laboratory, which are co-located,
have rented 340 meters of space at the Institute of Cardiology and are negotiating with the Institute to
rent an additional 160 meters of adjoining space. With a total of approximately 500 square meters of
space, the organization will have sufficient room to perform its functions. Renovation of the premises
has begun, and a small amount of testing equipment has been procured; it will be installed when
additional renovation is completed and the necessary laboratory furniture has been acquired. Current staff
of the organization numbers 15 of a planned 35. The project will provide extensive support to enable
the organization and laboratory to become fully operational as quickly as possible. The project will
provide US$97,000 for renovation of the premises and US$357,000 for the purchase of: office furniture
and equipment; laboratory testing equipment and furniture; reagents and chemical glassware; scientific
literature, computer software, and databases; and other necessary supplies.
8.     The project will finance a substantial amount of training for the staff of the organization and
laboratory, including activities designed to foster close professional relations between officials of the
organization and counterparts in drug regulatory agencies of other countries. The project will finance
in-country training in the use of computers and databases, the use of new laboratory equipment, and cost-
effectiveness analysis for approximately 75 people during the first two years of the project. The project
also will finance approximately 50 person-weeks of training and study tours abroad, spread over four
years. In order to facilitate widespread dissemination of this information within the Kyrgyz Republic and
to support a limited amount of training for persons outside the organization and laboratory, e.g. local
health care officials, the project will finance an annual two-day national conference on drug regulatory
affairs, including participation of foreign experts.
9.    The Drug Regulatory Organization presently operates as a self-financing body, relying on incoii.-
from registration and testing fees. As a result, drug regulatory officials may have a direct economic
interest in their regulatory decisions, and this may increase the risk that ineffective, or even unsafe, drugs
will be made available to patients. Part of the costs of the drug regulatory organization can and should
continue to be financed out of registration and testing fees. The labor costs of the staff that process



193                            ANNEX 5
registration application, the paper and other consumables used, and the labor and travel expenses of
inspectors should be financed out of registration fees. The costs of reagents and other consumables used
in laboratory analyses, as weli as the labor costs of technicians, likewise should be charges to the vendors
whose products are being tested. However, in order to avoid potential conflicts of interest, the
compensation of senior drug officials and other staff with a direct voice in regulatory decisions should
be financed solely and directly from the state budget. The adoption of revised procedures for financing
the Administration for Standardization, which provide that the salaries of senior officials and regulatory
decision-makers are financed by the Government and not from fees, was a condition of negotiatons.
10.   The TCC  component coordinator for pharmaceutical management will supervise the
implementation of the various activities. In cooperation with the Chief of the Drug Regulatory
Organization, other MOH officials, and the Project Coordination Unit, the TCC component coordinator
will prepare terms-of-reference for all procurement contracts, including adequately specified lists of
equipment, furniture, supplies, and other goods to be purchased with project funds. The TCC component
coordinator will prepare, in concert with the Chief of the Drug Regulatory Organization, an annual
training plan, including the dates, location, purpose, and names of participants for all in-country training
courses and foreign study tours; the TCC component coordinator will exercise personal responsibility for
assuring that all technical and logistical requirements of the training are met. The TCC component
coordinator will maintain continual communications with other donors, in particular the WHO, in order
to minimize duplication and to maximize coordination in all drug regulatory technical assistance and
training activities. Finally, the Coordinator will, each year, convene and chair a temporary organizing
committee to prepare for and to implement the annual national conference on drug regulatory affairs.
11.   Essential Drugs Program: An Essential Drugs List (EDL), numbering 300 different products,
has been adopted as a first step toward the creation of an Essential Drugs Program (EDP). Part 1 of this
list, which has received the WHO's endorsement, consists of the 195 "most widely distributed basic
medicines" that are expected to be consistently available at, or by prescription from, all primary and
secondary health care facilities. Part 2 consists of 105 "basic medicines used in specialized institutions."
Formal adoption and publication of the EDL by the MOH, was a condition of negotiations.
12.   The draft EDL was compiled by a large ad hoc committee in the MOH and is the product of a
lengthy dialogue between the MOH and experts from the WHO and the World Bank. The process for
establishing and maintaining the EDL must now be institutionalized. The "Law on Medicines" delegates
to the MOH formal authority to compile the EDL. Final passage of this law, with this authority included,
and the adoption of formal rules and procedures for compiling and maintaining the EDL, including
provisions for its periodic review and, if necessary, revision in the future, are to be accomplished prior
to December 31, 1996.
13.   In order to become an effective means of influence over the procurement and utilization of drugs,
the EDL must be made widely available, and the rationale for an EDL must be understood clearly and
supported by physicians, pharmacists, other health care professionals, and health care financing decision-
makers. The project will support development and publication of a brochure, containing the EDL and
a lengthy commentary explaining how the List was compiled and its purpose. The project will finance
the printing and distribution of several thousand copies of the brochure, which will be made available to
all pharmacists and health facilities prior to the start of the sizable procurement of essential drugs under
the project. The project will help to finance a workshop in each oblast prior to effectiveness, in order
to introduce the EDL to local health leaders and to build professional support for an Essential Drugs
Program. In the second and fourth years of the project, revised editions of the EDL will be published
and distributed.



194                            ANNEX 5
14.   Equally necessary for effective implementation of the EDL is the development and dissemination
of new, standard medical treatment guidelines that are compatible and consistent with the limited range
of drugs included on the List. The MOH already has begun to draft new treatment guidelines, and the
project will support a study tour prior to effectiveness, designed to further this effort.
15.   Maximum benefit of the EDL will be achieved when the List becomes a principal mechanism for
regulating public spending on drugs. However, a requirement that public spending for drugs be limited
to the EDL is, for the time being, impracticable. Two years will be needed in order to train health care
professionals and to win their support and cooperation, but also in order to gain experience with the List
and to revise the List in light of this experience, as will inevitably be required. From the start of the
third year of the project, public spending on drugs will be limited to the EDL: from that date, state-
owned health facilities will be permitted to buy, and specially "entitled" ambulatory patients will be
permitted to receive free of charge or at subsidized prices, only drugs included on the Kyrgyz Republic's
Essential Drugs List. Duning negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government that it will
formally adopt and effectively implement this rule by the beginning of 1998. At the samne time, no
restrictions will be placed on the privately-financed purchase, distribution, and sale of medicines which
are not included on the EDL.
16.   The establishment and operations of the Kyryyz Republic's Essential Drugs Program will be
undertaken and supervised by a standing commission or committee appointed by the Minister of Health,
consistent with authority provided by the proposed "Law on Medicines" and as provided by the rules to
be adopted on compiling and maintaining the EDL. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that
the formation of this committee will be done by December 31, 1996. The TCC component coordinator
for pharmaceutical management will be a member of this body and will coordinate the various project
activities intended to support implementation of the EDP. In particular, the TCC component coordinator
will: (a) convene and chair a small, informal working group to oversee production and distribution of the
EDL; (b) maintain close communications with the WHO, UNICEF, and other donors in order to ensure
that foreign assistance in the development of new standard treatment guidelines is used with minimum
duplication and maximum effectiveness; and (c) convene and chair an informal working group to design
and implement a monitoring program which will include regular surveys of pharmacies and physicians
in order to measure the availability and utilization of essential drugs.
C. Drug Distribution in the Kyrgyz Republic
17.   The Old System: Until recently, the procurement and distribution of pharmaceuticals in the
Kyrgyz Republic was the exclusive responsibility of Pharmacia, a centralized, vertically integrated, semi-
commercial government corporation headquartered in Moscow that, during the Soviet period,
monopolized the drug trade throughout the former' Soviet Union. As in every other union republic,
Kyrgyz Pharmacia consisted of a central office and warehouse in the republican capital, Bishkek (then
known as Frunze); regional offices and warehouses at the oblast level; and a large network of hospital,
inter-hospital, and community (retail) pharmacies. Although concentrated disproportionately in the largest
cities, pharmacies were numerous and widely dispersed, so that medicines were generally accessible to
patients and health facilities alike, even in rural areas. The system was administered by a large cadre of
trained professional pharrnacists and pharmacy technicians.
18.   There being almost no domestic pharmaceutical industry in the Kyrgyz Republic, approximately
96-98% of the drugs distributed locally were--and are still--imported. Most shipments were delivered
to Kyrgyz Pharmacia's central warehouse in Bishkek, where they were divided into lots and onward
shipped to the oblast Pharmacias which, in turn, acted as distributors for the pharmacies and health care
facilities located in their respective regions. In Chui Oblast, the regional Pharmacia recently was



195                             ANNEX 5
disbanded; the national office of Kyrgyz Pharmacia now supplies pharmnacies and health care facilities
located in Chui Oblast, as well as those in Bishkek city, out of its central warehouse.
19.   At the point of distribution to patients, the pharmacy system functioned--and continues to
function--like that in most countries. In hospitals, physicians ordered or prescribed drugs which were
supplied by the hospital pharmacy or, if the hospital was too small to warrant its own pharmacy, by the
inter-hospital pharmacy designated as the hospital's regular supplier. [It should be remembered that these
pharmacies, although physically located in the hospitals, belonged to the Pharmacia system, not the
Ministry of Health or local health department.] In similar fashion, out-patients could have their
prescriptions filled at any retail pharmacy, although some pharmacies specialized in particular illnesses
or patient groups.
20.   Relatively few patients paid for their medicines. By law, all drugs dispensed in hospitals were
(are) supposed to be provided to patients free of charge; and there was (is) a long list of ambulatory
patients similarly entitled to receive medicines free of charge or at heavily subsidized prices. The
entitlement list has been frequently amended but usually has consisted of approximately 20 categories of
illness--e.g. dysentery, bronchial asthma, AIDS--and anywhere from 15 to 30 population groups-e.g.
World War n veterans, Chernobyl victims, children up to the age of three. Overall, before the breakup
of the Soviet Union, probably 80-90% of all drugs consumed in the republic were dispensed to patients
at no charge.
21.   However, while mostly free to patients, drugs were not free--at least not on paper--to the
pharmacies and health care facilities that dispensed them. The hospital "bought" drugs from its pharmacy
at controlled prices equal to the pharmacy's acquisition cost plus a standard, fixed markup to cover
operating expenses. The hospital generally "paid" the pharmacy out of its own budget, although
sometimes the pharmacy was paid directly by the city or oblast health department. Funds needed to cover
these costs, i.e. the fiscal cost of drugs supplied to in-patients, have long been appropriated separately
under Article 10 of the republic and oblast health budgets. A similar payment mechanism functioned in
the case of exempted ambulatory patients. Every month, retail pharmacies billed the city or oblast health
department for the cost of drugs dispensed to exempted out-patients, again based on prices equal to
acquisition cost plus a standard markup. The anticipated fiscal cost of treating these patients was included
in Article 10 budgets as well. [Pharmacies also sold drugs for cash to patients who were not exempt
from payment, although these receipts reportedly constituted a relatively small portion of total revenues.]
22.   The financing of drug procurement was based largely on this system of inter-organizational
payments. Hospital and retail pharmacies bought drugs from their oblast Pharmacia, paying out of
revenues received from their local health department (for the treatment of exempted patients) and from
cash-paying customers. Oblast Pharmacias, in turn, botight their drugs from Kyrgyz Pharmacia's republic
warehouse and paid out of the revenues they received from their pharmacies. The Kyrgyz Republic
Pharmacia bought drugs from the national Pharmacia in Moscow. In this fashion, the procurement and
distribution of drugs were financed indirectly by: (1) the republic's consolidated health budget line
appropriations for drugs, i.e. the sum of all Article 10 appropriations; and (2) a comparatively much
smaller amount of private spending on drugs.
23.   In addition, given the controls on prices, finances at each level of the system and in each
institution were expected to be more or less in balance; that is, for any given oblast Pharmacia or
individual pharmacy, total revenues ought to have been approximately equal to total operating (non-
capital) costs. In practice, the system's finances were often not in balance. Some Pharmacias and
pharmacies earned "excess" revenues which, if discovered, generally were confiscated by the tax
authorities; others accumulated arrears, caused by various contingencies, including late or non-payment



196                             ANNEX 5
by local health authorities. Although the managers of loss-making enterprises might be disciplined, or
even fired on occasion, the arrears apparently had no financial consequences nor any effect on the supply
of drugs. At the end of the year, financial imbalances were invariably cleared and debts written off;
excess earners had their surplus taken away, those in debt were given added funds, and the cycle began
again.
24.   Post Independence: When the Soviet Union broke up and Kyrgyzstan became an independent
republic, this accounting system suddenly began to work as a financing system as well. The republic
Pharmacia's debts no longer were covered automatically by Moscow, and the republic's traditional
suppliers--mostly Russian and Ukrainian manufacturers--no longer would ship drugs to the Bishkek
warehouse without strong assurances they would be paid. Increasingly, pre-payment in a convertible
currency has been required. In order to maintain the same volume of supply as before, either the
republican company (now known as Kyrgyz Pharmacia) needs to receive sufficient income from its
subordinate companies and to be able to convert the revenue into a useable currency; or the Kyrgyz
Govermnent needs to make up the shortfall directly, either from its budget or by means of a credit. In
fact, economic depression and the Government's strong fiscal stabilization policy have, in combination,
prevented the direct subsidization of Kyrgyz Pharmacia and have led, in addition, to a significant decline
in public spending overall, including consolidated Article 10 appropriations. As a result, receipts to
Kyrgyz Pharmacia and to each oblast Pharmacia, financed out of public spending and measured in
constant prices, have fallen substantially.
25.   As public spending on drugs has fallen, private spending has grown. Informal sources claim that
as much as 50 percent or more of the drugs consumed in the republic's hospitals are paid for out of
pocket by the patients or their families. In a 1994 survey sponsored by the British foreign assistance
agency, ODA, nearly three-fifths of 285 respondents who reported having been hospitalized in the
previous year claimed to have spent at least US$ five dollars to obtain drugs prescribed during their
hospital stay. Nevertheless, total spending on drugs has, by all available evidence, declined dramatically.
Kyrgyz Pharmacia and the oblast Pharmacias are still the only significant distributors in the republic, and
their current budgets are but a fraction of what they were previously, before independence.
26.   At the level of health care facilities and patients, the availability of drugs has worsened
commensurately. Although most hospitals, especially in major urban centers, reportedly have been able
to maintain minimum supplies of essential drugs, it supposedly has become a common practice, especially
in "elective" procedures, to present the patient a list of necessary supplies, including drugs, which the
patient him or herself must supply before care is provided. Previously, it was thought that the policy of
free in-patient drugs was a cause of excessive hospitalization rates and long average lengths of stay; now,
the diminishing supply of drugs probably is a cause of the decline observed in the use of hospital services.
Exempted ambulatory patients have experienced a similar decline in availability. Some physicians
reportedly have reduced their prescribing, not wanting to add to the frustrations of their patients or to
their facilities' debts; and some pharmacies reportedly have refused to dispense drugs to exempted
patients, often claiming stock outages. Supplies nominally reserved for exempt patients reportedly have
been diverted from state to the new private pharmacies where they are sold at market-clearing prices.
27.   Kyrgyz Government Policy:  In response to the worsening drug situation, the Kyrgyz
Government is making what appears to be a serious effort to break up the Pharmacia system. The plan
is to make each level of the system independent, to fully commercialize the various successor companies,
and gradually to privatize them. The central office and warehouse, Kyrgyz Pharmacia, and the five
oblast Pharnnacias have each been made into an independent, joint-stock company. Most hospital
pharmacies have been formally transferred to the facilities in which they are located or to the
corresponding oblast health department. At the retail level, some pharmacies have been auctioned off



197                             ANNEX 5
for cash, others have been privatized "administratively," i.e. given to their employees, and still others
remain the property of their parent Pharmacias. Kyrgyz Pharmacia, for example, operates 33 pharmacies
in the city of Bishkek. In addition, a number of new, private pharmacies have appeared, mainly in
Bishkek where, according to Kyrgyz Pharmacia officials, new entrants may account for as much as 30
percent of local sales.
28.   The restructuring of Pharmacia is far from complete.  Kyrgyz Pharmacia and the oblast
companies still are the only significant local distributors active in the republic. Also, the financial
condition of most of the system reportedly is weak, aggravated in particular by the Govermnent's
insistence that all of the inherited debt be fully apportioned to the successor companies. Especially
vulnerable are the oblast Pharmacias which reportedly owe Kyrgyz Pharmacia approximately US$5
million for previous deliveries, and whose warehouses are described as nearly empty for lack of working
capital. Moreover, despite decentralization, the influence of government in Pharmacia operations remains
very strong. For examnple, on paper only 35 percent of the stock of Kyrgyz Pharmacia belongs to the
national Government; another 35 percent has been assigned to the company's employees; and the
remaining 30 percent supposedly has been sold to private investors, including several foreign firms. Yet,
the shares assigned to employees have not yet been distributed, leaving management solidly in control
of those votes; neither management nor the Government will identify the private investors who have
bought shares; and it is abundantly clear to any casual observer that informal relations between senior
managers at Kyrgyz Pharmacia and senior officials in the Ministry of Health and elsewhere in government
remain extremely close and cooperative. At the oblast level, where the level of government ownership
is said to be as high as 70 percent, relations must be even tightel
29.   On the other hand, the drug distribution system obviously is in transition, and the changes made
so far are significant and clearly in the right direction, for there can be no doubt that a privately-owned,
competitive system of drug wholesalers and retailers is likely to operate far more efficiently and cost
effectively than one run by the Government. At the same time, the effects of continued strong
government control over the Pharmacia companies should not be misconstrued or overstated. The oblast
governments in Naryn and Osh, for example, may exercise a decisive voice in the operations of "their"
Pharmacias, as strong or stronger than the national Government's voice in Kyrgyz Pharmacia. But these
three governments are today much less unified and in sync with one another than they were previously
under Communism. More important, the Pharmacia monopoly has been broken, and competition at all
levels is rising. The oblast Pharmacias no longer buy exclusively from Kyrgyz Pharmacia, but
increasingly are engaging in direct negotiations with traditional Pharmacia suppliers (chiefly Russian
manufacturers) and with the old and new distributors that have proliferated throughout the NIS. Kyrgyz
Pharnacia, for its part, has begun to compete with its former oblast subordinates over supply contracts
with pharmacies and health care facilities. Probably it is only a matter of time before the oblast
Pharmacias reach out across oblast borders and begin to compete directly with one another.
30.   Apart from organizational questions, the Government's response to the worsening drug situation
has been much more tepid. Particularly disappointing has been the marked lack of interest shown in
reviewing and revising the exemptions policy that promises free in-patient drugs to all and free out-patient
drugs to as much as two-thirds of the population. The effects of this exemptions policy and the prospects
of change will be discussed in more detail below. Here, the following should be said. First, although
very generous on paper, the Government's drug entitlement policy has become seriously under-funded
in practice, with the result that fewer patients than before are getting free or subsidized drugs, while
many formally exempt patients are having to pay for them. However, the cuts in supply have been
implemented in an ad hoc, and therefore haphazard, f-shion. As a result, some relatively affluent
patients who could--and would--pay for their drugs still are getting them free of charge, while many very
poor patients are having to pay or to do without. Meanwhile, free drugs still are being dispensed in cases



198                             ANNEX 5
of non-urgent care, when in cases requiring immediate attention the necessary drugs are unavailable.
Such outcomes are neither equitable nor cost-effective in terms of health policy.
31.   Nor is the system any more rational in terms of budget and finance policy, for there is virtually
no connection between the cost of the exemptions and actual spending decisions. The Ministry of Health
continues to calculate annual drug needs of the population--i.e., what is required to satisfy the
Government's obligations in this area--and to convey this information to the Parliament. But the Ministry
has made no effort to rank in order of priority the exemptions or associated demand for drugs, and
because resources are wholly inadequate to fully fund the Ministry's requests, the national Parliament's
Article 10 appropriations have been based mainly on the previous year's budget and the current year's
anticipated revenues. At the same time, decisions by the national Parliament are mainly indicative, not
prescriptive, for most health spending is budgeted and financed locally where the cost of exemptions is
not calculated and where the connection between these costs and spending decisions is virtually non-
existent.  In theory, the substance of an entitlements policy and its financing should be closely
coordinated. In practice, the Kyrgyz Government's present approach to drug entitlements precludes such
coordination, virtually assuring that the cost of patient exemptions and the financing of those exemptions
will be permanently out of sync.
32.   Summary: There exists in the Kyrgyz Republic a well-developed drug distribution system that
is professionally run and easily accessible to health facilities and most of the population. This system is
in transition, and while much ground remains to be covered, the pace of change is impressive and its
direction is decidedly progressive. The weaknesses in the current system, apart from its incomplete
restructuring, should not be minimized. There probably are too many retail pharmacies in operation, and
some will likely have to be closed as uneconomical. The system's technological level is generally low;
accounting, pricing, anti inventory operations especially need to be computerized. The professional
training of most pharmacists is similarly inadequate. The growing emphasis on primary and preventive
care, combined with recent advances in drug therapy, demand that pharmacists play an increasingly active
role in treatment decisions, but this will require that local pharmacists receive much more preparation in,
for example, clinical pharmacology. Perhaps most serious for the immediate future is the near-total
absence of professionals trained in the economics, finances, and management of drug procurement and
distribution.
33.   However, on balance the strengths of the existing system seem more impressive than its
weaknesses, and this has decided implications for the project. Clearly it is unnecessary, and probably
it would be counterproductive, to encourage the formation of a new mechanism to handle the procurement
and distribution of essential drugs financed under the project. Indeed, care should be taken not to impede
or undermine the generally progressive changes now taking place in the Pharmacia system. Particularly
undesirable, from the standpoint of thefuture effectiveness of the Kyrgyz Republic's health system, would
be the inadvertent reconstitution of a government monopoly in charge of the drug trade. In addition,
there are embedded in this system well-established principles and mechanisms of accounting and
financing, including means of cost recovery. Cost recovery in practice is limited by the Government's
exemption policy and will improve only when that policy is changed and fewer patients are entitled to
receive free drugs. Sufficient mechanisms for cost recovery already exist, however, and do not need to
be created or encouraged.



199                             ANNEX 5
D. The Procurement and Distribution of Essential Drugs Under the Project
34.   The project will make available approximately $US 6.9 million (including contingencies) to
finance the purchase and distribution of essential drugs. The purpose is twofold: to help ensure minimum
health standards during the most wrenching phase of the country's transition to democracy and a market
economy, when social and economic dislocations are the most severe; and to reinforce needed reforms
specifically in the health sector, aimed at raising the efficiency and cost-effectiveness with which public
funds are used.
35.   There exist, in principle, a variety of ways by which essential drugs might be procured and
distributed. The Association and the Government have agreed that several key principles must be
observed, regardless of the method chosen:
(i)    Only the most essential, cost-effective drugs should be purchased in
order to maximize the health effects of the available funds;
(ii)    Drugs procured under the project should be sold to distributors, and then
to the public, at near-market prices in order to prevent their diversion to
neighboring countries or the black market;
(iii)   Prices to health care facilities should be limited in order to maximize availability;
(iv)   Final retail prices to ambulatory patients, except in the case of exempted
patients, should be unrestricted in order to limit market distortions and
to raise the maximum amount of additional private spending;
(v)    Drugs procured under the project should be made equally available to all
regions in the republic;
(vi)   Drugs procured under the project should be made equally available to all
onward distributors and retailers, regardless of their form of ownership.
36.   With these principles in mind, and taking into account the strengths, weaknesses, and ongoing
changes in the existing drug distribution system, the Association and the Government have agreed
tentatively to procure and distribute drugs financed under the project in the following manner. All final
arrangements must be reviewed and approved by the Association prior to effectiveness. In addition, these
rules and procedures will be reviewed by the Association at the end of each procurement cycle and
revised, if necessary, by mutual agreement with the Kyrgyz Government, so as to ensure that new,
financially viable, privately-owned drug wholesalers and retailers are in no way disadvantages, compared
to remaining state-owned companies.
Procurement
37.   (1) In order to minimize supply shocks, the $US 6.9 million to be provided under the project
(including contingencies) will be spent in four annual tranches of approximately $US 2.25 million in each
of the first two project years and $US 1.2 million annually in the third and fourth years. (2) Drugs will
- be procured on the basis of International Competitive Bidding and in accordance with World Bank rules
on pharmaceutical procurement and standard World Bank documentation. (3) Procurement will be
executed by the Project Coordinating Unit (PCU). (4) Drugs procured under the project will be selected
exclusively from Part 1 of the Essential Drug List of the Kyrgyz Republic, "A List of the Most Widely



200                              ANNEX 5
Distributed Basic Medicines.' (5) A list of drugs to be purchased under each tranche will be approved
by the Association and published in Development Business prior to preparation of the bidding documents.
(6) To be eligible for consideration, drugs must be registered in the republic before the evaluation of
proposals. (7) In order to give potential vendors sufficient time to register their drugs, bidding documents
for the initial tranche will be prepared prior to effectiveness or six months after the initial procurement
list is published, whichever comes later; in the case of subsequent tranches, there will be at least a 4-
month period between publication of the initial procurement list and preparation of the bidding
documents. (8) Procurements will be divided into six lots, according to a formula approved by the
Association prior to effectiveness; winning vendors will deliver shipments, in accordance with this
formula, to Naryn Oblast Pharmacia, Issyk-kul Oblast Pharmacia, Osh Oblast Pharmacia, Talas Oblast
Pharmacia, Dzhalal-Abad Oblast Pharmacia, and Kyrgyz Pharmacia (for onward distribution in Chui
Oblast and Bishkek city)--hereafter, these recipients are called the "Distributors"; bidders' prices will
include the cost of transportation and delivery to these destinations. (9) Drugs will be sold to the
Distributors on credit, based on an agreement to be included in the bidding documents and approved by
the Association ptior to effectiveness. (10) All drugs must be labeled in Russian; all packages must
include a standard insert in Russian; all individual packs, packages, and shipping containers must be
labeled; and all labels must indicate the product is an "Essential Drug of the Kyrgyz Republic."
38.   (11) Distributors will divide the shipments further and sell individual lots to hospitals, other health
care facilities, and community pharmacies at a price no higher than the acquisition cost plus a 5-percent
markup for storage and handling; Distributors will be permitted to refuse to sell or ship to any institution
or organization unable to assure full payment or reimbursement. (12) Kyrgyz Pharmacia will onward
ship drugs to health care facilities and pharmacies in Chui oblast and Bishkek city, according to rules
agreed to by the PCU; these rules will be reviewed by the Association prior to effectiveness. (13) Retail
pharmacies will be permitted to sell drugs procured under the project to non-exempt ambulatory patients
at unrestricted prices. (14) Revenues received by Distributors from the sale of drugs procured under the
project will be taxed in accordance with a special written formula agreed to by the Ministry of Health
and the Ministry of Finance; this formula will reserve fixed percentages of gross revenues for (a) the
retirement of the Distributors' outstanding debts and (b) additions to the Distributors' working capital;
the formula must be approved by the Association prior to effectiveness.
Alternative Methods of Distribution
39.   As noted, there are other ways that essential drugs might be procured and distributed under the
project; when examined closely, however, these turned out to be either significantly more complicated
and expensive administratively, at odds with one or more of the goals or principles of the project as
described above, or simply impractical. For example, one proposal considered at length was to establish
a Drug Revolving Fund (DRF), a quasi-public corporation that would attempt to sell as many of the drugs
as possible in order to maximize cost recovery. The idea ultimnately was rejected for several reasons.
Since there already exists in the Kyrgyz Republic a well-developed, accessible, and professionally
operated drug distribution system, there would seem to be little advantage in creating a new structure,
particularly one that would require considerable oversight by the Government and the Association.
Moreover, in view of the restructuring and ongoing privatization of the existing system, it surely would
be counterproductive to at this point in time encourage the Government to get back into the drug trade.
Finally, as previously discussed, there already exist well-established principles and mechanisms of cost
recovery. What limits cost recovery in practice is the Government's exemption policy, and the creation
of a DRF would not, by itself, alter this fact.
40.   Another possibility would be for the Government to procure drugs through the PCU, as currently
envisioned; and then to sell the drugs at cost to Kyrgyz Pharmacia and to let Kyrgyz Pharmacia distribute



201                             ANNEX 5
them according to general guidelines and/or specific tasks, as agreed to in a contract with the
Government. The chief difficulty with this idea is that Kyrgyz Pharmacia very likely would choose not
to participate, i.e. would not buy the drugs at a price equal to the procurement cost, because it probably
would not be profitable to do so. [If it were profitable, then Kyrgyz Pharmacia would not need the
Association to help finance the procurement.] One reason is that even generic products bought under the
project are likely to be significantly more expensive than many of the drugs Kyrgyz Pharmacia presently
buys from Russian manufacturers--drugs which, in most cases, will not be eligible for procurement under
the project because the factories in question do not meet the standards of Good Manufacturing Practices
(GMPs). Another reason is that because the drugs purchased under the project all will be Essential
Drugs, many will end up being dispensed to exempted in- or out-patients. [Even if there was sufficient
demand from non-exempt patients, it would be wholly impractical to try to sell project-financed drugs
to cash-paying customers, while distributing free of charge to exempt patients the very same drugs
procured with budget funds.] The ability of distributors and pharmacies to make money from the sale
of project-financed drugs will depend significantly on the ability and willingness of local health authorities
to use their Article 10 funds to buy these products.
41.   A third possibility, closely related to the second, would be for the Government to onward sell
the drugs to Kyrgyz Pharmacia at subsidized prices, e.g. through a concessionary on-lending arrangement
similar to what is presently envisioned vis-a-vis the oblast Pharnacias. The main objection here is
political, namely: why undermine the progressive restructuring of the Pharmacia system that is now
taking place, by giving the entire subsidy to Kyrgyz Pharmacia which already dominates the wholesale
market and which appears to be doing reasonably well financially, particularly when compared to the
now-independent oblast Pharmacias? If a subsidy is to be provided-as probably it must, if project-
financed drugs are to be onward distributed--surely it would be more sensible to try to reinforce the
progressive changes occurring in the republic's pharmaceutical market by giving most of the subsidy to
Kyrgyz Pharmacia's prospective, but financially weaker, competitors.
42.   A fourth possibility would be for the Government to procure drugs through the PCU, perhaps
hiring Kyrgyz Pharmacia physically to receive shipments; and then to auction the drugs to any and all
bidders, subject only to the provision that they subsequently distribute the drugs exclusively within the
Kyrgyz Republic. For reasons already discussed, it is likely that the drugs distributed in this manner
would be sold at prices significantly below their procurement cost, so that the buyers would in effect
receive a subsidy. However, in this case the Government would not be able to choose the recipients of
the subsidy (Kyrgyz Phannacia would likely gamer a sizable percentage), nor would it be able to prevent
the subsequent distribution of the drugs disproportionately in the republic's richest markets (i.e. Bishkek)
to the disadvantage of other, less wealthy regions.
E. The Kyrgyz Government's Drug Exemptions Policy
43.   It has been noted several times previously that potentially adequate mechanisms of cost recovery
for drugs bought with public funds already exist, and that cost recovery has been limited severely in
practice by the Government's generous policy of exempting large numbers of patients from paying the
full cost of their drugs. Although this policy is now seriously under-funded, which has led to rationing
in practice, the cuts in funding and supplies have been distributed in a largely ad hoc, haphazard fashion
that has been both inequitable and cost-ineffective in its effects. The rationalization of this policy, i.e.
the reduction of exemptions and/or their cost to what the Government's consolidated health budget can
presently afford, would very likely have a net positive impact on the population's health status, by
increasing the cost-effectiveness of public spending on drugs. Rationalization of the present exemptions
policy would, in addition: (a) remove a significant barrier to entry into the drug trade by private
entrepreneurs who fear becoming saddled with obligations that could threaten their profitability; (b)



202                              ANNEX 5
eliminate a major cause of the financial weakness of existing pharmacies and drug wholesalers; and (c)
lead to an increase in private spending on drugs by patients and institutions that may be able and willing
to buy drugs on the open market "out of pocket," but that are presently able to satisfy their drug
requirements at less than full cost by taking advantage of the Government's subsidy. [The need to re-
connect the substance of the exemptions policy with the financing of this policy, as discussed earlier, is
a separate issue from the need to reduce the fiscal cost of the exemptions policy, although changes in
either one will affect the other, and so both issues will have to be considered together.] Given these
prospective benefits, the question needs to be asked, to what extent can or should changes in the
Governments's exemptions policy be encouraged under the project?
44.    Analytically, the fiscal cost of this policy might be reduced in one or both of two ways: either
the list of exemptions (exempted patients) can be cut; or the cost of those exemptions can be reduced,
e.g by introducing co-financing by recipients (co-payments, deductibles) and/or by restricting eligibility
to the poor through means-testing. Either approach is very likely to run into difficult political and
technical obstacles in practice. Thus, there are strong public health reasons for keeping the treatment of
communicable diseases free; there are equally strong political reasons for continuing to exempt war
veterans; and there are good economic and ethical reasons for exempting high-cost cancer drugs that
could quickly bankrupt even the most affluent of patients. As evidenced already by the long struggle to
compile the Essential Drugs List, every exemption category will have its defenders, on professional and
political grounds, and paring the list in more than a symbolic way will be no mean feat. Nor will it be
much easier to reduce the cost of the policy. For example, a very nominal, standard dispensing fee could
be introduced, payable by all recipients; but it would be difficult politically to institute a fee large enough
to raise a significant amount of money. Anything more elaborate--e. g. a variable co-payment (deductible)
based on the price of the drug or the income of the patient--could lead to undesirable prescribing and/or
dispensing behavior, or would become enmeshed in the same problems involved in efforts to limit
eligibility (see below).
45.    The most commonly advocated--and, at first glance, seemingly the simplest and most powerful-
way to rationalize exemptions policy would be to limit exemptions to the poor and to require all others
to pay for their drugs. [However, even at the level of general principles, there will be opponents arguing
that health care, including the provision of essential drugs, has always been and should remain a "right,"
not a commodity.] Ordinarily, this would be a goal for the future, not a task for the present, because
it usually is extremely complicated administratively and expensive to implement means-testing in a
country like the Kyrgyz Republic, where a very high percentage of personal income normally is
concealed, corruption is rife, and cooperation between different agencies of government is minimal.
Nevertheless, in the course of the "social safety net" project, also supported by the World Bank, two
broad classes of families have been identified, based on their income and need for supplementary public
assistance; this same classification system, some have suggested, could be used to limit eligibility for drug
benefits, and perhaps other social benefits as well. Thus, families receiving aid from the Social Security
Ministry also could be designated as eligible to receive free or subsidized drugs, while all others could
be required to pay for their drugs out of pocket.
46.   In fact, instituting such a policy would be difficult. For one thing, it is unlikely that non-exempt
patients would be made to pay for the treatment of serious communicable diseases, and the continued full
exemption of these categories of patients will reduce the fiscal savings of such a change in policy. Much
more important, however, is the fact that the cost of drugs for individuals and families--like the cost of
other medical services, but unlike the cost of food, shelter, clothing, and transportation--is highly variable
and unpredictable. In any given year, a few individuals and families will need no drugs; many will need
drugs costing a small amount; some will need drugs costing more; a few will need drugs costing a lot;
and a very few will need drugs costing an enormous amount.  Accordingly, there will be strong



203                              ANNEX 5
pressures: (a) to cap the financial risk of any individual or family, by establishing a ceiling on monthly
out-of-pocket expenditures for drugs covered by whatever exemption categories remain; and (b) to grade
an individual's or family's financial risk according to income or cost of treatment, by introducing a
variable co-payment required of non-exempt patients, applicable until the ceiling on total out-of-pocket
expenditures has been reached, and based on the patients' income. Instituting even a simple cap on
financial risk, although a simple concept in theory, would be a huge administrative headache and
expensive; the complexity and cost of more elaborate schemes would rise geometrically.
47.   In the present context it might still make sense to press for introduction of the simple, two-class
system for regulating exemptions, if it could be shown that the financial savings would be significant.
Unfortunately, this information does not presently exist. Indeed, not even crude estimates of the potential
savings can be calculated until: (a) reliable data are collected on drug utilization at the patient level; and
(b) a decision is made concerning which exemption categories will be maintained even for the [non-
exempt" (i.e. families not receiving public assistance).
48.   There is within the Government and among health professionals widespread awareness that the
current exemptions policy is far more expensive than the budget presently can afford and that it needs
to be changed. However, there is no consensus yet as to how this should be done, nor does the issue
appear to be a high priority on the Government's agenda. Whether there is sufficient political will to
tackle this issue now is, therefore, open to question.
F. Expected Impact of the Project
49.   Ironically, the fiscal cost of the Government's present exemptions policy should decline under
the project regardless, as a consequence of the introduction of the Essential Drugs Programn, and
particularly at the start of the third year of tl . project when public spending will be limited exclusively
to those drugs contained on the Essential Drugs List. As discussed previously, a significant, sustained
improvement in the cost-effectiveness of public spending on drugs is the most important expected benefit
of the pharmaceutical management component. In addition, the procurement and distribution of $US 6.9
million of essential drugs will have an impact on the physical availability of drugs during the project, on
the composition of available supply, and on the financial viability of the distribution system; and these
impacts need to be considered separately.
50.   Total Physical Supply. Because the drugs are to be sold--either for cash or for reimbursement
from Article 10 funds--there is likely to be only a modest increase in the total physical supply of drugs
in the republic as a result of the project. Consider the following: unless drugs are given away, total
physical supply will be a function of aggregated public and private spending. As a condition of the
project, the Government will assure that aggregated public spending will fall no lower than 1994 levels
measured in constant prices. There already is a sizable amount of private spending; and the project will
almost certainly have both positive and negative first-order effects on that spending. Specifically, the
impact will be negative, insofar as some cash-paying patients will be able to get the same drugs they are
buying now more cheaply; and it will be positive, insofar as other cash-paying patients are likely to spend
more in order to obtain needed drugs that should be more available and more attractively priced than
before. Sellers, in the meantime, will want to maximize their profits; if they are unsure about the
prospects of reimbursement by local governments, they will likely try to divert as much as possible of
their stock to cash-paying customers and to price their drugs at market-clearing levels. Intuitively, it
seems likely that the net impact of the project will be (1) to increase total private spending, and (2) to
depress prices somewhat (which will raise the buying power of both public and private spending); the
total physical supply of drugs should rise as a result.



204                               ANNEX 5
51.    Composition of Total Supply. Because drugs procured under the project will be Essential
Drugs, a significant percentage is likely to be dispensed to exempted patients and, in turn, financed out
of local health budgets. Thus, if total public spending for drugs remains constant, a higher percentage
of that spending will be used to buy Essential Drugs--specifically those drugs procured under the project-
even prior to the third year of the project when the Government is required to limit public spending
exclusively to the drugs contained on the republic's Essential Drugs List. By the same token, a smaller
percentage of aggregated public spending will be available to support the purchase of drugs NOT supplied
under the project. In addition, because the oblast Pharmacias will be receiving drugs at very low cost,
it may become more difficult for other distributors to sell the same drugs profitably, i.e. at a price high
enough to recover their acquisition costs. Thus, it is possible that alternative sourcing of the drugs
procured under the project could decline, particularly if quantities procured under the project represent
a substantial portion of annual demand for the drugs in question. These uncertainties and risks with
respect to the project's impact on the composition of the republic's drug supply--because the magnitude
of these effects are nearly impossible to predict in advance, and because supplies of widely used drugs
could be disrupted--are reasons why the lists of drugs to be procured under the project need to be chosen
carefully and why disbursement is best spread out over multiple tranches.
52.    Distribution System. The project's most immediate impact on the drug distribution system will
be the re-capitalization of that system's weakest link: the oblast Pharmacias. Although still majority
government-owned, these companies are now nominally independent and are supposed to be operating
as commercial entities; eventually they are to be fully privatized. For now, however, the oblast
Pharmacias appear to lack both financing and drugs: their warehouses reportedly are empty; they are
deeply in debt; and they have no access to short-term credit which they might use to rebuild their
inventories. By providing these regional distributors with a substantial supply of low-cost drugs, the
project will, in effect, be giving these companies a new lease on life. If the oblast Pharmacias are
permitted to retain a significant portion of their earnings from the onward sale of these drugs, it is
possible than one or more of the five will survive and develop into a financially viable distributor with
improved prospects of escaping government control and becoming a genuinely private competitor of
Kyrgyz Pharmacia. There is, of course, no certainty in this result, although the potential gain surely
warrants the effort. For by supporting the establishment of a drug distribution system based on privately-
owned, competitive wholesalers and retailers, the project can effect a sustained improvement in the
efficiency of drug distribution in the republic and, in turn, a sustained increase in the availability of
drugs.



Department of Drugs and Medical Equipment Standards and Quality Control
Ministry of Health
Kyrgyz Republic
Drug and Medical Equipment
Standards and Quality Control
Department
F~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
lDivision of Registration   _  Division of Healthy Diet   _Division of Quality Assesmento
and Drug Side Effects             (1 person)               Control and Standards                        LA
and Monitoring Information                                         (2 people)
(2 people)
Pharmacology Committee                                       Test and Drug Control
(2 people)                                                 Laboratory
(5 people)
Pharmacology Committee                                         State Instepction
(p people)                                        L        (6 people)
New Medical Equipment
____(I  Person)                                                                                       a



I



207                            ANNEX 6
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
HEALTH SECTOR REFORM PROJECT
ANNEX 6: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND MANAGEMENT ARRANGEMENTS
A. Project Implementation
1.    The overall implementation and administration of the project would be the responsibility of the
Ministry of Health. To assist in the various aspects of the project, the MOH would depend upon several
entities to provide policy advice, technical direction and specialized services. These would be carried
out, respectively, by a Project Policy Council (PPC), a Technical Coordination Committee (TCC), and
the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) of the Social Safety Net project.
B. The Role of the Project Policy Council
2.    The Project Policy Council would oversee the policies undertaken by the MOH and other entities
involved in project implementation to reform the health sector. It is chaired by the Minister of Health
or his designee, and members would include MOH Deputy Ministers, representatives from the involved
departments of the MOH, Chui and Issyk-Kul oblasts and Bishkek city medical officials, Pharmacia,
representatives from the medical community and a representative from the Ministry of Finance. It would
advise the Minister on all important policy aspects of the project and would meet once every three
months, or more often if its Chairman so decides. The Technical Coordination Committee (TCC) would
serve as the secretariat of the Project Policy Council. The TCC Director would prepare minutes of the
PC meetings and ensure that the decisions taken by the PC are implemented by the implementing
agencies/entities.
3.    The Project Policy Council has the responsibility to ensure that the objectives of the Project are
fulfilled. Among its major tasks, are:
(i)    To review the periodic project implementation reports prepared by the TCC and the
quarterly implementation schedules. Discuss any problems or issues resulting in delays
and approve necessary actions to be taken to solve problems in project implementation.
(ii)   To discuss and resolve issues linked to project implementation that cannot be resolved
by the implementing agencies/entities and the TCC and decide, in consultation with the
Bank, on all policy issues linked to project implementation.
(iii)   To facilitate coordination with other projects and activities relevant to the reform of the
health sector, and coordinate policy issues with the Donor Community in the country.
C. The Role of the Technical Coordination Committee
4.    The Technical Coordination Committee (TCC) would manage the technical implementation of the
project. It is headed by a Director who reports to the designated Deputy Minister of Health, who serves
as the Ministry's counterpart and chief liaison officer with the Bank for the project, on a day-to-day basis.
It is comprised of a full-time Director and four technical advisors acceptable to the Bank who would
be designated as Component Coordinators (CC). The Director has a relevant degree and experience in
the health sector. The Director and technical staff are assisted by an administrative assistant. The TCC
would function on a permanent basis. In addition, current operating personnel from each organization
who are assigned to implement a specific activity (e.g. tuberculosis, drug regulatory organization, etz.)



208                                 ANNEX 6
within each of the four components would be named as a liaison person to the TCC, and would be
responsible for the day-to-day management of their respective activities.
5.     The TCC would provide the technical direction to the several components and sub-components.
It would formulate and recommend for approval any policy reforms associated with the project, and
periodically assess the status of and progress towards overall project goals. It would coordinate activities
among the components, and also coordinate the project's activities with the other donor activities in the
health sector. It would coordinate the budget planning and control of project funds, and coordinate with
the Ministry of Finance as required. Problems which are not resolved at the component level would be
raised to the TCC.  The TCC  would request and authorize the PCU  to prepare disbursement
documentation for signature by the Minister or his designee for payment of goods and services. Finally,
the TCC would maintain progress indicators, design and arrange for periodic project evaluations and
manage the periodic meetings of the PC. The MOH provides adequate office space, local telephone
service, local transportation expenses, an administrative assistant and two positions seconded to the PCU
which would be funded through MOH budgetary resources. The project would finance specialized
technical services, the TCC Director, the four TCC technical component coordinators, international
communications, office equipment and one vehicle.''
6.     The following specific functions would be performed by the TCC under the direction of the
Director:
(i)    Comply with directives of the Project Council and coordination of all activities needed
for project execution.
(ii)    Prepare guidelines for planning, preparation, supervision, administration and execution
of project activities in accordance with the agreements to be agreed upon by the Bank and
the Government in the proposed Loan Agreement.
(iii)    Provide the technical, and in cooperation with the PCU, administrative and logistical
assistance necessary for the implementing entities under the project.
(iv)    Establish working relationships with the Director of the PCU and reach agreement upon
a master procurement plan.
(v)    Monitor project progress, coordinate all project activities among components and assist
in the coordination between the MOH, MOF, Oblast and Municipal Governments, the
medical community and other donors to assure a consistent approach in project
implementation.
(vi)    With the participation of the CCs, prepare and maintain a Project Master Implementation
Plan, which would include Component Detailed Implementation Plans.
(vii)   Prepare and maintain a consolidated project budget for the project and maintain liaison
with the Ministry of Finance on project financial and budget issues.
11/ lhe Director and four technical advisors would serve as local consultants and receive compensation comparable to that now paid to local
consultants under the Manas project (i.e. not to exceed tde equivalent US$200 per month for the Director and $150 per month for each of the
component coordinators). Their appointment would be on a year-to-year basis subject to renewal based upon performance and fulfillmeut of
project goals.



209                             ANNEX 6
(viii)  Prepare and approve all terms of reference for consultants who would assist in
implementation of the project. Ensure that technical assistance being provided meets
these objectives.
(ix)   Design and implement evaluation of project components and overall policy objectives.
(x)    Serve as the secretariat to the Project Council and prepare all meetings, maintain minutes
and follow-up on all recommendations and actions.
(xi)   Ensure that all necessary technical reports and records are maintained, and that annual
audits are performed.
(xii)   Maintain records of project progress indicators for each activity.
(xiii)  On the advice of the CCs, authorize the PCU to prepare Withdrawal Applications to be
signed by the Minister or his designee and sent to the Bank for payment for goods and
services financed from the project.
D. The Role of Component Coordinators
7.    The Director of the TCC would be assisted by four technical advisors who would proved policy
and technical direction to the four functional sectors of activity under the project, namely (i) primary
health care, (ii) facilities management, (iii) medical care provider payments, and (iv) pharmaceutical
management. Their responsibility is to ensure that the day-to-day managers, i.e. the individuals within
each activity who are assigned the responsibility of implementing their specific activity, receive the
necessary support and policy guidance to execute their activities, and also to ensure that the separate
activities are coordinated within the overall program of reform. This includes the coordination with other
donor activities, and the sharing of information and problem solving among all the participating agencies
and entities. They would be responsible for preparing training plans and arranging for their execution
within their respective sector. They would be responsible to report to the TCC Director all significant
activities, progress, problems or policy issues which emerge in their sector, and make recommendations
for action. They would follow up on all relevant recommendations of the Project Policy Council, and
prepare or cause to be prepared any reports required in the execution of the activities within their sector.
8.    The implementation of each component would be monitored and coordinated by each TCC
Component Coordinator (CC) who would work closely with the individuals in the MOH and within the
health sector in each activity who are in charge of the day-to-day implementation of specific activities.
The CCs would report directly to the Director of the TCC, and the lead individuals in each activity would
report to the head of their respective organization or department, but would cooperate closely with the
respective technical advisor in the TCC overseeing the implementation of their activity. The CC is
responsible for the following tasks:
(i)    Ensure coordination of the activates undertaken by the various agencies or departments
within their component or activity. Ensure that each unit of the entity has a clear
understanding of its role and responsibilities under tte project.
(ii)   Ensure the effective and efficient implementation of the component and that the project
implementation schedule is respected. Inform the head of the implementing entity and
the TCC of any slippage in implementation and propose actions to correct the problems.



210                            ANNEX 6
(iii)   Bring any issues of policy or donor coordination relevant to the implementation of the
activity to the attention of the Head of the implementing department and the TCC.
(iv)   Prepare, in cooperation with relevant units of the implementing entity and the PCU, lists
and specifications of equipment to be purchased under the project and terms of reference
(TOR) for required technical assistance.
(v)    Participate in the evaluation process of awards of procurement actions organized by the
PCU.
(vi)   Advise the TCC of the successful delivery of goods and services provided under the
project and recommend to the TCC that payment be authorized.
(vii)  Prepare regular implementation reports on component implementation for submission to
the TCC. Update quarterly implementation schedules. Hold frequent meetings with the
TCC to discuss implementation issues.
E. The Role of the Project Coordination Unit
9.    The PCU of the Social Safety Net project would serve as the procurement and administrative
"agent" of the MOH for the Health Sector Reform project. As such it would be a project implementation
unit servicing the specific needs of the project in those administrative functions required for efficient
project management and implementation. The MOH and the PCU have signed an agreement outlining
their respective roles and responsibilities, and the costs thereof to the PCU to be financed by the MOH
under the project as "consultant services". The MOH provides the PCU with two staff members of the
MOH to be trained by the PCU during the execution of the project, and at the end of the project they
would return to the MOH and serve as a nucleus for the MOH to establish a procurement office in the
future. The Project, under "consultant services", would finance the direct costs and services of the PCU
related to the Health Sector Reform project only, general and specialized procurement specialists in
pharmaceuticals, medical equipment, and civil works administration. Specifically, the PCU would
perform the following functions:
(i)    Procurement: provide assistance, advice, and contract management to the implementing
departments and entities in the procurement of civil works, equipment, pharmaceuticals
and related services. It would also provide assistance, advice and contract management
in the recruitment of consultants and technical assistance/training services. The PCU
would prepare all tender documents and technical specifications, and manage the process
of receiving and evaluating competitive proposals (with the active participation of the
TCC and CCs).
(ii)   Finance and Accounting: prepare and maintain project detailed and summary accounting
and financial analysis records and reports. It would also arrange for and execute all
necessary project account audits.
(iii)   Disbursements: acting on the advice of the TCC and the CCs, prepare and process Bank
Withdrawal Applications and disbursements of project funds, and maintain all necessary
special accounts of project funds.



211                              ANNEX 6
(iv)   Reporting: prepare all necessary reports required by the Bank. For technical and
periodic quarterly progress reports, the PCU would insure that the TCC and CCs prepare
their contributions in a timely manner.
(v)    Civil Works: prepare bidding documents and contracts acceptable to the Bank for the
rehabilitation activities in the two Oblasts included under the project. Design and
implement a system of supervision involving the local community, MOH on-site
personnel and independent engineers.
(vi)   Bank Guidelines: Ensure that all procurement actions meet Bank Guidelines and that
Bank no objections are sought and obtained as necessary.
F. Specific Terms of Reference for Project Administration Staff
The Director of the Technical Coordination Committee
10.   The Director of the TCC would have responsibility for the following tasks:
(i)    Provide leadership for the overall technical direction and implementation of the Project.
This would include managing the administration of the TCC and providing the CCs with
all necessary documentation and information to facilitate their work. The Director would
also be the chief liaison person to the PCU.
(ii)    Oversee the work of the four technical advisors and other TCC staff and ensure that the
objectives and policies of the Project are understood and communicated to all
implementing agencies and personnel.
(iii)   Serve as secretary of the Project Policy Council and prepare, in consultation with his staff
and the CCs, agendas for Project Council meetings. Prepare minutes and monitor
decisions.
(iv)   Approve, in consultation with the respective technical advisor and the CCs, all terms of
reference for technical assistance and all specifications for goods financed under the
Project.
(v)    Oversee the preparation of and approve the Project Master Implementation Plan and
Component Detailed Implementation Plans. Ensure their efficient execution and periodic
updating.
(vi)   Authorize the PCU to prepare disbursement documentation and arrange for Ministerial
approval.
(vii)  Prepare periodic (quarterly) reports on Project implementation, based upon regular
reports provided by the implementing agencies and entities, forward the reports to the
Project Policy Council for discussion and approval, and transmit the approved reports to
the Bank and other donors participating in the Project.
(viii)  Organize monthly, or more frequent if necessary, meetings with all CCs and relevant
technical staff to discuss implementation issues. Ensure that implementing agencies or
entities receive the necessary support from the TCC and the PCU. Bring to the attention



212                             ANNEX 6
of the Project Policy Council and the Bank any issues that can not be resolved at the level
of the implementing agencies or entities.
(ix)   Serve as the main day-to-day liaison with the Bank in the management of the Project.
Specific Responsibilities of the Component Coordinators
11.   In addition to the general duties described above, the individuals assigned to their particular
component would have the following responsibilities:
12.   Primary Health Care:  The Component Coordinator for primary health care would have
responsibility for the following specific tasks:
(i)    Organize regular meetings with key counterparts of the PHC component, prepare
agendas, and write up and circulate Minutes of meetings.
(ii)    Monitor all aspects of the PHC component to ensure close cooperation among the WRH,
ARI/CDD and TB activities, cooperation with the rehabilitation of health facilities, and
(iii)   Prepare, in consultation with the WRH, ARI/CDD and TB counterparts, an annual
training plan for the component, including dates, destinations, purpose and participants
in foreign study tours, as well as planned in-country training. Monitor and report on the
number of workshops completed and number of participants trained. This should include
periodic surveys on the knowledge, attitudes, and clinical practices of health workers
trained under the Project.
(iv)   Coordinate all technical and logistical aspects of scheduled in-country training.
distribution and availability of PHC drugs provided under the Project.
(v)   In cooperation with the PCU, supervise the preparation for procurement of medical
equipment and supplies for the PHC facilities participating under the Project..
(vi)   Coordinate with other donors working on PHC activities, including attendance the
monthly UNDP donors meeting on health activities.
(vii)  Monitor on a regular basis the performance indicators established under the Project and
report progress and status quarterly.
13.   Facilities Management: The Component Coordinator for facilities management would have
responsibility for the following specific tasks:
(i)    Organize and chair meeting at least once every calendar month of the Ministry's
Buildings and Equipment Committee (BEC), including sending out typed agendas, writing
and circulating Minutes.
(ii)   In consultation with the BEC, and under the supervision of the Director of the TCC,
perform the tasks set out in the Program of Activities in the Civil Works Decision Book
(Chapter 7) including: drawing up Terms of Reference for the BEC members; delegating
tasks and responsibilities; drawing up detailed programs of work for every six month
period; supervising the appointment of consultant architects, engineers, equipment



213                               ANNEX 6
specialists; establishing contacts both within and outside the Ministry for dealing with
questions of clinical functions, i.e. quality, efficiency, nursing functions, technical
functions, specifications and space norms and standards, maintenance systems, staffing,
facility use, administrative questions, budgeting, procurement, etc.
(iii)   In consultation with the BEC and consultant architects/engineers, supervise the drawing
up of new norms and standards for health facilities to be approved by the Ministry;
finalize the list of facilities to be upgraded under the Project; establish a preliminary
works program and user groups at all institutions to be upgraded; provide quarterly
reports to the Director of the TCC on progress.
(iv)   In consultation with the BEC and the PCU, initiate surveys of the facilities to be
upgraded, using them to establish a schedule of works to be carried out; approve
proposals presented by the architect/engineer; authorize the preparation of contract
documents; and, assist in the implementation of tendering and awards.
(v)    During the rehabilitation work, monitor the supervision of the works by the consulting
architect/engineers, including countersigning certification to work completion and
acceptance by the Ministry; plan for and participate in accepting and commissioning the
completed facilities.
(vi)   In cooperation with the PCU, assist in preparing bidding documents for the procurement
of building equipment, medical equipment and supplies for the rehabilitated facilities, and
in the delivery and installation.
(vii)   Monitor on a regular basis the performance indicators established under the Project and
report progress and status quarterly.
(viii)  Use the Civil Works Decisions Book prepared under the Project as a reference book in
carrying out the above tasks.
(ix)   Prepare, in consultation with the BEC, an annual training plan for the component,
including dates, destinations, purpose and participants in foreign study tours, as well as
planned in-country training.
(x)    Coordinate all technical and logistical aspects of scheduled in-country training.
14.    Provider Payments:   The Component Coordinator for provider payments would have
responsibility for the following specific tasks:
(i)    Organize regular meetings with key counterparts of the Provider Payments component,
prepare agendas, and write up and circulate minutes of meetings.
(ii)    Monitor all aspects of the Provider Payments component to ensure close coordination
with the other components, and with the affected members of the medical community.
This would include evaluation of the Issyk-Kul provider payments program and
introduction of any lessons learned to the activities of the Project.
(iii)   Prepare an annual training plan for the component, including dates, destinations, purpose
and participants for planned in-country training as well as foreign study tours. Monitor



214                              ANNEX 6
and report on the number of workshops completed and number of participants trained.
This should include periodic surveys on the knowledge, attitudes, and clinical practices
of health workers trained under the Project.
(iv)   Coordinate all technical and logistical aspects of the major activities under the component.
(v)    In cooperation with the PCU, assist in the preparation of bidding documents for
procurement of medical equipment and supplies for the Family Practice Groups
participating under the Project, and supervise delivery and installation.
(vi)   Coordinate the identification and analysis of legislation or regulation impeding the
functioning of provider payment reforms and coordinate the preparation of
recommendations and proposed legislative and regulatory reforms.
(vii)   Monitor on a regular basis the performance indicators established under the Project and
report progress and status quarterly.
(viii)  Provide quarterly reports covering the Provider Payments component for inclusion in the
TCC quarterly report for the Project.
(ix)   Supervise implementation activities through regular field visits to Project activities.
15.   Pharmaceutical Management:  The Component Coordinator for pharmaceutical management
would have responsibility for the following specific tasks:
(i)    Assist the formation of, and participate in, the Ministry's Drug Working Group to
oversee procurement and distribution of Essential Drugs under the Project. The CC
would act as secretary and prepare periodic reports for the TCC on the Working Group's
activities and recommendations. This group would:
(a)    develop a formula for shipment of procured drugs among oblast Pharmacias and
Kyrgyz Pharmacia and develop rules of onward distribution.
(b)    participate in the elaboration of the list of 60 drugs for the first procurement and
determine relevant technical specifications to be included in International
Competitive Bidding documents;
(c)    develop labeling requirements for Essential Drugs procured under the Project and
determine relevant technical specifications to e included in ICB documents;
(d)   together with the Ministry of Finance, develop rules on the pricing of drugs
procured under the Project;
(e)   together with the Ministry of Finance, develop rules on taxation of the incomes
of oblast Pharmacias and Kyrgyz Pharmacia, with respect to their distribution of
drugs procured under the Project;
(f)    by means of regular report, audits and spot checks, monitor the distribution of
drugs procured under the Project.



215                              ANNEX 6
(ii)   Prepare, in consultation with the chief of the Drug Regulatory Organization (DRO), an
annual training plan for the DRO, including dates, destinations, purpose and participants
in foreign study tours, as well as planned in-country training.
(iii)   Coordinate all technical and logistical aspects of scheduled in-country training for
personnel of the DRO.
(iv)   Convene and chair an informal working group to design a monitoring system for the
Essential Drugs Program. Coordinate implementation of the monitoring program. This
program would include, among other things: ensure drug registration of the Essential
Drugs, quarterly surveys of a national sample of pharmacies to measure availability and
price of drugs, percentage of total prescriptions which are filled with Essential Drugs,
and percentage of drugs dispensed to "entitled" patients which consists of Essential
Drugs; annual surveys of physicians and pharmacists to measure awareness of and
support for the Essential Drugs Program; and, random checks of pharmacies to measure
quality of drugs offered for sale and extent to which pharnacies satisfy licensing
requirements.
(v)    Convene and chair a small working group to oversee production and distribution of the
Essential Drugs List. Specific responsibilities would include, among other things; the
writing of introduction and commentary; and the widest possible distribution of EDL
booklets, once these have been produced and delivered. Reconvene working group
approximately every two years, or otherwise as needed, in order to coordinate revision,
re-publication and distribution of a revised EDL.
(vi)   Participate, together with the Chief Therapist, other officials in the Ministry of Health,
professional medical workers, representatives from WHO and other international experts
in coordinated efforts to develop and implement new medical treatment guidelines
consistent with the Essential Drugs Program of the Kyrgyz Republic.
(vii)   Convene and chair an organizing committee each year to prepare an annual conference
on Drug Regulation Issues in the Kyrgyz Republic. The organizing committee would
include representative from the Ministry of health, the pharmaceutical industry, and
professional medical workers.
(viii)  Provide quarterly progress reports on the pharmaceutical component to be included in the
TCC quarterly progress report of Project activities.
(ix)   Provide appropriate supervision of pharmaceutical activities through field visits and
periodic trips to the various entities involved in implementing the component.
G. Organization Chart
16.   The following organizational chart provides a graphic presentation of the relationships and
responsibilities of the various parties involved in project administration:



Project Administration Organization
Ministry of Health
-Signs all Contracts
Policy Council
-Overall Supervision
-Policy Direction
ON
Technical Coordination Committee
-Technical Direction
-Component Coordination
-Budget Planning/Control
Project Coordination Unit
-Procurement
-Disbursement
-Records/Reports
Primary Health Care          Facilities     i      Medical Care            Pharmaceutical
Rehabilitation        Provider Payment          Management
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a



ANNEX 7. IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
95           1996            1997            1998            1999            2000
ID   Task Name                             Duration       Start        Finish     Q3QQ14|lQ2|Q31041011|Q21Q3I|Q4Q1|Q2Q3Q4Q1 Q2Q3Q4Q1Q2Q3Q4
I    PRIMARY HEALTH CARE                       208w    Mon 1/15/96    Tue 1/4/00           i
2    Women's Wr2Ld H"IU                           Od   Mon 1/15196   Mon 1/15/96        *I1115
3    -Strnu    fMOH1blastWRH Mlng.            1183d   Mon 115/96    Fri 7/21/00
4         -Recruit Tech. Advisor (PPF)           4w    Mon 1/15/96      Fri 2/9/96
5         -TA Services(Nat.guidelines mother/  805d    Thu 2/15/96    Fri 3/12/99
12        -Procure DCMESTmg. Equip (2) -P         4w     Fri 3/15/96   Thu 4/11/96
13       Nat. StrategyWorkshops                1053d   Mon 7/15/96     Fri 7/21/00         |
14           Nati. Strategy Workshops 1           5d   Mon 7/15/96     Fri 7/19196
1S           Nati. Straegy Workshops 2            5d   Wed 7/15198   Tue 7/21/98
16           Nati. Stategy Workshops 3            5d   Mon 7/17/00     Fri 7/21/00
17        -Print Tnng. Manuab                     8w   Mon 6117/96    Thu 8/8/96
18        -Case Mng. Workshop                     5d   Thu 8/15/96   Wed 8/21/96           j
19        -Study Tour to UK                       2w   Wed 5/14/97   Tue 5/27/97
20       NationalWorkshops                      849d    Mon 7/1/96   Mon 9/27/99
21           Workshops yrl (2)                   10d    Mon 7/1/96     Fri 7/12/96
22           Workshops yr 2                       5d    Sat 9/20/97   Thu 9/25/97
23           Workshops yr 3                       5d   Mon 9/21/98     Fri 9/25/98
24           Workshops yr 4                       5d   Tue 9/21/99   Mon 9/27/99
25        -Procure Computers                     12w   Mon 6117/96    Thu 9/5/96
26        -Software Training                      8w     Fri 9/20/96  Thu 11/14/96
Task                                  Summary                 _              Rolled Up Progress
Date:1/15t96                        Progress                               Rolled Up Task
Milestone                             Rolled Up Milestone  )



ANNEX 7. IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
W19ff          1997            1939            199l            2000
ID    Task Nan                              Duraton       Start         Finish    Q3 Q4 [Q1021|3104 | 0Q1   2 |Q3 1Q4 Q1 I Q2 Q3 0 Q4 01 02 0Q3 104 01 02 03 04
27            S      tn WRH n   u Mmnhggmn   n t 957d    Fri 3115/96  Wed lI1O/11                                                -
26        National Woikshops                     789d     Frl 3/15 M    Fri 319/W O M
29            Workshops (2) yr                     5d     Fri 3/15     Thu 3/21I96
30            Workshops (2) yr 2                   Sd   Mon 3/17/97     Fri 3/21/97                                      ,
31            Workshops (2) yr 3                   5d   Mon 3/16/98     Fri 3/20/98
32            Workshops (2) yr 4                   5d   Mon 3/15/99     Fi 3/19199
33       -Organize Local Comm.                    30d   Mon 3/17/97     Fri 4/25/97
34       4D)vp.Mng. Guidelines                    20d   Mon 4/2296      Fri 5/17/96
35        -DvIp.Tmg. Modules                      20d   Tue 430/96   Mon 5/27/98
36        -Esb.DCME                                Od   Mon 4/22/96   Mon 4/22/M9
37       -Esb.Model Tmg.Unb                       30d   Tue 4/30/96   Mon 6/10/96
38        -Procure Trng. Equip                    45d     Fri 3/15/96   Thu 516/96*
39       -Prepare Tmg. Manuals                    30d     Fri 9/20/96   Thu 10/31/96
40       Obast Workshops                         749d  Thu 10/31/96     Fri 9/10/99                    *         *
41            Workshops yr 1(12)                  60d  Thu 10/31/96   Wed 1/22/97
42            Workshops yr2(12)                   60d   Mon 6/16/97      Fr 9/5/97
43            Workshop. yr 3 (12)                 60d   Mon 6/15/98      Fri 9/4/98
44            Workshops yr 4 (12)                 60d   Mon 6/21/99     Frl 9/10/99
45        Raion Workshops                         il1d   Mon 5/206  Wed 11/10/99
46            Workshops yr 1                     125d   Mon 520/96    Thu 111//96 _____                                  L
Task                                   Summary                                Rolled Up Progres
PDate:1/156                          Progress                               Rolled Up Task
Milestone                              Ro31ed Up Mistone 0>



ANNEX 7. IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
05           1996           1997            1998           1900            2000
ID   Task Name                            Duration      Start        Finish    Q3 Q4  10 02 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 0401 02 03 Q4 l Q 02 Q3 04
47           Workshops yr 2                    125d   Tue 5/20197    Fri 11/7/97         f
48           Workshops yr 3                    125d    Fr 5/22/98  Thu 11/12/98       .
49           Workshops yr 4                    125d   Thu 5/20/99  Wed 11/10/99                       .
50       Procure SVA Equipment                  90d    Mon 7/1/96  Thu 10/31196
51       -Rationalize Oblast Medical Centers    12w   Mon 8/12196    Fn 11/1/96          I       *
52       Deliver SVA Equipmnent                 12w   Mon 3/17/97     Fri 6/6/97                      .
63       Supply Essential Drugs               156w      Fri 9/20/96   Tue 9/14/99                 _
54       Develop/print Booklets                 12w   Mon 6/30/97    Fri 9/19/97
55       Distribute Booklets                  104w    Sat 9/20/97   Thu 9/16/99                                  _                                  :
56   AN/tCDD                                   5Ud   Thu 61296    Fri 9125/98
57       -Recruit Tech. Advisor                 45d   Thu 6/20/96   Tue 8/20/96
68       -Study Tour                            30d    Fr 9/20/96  Thu 10/31/96
59       -Estab. ARUCDD Tmg. Unit               30d   Thu 6120196   Tue 7/30/96
60       -Estab. SateHite Tmg. Units            6      Sat 7/20/96  Thu 10/10/96
61       -Prepare Training Manuals              97d   Thu 6/20/96  Thu 10/31/96
62       -Procure Training Equip.               45d    Fri 9/20/96  Thu 11/21/96
63       -National Clinic. Tmg.                528d    Fri 9/20/96    Fri 9/2598
66       -Oblast Clinc. Trng.                  528d    Fri n920t6    Fri 9/25/98      .                          I
73       -Software Tmg.                         30      Fri 9/2096  Thu 10/31/96
74       -Prepare/Publish Healfth Book.         6W0    Fri 9/20/96  Thu 12/12/961
Task                                 Summary                               Rolled Up Progress
Date:111/                           Progress                             Rolled Up Task
Milestone                            Rolld Up Milestone C



ANNEX 7. IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
95     1    1996            1997            1998           1 999           2000
ID   Task Name                             Duration     Start         Finish    Q3 I Q4 I Q1 Q2 0 Q3 0 Q4 I Q02 0 Q 3 104 01 0 Q2 0 Q3 104 01 0 Q2 0 Q3 0 Q4 I Q1 0 Q2 I Q3 0 Q4
75       -Estab. ARI/CDD Drug Supply            90d    Fri 9120196   Thu 1/23/97
76   Tuberculosi                                45d    Fri 9)20/96  Thu 11121/96         .
77       -Review Pilot Prd. Results             30d    Fri 9/20/96  Thu 10/31/96
78       -Negotiate/sign WHO Contr.             45d    Fri 9/20/96  Thu 11/21/96
79       -Recruit Tech. Advisors                30d    Fri 9/20/96  Thu 10/31/96
80       -Imorovina TB Diagnostics               Od    Fri 9/2096    Fri 9/20/96                 *  9/20
81         Procure Lab Equip/Supplies           45d    Fri 9/20/96  Thu 11/21/96
82   -Strength.CentVOblast Proa.                45d    Fri 9/20/96  Thu 11/21/96         .
83         Procure Commun. Equip                45d    Fri 9120/96  Thu 11/21/96
84   -Tma. TB Control Staff                   1235d   Mon 11196   Tue 1013/00          y_
85       TA Services -Yr. 1 (1.5)               45d    Fri 9120/96  Thu 11121/96
86       TA SErvices Yr. 3 (1.5)                45d    Fri 9120/96  Thu 11/21/96
87       Procure WHO Tmg. Materials             30d    Fri 9/20/96  Thu 10/31/96
88       StudyTouryearl                         30d    Fri 9120/96  Thu 10/31/96
89       Study Tour year 3                      30d   Mon 9121/98   Fri 10/30/98
90       In-Country Training Courses             Od    Fri 9120/96    Fri 9/20/96                 *  9/20
91         Nat. Tmg for Oblasts(Y1)              7d    Fri 9/20/96   Mon 9/30/96
92         Nat. Tmg for Oblasts(Y3)              7d    Sat 9120/97   Mon 9/29/97
93         Reg. Tmg. for Raions(yl)              7d    Fri 920/96   Mon 9/30/96
94         Reg. Tmg. for Raions(y3)              7d    Sat 9120/97   Mon 9/29/97
Task                                  Summary                              Rolled Up Progress
Project:                            Progress                              Rolled Up Task
Milestone                             Rolled Up Milestone <



ANNEX 7. IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
95          '1996            1997            1998            1999            2000
ID   Task Name                              Duration      Start        Finish     03 Q4 Q1 I Q2 0 Q3 104 0 Q1 I Q2 0 Q3 0 Q4 |01 102 0 Q3 0 Q4 I Ql I Q2 0 Q3 0 Q4I Q1 0 Q2 103 Q4
95          Reg. Tmg.PHC Staff                  266d   Mon 1/15/96     Fri 1/17/97
96           Reg. Tmg.PHC Staff 1                 3d   Mon 1/15/96   Wed 1/17/96
97           Reg. Tmg.PHC Staff 2                 3d   Wedl1/15/97     Fri 1/17197 |7|
98          Nat. Tmg. Lab Staff                 268d   Mon 1/22/96   Tue 1/28/97           j i
99           Nat. Tmg. Lab Staff 1                7d   Mon 1/22/96   Tue 1/30/96          | |
100           Nat. Tmg. Lab Staff 2                7d   Mon 1/20/97   Tue 1/28/97                         |
101         Obl. Tmg.Lab Staff                  1055d    Fri 9/20/96   Tue 10/3/00          i
102           TO ianagment                      1055d    Fri 9/20/96   Tue 10/3/00
103               Annual Monitor. TA             843d    Fri 9/20/96    Fri 12/10/99
109               National Supervision Visits   1055d    Fri 9/20/96    Tue 10/3/00                  I
115   FACIUiES  MANAGEIMENT                     871d   Mon 1/15/96   Wed 5M12/99         _
116       Estab. Civil Works/Equip. Committee      Od   Mon 1/15/96   Mon 1/15/96-
117       Devel. work program                    20d   Mon 1/15/96       Fr 2/9/96
118       Procure Arch/Eng/Equip Consultants     45d   Mon 1/15/96      Fri 3/15/96
119       Devel. Noms/Standards                  120d   Mon 1/15/96     Fri 6/28/96
120       Devel. Final List of Facilities        30d   Mon 1/15/96      Fri 2/23/96
121       Establish User Groups                  90d   Thu 2/15/96   Wed 6/19/96
122       Survey Lot A                           60d    Fri 3/15/96     Thu 6/6/96
123       Prepare Bidding/Contract Documents     30d   Mon 6/10/96      Fri 7/19/96
124       Bid Lot A                              45d     Fn 9/20/96  Thu 11/21/96
Task                                   Summary                               Rolled Up Progress
Project:
Date:;115196                         Progress                               Rolled Up Task
Milestone         *Rolled Up Milestone 



ANNEX 7. IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
6      1    19e           1    1997   I    1996             19f9           2000
ID   Task Nam                              Duraton       Start         Flnish    Q31Q4 |Q  Q2Q3104101 102 03 04 Q 012 03  Q4  01  2 Q3  4 Q1 |Q02 03 |04
125       Supervise Construction                180d   Mon 12/21S6    Thu av7/97
126       Comwision Lot A                        30d   Mon 8/12196    Fri 9120/96
127       Survey Lot B                           60d    Mon 6/3/96   Thu 8/22/96
128       Prepare Bidding/Contract Documents     30d     Fri 9/2016  Thu 10/31/96
129       Bid Lot B                              45d    Fn 11/15/S6   Thu 1/16/97
130       Supervise CosrEuction                 180d   Mon 1/20197   Wed 9/24197
131       Commision Lot B                        30d  Wed 10/15/97  Tue 11/25/97
132       Survey Lot C                           38d    Thu 7//97   Mon 8/25/97          .                       U
133       Prepare Bidding/Contract Documents     30d    Sat 9/20/97  Thu 10/30/97
134       BidLotC                                45d    Frin1/15196   Thu1116/97
135       Supervise Construction                180d   Mon 1/20/97   Wed 9/24/97
136       Commision Lot C                        30d  Wed 10/15/97  Tue 11/25/97           i
137       Survey Lot D                           38d   Mon 1/12/98    Wed 3/4/98           i
138       Prepare Bidding/Contract Documents     30d   Mon 3/16/98    Fri '424/98         I
139       Bid Lot C                              45d      Fri 5/1/98    Thu 7/2/98
140       Supervise Construction                180d   Mon 7/20/98    Fri 3/26/99                                                    -
141       Commision Lot C                        30d     Thu 4/1/99   Wed 5/12/99
'142   PHARMACEUTICALS                            Od   Thu 2/15/96   Thu 2V15/96             2/15
143   Drug Regulatory Organization             1212d   Thu 2/15/96   Tue 10/3/00
144       Renovation of Facilities              240d    Thu 215/96   Tue 1/14/97
Task                                  Summary                               Rollbd Up Progress
Project:
Date:1/15/96                         Progress            ~E                Rolled Up Task
Milestone         *Rolled Up Milestone 



ANNEX 7. IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
D5     I    1996            1997            19             19              2000
ID   Task Name                            Duration      Start        Finish    03 Q4   1Q20Q3 104|1 1020304012 Q3 0lQ4 |4Q  0Q2 0Q3 04 01 02 03 104
145       Prepare Equip/Supples/Fumiture List   30d   Thu 2/15/96   Wed 3Q27/96
146      Prepare Tender Documents               45d    Mon 4/1/96    Fr 5/31/96
147      Procure Equip/Supplies/Fumiture        30d   Mon 7/15/96   Thu 8/22/96
148       Procure Literature                    30d   Mon 7/15/96   Thu 8/22/96
149      Recruit Technical Assistance           60d    Sat 7/20/96  Thu 10/10/96
150      Annual Conference                      14d   Thu 5/15/97    Tue 6/3/97
151      Study Tours                           120d   Mon 415/96   Thu 9/26/96
152      Esential DMu Proagn                  1212d   Thu 2/11596   Tue 10/3/00_
163           Print Essential Drug List         60d   Thu 2/15/96    Wed 5/8/96
154          Publish Prmcurement Notioe          Od   Thu 2/15/96   Thu 2/15/96            2M6
165          Study Tour                         15d   Thu 2/15/96    Wed 3/6/96
156          Oblast Conferences                 30d   Mon 7/15/96   Thu 8/22/96
157          Preparation of Bidding Documen     30d   Mon 4/15/96    Fri 5Q24/96
156           Signing of MOH/Pharfnacis Prot     Od    Fri 9/20/96    Fri 9/20996
159          Annual Drug Tender                843d    Fri 9/20/96   FHi 112110199
164          ArrivalofDnigs                    793d    Sat9/2U97   Tuw10NW3|
169          Distribution to Reg. Pharmacias    15d   Mon 1V2/96   Fri 12/20/96
170  PROVIDER PAYMENTS                        1089d    Fri 3/15196    Fri U/12V00
171      Family GrOuR Pracdlce                   Od    Fri 3/15/96    Fri 3/15/96 
172      Study Tour                             1 Sd    Fri 3/15/96    Thu 4/4/96
Task                                 Summary                               Rolled Up Progress
Project:                            Progress                             Rolled Up Task
Milestone                            Rolled Up Milestone



ANNEX 7. IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
5      1    1996      I    1997            1998            1999           2000
ID   Task Name                             Duration      Start        Finish    Q304 |Ql Q2 Q3104 01 0Q2  3 Q4 Q10102 Q3 Q4 Ql Q2| 3 Q4 01Q 2Q 3|Q4
173       Formation of Family Group Practices   180d    Fri 3115/6  Wed 11120/96          1
174       Form Primary Care Physicians Assoc     90d   Mon 3/17/97    Fn 7/18/97
175       Phase I - 200 Groups                  220d     Fri 3/15/96   Wed 1/15/97
176       Phase II - 100 Groups                 180d    Tue 7/1/97     Fri 31//98
177       Phase 111- 100 Groups                 180d    Thu 1/1/98    Wed 9/9/98    .                                      -
178       ImRlment FInancialClInical MiS        521d   Mon 3117/97    Fri 3112199
179            -Phase I                         52w   Mon 3117/97   Thu 3112/98           |
180            -Phase II                        52w    Mon 9/1/97   Thu 8Q7/98 1                                        -
181            -Phase III                       52w   Mon 3/16/98    Fri 3112/99                                                -
182       Clinical Tralning of FGPs            890d    Wed 511196   Thu 9/23199
183           -Establish DCME.Curniculum          Od    Wed 5/1/96    Wed 5/1/96
184           -Continuous Training             156w    Tue 10/1/96    Thu 9/23/99                      *      iii_m
186       Population Enroilment                393d    Tue 4/11/97   Wed 9/30198
186           -Marketing Campaign              393d    Tue 4/1/97   Wed 9/30/98                                -            -
187           -Enrollment                      328d    Tue 7/1/97   Wed 9/30/98                                        -
188       New Provider Payment Systems        1068d   Mon 4/15/96    Fri 5/12/00          |                    _                     ;                    _
189           -Issue RFP for Consulting Serv      Od   Mon 4/15/96   Mon 4/15/96              4/15
190           -Select Consultant                  Od   Mon 7/15/96   Mon 7/15/96                  7/15
191           Prepare Master Imp. Plan           4w      Fri 8/30/96   Thu 9/26/96
192           Prepare Computerization Pian       6w    Mon 7/1/96    Thu 8/8/96
Task                                 Summary                               Rolled Up Progress
Project                             Progress                              Rollhd Up Task
Milestone         *Rolled Up Milestone 



ANNEX 7. IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
96           1996     1      1997            1998            1999            2000
ID   Task Name                             Duration       Start        Finish     0330401 02 Q304 01 0Q21030Q4 01 0Q2|Q304|Q1  0Q2|Q30Q4|Q1  02 C-0
193            -Prepare Bidding Docrnts-Com       2w    Tue 7/30/96   Mon 8/12/96           1
194            -Issue IFB                          Od   Mon 8/1296   Mon 812196                       8112
195            -Procure Computers                60d    Fri 11/15/96    Wed 2/5/97
196            -Install Computers                 8w      Sat 2/1/97   Thu 3/27/97
197            -Design Fiscal Intermediary       26w    Tue 10/1/96    Fri 3/28/97
198            -Design Hospital Payment Syst      4w      Tue 7/1)97   Mon 7/28/97
199            -Annual Training                   8w    Wed 7/1/98   Tue 8/25/98            |
200            -Rationaletion Plan Med. Facili   52w    Wed 1/1/97    Fri 12/26/97
201           Study Tours                        271d   Wed 10/1/97  Wed 10/14/98                                                    |
204           MIS, Mng. & Quality Assurance        Dd    Wed 1/1/97    Wed 1/1/97
205            -Form Accreditation Commissio     26w    Wed 1/1/97   Mon 6/30/97
206            -Form 8 Hospital Associations     26w    Wed 1/1/97   Mon 6/30/97
207             -Install Computers                8w      Sat 2/1/97    Thu 3/27/97
208            -Designfinstall Systems           793d     Thu 5/1/97    Fri 5112/00       :                                                            -
213            -Study Tours                     282d      Tue 7/1/971  Tue 7/28198
Task                                  Summary                                Rolled Up Progress
Project:__ _ _ _ _                                                 _ _ _
DPjt:1/15/96                         Progress                              Rolled Up Task
Milestone                             Rolled Up Milestone






227                             ANNEX 8
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
HEALTH SECTOR REFORM PROJECT
ANNEX 8. DESCRIPTIONS OF TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
A. PRIMARY HEALTH CARE
A. 1: Women's Reproductive Health:
Consultants to Develop National Health and Sexually Transmitted Disease National Policy and Case
Management Guidelines.
Objective: Assist the MOH to develop a National Policy and Case management Guidelines based
upon WHO's "Mother-Baby Packages", and for Sexually Transmitted Diseases. This would include the
translation of WHO materials into Russian, review and revise the materials with a committee of national
experts to develop national guidelines for four levels of health facilities: i) Specialist tertiary and Oblast
hospitals; ii) central raion hospitals; iii) polyclinics, SVAa and APTKs; and iv) feldsher accoucheur posts.
Duration: Two person months of services in year one (February, 1996), and one person month
of services the next three years for a total of five person months. It is expected that the Government will
contract directly with WHO for the provision of a team of experts with previous experience working on
health problems in the former Soviet Union. The team should include specialists in obstetrics,
neonatology and venerology.
Outcome: National Guidelines
A.2: ARI/CDD:
Consultants to Develop National Health Policy in Acute Respiritory and infectious Diseases, and
Communicable and Diahhreal Diseases:
Objective: To train hospital specialists to develop "Model Training Units" in childhood acute
respiratory diseases and diarrheal diseases, develop a "Mini-Family Doctor Training Course" and training
trainers for SVA, FAP and polyclinic staff, and assist the MOH to establish a data base for case
management protocols and rational drug prescribing. The consultants will work with local expert
conmmittees, appointed by the MOH, in the review and local adaptation of WHO and other internationally
recognized standard clinical guidelines related to the treatment of common childhood illnesses. The
expert Committees will develop National Case Management Guidelines to be entered into a computer
database in the MOH's Department of Treatment and Prevention and to serve as training materials for
a series of workshops for clinical personnel at four levels of health facilities: i) Specialist tertiary and
Oblast hospitals; ii) central raion hospitals; iii) polyclinics, SVAa and APTKs; and iv) feldsher
accoucheur posts..
Duration: Two person months of services in year one (February, 1996), one person month of
services the next year and one half person month the following two yeafs for a total of four person
months. It is expected that the Government will contract directly with WHO for the provision of a teamn
of experts with previous experience working on health problems in the former Soviet Union. The team
should include specialists in pediatricians and infectionists.
Outcome: National Guidelines and Training Course Materials



228                            ANNEX 8
A.3: TB:
(NOTE: This technical assistance will be contracted directly with WHO given the exclusive use of WHO
methodology and experience)
Consultants for National Training Course (2, twice at the beginning of Year 1 and 2)
Objective: To assist national trainers coordinate a training course on WHO tuberculosis control
strategy, for national level officers, and up-date national level staff on modem practices in tuberculosis
control.
Duration: 7 day each
Outcome: Trained national officers who will train lower level officers.
Consultant for Laboratory Course (1, Twice at the beginning of year I and 3)
Objective: To formally train national and oblast level microbiologists on adequate practices in
smear microscopy.
Duration: 15 days, year one - 7 days, year 2.
Outcome: Fully trained national and oblast laboratory heads who will be capable to train lower
level staff.
External Consultant for Monitoring Process
Objective: To assist WHO staff in monitoring progress of implementation of the National
Tuberculosis Program and to review results achieved, identify and address problems encountered during
programn implementation together with a local team from the National Tuberculosis Institute, and prepare
a report on progress of the project for use by the MOH, WHO and the World Bank.
Duration: I mission at month 6 after the start of the project, then 2 missions every year of 2
weeks each.
Outcome: Reports on the status of project implementation for use by the Policy Council and
donors.
B. FACILITIES MANAGEMENT
Consultant in Estate Management and Facility Rehabilitation
Objective: To establish new procedures for health facility management.
Duration: One person month in year 1, and one person month in year 2, for a total of 2 person
months.
Outcome: New procedures



229                            ANNEX 8
Consultants in Architectural/ Engineering Services (Local)
Objective: To develop and design rehabilitation specifications and oversee implementation to
ensure quality control.
Duration: To be implemented in the first two years of the project.
Outcome: 30 rehabilitated medical facilities.
C. MEDICAL CARE PROVIDER PAYMENTS
Consultants for Medical Care Provider Payment activities in establishing Family Group Practices and
enrollment of patients, creating a an incentive-based payment system for medical providers, developing
an MIS and Management Capacity, instituting quality assurance measures, and training of family doctors.
The international technical assistance (approximately 30 person months) will work closely with a broad
array of local consultants (approximately 384 Person Years). The management approach would be to
have an international consulting firm provide the international technical assistance services, and local
consultants, hired as individuals, provide the specialized tasks identified. The breakdown is as follows:
A. Family Practice Groups International Consultants to Develop Financial and Clinical Infornation
Systems (4 Person Months) and Marketing (1 PM) for a total of 5 PM. Local consultants to provide
computer systems advice (8 Person Years), one Practice Manager for every five FPG for a total of 200
Person Years, two fundholding specialists (8 Person Years), and secretary (4 Person years).
Objective: To establish 300 family practice groups and enroll 4000 patients in each.
Duration: To be implemented over a four year period.
Outcome: Established family practice groups and a Primary Care Physicians Association.
B. International Consultants to create an incentive-based payment system for medical providers by
establishment of a Health Fund. Program Design consultants (8 Person Months), Fund /Banking/Auditing
specialist (2.5 PM), Fundholding specialist (3 PM), and hospital payments specialist (3 PM) for a total
of 12.5 PM. Four local consultants for computer specialists for the Fund (16 Person Years) and four
computer consultants (12 person years).
Objective: To create an incentive-based payment system for medical providers and establish a
medical fund for centralizing payments to providers.
Dureation: To be implemented over a four year period.
Outcome:   A medical fund making payments to medical providers under an incentive-based
system.
C. International Consultants to develop a Management Information System and management capacity by
establishing a Hospital Association and establishing a training capacity in a management institute. cost
accounting and clinical information systems consultant (3 PM), and a management consultant (2PM)
would be provided. Local consultants in hospital payments ( 2 for 8 Person Years), cost accounting (2



230                             ANNEX 8
for 8 Person Years), clinical information systems (2 for 8 Person Years), management (2 for 8 Person
Years), computer specialist (2 for 8 Person Years), and a secretary (4 Person Years).
Objective: To establish a Hospital Association and develop a management information system
and training capacity.
Outcome: A hospital association capable of representing and training hospital administrators in
managing new provider payment systems.
D. International Consultants to develop a quality assurance institution - Accreditation Commission - to
license and accredit physicians and FPGs to practice and ensure quality control. Consultants in
accreditation (1 Person Month) and quality improvement (3 Person Months) would be provided. Local
consultants in quality improvement (4 for 16 Person Years), accreditation (2 for 8 Person Years),
accreditation surveys (4 for 16 Person years), computer specialist (2 for 8 Person Years), and a secretary
(4 Person Years) would be provided.
Objective: To develop quality assurance through an Accreditation Conmiission and ensure quality
through inspections and self-regulation.
Duration: To be implemented over four years.
Outcome: A functioning Accreditation Commission capable of assuring quality control.
E. International Consultants to establish a training programn for family doctors. Consultants in medical
training (3 Person Months) and the use of an NGO to provide resident training personnel in primary care
would be provided. Local consultants in clinical training (10 for 40 Person Years) would be provided.
Objective: To establish a training capacity to train 1200 primary care physicians in famfly
practice medicine.
Duration: To be implemented over four years.
Outcome: 1200 trained family doctors.



ANNEX 9: Proposed Training Schedule
Number of  Bank
Institution Where                                                     Number of         Courses During Fiscal
Prjct Component  Trahing Held        Type of Training   Lengtl    Type of Parftipas      Participants      Project       Year
PRIMARY HEALTH
CARE
ARUCDD
Natonal and Obast
To be determkind    Sbtuy Tour       2 weeks   Pediatricians                          10             11997
De le  Of
Contnuow Media
Educaion (DCME)-                                MOH and Obast Chief
Bishkek           Minasir   5 days    Pediatidans                                     10            1 1997
MOH and Oblas Chief
DCME-Blek         Cae Management   5 days    Pediatricians                            10            1 1997
Training of National
DCME-Bishkek      Trainr             5 days    National Experts                       20            1 1998
Training of Obbst            Model Hospitl Chief
DCME-Bbihkek      Trainers           5 days    Pediatricans                           14            1 1998
Oblast Model      Training Model
Hospitl           Hospitl Staff      5 days    Model Hospital Staff    10 per course    7 (1 per oblast) 1998
Oblast Model      Training of City/Raion        City and Raion                                        1999,
Hospital          Trainers           5 days    Pediatridans           10 per coure      7 (1 per obast) 2000
ObbW  Model                                                                                           1999,
Hospital          Training CRH Staff   5 days    CRH Staff            20 per course                14 2000
Project Miderem              MOH and Oblast
DCME-B1shkek      Evalatio Workhop 5 days   MUnage                                    10            11999
Page 231



ANNEX 9: Proposed Trning Schedule
End of Project                MOH and Oblast
DCME-Bishkek       Evaluation Workshop 5 days    Managers                               10             1 2000
WOMENS
REPRODUCTIVE
HEALTH
Obstetricians/
Neonatologists/
United Kingdom     Study Tour         14 days    Venereologists                         10             1 1997
MOH and Oblast
.________________ DCME-Bishkek    Management          5 days     Managers                               10             1 1997
Review of Mother-
DCME-Bishkek       Baby Package       5 days     National Experts                       20             11997
Developrnent of
Hospital Training
DCME-Bishkek       Package            5 days     National Experts                       20             1 1998
Devehpment of PHC
DCME-Bishkek       Training Package    5 days    National Experts                       20             1 1998
Practical Training
DCME-Bishkek       Hospital Specialists  5 days  Hospial Obstetricians                  10             1 1998
Practical Training
DCME-Bishkek       Hospital Specialists  5 days  Hospital Nonatologists                 10             1 1998
Practical Training
DCME-Bishkek       Hospital Specialists  5 days  Hospital Venerologists                 10             1 1998
Training of Oblast
DCME-Bishkek       Trainers           5 days     Oblast Chief Ob/Gyns                   20             1 1998
Oblast Model       Training Model                Oblast Model HospHtal                                   1999,
Hospital           Hospital Staff     5 days     Staff                  20 per course                  7 2000
Page 232



ANNEX 9: Proposed Training Schedule
Oblast Model       Training of Raion/City                                                               1999,
Hospital           Trainers           5 days    City and Raion Staff    20 per course                10 2000
Oblast Model                                                                                            1999,
Hospital           Training SVA Staff   5 days    City and Raion Staff    24 per course              35 2000
Oblast Model                                                                                            1999,
Hospital           Training FAP Staff   5 days    FAP Staff            20 per course                 34 2000
Project Midterm              MOH and Oblast
DCME-Bishkek       Evaluation Workshop 5 days    Managers                              10             1 1999
End of Project               MOH and Oblast
DCME-Bishkek       Evaluation Workshop 5 days    Managers                              10             1 2000
TB CONTROL
Training Workshop on
TB Control                   TB Coordinators (Central                               1997,
DCME-Bishkek       Management         7 days    Unit NTRI and oblasts)  18 people                     2 1999
1997,
Oblast TB          Training Workshop on                                One Coordinator per 28 (once a year 1998,
Dispensary in each  TB Control                                         rainon (about 10-15  in Bishkek and 1999,
oblast             Management         7 days     Raion TB Coordinators  people per course)  6 Oblasts)    2000
1997,
1998,
PHC workers, (doctors,  About 15-30 people  8 (2 per year) x 1999,
Raion Dispensary    Training Courses    3 days    nurses, feldshers)   per I raion        55 = 440     2000
4 (two seven
day courses
DCME-Bishkek or TB Course in Smear               Lab technicians (central                every two     1997,
Institute          Microscopy         7 days    and oblast level)      10 people         years)        1999
Page 233



ANNEX 9: Proposed Training Schedule
1997,
Oblast TB                                                             One technician per              1998,
Dispensary in each   Course in Smear            Lab technicians (raion   raion (about 10-15   4 (once a year) 1999,
oblast            Microscopy          7 days    level)                people per course)  x 55 = 220    2000
Computer Training for
Central Unit
TB Institute      Coordinators                  Doctors from NTRI     4 people                       1 1997
FACILITY
MANAGEMENT
Medical Architecture
Research Unit,                                  MOH Advisory
University of South                             Commission on Buildings
London, UK        Study Tour          14 days   and Equipment         4 people                       1 1996
PHARMACEULTICAL
MANAGEMENT                                                                                                     .
Study Tour. Drug Reg         Drug Regulatory
London            Policy              14 days   Organization          3 people                       1 1997
Study Tour New
Denmark           Treatment Guidelines 14 days   MOH                  3 people                       1 1997
Study Tour Drug              Drug Regulatory
Germany           Registration        14 days   Organization          2 people                       1 1997
Study Tour Drug Reg          Drug Regulatory
Warsaw and Prague Policy              14 days   Organization          2 people                       1 1997
Study Tour. Adverse
Geneva and        Drug Reaction                 Drug Regulatory
Stockholm         Reporting           1 month   Organization          I person                       1 1997
Study Tour Lab Tech          Drug Regulatory
To be determined    Training          6 weeks   Organization          I person           _1997
Page 234



ANNEX 9: Proposed Training Schedule
Training in use of           Drug Regulatory
Bishkek: DRO      Computers/Database 2 weeks   Organization          10 people                     2 1997
Training in use of Lab       Drug Regulatory
Bishkek: DRO      Equipment          2 weeks   Organization          5 people                      1 1997
Annual Conference:
Bishkek: MOH      Drug Regulation    2 days    Drug Professionals    75 people                     1 1997
Study Tour:                  Drug Regulatory
Washington        Licensing, Narcotics  2 weeks   Organization       2 people                      1 1998
Study Tour Lab Tech          Drug Regulatory
To be determined    Training         6 weeks   Organiation           1 person                      1 1998
Training Course in           Drug Regulatory
Bishkek: MOH      Cost-Effectiveness   2 weeks   Organization        15 people                     3 1998
Annual Conference:
Bishkek           Dnig Regulation    2 days    Drug Professionals    75 people                     1 1998
Study Tour Eval of           Drug Regulatory
To be determined    Clinical Trials  I month   Organization          1 person                      1 1999
Study Tour Eval of           Drug Regulatory
To be determined    Medical Tech     1 month   Organization          1 person                      1 1999
Annual Conference:
Bishkok           Drug Regulation    2 days    Drug Professionals    75 people                     1 1999
Study Tour Assure of         Drug Regulatory
To be determined    GMPs             1 month   Organization          1 person                      1 2000
Study Tour Eval of           Drug Regulatory
_____________   To be determined    Biologicals  I month   Organization          1 person                      1 2000
Annual Conference:
Bishkek           Drug Regulation    2 days    Drug Professionals    75 people                     1 2000
PROVIDER
PAYMENTS                                    _
DCME-Health       Fundholding,
Finance and       Financial, Clinical                                                                1997,
Managernent       Information Systems                                One per practice x              1998,
Departient-Bshkek lfbr Group Practioes  3 days    Doctors in FPGs    400 = 400                     31999
Page 235



ANNEX 9: Proposed Training Schedule
DCME-Health        Fundholding,
Finance and        Financial, Clinical                                                                  1997,
Management         Information Systems                                 One per practice x               1998,
Department-Bishkek  for Practice Managers 10 days    Practice Managers  20 = 20                       3 1999
TCC Coordinator and 4
Financial Leaders from
United Kingdom    Study Tour          14 days    Bishkek and Chui                       5             11997
DCME-Health                                                                                             1997,
Finance and       Operational Aspects                                                     4 (same       1998,
Management        of Payment Systems                                                      pacticipants for 1999,
Departnent-Bishkek  for Fund Organization 10 days    Fund Staff                        12 each course)  2000
DCME-Health
Finance and
Management                                       Facility Managers and                                  1997,
Department-Bishkek  Payment Systems    3 days    Gov't Officials       100 (50 each course)           2 1998
DCME-Health
Finance and
Management                                                                                              1997,
Department-Bishkek Cost Accounting    5 days    Accountants            100 (50 each course)           2 1998
DCME-Health
Finance and
Management                                       Medical Records                                        1997,
Department-Bishkek Clinical Information   5 days  Specialists          100 (50 each course)           2 1998
DCME-Health
Finance and
Management                                                                                              1997,
Departnent-Bishkek  Management        5 days     Facility Heads        100 (50 each course)           2 1998
DCME-Health
Finance and
Management                                                                                              1997,
Departrent-Bishkek Accreditation      5 days     Staff-Surveyors                        6             2 1998
DCME-Health
Finance and
Management                                                                                              1997,
_Departrent-Bishkek  Quality Improvement 5 days  Doctors-Quality        100 (50 each course)          2 1998
Page 236



ANNEX 9: Proposed Training Schedule
DCME-Health
Finance and        Classroom Clinical                                                                   1997,
Management         Training for FPGs and         Doctors from FPGs and                                  1998,
Department-Bishkek Specialists        5 days     Specialists           1200 (20 per course)          60 1999
DCME-Health                                                                               continuous at
Finance and                                                                               FPG sites by  1997,
Management         In-service Clinical                                                    Resident      1998,
Department-Bishkek Training for FPGs    Continuous Doctors from FPGs                 1200 Adviser       1999
1 to United States  I                            Fundholding and Hospital                               1997,
Ito United Kingdom    Study Tour      2 weeks   Pament Specialists                      12            2 1999
Page 237



I



j~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I 4                                 C 
t i    a
rI .                                                      .... ................ .. . . .-
ea~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~' 
E .... M . . . 9 . ... ... . - . . . ~~~~~~ .... ... P .. . . . . . - . . . . . . R~~~tT
8  =  .....  .  ..  ............ ; . ......... ................................. i ~~~~I-



Table 10.B: Detailed Procurement Plan                                       ANNEX 10
Category                of          Creidt Fooda      NBF    TotW (US51M)l                              Note
(listbod)             Cor-cts         (USS00)
CMID Wok
- Health Facilitries      60           1.700                       1,700      60 sites-packaged by PCU. Simplified Bidding Documes
(NS)
-LJtbomtory
Refurbishment           2             100                        100        National Shopping (PPF and Credit)
Eorsnest nd Materi
LAboratory               4             300                        300
Equipment/
Supplies(iS)
- Medical                 2             800                        800        All componenta
Equipment (ICB)
- Pharmacueticals          4            8.500                      8,500      Annual purchases. Essential Drugs, Prnmary Headth Care drug
(ICB)
- Pharmacueticala (IS)     4             300                        300
- Pharmacueticsls (DC)     2             50                         50        (optional, if necessary)
- Medical Supplies         I            200                        200
-Office                    I            400                        400
EquipmentlSupplies
(ICB)
-Office                   3             200                        200
EquipmentfSupplies
(IS)
-Office                    I             100                        100
EquipmenlSupplies
Furniture(NS)
- Computers/Printers       I            400                         400       All components
(ICB)
!   Vehicles (NS)         3             30                         30        Local Purchase
Tranining                               30                         30
Equipment (IS)
- Publibing               14            900                        900       All component. Trnslations of medical materialsb
Materials (IS)                                                              publication.
- Office Furniture         1             20                         20
(NS)
-Provider Payments         I            800                         800       Sole source
-PRermawetical             1             70                         70        Individual Consultints- International
Reform
I            275                        275        Drug ProcurementDistribution- Loc  Consukut
-PHC - WRH                 5             100                        100       WHO individualconultanus- four years
-PHC - ARI/CDD             4             80                         80        WHO individulaconsultnats - four years
-PHC - TB                  3             60                         60        WHO Individual consultants - four yean
-TCC - Project             4             80                         80        international individusl consulta
mnSgdeval
-TCC - Component           5             141                        141       TCC Local Consultnats(4 yean)
M-aemnt
-PCU -                     1             21                         21        PCU local consultnats
ProcurementeAdmin.
-PCU - Procurenent         I             90                         90        Sole Source
Advisors
- Study Tours (DC)        10            600                        600        Eat. 4 per group - 40 Study Tours



241                                              ANNEX 10
Table 1O.C: Procurement Schedule
______                lMajor AdlvkiU Scedble (Deta)
Category            Pake           EKi ed        Procuremmt
COw  (US$000)      Methed        Isue D4ie.      Bld&Pro.Rec'd.        Cotrac.Sged           StartlDdlva4
CivIl Worka                   30             300             NS           July, 1996       Sept., 1996            Oct.. 1996           Nov., 1996
30           1,200            NS          Sept., 1996        Dec., 1997            Feb.. 1997           May, 1997
1 (Lab)         100             NS           Jan., 1996        Feb., 1996            Mar.. 1996           Mar., 1996
Goods
DRG:Off Equip                  3             120             IS          Aug.. 1996        Sept., 1996            Oct.. 1996          Nov.. 1996
DRG:L.b Equip/Suppl.           1             160             Is          May, 1996         Apr., 1996             June, 1996           Jul., 1996
DRG:Software                   1             25               Is         Scpt., 1996       Oct., 1996             )ct., 1996          Nov.. 1996
FAC: EquipmensF     _          I             300             ICB          Jan.. 1997       Mar., 1997             Apr., 1997          May.. 1997
FAC:Furniture                  I             100             NS           Jan.. 1997       Feb.. 1997             Mar., 1997          Apr.. 1997
FAC:Publicatons                I             10              NS           Jan., 1996       Feb., 1996             Mar.. 1996          June, 1996
Office Equip. all compon.!     3             400             ICB          July, 1996       Sept.. 1996            Oct.. 1996           Dec., 1996
PHC:Med. Equip.                2             170              IS         July, 1996        Sept.. 1996            Oct., 1996          Dec.. 1996
PHC:Publications               I             100              IS          Jan. 1996         Feb., 1996            Mar., 1996          Mar., 1996
PP: PHG Furniture              1             200             NS          Sept., 1996        Nov. 1996             Jan.. 1996          Feb.. 1997
PP:PHG Equip.                  1             400             iS          Sept..1996        Nov., 1996             Jan.. 1997          Feb., 1997
PP:Comnputers                  I             400             ICB         Jun., 1996        Aug.. 1996             Sept., 1996         Nov., 1996
Vehicles                       3             30              IS          Jun., 1996         July, 1996            July, 1996           July. 1996
Pharmaceutirals#               1            2,530           ICB           July, 1996       Sept., 1996            Oct., 1996          Dec., 1996
1            2,530           ICB          July, 1997        Sept., 1997            Oct., 1997          Dec., 1997
I           1,530            ICB          July. 1998       Sept., 1998            Oct., 1998           Dec., 1998
I            1,260           ICB          July, 1999        Sept., 1999           Oct                  Dec.. 19
DRG:PCU Procur.                I             20           Guidelines     Mar., 1996        Mar., 1996             Mar., 1996          Apr. 1996
DRG:Reguiatory                 1             60           DC (WHO)       Jun.. 1996         Jun., 1996            Jun.. 1996          Apr.. 199
DRG:EDL                        2             20           Guidelines     Jun., 1996        Jun., 1996             Jun.. 199           Apr., 1996
FAC:Archl/Enginers(local)      2             60                          Jan., 1996        Mar., 1996             Apr., 1996          Apr., 1996
FAC:Arch/Engineers(For)        1             40                          May, 1996         Apr., 1996             May, 19ff           May, 19
PHC:ARJICDD                    I             60                          Dec., 1996        Feb., 1996             Mar., 1996          Apr., 1996
PHC:WRH                        I             15
PHC:Truining Maseria Ir                      20               ._.___
PP:Techrtical Aisunce          I             800                         Apr., 1996        Jun., 1996             Jul., 1996          Aug.. 1996
PP:Training                    1             200 
PP:Cornpuler TA                1             65
PHC:TB Training                I             45           DC (WHO)        Jun., 1996        Jul., 1996            Jul.. 199           Aug., 1996
PHC::TB La. Training           I              15          DC (WHO)
DRG:Ditribution                4             300          Guidelin
Svlesk (Pmsbi_b
PP: Publishing                 10            700              Is



242                                               ANNEX 10
Major Activite SCdeduk (Dat)
Categmey              aeckae        Emtmed         Procur_mut
Con (US$M)         Metod          I_K Docs.       UduPro.Rte'd.          Ceart.Sigmed          sbW DdmE
PHC: Publishing                 4             100              NS           Jan.. 1996        Feb.. 1996             Mar.. 1996           Jun.. 1996
RF:Snty Tours                 4              84              DC           Jun., 1996         Jun., 1996             Ju.. 1996            Jun.,19f6
HC:Tb Study Tours              I              30          DC (WHO)         Jun.. 199         Jun.. 1996             Jun .. 1996          Jun.. 1996
HC:WRH Sntuy Tours             4             40               DC           Jun.. 1997        Jun., 1997             Jun.. 1997           Jun., 1997
HC:ARI Study Tours            4              35               DC          Jun., 1997         Jun.. 1997             Jun., 1997           Jun.. 1997
PP:Study Tours                  3             35               DC          Aug., 1996         Aug., 1996             Aug.. 1996           Aug.. 1996
P:Study Tours                  I              250              DC          jun.. 1996         Jun.. 1996             Jun.. 1996           JMuL. 1996
FAC:Srudy Tour                  I             50               DC          Apr., 1996         Apr., 1996             Apr.. 1996           Apr.. 19f
ai Amswnes Credit Effecrivenes June 1996
b/ To be delivered in two inslments
ci Phased dclivery
di Essential Dugs (USS2.0. 2.0. I0. I 0 miUion aMultly over four yeas. PHC drugsphased delivery over our years): up to USS300,0000f drugs nay bpeoP ur dIdr tS tariueds.
Also, up to USS50.000of drugs may be procured under DC at various prriods.
et In-counrry training mo be comiduad by MOM. rcimburmnern  by SOE



243                             ANNEX 11
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
HEALTH SECTOR REFORM PROJECT
ANNEX 11: IMPLEMENTATION ACTIONS, REPORTING AND MONITORING
A. Implementation Actions and Progress Reports Required by the Government
1.    Specific measures need to be taken during implementation of the project to support the project's
objectives and the wider objectives of the Borrower, as set forth in its policy statement. To this end, the
Borrower and the Association have agreed on a series of actions in connection with the monitoring of the
implementation of the project (the action plan) within the framework a schedule of regular monitoring
and reporting.
2.    During the execution of the project, the Borrower, through the TCC, will furnish to the
Association regular annual progress reports and action plans. These reports and plans should be
supplemented by shorter, quarterly reports. The annual and quarterly reports and plans should cover:
(a)    project implementation progress;
(b)   the level of funding of the health sector;
(c)   fulfillment of conditions in the Development Credit Agreement;
(d)    procurement activities, expenditures and disbursements in a format as set forth in para.
4.26;
(e)    details on management and operations of the project, including performance of the PCU
and the TCC, and of consultants hired under the project.
3.    The part of the reports and plans dealing with the action plan set forth in paragraphs 4-8 below
should review progress made to date in the period covered by the report, and actions to be taken in the
following period. Reports should address both the actions to be taken by the Borrower, as listed below,
and the Performance Monitoring Indicators.
4.    By December 31, 1996, The Borrower, through its Ministry of Health, will:
(a)    Present to the Association for review and comments its MANAS Health Care Reform
Program and a schedule of rationalization of health facilities and thereafter carry out the
program in accordance with that schedule, taking into account the comments of the
Association (para. 1.49);
(b)    Combine services in the health facilities selected as Oblast Model Polyclinics where
training under the PHC component will be carried out, so that services for pediatrics,
women's health and general adult health will be offered in one building (para. 3.19).
(c)    Ensure timely supply and regular replenishment to all facilities where training under the
PHC component is carried out of project financed equipment, drugs and other materials,
and ensure that part of these drugs are provided free of charge to personnel of FAPs and
ambulatory centers participating in the training programs as trainees (para. 3.19);
(d)    Establish new national case management guidelines, treatment protocols and enabling
legislation (para. 3.9, 3.13, 3.25, 3.28, 3.62);
(e)   Issue guidelines, acceptable to the Association, to health authorities at all levels on
leasing of publicly owned health premises to family group practices (para. 3.64 (a));
(f)    Carry out a study of the levels of patients' referrals from primary care physicians to
specialists and for diagnostic tests in Bishkek City and Chui Oblasts. Not later than June



244                              ANNEX 11
30, 1997 it will submit this study to the Association for review and comments, and it will
subsequently implement the agreed recommendations (para. 3.64 (b));
(g)    Appoint a standing committee for the Essential Drugs Programn, consistent with authority
provided by the "Law on Medicines" and as provided by the rules adopted on compiling
and maintaining its EDL (para. 3.78).
5.     By June 30, 1997 and thereafter at the end of each annual drug procurement cycle, the
Borrower's MOH will review drug procurement and distribution so as to assure that privately owned drug
wholesalers and retailers are not disadvantaged compared to remaining state-owned companies (para.
3.80).
6.     By December 31, 1997, the Borrower, through its Ministry of Health, will:
(a)    Design and implement a national health accounts system to be able to track allocation of
resources for health and the flow of funds in the health sector (para. 3.64 (c));
(b)    Establish a data base of National Case Management Guidelines for women's reproductive
health, STDs, ARI/CDD and TB, based on the WHO recommended guidelines, together
with treatmnent protocols for all those conditions, indicating that drugs used should be
from its Essential Drug List only, and thereafter update and distribute these protocols
regularly to health workers nationwide (para. 3.23);
(c)    (i) establish and thereafter maintain a Health Fund into which national, oblast, municipal
and raion level health authorities will contribute and out of which medical providers will
be paid; (ii) issue guidelines on the manner and level of contribution by these health
authorities and the characteristics and costs of the services to be purchased; and, (iii)
pass legislation allowing establishment of primary health care provider groups as non-
profit entities and opening of bank accounts by such groups (para. 3.64 (c));
7.     By January 31, 1998 and thereafter, the Borrower will allocate budget resources for procurement
and reimbursement of pharmaceuticals solely to pharmaceuticals listed on its Essential Drug List and
registered in the country (para. 3.77);
8.    In each medical facility to be renovated under the project the Borrower, through its MOH, will
establish a stakeholder group consisting of health authorities and local government officials, before
renovation is undertaken (para. 3.36 and Annex 3).
B. Performance Monitoring Indicators
9.    In addition to the reporting requirements listed above the TCC will be required to monitor the
performance indicators. These indicators are broken into three types for each component: input, output
and impact. Input indicators are activities which are aimed to improve parameters which have a direct
impact on the health status, not do not themselves directly affect the health status, such as training.
Output indicators monitor the impact of input indicators and include parameters which are expected to
influence the health status directly such as number of patients being treated with new protocols. Impact
indicators monitor the degree to which project related changes in input and output parameters will result
in improvement of the health status, such as the improvement in the maternal mortality rate. Following
is a list of indicators identified for each component and targets that are to be achieved through the project.



ANNEX 11: Performance Monitoring Indicators
1997-      11997-     1998-     1998-       1999-    1999-    2000-    2000-
Indicator                 Baseline      projected  |actual    projected actual      projected actual   projected actual
PRIMARY HEALTH CARE                                 .
COMPONENT                                                     _
ARI/CDD Subcomponent
I. Input
Percentage of CRH Trainers
supplied with ARI/CDD
Trainers Manuals               0%           5%                   25%                  60%                 100%
Percentage of Model
Polyclinics receiving allocation
of drugs from PHC shipment     0%           0%                   100%                 100%                100%
II. Output
Percentage of Raion
Pediatricians who have
attended a "hands on" training
Course                         0%           2%                   5%                   30%                 60%
Percentage of caretakers of
children under 5 years with
diarrhea at home who know
how to make and administer
ORS*                          20%**        25%                   30%                  40%                 50%
Percentage of children under
5 years with ARI seen at a
FAP who receive correct
treatment*                    I 0%*        15%                   30%         X40% 1                       50%
Page 245



ANNEX 11: Performance Monitoring Indicators
1997-       1997-      1998-     1998-       1999-    1999-    2000-       2000-
Indicator                 Baseline      projected   actual     projected  actual     projected actual   projected actual
Ill. Impact
7.7/1000 (1994
Under 5 mortality rate      MOH Data)                                                                     911 000***
Percentage of infant deaths  11% (1994
due to Diarrhea             MOH Data)               __40%***
Percentage of infant deaths  48% (1994
due to ARI                  MOH Data)
*Results are also affected by results of UNICEF Program
** Baseline data to be confirmed by UNICEF Household survey, November, 1995
Not expected to change significantly during the life of the project                                                       _
Women's Reproductive Health
Subcomponent                                 _
I. Input                    _
Percentage of Model
Polyclinics receiving WRH
drugs from PHC shipment         0%          100%                  100%                  100%               100%
Percentage of workshops
conducted as compared with
target                          0%          100%                  100%                  100%               100%
IL. Output
Percentage of FAPs providing
iron supplements regularly to
all pregnant women              0%      r                         20%                   30%                 40%    _         _
Page 246



ANNEX 11: Performance Monitoring Indicators
19"7-      1997-      1998-     1898-      199-    1999-    2000-    2000-
Indicator                Baseline      projected   actual    projected actual     projected actual   projected actual
Ill. Impact
Percentage of matemal     23 (1994 MOH
mortality due to eclampsia    data)            23               22                   21                 20
80.1/100000
(1994 MOH
Matemal Mortality Rate        data)    79/100000             77/100000            76/100000          75/100000
Percentage of Neonatal    23.8% (1994
deaths due to asphyxia     MOH data)                                                                   22%
12.1/1000
(1994 MOH
Perinatal Mortality Rate     Data)                                                                   11.1/1000_
FACILMES
REHABILITATION
COMPONENT
I. Input
Number of MOH Officials
Trained in Estates
Management
II. Output
Number of Rural
Hospitals/Polydinics
Rehabilitated                  0            0                   15                   15
Number of Health
Centers/FAPs Rehabilitated     0            0                   15                   15
Number of Polyclinics
Provided with Equipment Kits   0           0                    15                   15
Page 247



ANNEX 11: Performance Monitoring Indicators
1997-       1997-     1998-      1998-      1999-    1999-    2000-       2000-
Indicator                 Baseline      projected   actual     projected actual     projected actual   projected actual
Number of Health
Centers/FAPs provided with
Equipment Kits                  0            0                    15                    15
III. Impact
Increase in utilization of
facilities rehabilitated       1:1-3        as is                as is                 as is               5%
less than            less than          less than
Reduction in the use of energy                                  20% of                15% of              10% of
at facilities which have been    up to 20% of                    total                 total               total
rehabilitated               total budget                        budget                budget             budget
PROVIDER PAYMENTS
COMPONENT
I. Input
Number of people trained in
payment systems, cost
accounting, clinical information
systems, management,
accreditation and quality
improvement                     0          1118                  673                   457                 12
Number of local experts hired
by 3 associations and trained   0           51                     5                    5
Locations determined and
equipment provided for FPGs     0           150                   100                   50
Page 248



ANNEX 11: Performance Monitoring Indicators
1997-      1997-      1998-     1998-      1999-    1999-    2000-      2000-
Indicator                 Baseline     projected   actual    projected actual     projected actual   projected actual
II. Output
Number of FPGs formed and
operating with practice
managers                       0           150                  100                  50
Percent of populabon enrolled
in FPGs                        0           50                   75                   100
Percent of budget funds
pooled to fiscal intermediary
and providers reimbursed by
new payment system             0           40                   60                   80                  90
Percent of facilities with new
cost accounting, clinical
information, management and
quality improvement systems    0           40                   70                   90                 100
Ill. Impact                                                                                                              TOTAL
Reduction in hospital
admission rates                0%         -4%                   -6%                  -6%                -4%               -20%
Reduction in hospital LOS     0%          -3%                   -5%                  -5%                -3%               -16%
Reduction in referral rate of
primary care physicians        0%          4%                   -6%                  -6%                -4%               -20%
Increase in proportion of
resources allocated to primary
care secton                    0%          5%                   5%                   3%                 3%                 16%
Reduction in number of beds
and facilities (must be both
beds and facilities to reduce
costs)                         0%         -4%                   -6%                 -6%                 -6%               -20%
Page 249



ANNEX 11: Performance Monitoring Indicators
1997-      1997-     1998-    1998-       1999-    1999-    2000-    2000-
Indicator                Baseline    projected   actual    projected actual    projected actual   projected actual
PHARMACEUl1CAL
REHABILITATION
COMPONENT
I. Input
A. NDRO                                                                                  ___
Number of Registration
applications
approved/disapproved         432         450                  475                  500               550
Number of licensing
applications
approvedJdisapproved          96         100                  110                  115               120
Number of quality test
performed performed on each
sample                        3           5                    7                   8                  8
Number/range of drugs tested
for quality                   50          57                   57                  57                 57
B. EDP                   _ _ _ _ _                                                                                    _ _ _
Percentage of
pharmKaies/health care
facillites in possession of
current EDL                  0%          50O_                 75%                 90%               100%
Percentage of samples
physicians aware/aupportive
of EDP                       0%          30%                  45%                 60%                75%
Non-branded (off-patent)
drugs as percentage of all
drugs on EDL                                                                            I _          95%    _
Page 250



ANNEX 11: Performance Monitoring Indicators
1997-      1997-     1998-    1998-       1999-    1999-    2000-    2000-
Indicator                Baseline     projected   actual    projected actual    projected actual   projected actual
11. Output
A NDRO_____ __
Average speed of registration
decisions (time between
presentation of full required
information and decision)   90 days     85 days              80 days             75 days            70 days
Average speed of licensing of
proprietors (bme between
presentation of full required
documentation and decision)    30 days  26 days              22 days             18 days            14 days
Percentage of samples
medicines at pharmacies
satisfying minimum quality
requiremfents (content and
stability)                   93%         95%                _97%                   99%               100%
Percentage of samples
proprietors satisfying licensing
requirenents                 50%         60%                  70%                  80%               90%
B. EDP
Change in availibility and price
of those v  s procured under
the Credit at community
pharmacies and raion hospital
phafacies                                                                                
Page 251



ANNEX 11: Performance Monitoring Indicators
1997-      1997-     1998-    1998-       1999-    1999-    2000-    2000-
Indicator                Baseline     projected   actual    projected actual    projected actual   projected actual
Change in availibility and price
of drugs on the EDL at each
level of the pharmacy system
Change in number/average of
all drugs available at each
level of pharmacy system
EDL drugs
prescribed/dispensed as
percentage of all drugs
prescfibed/dispensed at each
level of the pharmacy system  20%         30%                 40%                  50%                60%
EDL drugs dispensed free of
charge or at subsidized prices
to entled patient groups as
percentage of all drugs
dispensed free of charge or at
subsidized rates to entited
groups                       20%          40%                  80%                 100%              100%
Page 252



Annex 12: Sumanry Cost Tabes
Kywgz RaPm*t
H_ast Seto Ram  Pe                                                                          -@ "so  Cm  c nmun
Expsnabn Accaurt by C_mpmmds - Td hd_ Ca                  lmP                                                                                                         r
(US S)                                                                                            R                             FadEms            uS  and   Pay               Prepa
ARCD           H               TBS            au          Ranmi          Rafor    Alubs.
Sbcompmet Suicymntz  SuAcmqmnt  ompqmu                     CtMaaui        Camoami    -d Uindhbg            PPF         Tal
1.ah- - Ca
A. Telch    Asslmanca-EA
Cmst Senw slnimadbr-EA                                                                91,696       115,493        46,820       45,482           137,502      941,545          386,134     70,0D0      1,834,672
ComtS at Lomd-EA                                                                           -        39,091             -       69072            2T7,114      870,042          149,797    135,850      1,540.966
Taig Ingmnuii_n-EA                                                                    39.232        39,232        11209             - M88,84                 134,508                -     94,500       407,464
Tvuig LI-EA                                                                           88.556       258,290       106,306            -            93,075      236.245                -     23,650       804,122
Sublot Tuchnical A sanca-EA                                                            217,U44       452.105       164,335       114,554          596.494     2,182340          535,931    324.0D0      4587.244
B. Civi wok-EA
Repqs mid Cnveruion of MinuS Fadtb-EA                                                      -             -             -    1,705,589            56,045      171,165                -     32,000      1.964,798
C. Swvces-EA
Prodcn ad Dhktuwin d PubdtS & Audovimud   Maa-EA                                      56.045             -             -            -            23,554       46.537               -      10,0D0       136,136
D. Good-EA
Ltbray Equet -W SupgAnsEA                                                                  -             --                                     199068                                    30ao0o       229.068
Fubse-EA                                                                                   -             -             -       170.559                -            -            8,967          -       179,526
Vads-EA                                                                                    -             -        13,451             -                -            -           13,451          -        26,902
Moi _na  OlFce E                                                                           -             -             -            -            33.950      432.01             7.646     53.000       526.796
CompubmEaha                                                                                         10,985         2746                          16,636      387.831                -          -       418,196
P,haKs-EA                                                                                  -         6,725         1,681            -             5,093       50,485               -           -        63,965
Srd -EA                                                                                    -             -             -            -            36,429            -                -          -        36,429
CPs-EA                                                                                               50- s,us     n.6               -             6,407            -               -                    36,674
AS-vhS Equpmwi-EA                                                                     43.155         3.363             -             -                -                                                 46,517
Cmnabonh E         _mnitEA                                                                 -         t242          9,145            -             1,121            -                -          -        12506
Os         EA                                                                          4.654        32,5M         3t576             -             9,307                        11,634                  W9,748
r           -E - E                                                                         -       396,213       100,551      345,359                 --                                 -             842122
Madi  S -E                                                                                               -       186,459            -                 -            -               -           -       186,459
Drug&FA                                                                             233,903        80912         779,755            -         6,927.844            -               -           -     8B,2,414
Pubdd  LIu-EA                                                                         5,605         28,023        23,962            -            17,324      824,767               -     40.000        939,680
Su_    Goods-EA                                                                        287.316     1,366,643      1.173,188      515,918        7,255,178     1,695.085          41,899    123,000     12,458,227
E PPY-CA
PPFCWflV SenrEA                                                                            -             -             -            -                 -            -               -      11.000        11,000
Tad       _ m    Ca                                                                      560.845      1,818,748     1.337,524    2,336,060        7,931,272     4,095.127         577,829    500,000     19,157.405
L RMcareS Ca
A. Swpa-EA                                                                                   -             -             -             -                -      128,403               -           -       128,403
B. Sm-EA                                                                                     -             -        82.272            -           187,638            -               -           -       269,910
C. uui a                                                                                     -             - A           -                          4.654            -               .                     4,654
D. T nmVp1u3iuEA ro                                                                     9,307         23,269       116,301            -            58,172      195,456               -           -       402,505
E Inhear        Couy.arabus-EA                                                          4,654              .             -                         32,576            -          18,615           -        55,845
F MHuimffu  ad Opuaimn OfMD EpwAnat-EA                                                  2,327          4,654         23277                         46,537            -           2327            -        58,172
I Msaasn aid Opwne ond VsuEs-EA                                                             -              -             -                         13,961                       23,269           -        37.230
J. Rat-CA                                                                                    -             -             -            -            32,576            -           11.634          -        44,210
Total Recun    C                                                                          16,288        27,922       200.900             -          376,114      323,659          55s,45                  1,000,926
Tod PROJECT COS1                                                                        577,133      1,848,671     1.538,423     2,336.060        8,307,386    4,418,986         633.674    500,000     20,158,333
Page 253



Annex 12: Sumnary Cost Tables
Kyrgyz Republic
Health SCDr PJonM  PrO
Component by Financles
(US S)                                                     The Govwnmwet              IDA                   Toal
Amount      %        Amount       %        Amount
A. Primary Hea  Cae Componennt
ARUCDD Subco brt                                         63,894    11.1       513,239    88.9       577.133     2.9
Women's Reprodudive Health Subcomponent                 169,982     9.2     1,676,689    90.8      1,846,671    9.2
TB Subcomponew                                          259,368    16.9     1,279.055    83.1      1,538,423    7.6
Subtotl Pr_muy Halt Caw Componennt                        493,244    12.4    3,468,983    87.6      3,962,227    19.7
B. Failities Management Component                         170,559     7.3    2,165,501    92.7      2,336,060    11.6
C. Phafmaneuticals Managemnent and Reform Conponent       432,910     5.2    7,874,476    94.8      8,307,386    41.2
D. Provider Payment Reform Component                      470.910    10.7    3,948,076    89.3      4,418,986    21.9
E. Program Administrabon and Monitoring                    55,845     8.8       577,829    91.2       633,674     3.1
F. PPF                                                      3,200     0.6       496,800    99.4       500,000     2.5
Tobl Disburenut#                                         1,626,667     8.1    18,531,666    91.9    20,158,333   100.0
Page 254



Annex 12: Snmmary Cost Tables
Kyrgyz Republic
Health Sector Reform Project
Expenditure Accounts by Financlem
(US S)                                                                                The Govemment               IDA                    Total
Amount       %        Amount        %        Amount        %
1. Investment Coets
A. Technical Asslstance-EA
Consult Services International-EA                                                      -        -     1,834,672    100.0      1,834,872     9.1
Consult Services Local-EA                                                              -        -     1.540,966    100.0      1,540,966     7.6
Training Intemational-EA                                                               -        -       407,484    100.0       407.484      2.0
Training Local-EA                                                                429,260     53.4       374,862     4686       804.122      4.0
Subtal Technical Assistance-EA                                                     429.260      9.4     4.157,984     90.8     4.587.244     22.8
B. CMI works-EA
Repairs and Conversion of Medical Fealities-EA                                   196,480     10.0     1,788,318     90.0     1,964,798      9.7
C. Servlces-EA
Production and Distribution of Pubished & Audio-visual Materials-EA                    -        -       136,136    100.0       136.136      0.7
D. Goods-EA
Laboratory Equipment and Supphs-EA                                                     -        -       229,068    100.0       229.068      1.1
Fumitur-EA                                                                             -        -       179.526    100.0       179.526      0.9
Vaehcbs-EA                                                                             -        -        26,902    100.0        268902      0.1
Mscaneous Office Equipment                                                             -        -       526,798    100.0       526,798      2.6
Computs-EA /a                                                                          -                418,198    100.0       418.198      2.1
Printmr-EA                                                                                      -        63,985    100.0        63,985      0.3
Softwam-EA                                                                             -        -        36,429    100.0        36.429      0.2
CopierwEA                                                                              -        -        38,874    100.0        36,874      0.2
Audio-vhual Equipment-EA                                                               -        -        46,517    100.0        46.517      0.2
CommuniGabions Equipment-EA                                                            -        -        12.508    100.0        12,508      0.1
Office Supplies-EA                                                                     -        -        90,748    100.0        90,748      0.5
Medical Equipment-EA                                                                   -        -       842,122    100.0       842,122     4.2
Medical Supplies-EA                                                                    -        -       188.459    100.0       188 459      0.9
DngEA                                                                                  -        -     8.822,414    100.0     8,822.414    43.8
Publishad Materials-EA                                                                 -        -       939,680    100.0       939.680     4.7
Subtotal Goods-EA                                                                        -        -    12,458,227    100.0    12,458,227    61.8
E. PPF-EA
PPFlComsulting Servkes-EA                                                              -       -         11,000    100.0        11,000     0.1
Total Investment Costs                                                               625,739      3.3    18,531,666     96.7    19,157,405     95.0
II. Recurrent Costs
A Supplies-EA                                                                      128,403    100.0             -        -       128,403      0.6
B. Salabes-EA                                                                      269,910    100.0             -       -        269.910      1.3
C. Utilites-EA                                                                       4,654    100.0             -        -         4,654        -
D. TraveUperdism-EA /b                                                             402,505    100.0             -       -        402,505     2.0
E. Intemational Cornmunications-EA                                                  55,845    100.0             -       -         55,45       0.3
F. Maintenance and Operation of Office Equipment-EA                                 58,172    100.0 08-                 -         5172       0.3
I Maintenance and Operation of Vehicles-EA                                          37,230    100.0             -       -         37,230      0.2
J. Rent-EA                                                                          44.210    100.0             -        -        44,210      0.2
Total Recurrent Costs                                                               1,000,928    100.0            -        -      1,000.928     5.0
Total Disbusement                                                                   1,626,667      8.1    18,531,666    91.9    20,158,333    100.0
Page 255



Annex 12: Summary Cost Tables
Kyrgyz Republic
Health Sector Reform Project
Procurement Accounts by Years
(US $)                                                                                           Totals Including Contingencies
1997        1998         1999        2000         Total
A. Investment Costs-PA
1. Technical Assistance-PA
Consult Services International-PA                                              905,071      484,352     264,926      180,324     1,834,672
Consult Services Local-PA                                                      507,107      407,547     324,269      313,043     1,551,966
Training International-PA                                                      353,988       20,181      16,484       16,830      407,484
Training Local-PA                                                              196,269      187,859     259,686      160,308       804,122
Subtotal Technical Assistance-PA                                                1,962,435    1,099,939    865,365      670,505     4,598,244
2. Civil Works-PA
Repairs and Conversion of Health Facilities                                   1,012,788     922,574      29,436            -     1,964,798
3. Services-PA
Production and Distribution of Published & Audio-visual Materials-PA            77,254       23,064      11,774       24,043       136,136
4. Goods-PA
Furniture-PA                                                                    93,035       86,491           -            -       179,526
Laboratory Equipment                                                           119,672       57,661           -            -       177,333
Laboratory Supplies                                                             22,418       11,532      11,774        6,011       51,735
Vehicles-PA                                                                     26,902            -           -            -       26,902
Computers_PA                                                                   412,547        5,651           -            -      418,198
Miscellaneous Office Equipment-PA                                              341,071      126,854      58,872            -      526,798
Printers-PA                                                                     62,255        1,730           -            -       63,985
Software-PA                                                                     36,429            -           -            -       36,429
Copiers-PA                                                                      25,220        5,766       5,887            -       36,874
Audio-visual Equipment-PA                                                       46,517            -           -            -       46,517
Communications Equipment-PA                                                      7,846        2,306       2,355            -        12,508
Office Supplies-PA                                                              44,276       57.084      58,284       59,507      219,150
Medical Equipment-PA                                                           128,231      386,443     327,448            -      842,122
Medical Supplies-PA                                                             41,585       35,058      65,937       43,879      186,459
Drugs-PA                                                                     2,367,592    2,919,308    1,932,440    1,603,074    8,822,414
Published Materials-PA                                                         383,332      258,897     147,181      150,270      939,680
Subtotal Goods-PA                                                               4,158,928    3,954,782    2,610,179    1,862,741    12,586,630
Subtotal Investment Costs-PA                                                      7,211,404    6,000,360    3,516,754    2,557,289    19,285,808
B. Recurrent Costs-PA
1. Salaries-PA                                                                    54,162       61,490      75,733       78,525      269,910
2. Utilities-PA                                                                    1,121        1,153       1,177        1,202        4,654
3. TraveUPerdiem-PA                                                               81,265       93,987     112,446      114,806      402,505
4. Intemational Communications-PA                                                 13,451       13,839      14,129       14,426       55,845
5. Maintenance & Operation of Office Equipment-PA                                 14,011       14,415      14,718       15,027       58,172
8. Maintenance & Operation of Vehicles-PA                                          8,967        9,226       9,420        9,617       37,230
9. Rent-PA                                                                        10,649       10,956      11,186       11,421       44,210
Total                                                                             7,395,030    6,205,426    3,755,564    2,802,313    20,158,333
Page 256



257                            ANNEX 13
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
HEALTH SECTOR REFORM PROJECT
ANNEX 13: PROJECT SUPERVISION PLAN
Mission       Character of Mission    Mission Staffing                  Staff
Dates                                                                   Weeks
6/96          Project Launch          Task Manager                      2
Drug Specialist                  2
Health Specialist                2
Procurement/Disb. Specialist     2
FY 96         __ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _    _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _  8
8/96          First Supervision       Task Manager                      3
Mission                 Provider Payment Specialist      2
Training Specialist              2
Procurement Specialist           2
1/97          Second Supervision      Task Manager                      3
Mission                 Health Financing Economist       2
Primary Health Specialist        2
Facility Specialist              2
4/97          Third Supervision       Task Manager                      3
Mission                 Procurement Specialist           2
Medical Equip/Suppl. Specialist  2
Provider Payment Specialist      2
FY97                                                                    27
7/97          Fourth Supervision      Task Manager                      3
Mission                 Health Financing Economist       2
Primary Health Specialist        2
Disbursement Specialist          2
11/97         Fifth Supervision       Task Manager                      3
Mission                Drug Spedalist                    2
Trining Specialist               2
Procurement Specalist            2
3/98          Sixth Supervision       Task Manager                      3
Mission (mid-term       Primary Health Sped"lst          3
review)                Drug Specialist                   3
Provider Payment Specialist      3
Facility Specialist              2
Health Finance Economist         2
FY98                                                                    34



258                            ANNEX 13
7/98          Seventh Supervision     Task Manager                      3
Mission (Policy Review)  Health Finance Economist        3
Facility Specialist              3
2/99          Eighth Supervision      Task Manager                      3
Mission                 Training Specialist              2
Disbursement Specialist          2
FY99                                                                    16
7/99          Ninth Supervision
Mission                 Task Manager                     3
Health Finance Economist         3
Drug Specialist                  2
2/00          Tenth Supervision       Task Manager                      3
Mission                 Primary Health Specialist        3
Provider Payment Specialist      3
FY00                                                                    17
7/00          Eleventh Supervision    Task Manager                      3
Mission                 Primary Health Specialist        3
Disbursement Specialist          2
11/00         Last Supervision        Task Manager                      3
Mission prior to Project  Health Economist               3
Completion Report       Primary Health Specialist        3
FY01                                                                    17



259                            ANNEX 14
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
HEALTH SECTOR REFORM PROJECT
ANNEX 14: OTHER DONOR ACTIVITIES AND COORDINATION
1.    Summary of donor activities in the Kyrgz Republic: The major donor organizations working
in the Kyrgyz Republic's health sector are USAID, UNICEF, WHO, and UNDP. USAID, UNICEF and
UNDP all have small country offices in Bishkek. USAID has a regional office in Almaty and the
UNICEF country office is supervised by the Area Office for Central Asian, located in Islaniabad,
Pakistan. UNFPA plans to set up a regional office with a regional advisor. GTZ, the German
government's technical assistance agency, and DANIDA, the Danish government's development agency
also have small offices with a resident country program officer. Several other agencies are working on
emergency food programs (Red Cross, Mercy Corps International, France Liberte, etc.).
2.    Summary of organizations involved in health reform activities: WHO/EURO, UNDP and
TICA, the Turkish development agency are supporting the MANAS Health Care Reform Project. This
project is due to finish in September 1995. The MANAS project has developed a framework for health
planning and strengthened the management capacity of selected MOH staff. USAID is funding health
fuiance reform through the Abt Associates demonstration site in Issyk Kul. ODA have funded study tours
for key central and oblast health administrators to look at health reform in the U.K. and Scandinavia. In
early 1996, GTZ will appoint a long term health policy advisor to the President and MOH, with
particular emphasis on health education , health insurance and drug regulation.
3.    Summary of organizations involved in essential drugs programs: WHO are providing technical
assistance for the development of a national essential drugs and rational prescribing program. ODA, the
British development agency provided $400,000 to DAP/EURO/WHO for this program. GTZ plans to
bring in short term advisors to work on establishing a drug's regulation and licensing body for the Kyrgyz
Republic. UNDP is administering the purchase of $1.2 million of emergency drugs in 1995, with money
donated by DANIDA.
4.    Summary of organizations involved in children's health activities:
(a)    Expanded Program of Immunization: UNICEF is providing primary series vaccines and
supplies using a Japanese government grant. UNICEF is also providing technical
assistance and has advocated for reducing the list of contraindications observed. USAID
has donated emergency vaccines and provided technical assistance and strengthening of
cold chain through the "Basics Project".
(b)    Acute Respiratory Infections and Control of Diarrheal Diseases: UNICEF has donated
emergency drugs for winter and summer programs and funded training of health workers
at the central, oblast, and peripheral levels. Case management guidelines and health
education materials have also been provided.
(c)    Breastfeeding: UNICEF and USAID (through the Wellstart project) have supported some
training of health workers. UNICEF has worked closely with the MOH to rewrite
"Decree #55" which outlines birth house operations. The rewritten decree promotes baby
friendly practices and emphasizes breastfeeding. It is now in the approval process of the
MOH and should be adopted by the end of 1995.



260                            ANNEX 14
(d)   Iodine Deficiency Disease: UNICEF is assisting the government develop a national plan
for iodized salt. Legislation has now been passed which requires that only iodized salt
is imported into the Republic. The GOK has set the goal of making iodized salt available
for human consumption throughout the Republic by the end of 1995.
5.    A summary of agencies involved in women's reproductive health activities: USAID and
UNFPA are the lead agencies working on these activities. USAID, working through a number of
contractors (Futures Group, SOMARC, JHIEPGO, AVSC, PCS) is providing technical assistance to
government policy makers and health workers and creating a market for contraceptives through social
marketing. UNFPA is supplying contraceptives and has begun developing an STD/FP health education
program for Bishkek. Under contract with UNFPA, Family Health International is developing a pilot
project which trains midwives to insert IUDs. The WHO Regional AIDS Control Office in Almaty is
funding an sexually transmitted diseases expert to conduct a regional workshop on STD management in
Tashkent. Key health personnel from the Kyrgyz Republic will attend this workshop.
6.    Food and Clothing Assistance: Several donor organizations are active in providing food
assistance to the country. Primary donors include: France Liberte; the European Union; Red
Barnett/Save the Children, Denmark; The International Federation of the Red Cross and Red Crescent
Societies; UNICEF; Mercy Corps International; and German Agro Action.
7.    Planned assistance for the Fall of 1995 includes: German Agro Action supplying 2,000 tons of
wheat flour, 200 tons of sunflower oil for distribution to the poor, the elderly, the disabled, and orphans
in Djalal-Abad and Osh Oblasts; France Liberte will supply: 4,200 tons of Flour, sugar, oil, salt for
150,000 persons (10,000 prisoners) in Talas, Naryn, Issyk-Kul, Chui Oblasts. Mercy Corps International
will distribute 1,500 metric tons of Rice and 800 metric tons of vegetable oil to institutions throughout
the Republic in coordination with the Ministries of Health, Education, and Social Protection and be
distributed primarily to schools, and maternity houses. UNICEF will continue to supply high protein
food in the form of BP-5 biscuits and will distribute through schools and peripheral level health facilities.
8.    Planned assistance for clothing this fall will include UNICEF's distribution of $100,000 worth
of winter coats and shoes for children 3 - 11 years old. France Liberte will also distribute clothing this
fall and will also provide hygienic products and bed linens (140 tons) to 40,000 persons in 45 institutions
and 75 hospitals in Osh and Djalal-Abad Oblasts.
9.    Coordination of Other Donor Activities with the Proposed World Bank Reform Project:
(a)    The pharmaceutical management component of the World Bank project will work closely
with DPA/WHO/EURO and GTZ on the implementation of an essential drugs program.
Meetings between these various agencies are ongoing and the coordination is good.
(b)    The health finance component of the World Bank project will have to compliment the
ongoing USAID funded activities through the Abt Associates demonstration project in
Issyk Kul.
(c)    A member of Abt Associates acted as an observer on the March 1995 World Bank
Mission, thereby facilitating close coordination between the USAID and World Bank
activities.
(d)    The primary health care component of the World Bank project has been developed to
compliment the activities of UNICEF, USAID and WHO. The ARI/CDD sub-component



261                             ANNEX 14
will provide technical assistance and the long term supply of essential drugs to support
UNICEF's ARI and CDD programs. The Tuberculosis sub-component will support the
ongoing technical assistance provided by WHO. The Women's Reproductive Health sub-
component will compliment the family planning activities of USAID and UNFPA by
focusing on obstetric care, perinatal care and the treatment of sexually transmitted
diseases.
Program abbreviations for quick reference:
EPI   Expanded Program of Immunizations
CDD   Control of Diarrheal Diseases
ARI   Acute Respiratory Infections
IDD   Iodine Deficiency Diseases
BF    Breastfeeding
MCH  Maternal and Child Health
OC    Obstetric Care
FP    Family planning
CS    Contraceptive Supply
TB    Tuberculosis
STD   Sexually Transmitted Diseases
AIDS  Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome
EDP   Essential Drug Program
EDS   Essential Drugs Supply
HF    Health Financing
HR    Health Reform
EHA   Emergency Humanitarian Assistance
CVS   Cardiovascular Disease Prevention
A2encv abbreviations:
UNICEF       United Nations Children's Fund
WFP          World Food Program
UNDP         United Nations Development Fund
UNFPA        United Nations Population Fund
WHO          World Health Organization
USAID        United States Agency for International Development (USA)
GTZ          German Government Development Agency
ODA          Overseas Development Agency (United Kingdom Government)
TICA         Turkish Government Development Agency
DANIDA       Danish Government Development Agency
GOK          Government of the Kyrgyz Republic
IPPF         International Planned Parenthood Federation



262                             ANNEX 14
AGENCY    COMPLETED, UNDER IMPLEMENTATION, AND
PLANNED ASSISTANCE IN HEALTH SECTOR BY
DIFFERENT AGENCIES
UNICEF         EPI   Providing primary vaccines, syringes until end 1995 using
a Japanese government grant.
Providing vaccine for children under five for diphtheria
epidemic 1994 - 1995.
CDD  Provided antibiotics & ORS nationally for summner season
93,94, and 95 (500,000 sachets each year). Supplied
antibiotics nationally for CDD case management. Assisted
MOH in conducting mass media campaign and developed/
distributed health education materials. Distributed
WHO/UNICEF case management guidelines for feldshers
and physicians, '93 - '95. 1995 Surmer CDD Campaign
included training of feldshers from every rayon in the
Republic.
ARI   Provided antibiotics and Vitamin A for under 2's in
winters of 93 and 94. Will continue in 1995.
Assisted the MOH in conducting National ARI Campaign.
Trained physicians and feldshers in '93, '94, and will
continue in '95. Distributed ARI case management
guidelines in poster form to health facilities nationally.
Developed ARI health education video spots with the
MOH's Health Education Unit and aired nationally.
IDD   Assisted MOH to develop a national IDD plan. UNICEF
survey showed 40% of Kyrgyz children have IDD.
BF   Assisted MOH to develop a national plan for BF
promotion, 1994.Assisted the MOH in rewriting the
Soviet Decree #55 (Guidelines for the Operation of
Birthhouses) to include baby-friendly practices.Provided
literature for health workers. Included BF component in
'95 CDD Trainings.
Household Survey ARI/CDD November 1995
Scientific     WRH  Distributed iron tablets in several raions including some in
Tech. &               Naryn Oblast.
Language
Institute             End 1995 establishing a family practice training program
with Department of Continuous Medical Education in
Bishkek. 30 trainees in first year. Instructor Dr. Tom
Chui.



263                            ANNEX 14
UNDP           HR    Funded MANAS Project $300,000. Main project finished
August 1995. National Masterplan for Health Reform will
be published end 1995. Smaller MANUS project (6
people), funded by Swiss Government for one year. Mid
95-Mid 96 to facilitate implementation of masterplan.
Management training across all government sectors
including health. Financial management to look at line
items intersectorally (TA to start Oct 94).
Funding completion of Children's Hospital, Bishkek.
AIDS  $8,000 given to AIDS program for health education
program in 1994. Supporting the assessment of the legal
framework for AIDS, IEC activities and a school
curriculum.
EDP  Administering the purchase of $1.2 million emergency
drugs & vaccines (money from DANIDA) in 1995-6.
Funding a media resource center for the training of mass
media personnel including the government press
UNFPA          FP    Funded 3 health workers to Cairo Population Conference
September 1994.
FP    Providing educational literature.
Developing a health education campaign for FP and STDs
for Bishkek. Will include mass media, educational
materials, and establishing a FP/STD phone hotline.
Through Family Health International, will conduct a pilot
project which trains midwives to insert IUDs.
CS    Supplied $1 million contraceptives 1993-4. Plans to
supply another $1 million contraceptives.
MCH  Donating incubators to neonatal units.
This interim project expected to lead into a broad-based
project later with a Central Asia Regional Office and
Coordinator (post advertised)



264                             ANNEX 14
WHO                   WHO Information Center for Central Asia, situated in
Bishkek, to monitor health situation (library of WHO
literature, local translation and printing budget
$7,000/year). Ongoing.
HR    MANAS Health Care Reform project (executing agency
WHO/EURO; financing UNDP $300,000, in-kind
contributions GOK, TICA, ODA, DANIDA, WHO,
World Bank). First phase completed.
1994-95 Medium-Term Program completed. Partial
funding committed.
Kyrgyz Republic Specific Programs:
-Women and children's health
-Control communicable diseases (EPI, TB)
-Control diarrheal diseases including cholera
-Cardiovascular diseases and hypertension, CINDI
-Upgrading the nursing profession, LEMON (management
training, curriculum development)
-Mission to review environment and health priorities
-Environment and health management
Regional Programs:
-Mental health policy and legislation
-Substance abuse (alcohol, drugs, tobacco)
-Health care management & financing network
(CARNET)
-Environment and health management
-Support for development of HFA policy
TB    Technical assistance in TB (Warsaw seminar 1994).
MCH  CAREC project in 2 rayons. Surveillance sites for MCH
activities. Start early 1996.
AIDS  Regional Advisor on AIDS based in Almaty. Focus on
repealing punitive legislation.
$20,000 committed but not received for mass media
training and general health promotion workshops, pilot
intervention vulnerable groups, seminar on STD prevention,
diagnosis & care, seminar on blood safety and prevention of
nosocomial transmission, program assessment visit, consensus
conference.



265                            ANNEX 14
USAID          HF &
HR    ABT Associates, health finance and health reform
demonstration project Issyk-Kul Oblast Health
Department. Activities include financial accounting, cost
analysis, MIS, cost recovery, quality of care, hospital
management, health facility rationalization at the local
level. At central level, strengthening of MIS and
standardization of health indicators. Ongoing. Will expand
from two rayons to include all of Issyk-Kul Oblast in Fall
1995.
FP    Women's Reproductive Health Program. Futures Group,
SOMARC, JHPEIGO, AVSC, PCS
Strengthen family planning services through study tours
for policy makers, in-country technical update training for
doctors & pharmacists, development of case management
guidelines, and creating a market for contraceptives
through social marketing. Ongoing.
CS    Small supplies of contraceptives for a few selected
training sites.
EPI   Through BASICS project technical assistance and
strengthening of cold chain. No further vaccine supplies
are planned, beyond emergency donations in 1993.
BF    Wellstart, Breastfeeding Promotion through, study tours,
educational materials, & research. Program completed.
Future activities will be taken over by UNICEF.
American International Health Alliance, Kansas city
Hospital Partnership Program. Exchange visits to expose
Kyrgyz health workers to U.S. medical practice. Main
emphasis management, pediatrics and nursing education.
Ongoing.
Centers of Disease Control (CDC), Atlanta Technical
advice on surveillance. Project provides for quarterly
production, printing and distribution of a Kyrgyz Republic
Morbidity and Mortality bulletin. In 1995, a Central
Asian CDC headquarters has been established in Almaty
with 2 resident technical advisors, to focus on EPI &
MCH surveillance. Will host a five week epidemiology
training course in Atlanta for epidemiologists. Fall, 1995.
'93: 1000 bed ex-Department of Defense hospital with
furniture and equipment donated to Bishkek.
EHA   Emergency donations of drugs & consumables recovery,
quality of care, hospital management, health facility
rationalization at the local level. strengthening of MIS and



266                            ANNEX 14
GTZ            MCH  In 1993, $2 million worth of equipment (60%) and drugs
(40%) donated to 14 referral perinatal hospitals in Bishkek
and Osh, Naryn, Talas, Chui Oblasts (incubators,
ultrasounds, fetal heart monitors, pediatric respiratory &
anaesthetic equipment etc.).
Spring 1996 KFW will supply 3 million DM worth of
basic health care equipment to all FAPs, SVAs, and Raion
level hospitals in the Republic.
1996, a long term public health advisor to the President's
office may be recruited. This post will be funded by GTZ
for 10 years. Short term advisors will be recruited to
work under this permanent advisor in several areas
including IEC through Republican House of Health.
ODA/           HF    Study tour for Minister and Oblast Health Directors to
Know How             UK to observe health system reforms, 1994.
Fund
$320,000 for Health Financing Survey with Goskomstat
(2000 households by March 95) and policy advisor on
user charges.
EDP  $400,000 given to DAP/EURO/WHO to develop essential
drug policy and rational prescribing for Kyrgyz
Republic/Georgia/Turkmenistan/Armenia. Copenhagen
seminar.
Technical assistance in curriculum development,
legislative reform to support family practice development,
1996.
Technical assistance to rationalize health facilities/
institutions in Bishkek city is planned.
ICA                  Will provide 50% of the cost of the MANAS project
administration over the whole period.
HR    Providing technical assistance teams for MANAS project
(situational analysis 1994).



267                            ANNEX 14
DANIDA               $6 million for health for 1994-1996 to be divided between
the following:
EDS   $3 million for diabetic drugs and $1.2 million for other
essential drugs to be selected by the GOK (UNDP will
administer this program).
EPI    $750,000 for diphtheria & polio vaccine & supplies.
HR    $200,000 hospital management training (MANAS
Eurohealth).
Reform of Primary Health Care training (program still
being formulated).
Other: $400,000 for hearing aids. July - Sept. 1995: 1,300
items. Hearing aid laboratory equipment provided and
training sessions conducted in Kyrgyz Republic.
Dental care equipment & training (3 months in Denmark
for one person).
Oct. - Dec. 1995: will supply $180,000 of surgical
equipment to hospitals.
Japanese       EPI:  Funding for primary vaccinations with UNICEF.
Gov't.
$8 million of equipment for Children's Hospital, Bishkek
on condition construction is completed by end of 1994.
EHA  Emergency drug and supplies donated to Osh Oblast after
mudslides disaster.
Pakistan       EDS  Credit line to buy equipment for Pharmacia's drug
Gov't.               production plant in Bishkek.
Indian         CS    Donated several million condoms.
Gov't.
European       EDS   30 million credit line for purchasing drugs at 8 % interest
Union                in 1993.
HF    Technical assistance to Goskominvest (two economists
working with 3 person national team) and all government
sectors, including health, to estimate public investment for
1996-98. End product will be a government publication in
April 1995.
EHA  Emergency humanitarian supplies through ECHO "Winter
emergency program".



268                            ANNEX 14
Swiss Red            $6 million donated in 1993 for nursing and medical kits
Cross/               and community nurses salaries. Target women, displaced
Crescent             persons, refugees and those below poverty line.
Planning to donate equipment for Bishkek Hospital
Number 4 (emergency/first aid) and Jalalabad Oblast
Children's Hospital. Planning mission October 1994.
IPPF           FP    $40,000 to fund the establishment of student family
planning clinics in Bishkek city through a local NGO,
Family Health Fund.
$100,000 donated to fund Ministry of Health's Social
Patronage program for community health visitors (joint
funding with Farnily Health International, a USA
organization working on family planning issues).
Central        BF    Support for Breastfeeding
Asian
Partners       MCH  Providing equipment and training for Republican Referral
(NGO)                Maternity Hospital. Planning an emergency obstetrical
care training in 1996 (Robin Ray). Providing a US
OB/GYn, Dr. Ruth Chew, based in Bishkek long term, to
work at Maternity House # 2. Pilot obstetric training
planned in Dzhety Oghooz Raion, Issyk Kul Oblast.
Plan to develop Health Management training with Medical
Institute and Department of Continous Medical Education.
Humanitarian shipments of medical supplies, equipment,
clothes etc.



269                               ANNEX 15
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
HEALTH SECTOR REFORM PROJECT
ANNEX 15: SELECTED DOCUMENTS IN THE PROJECT FILE
1.     "Health Policy of the Kyrgyz Republic" Letter and full policy statement of the Government
2.     "Tuberculosis Control in Kyrgyzstan" Malgozata Grzemska, M.D., July, 1995.
3.     "Survey of Health Facilities." Michael Hopkinson, October, 1995.
4.     "Civil Works Decision Book." Michael Hopkinson, October, 1995.
5.     "Essential Drug List of the Kyrgyz Republic:






IBRD 276J,
KAZAKSTAN
* > srg\ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~HEALTH SECTOR REFORM PROJECT
T.                                                 -_                                                   -_ v --\ */- ) - ;ii--*7 \ Zo z 9PAk ARY HEALT CARE AND RHARELACEUTICAL
rOsffi    T A J I K I S T A N   f r    >    w_-_ffi   8 -7                                               _s                                                                                     IACILlrlE5 RE-AbILITAllON COA^FONENI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ACIITIS ETTRIITAIONCOAP~EN
,~~~~ O                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ME DICA C lqAE PROVIDERI R8ATENSICIONN
r    uss ^~~~~~~~~~~~  .                                                                                                                    *    IEISHKEA cirY ANgCHUI ciNLAsT~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LISEE CTYAD iA OIAT
/KAIBASrJAN                                                                                                                                                                                                                         +-T---R  RAL  S  L                    . .  ROADS
Wr. \ . 4 EarAC IN ROADS
L~~                                                                                                                                                                                                           NATIONAL CART.,~~K-  NA
>   r             A~                                                                                                                                                      R  J\tZtZrPjrebudre  oo.  emrojodo   fAoPbm/o    ILOH RRTSRC SLs  APII
DLAIAIC                                                                       IV _A~~,T  IAA' /                                                                                                                                                    e       OLA   CA FITAS. mrd nlmionterllo heWrdEs 
,"n               g 'C    /'5,           _          r cHIN               AI N,IV'.  A owld-r rb2gls ht !eA ol A N. Al AA or IIHIdf 0'eo Al HIIG0 _ _H                                                                                                OBLEST BOUN>DARIES
VIVIAN OSTAll   ,~                                                                                                                                                      RfW hULE                                                 _._   INTERlNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
/  /    -\                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   vrwlL r7mPI
I        .'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ATRIL~~~~~~L 40









IMAGING
Report No:      15181 KG
Type: SAR



