Page  1
                                                          CONFORMED COPY
                                                   CREDIT NUMBER 2860 KG
                    Development Credit Agreement
                   (Health Sector Reform Project)
                               between
                           KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
                                 and
                INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                         Dated June 13, 1996
                                                   CREDIT NUMBER 2860 KG
                    DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated June 13, 1996 between Kyrgyz Republic (the Borrower)
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the financing of the
Project;
      (B) the Association has received a letter dated April 5, 1996 from
the Borrower describing a program of policies designed to achieve the
reform of the Borrower's health sector (hereinafter called the Program),
declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program; and
      (C) the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia of the
foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                              ARTICLE I
                   General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development
Page  2
Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:
      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
      (b)   The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
            "Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise
            agree, no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of
            expenditures in the territories of any country which is not
            a member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or services
            supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of
            any payment to persons or entities, or for any import of
            goods, if such payment or import, to the knowledge of the
            Bank, is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations
            Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of
            the United Nations."
      Section 1.02.  Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the
following additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section
2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
      (b)   "Project Account" means the account referred to in paragraph
3 (b) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
      (c)   "MOH" means the Ministry of Health of the Borrower;
      (d)   "PCU" means the Project Coordination Unit and the "TCC" means
the Technical Coordination Committee, both established by the Borrower;
      (e)   "Essential Drug List" means the list of pharmaceuticals of the
most widely distributed basic medicines adopted by MOH through issuance on
ministerial order, dated March 14, 1996;
      (f)   "UNICEF" means the United Nations Children Fund; and
      (g)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation
advance granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to an
exchange of letters dated December 6, 1995 and December 28, 1995 between
the Borrower and the Association.
                             ARTICLE II
                             The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to twelve million
six hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 12, 600,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree,
to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a bank on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate
protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      (c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself
the amount required to repay the principal amount of the Project
Page  3
Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such date and to pay
all unpaid charges thereon.  The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized
amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be canceled.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2001 or such later
date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a)  The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn
from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30
of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2
of 1%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty
(60) days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the
respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from
the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June
30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as may
be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any
kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the
currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of
the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies
as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the
provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum
on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable
semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual
installments payable on each March 15 and September 15 commencing
September 15, 2006 and ending March 15, 2031.  Each installment to and
including the installment payable on March 15, 2016 shall be one and
one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal
amount.
      (b)   Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita,
as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant
1985 dollars for five (5) consecutive years, and (ii) the Bank shall
consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may,
subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors
of the Association and after due consideration by them of the development
of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the
amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount of
the Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some or
all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of
interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided
that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change
the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment
modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's
economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association may,
if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to
conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) above.
Page  4
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
                             ARTICLE III
                      Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this
end, shall carry out the Project through MOH with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial
and health practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance
with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall
be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General
Conditions and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
      (a)   prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the
Association, and furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months
after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this
purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a plan for the future
operation of the Project; and
      (b)   afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange
views with the Borrower on said plan.
                             ARTICLE IV
                         Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with
sound accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures in
respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph
                  (a) of this Section, including those for the Special
                  Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
                  with appropriate auditing principles consistently
                  applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
                  Association;
            (ii)  furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but
                  in any case not later than six (6) months after the end
                  of each such year, a certified copy of the report of
                  such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
                  detail as the Association shall have reasonably
                  requested; and
            (iii) furnish to the Association such other information
                  concerning said records, accounts and the audit thereof
                  as the Association shall from time to time reasonably
                  request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from
the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure,
the Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
Page  5
                  paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts
                  reflecting such expenditures;
            (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Association
                  has received the audit for the fiscal year in which the
                  last withdrawal from the Credit Account was made, all
                  records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
                  and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
            (iii) enable the Association's representatives to examine such
                  records; and
            (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are included in
                  the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this
                  Section and that the report of such audit contains a
                  separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the
                  statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal
                  year, together with the procedures and internal
                  controls involved in their preparation, can be relied
                  upon to support the related withdrawals.
                               ARTICLE V
                     Effective Date; Termination
      Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
      (a)   the Project Account referred to in paragraph 3 (b) of
Schedule 4 has been opened in a bank acceptable to the Association;
      (b)   the Borrower has enacted the Law on Medicine and MOH has
issued an order establishing rules and procedures to update and maintain
the Essential Drug List; and
      (c)   the bidding documents for the first annual tranche of drugs
procurement, and distribution agreements for these drugs in six oblasts,
in a form acceptable to the Association shall have been prepared and
furnished to the Association.
      Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the
General Conditions.
                             ARTICLE VI
              Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of
the General Conditions.
      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes
of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministry of Finance
            58, Erkindik Ave.
            720874 Bishkek
            Kyrgyz Republic
                                           Telex:
                                           245169 ASKAR KH
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
Page  6
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                  INDEVAS                  197688 (TRT),
                  Washington, D.C.         248423 (RCA),
                                            64145 (WUI) or
                                            82987 (FTCC)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
                  KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
                  By /s/ Almas T. Chukin
                                          Authorized Representative
                  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                  By /s/ Yukon Huang
                                     Acting Regional Vice President
                                            Europe and Central Asia
                              SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the
Credit to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so
to be financed in each Category:
                              Amount of the
                            Credit Allocated          % of
                              (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category                SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Works                     1,160,000           90%
(2) Goods                     7,400,000           100% of foreign
                                                  expenditures, 100%
                                                  of local expenditures
                                                  (ex-factory cost)
                                                  and 75% of local
                                                  expenditures for
                                                  other items procured
                                                  locally
(3) Consultants'              2,500,000           100%
    services and
    training
(4) Refunding of                340,000           Amount due pursuant
    Project Preparation                           to Section 2.02 (c) of
    Advance                                       this Agreement
(5) Unallocated               1,200,000
                             __________
      TOTAL                  12,600,000
Page  7
                             ==========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of
the Borrower; and
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals
shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the
date of this Agreement.
4.    The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to
be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for
goods, works and services under contracts costing less than $50,000
equivalent each, under such terms and conditions as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower.
                             SCHEDULE 2
                     Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are to reform and improve the
Borrower's health system through: (i) improvement of  the capacity of the
Borrower's health system to deliver efficient and cost effective primary
health services; (ii) reform of the pharmaceutical sector; and (iii)
introduction of  new medical payment and financial management systems.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Primary Health Care
1.    Improvement of antenatal and obstetric care and reduction of
maternal and neonatal deaths and birth defects through reorientation of
health services away from hospitals and towards primary health care
centers, merging gradually of specialty hospitals into the general
hospital system, introduction of new treatment protocols, training of
primary health care workers in new treatment methods, provision of basic
clinical equipment and supplies and a mass media campaign to support these
health reform activities.
2.    Reduction of the death rate in children from acute respiratory tract
infections and diarrhea through introduction of new treatment protocols,
training of hospital based and outpatient pediatricians, infectious disease
specialists and pediatric nurses, provision of essential drugs and public
education.
3.    Improvement of the early tuberculosis detection and treatment system
through reorientation of treatment away from specialized clinics and
towards ambulatory treatment in centers of primary health care,
introduction of new treatment protocols relating to chemotherapy and other
treatment and new methods of tuberculosis detection, and introduction of a
reward system for tuberculosis detection and effective cure and provision
of essential drugs.
Part B:     Facilities Rehabilitation
1.    Renovation of about 30 ambulatory treatment centers in Bishkek City
and Chui Oblast.
2.    Conversion of about 30 rural hospitals into ambulatory polyclinics
with holding beds.
3.    Provision of equipment and supplies to the renovated facilities.
Page  8
Part C:     Medical Care Provider Payment System
1.    Support for the establishment of about 300 new primary health care
group practices in Bishkek City and Chui Oblast through minor renovations
of new practice locations, provision of basic equipment, training and the
establishment of financial systems for these practices.
2.    Education of the public on the new health care group practices.
3.    Introduction of a payment system where a set fee is paid to medical
care providers for each patient enrolled in their practice and to
hospitals for the numbers and types of treatment actually provided to
their patients.
4.    Creation of a health fund to manage the new medical care provider
payment system and of three professional medical associations.
5.    Support to MOH's capacity to implement the new medical care
provider payment system through the establishment of integrated
management information systems to monitor health care delivery and
utilization in the Borrower's territory and training.
6.    Study of the levels of patient referrals from primary health care
physicians to specialists and for diagnostic tests in Bishkek City and
Chui Oblast.
Part D:     Pharmaceutical Management
1.    Renovation and outfitting of the National Drug Regulatory
Organization and training of its personnel and other health care
officials on drug and regulatory affairs.
2.    Distribution of the Borrower's Essential Drugs List and training
of health care officials on its goals and rationale.
3.    Development of standard medical treatment guidelines based on the
Essential Drugs List.
4.    Provision of drugs included in the Essential Drug List.
                              *   *   *
      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2000.
                             SCHEDULE 3
                Procurement and Consultants Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     General
      Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions
of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January
1996 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as
applicable.
Part B:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of
Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.    The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of
this Part B.
      (a)   Grouping of contracts
      To the extent practicable, contracts shall be grouped in bid
      packages.
Page  9
      (b)   Preference for domestically manufactured goods
      The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and
      Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the
      territory of the Borrower.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    International or National Shopping
      (a)   Goods estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent per
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $2,100,000 equivalent,
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international
shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5
and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
      (b)   Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $400,000 equivalent,
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of
the Guidelines.
2.    Procurement from UN Agencies
      Pharmaceuticals may be procured from UNICEF in accordance with the
provisions of paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines.
3.    Direct Contracting
      Pharmaceuticals which are of a proprietary nature and costing
$50,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, may, with the Bank's prior
agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7
of the Guidelines.
4.    Procurement of  Works
      (a)   Except as provided in paragraph (b) below, works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
      (b)   Works estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per
contract may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded
on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified domestic
contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall
include a detailed description of the works, including basic
specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of agreement
acceptable to the Association, and relevant drawings, where applicable.
The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price
quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources
to complete the contract successfully.
Part D:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Procurement Planning
      Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the
proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the
provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of
all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with
the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.    Prior Review
      With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $300,000 or more, each contract procured under the
provisions of Part C.3 and the first two contracts procured under the
provisions of Part C.4 (a) or (b) of Section 1 of this Schedule, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines
shall apply.
Page  10
3.    Post Review
      With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
1.    Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by The Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).
For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts shall be based on
the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by the
Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the
Association. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been
issued by the Association, other standard forms acceptable to the Bank
shall be used.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the
provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association
review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures,
letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts,
shall not apply to (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each or (b) contracts for
the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than
$50,000 equivalent each. However, said exceptions to prior Association
review shall not apply to (a) the terms of reference for such contracts,
(b) single-source selection of consulting firms, (c) assignments of a
critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Association, (d)
amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising
the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above, or (e) amendments to
contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising the
contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
                              SCHEDULE 4
                        Implementation Program
1.    The Borrower shall carry out an action plan, comprising the
following measures, agreed with the Association, in a manner satisfactory
to the Association:
      (a)   establishment of national health accounts and a national
health fund;
      (b)   provision of health services and replenishment of drugs and
other equipment and materials under the Project;
      (c)   issuance of guidelines on housing of publicly owned health
premises to family group practices;
      (d)   a study of the referrals of patients from primary care to
specialists;
      (e)   establishment of the standing committee for the essential
drug program;
      (f)   issuance of guidelines for women's reproductive health; and
      (g)   establishment of stakeholder groups.
2.    The Borrower shall:
      (a)   maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators
satisfactory to the Association, the carrying out of the Project and the
action plan the achievement of the Project's objectives.
      (b)   prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the
Association, and furnish to the Association, on or about August 31 of
Page  11
each year, an annual progress report integrating the results of the
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a)
of this Section on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the
Project and the action plan during the period preceding the date of said
report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the Project's
objectives during the period following such date; and
      (c)   review with the Association, by October 15 of each year, or
such later date as the Association shall request, the report referred to
in paragraph (b) of this Section, and thereafter, take all measures
required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and
recommendations of the said report and the Association's views on the
matter.
3.    Without any limitation upon the provisions set forth in Section
3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall:  (a)  ensure that annual
budgetary resources are allocated and made readily available for MOH as
shall be consistent with the funding requirements of the Project and
with the Program; and
      (b)   ensure that advances to the Project Account are promptly
made on a quarterly basis in amounts adequate to finance the Borrower's
contribution to the Project.
4.    The Borrower shall not undertake any new construction of health
facilities without prior consultation with the Association during the
implementation of the Project.
5.    The Borrower shall: (a) not later than December 31, 1996 carry out
an evaluation of the Issyk-kul demonstration project exploring the
feasibility of introducing a provider payment mechanism for health care
workers;
      (b)   furnish the results of said evaluation to the Association for
its review and comments; and
      (c)   thereafter implement the recommendations arising from said
evaluation in connection with the carrying out of Part C of the Project
taking into due consideration the Association's comments.
6.    During execution of the Project, the Borrower shall:
      (a)   maintain the TCC with adequate authorities to effectively
coordinate the activities under the Project under the management of a
director and four component coordinators, all with qualification and
experience acceptable to the Association, assisted by an administrative
assistant; and
      (b)   maintain the PCU and vest it with the  responsibility for
procurement, preparation of disbursement requests and reporting in
respect of the Project under the management of a director, with
qualifications and experience acceptable to the Association, assisted
by support staff in adequate numbers.
                             SCHEDULE 5
                           Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means the Categories set forth
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated
from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent
Page  12
to $250,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into
the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule,
provided, however, that unless the Association shall otherwise agree,
the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to
$100,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals plus the total amount
of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or
exceed the equivalent of $500,000.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account
shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for deposit into
the Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such
request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower
                  shall furnish to the Association requests for deposit
                  into the Special Account at such intervals as the
                  Association shall specify.
            (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Association the documents
                  and other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of
                  this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect of
                  which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each
                  such request, the Association shall, on behalf of the
                  Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit
                  into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                  shall have requested and as shall have been shown by
                  said documents and other evidence to have been paid out
                  of the Special Account for eligible expenditures. All
                  such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association
                  from the Credit Account under the respective eligible
                  Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts,
                  as shall have been justified by said documents and
                  other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account,
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably
request, furnish to the Association such documents and other evidence
showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the
Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the
Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
      (b)   if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the
Association, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)
(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished
to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of
the records and accounts for the Special Account;
      (c)   if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of
the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant to
the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
Page  13
      (d)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated
to the eligible Categories minus the total amount of all outstanding
special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section
5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice
to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time that
any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule;
or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so
request, refund to the  Association) an amount equal to the amount of
such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless
the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the
Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time that
any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall,
promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association
such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Association  made pursuant to paragraphs 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.
