Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 4395 AZ 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Additional Financing for IDP Economic Development Support Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF AZERBAIJAN 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated May 15, 2008 
 
Page  2
2
Page  3
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
Agreement dated May 15, 2008, entered into between REPUBLIC OF 
AZERBAIJAN (
“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (“Association”) for the purpose of providing additional financing for 
activities related to the Original Project (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  
The Recipient and the Association hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement.  
ARTICLE II - FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a credit in an amount equivalent to nine 
million six hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 9,600,000) 
(variously, “Credit” and “Financing”) to assist in financing the project described 
in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.   
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
2.04 
The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance 
shall be equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum. 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are April 1 and October 1 in each year. 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with the 
repayment schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Page  4
2
2.07. 
The Payment Currency is Dollars. 
ARTICLE III - PROJECT
 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Recipient shall cause the Parts A and C of the Project to be carried out 
by the Project Implementing Entity in accordance with the provisions of Article 
IV of the General Conditions and the Project Agreement. 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
3.03 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the 
 
Recipient shall:  
(a) 
maintain, until the completion of the Project, a Project Account in Manat 
on terms and conditions acceptable to the Association, to finance its 
counterpart contribution to the expenditures of the Project;   
(b) 
deposit into the Project Account the amounts required to cover the 
Recipient’s counterpart contributions for each quarter, as determined by 
the Recipient and the Association; and 
(c) 
ensure that the funds deposited into the Project Account shall be used 
exclusively to finance the Recipient’s counterpart contributions to the 
Project. 
ARTICLE IV - REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION
 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following: 
The Project Implementing Entity’s Legislation has been amended, suspended, 
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability 
of the Project Implementing Entity to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement. 
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following: 
Page  5
3
The event specified in Section 4.01
 
of this Agreement occurs and is continuing 
for a period of 60
 
days after notice of the event has been given by the Association 
to the Recipient. 
ARTICLE V - EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following: 
(a) 
The Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Recipient 
and the Project Implementing Entity. 
(b) 
The Project Implementing Entity has adopted the revised Operational 
Manual, satisfactory to the Association. 
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following: 
The Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the Recipient 
and the Project Implementing Entity and is legally binding upon the Recipient 
and the Project Implementing Entity in accordance with its terms. 
5.03. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE VI - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is the Minister of Finance. 
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
Ministry of Finance 
83 Samed Vurgun Street 
Baku AZ1022 
Republic of Azerbaijan 
 
Telex:  
 
 
142116 BNKSL 
Page  6
4
6.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 International 
Development 
Association 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 INDEVAS 
 248423 
(MCI) 
 1-202-477-6391 
 Washington, 
D.C. 
 
AGREED at Baku, Republic of Azerbaijan, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF AZERBAIJAN 
 
By /s/ Ali Shamil oglu Hasanov 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Gregory Jedrzejczak 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  7
5
SCHEDULE 1 
Project Description
 
The objective of the Project is to improve living conditions for IDPs, through 
demand- driven community based infrastructure and service micro-projects. 
The Project consists of the Original Project. 
Page  8
6
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. Subsidiary 
Agreement
 
1. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Parts A and C of the Project, the Recipient 
shall make the proceeds of the Financing available to the Project Implementing 
Entity under a subsidiary agreement between the Recipient and the Project 
Implementing Entity, under terms and conditions approved by the Association 
(“Subsidiary Agreement”).  
2. 
The Recipient shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in such 
manner as to protect the interests of the Recipient and the Association and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Financing.  Except as the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not assign, amend, abrogate
 
or waive the 
Subsidiary Agreement or any of its provisions
.
B. Anti-Corruption 
 
The Recipient shall ensure that all activities under the Project which are financed 
out of the proceeds of the Financing are carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation 
A. Project 
Reports 
 
The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of the indicators agreed with the Association.  Each 
Project Report shall cover the period of one (1) calendar quarter, and shall be 
furnished to the Association not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of the 
period covered by such report.  
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
1. 
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Recipient shall 
prepare and furnish to the Association not later than forty-five (45) days after the 
Page  9
7
end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project 
covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association. 
3. 
The Recipient shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 4.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Recipient.  
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than six (6) months after the end of such period.
 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. General
1. 
Goods and Works.
 
All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance 
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement 
Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.
 
All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance 
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the 
Consultant Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
3. Definitions.
 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of 
particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the 
Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding.  
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2
below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of International Competitive Bidding. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works.  
The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive 
Bidding, which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall 
specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used: 
Page  10
8
Procurement Method 
 
(a)  
National Competitive Bidding, subject to the following additional 
provisions: 
 
(i) 
there shall be no eligibility restrictions based on nationality of 
bidder and/or origin of goods; 
 
(ii) 
pre-qualification shall not be used for simple goods and works 
procurement and shall be conducted only for large works 
projects; 
 
(iii) 
entities in which the State or a State official owns a 
shareholding of whatever size shall not be invited to participate 
in tenders for the Government unless they are and can be shown 
to be legally and financially autonomous and they operate under 
commercial law; 
 
(iv) 
no national preferences may be applied on the basis of the 
origin of products or labor; 
 
(v) 
joint venture partners shall be jointly and severally liable for 
their obligations; 
 
(vi) n
o
“participation fee” shall be required of bidders for the 
purchase of bidding documents. The only charge shall be 
equivalent to the cost of producing (copying) the bidding 
documents; 
 
(vii) 
in the evaluation of bids, bids may not be rejected where they 
differ substantially from the estimated prices calculated by the 
procuring entity, except where the bid prices exceed the 
available budget; 
 
(viii) 
rebidding shall not be carried out without prior approval of the 
Association; 
 
(ix) 
works contracts of more than eighteen (18) months’ duration 
shall include appropriate price adjustment provisions; and 
 
(x) 
prior approval of the Association shall be required for any 
modification in the contract scope and conditions during 
implementation. 
Page  11
9
(b)  Shopping, subject to the provisions in the Operational Manual 
 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
1. Quality- 
and 
Cost-based 
Selection.
 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2
below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following table 
specifies methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify 
the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
 
(a) Selection Under a Fixed Budget 
 
(b) Least-cost Selection 
 
(c) Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications 
 
(d) Single Source Selection 
 
(e) Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 through 5.4 of the Consultant  
 
Guidelines for the Selection of Individual Consultants 
 
D. 
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Association’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review 
by the Association.
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing
A. General 
1. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 
2006, as revised from time to time by the Association and as made applicable to 
Page  12
10
this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as 
set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing
 (“Category”), the allocations of the 
amounts of the Financing to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to 
be financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category: 
Category 
Amount of the Credit 
Allocated (expressed  
in SDR) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
Financed 
 
(1)  Works and  Goods 
   
8,100,000 
72% 
(2)  Consultants’ Services,
 including 
Audit 
 
210,000
75%
(3) Training 
        
80,000 
75% 
(4) Operating Costs 
      
890,000 
75% 
(5) Unallocated 
      
320,000 
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
9,600,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
1.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement. 
2.
 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2011. 
Page  13
11
SCHEDULE 3
 
Repayment Schedule 
 
Date Payment Due 
Principal Amount of the Credit 
repayable 
(expressed as a percentage)* 
 
On each April 1 and October 1: 
 
commencing April 1, 2018 to and including 
October 1, 2027 
1.25% 
commencing April 1, 2028 to and including 
October 1, 2042 
2.5% 
________________________ 
*
The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to 
be repaid, except as the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03 (b) 
of the General Conditions. 
Page  14
12
APPENDIX 
 Definitions 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
2. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
3. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
4. 
“EMP” means the Environmental Management Plan, dated December 1, 2004, 
setting forth the framework of procedures and measures to mitigate any adverse 
impacts to the environment and incorporated into the Operational Manual. 
5. 
“Eligible Social Charges” mean the contribution of the Project Implementing 
Entity to social charges assessed by the Recipient on the consultant’s contracts 
with the Project Implementing Entity, and social charges for the Project 
Implementing Entity’s staff who are employed for the purpose of the Project. 
6. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through October 15, 2006). 
7. 
“Manat” means the currency of the Recipient. 
8. 
 “Operating Costs” means incremental operating and maintenance costs incurred 
by the Project Implementing Entity on account of management of Project 
implementation for communications, utilities including electricity, bank charges, 
printing and publications, office rent maintenance, repair and supplies, office 
security systems, vehicle operation, fuel and maintenance, salaries of the Project 
Implementing Entity’s staff employed for the purpose of the Project, excluding 
those who are civil servants, eligible social charges, transportation and field trip 
expenses, insurance for office equipment and vehicle, all for the purpose of 
Project management, as such other expenditures as may be agreed upon by the 
Association. 
9. 
 “Operational Manual” means the manual adopted by the Project Implementing 
Entity, dated October 31, 2005 and revised pursuant to Section 5.01 (b) of this 
Agreement, setting forth the procedures for the implementation of the Project 
which may be amended from time to time with the agreement of the Association. 
Page  15
13
10.  
“Original Financing Agreement” means the development credit agreement for a 
IDP Economic Development Support Project between the Recipient and the 
Association, dated June 3, 2005, as amended to the date of this Agreement 
(Credit No 4034-AZ). 
11. 
“Original Project” means the Project described in the Original Financing 
Agreement. 
12. 
 “Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October, 2006. 
13. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated January 25, 2008 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
14. 
“Project Account” means the project account used for the Recipient’s counterpart 
financing for the Project, referred to in Section  
15. 
“Project Implementing Entity” means the Republic of Azerbaijan Social Fund for 
Development of IDPS (SFDI), an autonomous public agency of the Recipient, 
established pursuant to its Charter, or any other successor thereto. 
 
16. 
“Project Implementing Entity’s Legislation” means the Charter of the SFDI, 
dated December 6, 1999, as amended to the date of this Agreement. 
 
17. 
“Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section I.A of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement pursuant to which the Recipient shall make the 
proceeds of the Financing available to the Project Implementing Entity.
 
