                                                                                                              97787
Azerbaijan: Forced Displacement - A Development Challenge                                              April 14, 2011




 Improving living conditions for internally displaced people in Azerbaijan


Overview
To date the project has funded 319 small scale service and infrastructure micro-projects,
identified by communities of internally displaced people as their greatest development needs.
Micro-projects include school, housing and road rehabilitation, upgrade of water and electricity
supplies, and the provision of community facilities.


Challenge                                               MULTIMEDIA
Seven percent of Azerbaijan’s population,             Loading the player ...
approximately 603,000 people, is displaced,
proportionally one of the highest concentrations
of Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) in the
world. These IDPs left Nagorno-Karabakh and
the surrounding territories after an armed conflict
between Armenia and Azerbaijan in the early
1990s, and settled into new locations in
Azerbaijan. Without a peace agreement or final
resolution of the conflict, they remain unable to
return to their lands of origin, and their
protracted displacement has profound
implications for their social and economic status.     MORE
Impoverished in the immediate aftermath of their        Slideshow:  Forced Displacement - A
displacement and deprived of their significant          Development Challenge
assets, IDPs constitute a vulnerable group. They
have had to adapt to a new context, but still
suffer from loss, trauma, and a sense of social
marginalization and hopelessness. IDPs are more likely to be         More Results
poor, suffer worse living conditions, and display lower
employment rates and higher work inactivity rates than the
non-displaced.

Approach                                                             319
                                                                     small scale micro-projects have
The project is designed to increase the access to and quality        been completed between 2005
of infrastructure and services among displaced people and to         and 2011 leading to the
                                                                     improved living conditions for
thereby improve their living conditions. The project uses a          IDPs
community driven approach, where IDP communities come to
consensus on their development priorities in their local area
and formulate and submit proposals for small scale micro-
projects to address those priorities. IDPs select a community
committee, which represents the wider community and
                                                                     90%
                                                                     of expected outcomes for micro-
assumes responsibility for overseeing the micro-project              projects have been fully
including giving input into the micro-project design, collecting   achieved
a community share to part fund the cost of the project, and
evaluating the success of the completed micro-project. This
community driven process is intended to raise levels of IDP        LEARN MORE
involvement in development decision making and to increase
their level of empowerment and responsibility.                      Azerbaijan IDP Economic
                                                                    Development Support Project
                                                                    (2005-2011)
Results                                                             Additional Financing for
Since 2005, 319 micro-projects have been completed,                 Azerbaijan IDP Economic
reaching 197,897 beneficiaries, 49 percent of whom were             Development Support Project
female. Leading to a general improvement in living                  Azerbaijan State Committee on
conditions and access to services and infrastructure among          Deals of Refugees and IDPs
IDPs, the outputs include:

       rehabilitation of 342 km of road

       rehabilitation of 66 km of water supply pipes

       installation of 124 km of new electricity cable

       repair of 43 schools, attended by 1800 children

       temporary employment for 3,945 IDPs in construction works on the micro-projects

The outcome and impacts of micro-projects are identified on a case by case basis; when IDP
community members submit a micro-project proposal, they identify the expected outcome and
impact of their desired micro-project. Subsequent to the completion of the micro-project,
community members evaluate whether those expected outcomes and impacts have been met.
Community members have assessed that 90 percent of expected outcomes for micro-projects
have been fully achieved.

Bank Contribution
The project was funded through a US$ 11.5 million International Development Association
(IDA) credit in 2005 and through an IDA additional financing credit of US$ 15.0 million in 2008.

Partners
The project is implemented by the Social Fund for the Development of IDPs (SFDI) which
reports to the State Committee on Refugees and IDPs (SCRI). Twelve year collaboration
between the World Bank and SFDI/SCRI has created a strong platform for dialogue on
operational responses and policy reform for IDPs. It has also resulted in the improved capacity
of SFDI as an effective implementing agency, which also channels funds from other donors
including an allocation of approximately US$ 120 million from the Azerbaijan State Oil Fund.
SFDI reports to a multi-agency Supervisory Board, with representatives of government
agencies and international donors including UNHCR. UNHCR is represented on the project’s
supervisory board, reviews micro-project proposals over a certain amount, and monitors overall
project progress.

Moving Forward
Promoting economic opportunities and livelihoods of IDPs requires more attention. At present,
71 percent of IDPs report being dependent on state subsidies, such as cash transfers, as the
main income source for their households. The Bank and the government are currently
considering a re-balancing of the nature of support for IDPs, focusing on improving their
employment prospects, building their assets, and strengthening their self reliance. A 2010 study
by the Bank and the government has identified constraints and opportunities in increasing IDP
self reliance. The findings are informing the design of a proposed new IDP Living Standards
and Livelihoods Project, expected to commence in January 2012.
Beneficiaries
The total of 197,897 people have benefitted from the project.
The Aligulu community of IDPs in the Lachin region has rehabilitated their school. The
headmaster says: “ The repair works increased the effectiveness of education and the
attendance of students. Before, classrooms were damp, windows were not tight, the rooms
were cold and student attendance was low. Now all these problems are solved.” Parents also
confirm: “Before the repair children often fell ill. Now the classrooms are dry, clean and warm.”
Malahat Masimova, a member of the IDP community in the Ganja region: “ Before, members of
the community with low incomes couldn’t afford to rent a place for a funeral or a wedding. But
now, with a large tent supplied to the community as part of a micro-project, they can easily
celebrate engagements, wedding parties and organize mourning ceremonies .”
