c-U/L- wXC-)h  '   /t JJ /
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 12668-MAI
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THE REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II
NAY 17, 1994
MICROGRAAPHICS
Report No:         12668 MW
Type: SAR
Southern Africa Department
Africa Region
This document has a restdicted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be dislosed without Wodd Bank authozatioL



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: Malawi Kwacha (MK)
US$1 = MK4.3
MKI = US$ 0.23
MK1 = 100 Tambalas
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CSR          Civil Service Reform
CGM          Consultative Group Meeting
CEU          Census Executing Unit
CIR          Country Implementation Review
DPD          Data Processing Department
DPMT         Department of Personnel Management and Training
DSB          Department of Statutory Bodies
EC           European Community
EP&D         Economic Planning and Development
ESAMI        Eastern and Southern Africa Management Institute
FMIS          Financial Management Information System
GDP          Gross Domestic Product
GOM          Government of Malawi
HID          Harvard Institute for International Development
HRMU         Human Resources Management Unit
IBRD         International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB          International Competitive Bidding
lCID         Inter-ministerial Committee on Institutional Development
ID I         Institutional Development Project I
ID II        Institutional Development Project II
IDA          International Development Association
IMF          International Monetary Fund
LCB          Limited Competitive Bidding
MDC          Management Development Consultant
MIM          Malawi Institute of Management
MIS          Management 1-Vormation System
MOF          Ministry of Finance
MOL          Ministry of Labor
MPSR         Malawi Public Service Regulations
ODA          Overseas Development Administration (United Kingdom)
OPC          Office of the President and Cabinet
PMIS         Personnel Management Information System
PPF          Project Preparation Facility
PSM          Public Sector Management
PSMIU        Public Sector Management Improvement Unit
PSMR         Public Sector Management Review
RBM          Reserve Bank of Malawi
SAL          Structural Adjustment Loan
SDR          Special Drawing Rights
SFC.         Secretary to the President and Cabinet
SC es        Sub-Saharan Africa
TA           Technical Assistance
TOR          Terms of Reference
UNDM         United Nations Development Program
USAIL,       United States Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEAR



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MALAWI
INSTTUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II
DRAFT STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY  .i....                .         "I.....    . ......
CHAFTER 1. BACKGROUND .............
A.           Introduction ..................................
B.           Macro-economic Setting ..........      ................   2
CHAEr  2. ISE Di PUBUC SECTOR MAAGEMENT ............ .                          3
A.           Management of Government Ministries and Departments.        3
B.           Civil Service Pay and Employmen.                            6
C.           Management Information System.                              9
D.           Budgetary and Financial Management .11
E.           Parstata Sector Magement .13
F.           Management a-d Skals Development .16
G.           Governance Situation and Management Improvement ..... -   17
CHA=R 3. TE PROtJ ...........                    .                             19
A.           Rationale and Objecives .19
B.           Impro~;ng Civil Service Policy and Information Framework   19
C.           Strengthening the Capacity of the Department of Personnel
Management and Training .20
D.           Strengthening Institutional Capacity of the Ministry of Finance .  22
E.           Support to the Department of Statutory Bodies .. ......... 23.
F.           Strengthening the Malawi Institute of Management .24
CHAER 4. PRoWr COST AND FINANCING  .......            ....................  25
A.           Costs and Financing  .    ........................... 25
B.           Procurement . .................................  27
C.           Disbursements .............       ...................  29
D.           Accounts and Audits .........      ...................  30
CH1AER S. PROJET MANAGEMET AD IMLEMENTATION ....... .......... 30
A.           ChnneUing rDA Funds to NHM  ......        ...............  30
B.           Overall Arrangements ........       ...................  30
C.           MIM Implementation .........       ...................  32
D.           Technical Assistance .........     ...................  32
*     This report is based on the findings of a Bank appraisal mission which visited Malawi
in October/November 1993, comprising Messrs Ladipo Adamolekm (Principal Public Sector
Management Specialist and mission leader), Gerard Boulch (Public Sector Management
Speciaist), Noel KAdemeka (Economist), Frank Molobi (Development Economist), and Marc
Maleta (Conutant, Public Enterprise Management Specialist). Djordje Jovanovic (Senior
Country Officer) and Malcolm Holmes (Public Financial Management Specialist) assisted in
appraising some of the project components. Mike Stevens (Senior Economist) was the Lead
Advisor and Katrina Sharkey (Public Sector Management Specialist) was Peer Reviewer. Ms
Brigida Tuason helped to prepare the project cost tables and Ms Sylvie Lelibvre provided
secretarial support in the preparation of the report. Messrs Praful Patel and Stephen Denning
are managing Division Chief and Department Director respectively for the operation.
This document has a restricted distibution and may be used by recipien  only in the performc of their
odical duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authzation.



E.           Implementation Schedule, Reporting and Monitoring ........   33
F.           Client Consultation ............................. 33
G.           Environmental Impact ..........      .................  34
CHAER 6. PRO          BENEFS, MPACT AND RISKS ...................... 34
A.           Impact and Benefits . ..............................  34
B.           Risks .    .....................................  34
CHAFPER 7. AGREEmEs To BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ....             ........ 35
Text Tables
4.1: Project Cost Summary
4.2: Summary Financing Plan
4.3: Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
4.4: Disbursement Arrangements
Annexes
1. Policy Statement on Civil Service Reform and Institutional Strengthening
2. Civil Service Census: Objectives, Methodology and Strategy
3. Detailed Cost Tables
4. Detailed Financing Tables
5. Detailed Procurement Arrangements
6. Detailea Disbursement Arrangements
7. Implementation Schedule
8. Training Plan
9. Matrix of Performance Indicators
10. IDA Supervision Plan
11. Terms of Reference for the Development of a Register of Local Management Consultants
and Experts.
12. Terms of Reference of Project Manager
13. Evolution of the Endowment Fund of the Malawi Institute of Management. Addendum:
Observations of MIM's Governing Board on the Endowment Fund, December 1993.
14. Technical Assistance Matrix
15. Outline Plan for Project Launch Workshop
16. Key Project Documents and Selected Reports and Publications Relating to the Project.
17. Organizational Charts of Beneficiary Ministries/Departments/Agencies
lmplementation Manual (available on request)
Map: IBRD NO. 24!f75 - Malawi



REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
INSTITUMONAL DEVELOPIENT PROJECT II
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
lorrower:           Republic of Malawi
Main
Beneficiaries:      Department of Personnel Mana-ement and Training
Ministry of Finance
Department of Statutory Bodies
Malawi Institute of Management
Amount:             SDR 16 million (US$22.6 million equivalent)
Ten:                Standard IDA terms with 40 years maturity
On-lending
Ter:                Not applicable
Finaning Plan:      IDA - US$22.6 million
Government - US$3.0 million (equivalent)
Tota. US$25.6 million
Eoonomic Rate
of Return:          Not Applicable
Povety Category:   Not Applicable
Project Description: The objectives of the project are to: (i) address specific systemic
management issues that now constitute bottlenecks to efficiency and
effectiveness in the civil service; (ii) assist the Department of Statutory
Bodies to better manage the interface between the parastatal sector and
the Government; and (iii) strengthen the Malawi Institute of
Management. The project would be implemented over a five-year
period (1994 -1999) and has five main components: (A) Improving
Civil Service Policy and Information Framework (US$3.3 million):
This component will be concerned with issues that cut across
ministries and departments of the civil service, beginning with the
policy and legislative framework. Government would take steps to
promulgate a Public Service Act and adopt a Statement of Policy on
Institutional Development and Civil Service Reform. The other main
issue addressed is the design, installation and implementation of
appropriate management inturmation systems for the personnel and
finance functions. The project will finance a civil service census
which is a critical first atep in the development of a personnel
management information system. The project will also finance the
design, development and implementation of a computerization plan for
financial management. (B) Strengthening the Capacity of the



ii
Department of Personnel Management and Training (US$4.0
million): The project will provide support to DPMT in the form of
TA, equipment and training to enable it improve its performance with
particular reference to key personnel management fumctions.
Specifically, the project will finance: (V) review of the institutional
arrangements for determining remuneration; (ii) re-design of the pay
structure and rationalization of fringe benefits and allowances, linked
to job evaluation; (iii) preparation of procedure manuals covering
functions undertaken by personal common services staff; (iv)
development and implementation of an open performance appraisal
system; and (v) development and introduction of career paths. The
project will also support the re-structuring of the Department and the
enhancement of the skills of its staff. (C) Stengthening bstitutional
Capacity of the Ministry of Flnance (US$5.5 million): The project
will finance the installation and implementation of forward budgeting
as well as the design and implementation of a new public accounting
system. The project will also provide support to the tax policy analysis
unit and promote skills development in both budgeting and accounting
dtrough the provision of short-term TAs, training fellowships and the
organization of workshops and study tours. (D) Support to the
Department of Statutory Bodies (JS$1.9 million): The project will
finance activities relating to (i) clarification of the role and functions
of DSB and its relationship with other supervisory agencies; (ii)
strengthening DSB's role in promoting improved financial and
economic performance of parastatals; (iii) development of a
government privatization policy; and (iv) enhancement of the sils of
DSB staff. (E) Strengthening the Malawi Institute of Mnaement
(US$8.1 million). MIM will be given further support to assist it in
consolidating the solid achievements it has recorded under ID L
ProJect funds will be used to finance: (i) a second phase of technical
assistance (essentially on short-term arrangements) that would help to
strengthen the Institute's capacity in training and consultancy; (ii) staff
training; (iii) fellowship to MIM's courses; (iv) books and equipment
for the Institute's Learning Resource Center; and (v) construction of
management staff housing on the Institute's campus in Lilongwe.
Benefits and Risks
Benelits:          Improved performance of personnel, budgetary and financial
management would enhance efficiency and effectiveness throughout
the entire civil service system. This will help to enhance
macroeconomic stability. The conduct of government business would
benefit from the predictability, transparency and accountability
fostered by provisions in the Public Service Act. All this would
favorably affect the implementation of development programs and
projects, including those supported by the Bank. Better management of
the government-enterprise relationship by the Department of Statutory
Bodies would enable Government to derive more substantial benefits
from its parastatals. And the development of a privatization policy
would help to rationalize the parastatal sector and to prepare the



iii
ground for a privatization program. Continued success of the Malawi
Institute of Management in providing training and consultancy serices
to government, parastatals and the private sector would eventally
enhance the quality of national economic management.
Rlsks:             The evolving governance situation in the country would be marked by
periodic problems that could hinder effective implementation of some
management improvement measures. While this needs to be
acknowledged, the gains from a distinct trend toward openness and
transparency would limit its negative consequences. Furthermore,
given the context of impending elections, the leaders of some of the
opposition parties as well as representatives of the media were briefed
on the main features of the project. Attention was drawn to its
apolitical character: a project that will help enhance the quality of
public management to the benefit of both the governors and the
governed. A major problem encountered in implementing the
component on the Ministry of Finance under ID I was rapid staff
turnover. Although this persists, the existence or a core staff at the
PSMIU together with designated coordinators for project components
under ID II would limit the negative consequences. The weak
Implementation capacity noted at the country implementation reviews
held in 1991 and 1993 could slow project implementation at the initial
stage. However the corrective measures already in place together with
a robust government implementation plan for ID II would help to
minimize the risk. Implementation of pay reform measures might be
difficult because of the tight budgetary constraint which could continue
for the foreseeable future. But increased revenue mobilization and
prudent financial management could help provide the necessary
resources.



iv
Esimated Costs:
PROJECT COST SUMMARY
(Mal Kwacha'000)            (US$'000)        % Foreign % Total
Local   Foreign    Total     Local  Foreign   Total   Exchange Base Coss
1. Civil Serv. Policy &
Info. Framework         2,097.4   11,066.1   13,163.5    487.8 2,573.5   3,061.3    84      13
2. Department of Personnel
Mgmt & Training         1,796.4   13,884.6   15,681.0    417.8 3,229.0   3,646.8    89      16
3. Mintry of Fmance        239.5   21,452.5  21,692.0      55.7 4,989.0   S,044.7    99      22
4. Dept of Sttory Bodies   150.1    7,720.7   7,870.7      34.9 1,795.5   1,8;0.4    98       8
S. MalawA Inst. of Mngt  13,917.8   16,409.7  30,327.5   3,236.7 3,816.2   7,052.9    54     30
6. PSM Improvement Unit    5,424.8    1,571.3   6,996.1   1,261.7  365.4   1,627.0    22      7
7. PPF                       -       4,300.0   4,300.0      -   1,000.0   1,000.0   100       4
Total Baseline Costs     23,626.0   76,404.7  100,030.7  5,494.4 17,768.5  23,263.0    76    100
Physical Contingencies    76.8    2,485.7   2,562.4      17.9  578.1    595.9    97         3
Price Contingencies     4,547.8    3,016.9    7,564.7   1,057.6  701.6   1,759.2    40      8
TotalProjectCosts        28,250.6   81,907.3  110,157.9   6,659.9 19,048.2  25,618.1    74   110
FINANCING PLAN (US$'000)
LOCAL              FOREIGN                TOTAL
IDA                             3,509               19,048                22,557
Government                      3,061                  -                   3,061
TOTAL                           6,570               19,048                25,618
E[I[MATED IDA DISBURSEMENT (US$'000)
Project Year
Year I         Year2        Year3      Year4    Year5    Year6
AnnWal                   4,673           8,246        5,325      2,607      1,582        124
Cumulative               4,673          12,919       18,244    20,851    22,433       22,557



MALAWI
INRSTIUTIONAL DEVEWLOPhMT PROJECT
C}AWER 1. BACKGROUND
A.    Introduction
1.1   The c}vil service in Malawi provided reasonably adequate support for the successive
structu  adjustment programs implemented in the 1980s. It was one of the few civil service
institutions in Sub-Saharan Africa whose staff were paid close to adequate salaries. But there
were important weaknesses, first highlighted in the Civil Service Commission ITeport of 1985
(the Herbecq Commission) and documented in detail in the Pubfic Sector Ma nt
Review (PSMR) undertaken by the Government and the Bank in 1991 and published in March
1993. The PSM issues examined in the PSMR were determined by the Secretary to the
President and Cabinet (SPC) and the Principal Secretaries of the civil service. Their major
concem was the need to focus on management issues that cut across ministries and
iepartments in contrast to the growing trend of each ministry and department seeking to
achieve management improvement within its own organization. Ihe preliminary findings of
the PSMR were discussed with the Principal Secretaries at a workshop in July 1991, and the
Green Cover was discussed in detail with relevant Government officials in June 1992. The
PSMR found that the performance of the civil service was low base of poor definition of
responsibilities, inadequate and poorly targeted training, failure to undertake program
evaluation and poor financial management. On civil service pay and employment, the PSMR
found that pay levels we-e inadequate to attract professional and technical staff, thereby
creating vacancy rates of about 35 percent. In contrast, there was overstaing in the junior
ranks where staff salaries were compacable to those in the other sectors. The PSMR examined
the problems of the parastatal sector, including the unclear definition of the role of the
Department of Statuory Bodies (DSB) which is charged with manging the interface between
parastatals and the Government.
1.2    Government has requested IDA support to implement some of the PSMR rept's
recommendations thirough a second Institutional Development project (ID 1): this would be a
successor to the on-going IDA-supported Institutional Development project (ID 1), with
UNDP co-fimancing. UNDP is assisting in the strengthening of accuting and auditing and
the modernization of the tax system in the Ministry of Finance. The IDA credit is devoted to
the establishment of the Malawi Institt of Management with some support for the tax
modernization program. IThe project financed civil works, fumishings and equipment for
MIM and technical assistance for the tax reform program. Implementation of ID I is
scheduled for completion in December 1994. Although valuable progress has been recorded
in implementing the Tax Modernizaton Program, Government is still experiencing difficulffes
in revenue forecasting and would like assistance provided under ID II. Ihe scope of the
UNDP-supported instutional strengtening actions in the Ministry of Fimance, recostituted
as a "Government Financial Management Development" project in 1992 were stil being
reviewed in November 1993 due, in part, to reduced funding available fiom UNDP.
Accordingly, Government Las decided to transfer the design and installation of a forward
budgeting system as well as the design and implementation of a new public accounting system
to ID II.



2
1.&    Although MIM has been firmly established as a training and consulting institution and
its physical infrastructure is nearing completion, three main needs for further support have
been identified: technical assistance and training, books and equipment for the Institute's
Learning Resource Center, and campus management staff housing. Government would also
like the problem of the Department of Statutory Bodies addressed under ID II. To help
prepare iD IR and provide for start-up activities, an advance of US$600,000 was approved
from the Project Preparation Facility in October 1992. The following fout studies, financed
under the credit, were completed in July 1993:
*     salaries, wages and fringe benefits;
o     organizational audit of the Department of Personnel Management and
Training;
e     use of information technology; and
*     status and tasks of the Department of Statutory Bodies.
The findings and conclusions of these studies are reflected in this SAR.
B.    Macro-economic Setting
1.4   Following independence in 1964, Malawi's development strategy, by and large,
emphasized inrastructure and estate agriculture as vehicles for increased production and
growth. During the 1960s and 1970s, when Malawi's ewonomy was relatively open, reai
GDP more than doubled and real per capita income grew by 3 percent per year. The peciod
of strong growth came to a halt in the early 1980s with tle onset of a series of external
shocks, including deterioration of terms-of-trade, oil crises, disruption along the external
transport routes through Mozambique, and weather-related shocks. These shocks led to an
economic crisis culminating in 1986/87 and to policies which reversed the openness of the
economy and discouraged private sector investment and output.
1.5   The adoption of a strategy based on "Growth Through Poverty Reduction" was a
significant step in firthering Malawi's development strategy. Since 1987, efforts have been
made to develop structural policies with a focus on removing the binding constraints to
sustainable growth, while simultaneously addressing the roots of pervasive poverty. The new
attempt to liberalize the economy included reforms to redress the policy bias against
smallholders, remove constraints on private sector participation in all sectors of the economy,
and move toward a more liberal external sector policy.
1.6    Most recently, in 1992, economic management was challenged by additional internal
and external developments. At the May 1992 Consultative Group Meeting, bilateral donors
and the EC withheld new external assistance (except humanitarian aid) until there was tangible
and irreversible evidence in the way Malawi approaches governance issues. The
unprecedented drought throughout southern Africa put additional pressure on the fiscal
balance and accelerated the decline of already low levels of foreign reserves.
1.7    Despite experiencing the worst economic setbacks since independence, Malawi has
sustained its adjustment program, but at a much slower pace than origir .dy envisaged. At
this time, the prospects for economic recovery from the 1992 drought lear are good.
Following the June 1993 referendum that endorsed the move to multiparty democracy and the
subsequent steps taken by the Government, donors have pledged new balance-of-payments



3
assistance as a first step to support the adjustment program add stabilization of the
macroeconomic framework. A Bank/Fund mission visited Malawi in November 1993, and
February 1994 to assess the macroeconomic situation, especially in view of the ongoing
pclitical transition process. The mission successfully concluded the negotiations on the flith
Policy Framework Paper (PFP) and mid-term review of the Fund's fourth arrangement under
the Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility.
CHAPT   2. ISSUES IN PUBLIC SECTOR MANAGEMENT
2.1   Three main issues are examined in the Pubtfic Sector Management Review report
(Report No. 9643-MAI):
*     management of Government ministries and departnents;
*     management of public sector employment and pay; and
*     management of the parastatal sector.
The first two issues are focussed on tihe civil service: the analysis in the PSMR constitutes an
update on the Civil Service Commission Report (1985). Normally a comprehensive review of
management problems in the machinery of the Jalawi goverment would cover, in addition
to the civil service and :he parastatals, the legislative and judicial institutions, the police and
defense establishments and local governments. The overview of key issues in public sector
management provided in the following paragraphs is focused only on those relating to the civil
service and the parastatal sector on which diagnostic work has been undertaken. (A
diagnostic study of local government management problems was carried out in 1991 by the
Bank at the request of the Govermnent: this resulted in the Local Government Development
Project, Report No. 1034-MA!). Here, the following issues will be examined:
*     Management of Government Ministries and Departments;
e     Civil Service Pay and Employment;
*     Management Information System;
*     Budgetary and Financial Management;
*     Parastatal Sector Management; and
*     Management and Skills Development.
A final section will cover the governance situation and management improveme.f, which has
emerged as a salient issue in the Malawian context since the Consultative Group Meeting of
May 1992.
A.    Management of Government Ministries and Departments
2.2   Following the Herbecq Report, some ministries and departments of the cental
government embarked on the study of management problems. These studies were supported
by donors, including the World Bank. The ministries and departments included: Works
(1987/88), Finance (1988), Education (1989) and Agriculture (1990, 1992). (Health,
Agriculture and DPMT had been covered as part of the Herbecq Commission's work).



4
Drawing on the findings and conclusions of the reviews, the PSMR identified the following
most common management problems:
* Sector strategies, ministries' functions and managers' responsibilities are not
clearly defined and understood by the ministries, resulting in uncertainty over
who is accountable for management decisions.
e Ministries' top managers are too often making decisions on matters that should be
handled by managers at lower levels; ministries with regional operations are
characterized by excessive centralized (headquarters') decision-making.
* Inadequate program performance and cost data are generated and made available
to assist with management decision-making.
* Inadequate program evaluation is carried out at the ministry level: this impedes
proper national program policy, planning and budgeting decision-making.
* Ministry managers regularly overrun their budget allocations.
* Ministries' training and staff development programs are not systematically
developed and tend not to be based upon the identification of skills deficiencies or
other specific training needs.
* Ministry supervisors exercise limited control over the attendance and performance
of their subordinates.
* Vertical and horizontal management communications within the ministrias are
poor.
2.3    The PSMR also found the following conditions generally associated with the less
successfil management improvement efforts:
*  Top iiimagement did not fully understand the problems identified and did not
commit to their resolution.
* Action plans were perceived as imposed, rather than as the product of agreement
between consultants and ministry management.
* Recommendations exceeded a ministry's capability to implement.
* Recommendations were outside a Ministry's jurisdiction or control.
* Clear responsibility for implementation was not established.
* The possible benefit of implementing a recommendation was not balanced against
the consequences of failing in its undertaking.
*  No strucure or process was instituted for managing the overall implemenation of
improvements.
* Technicad assistance was not accessible.



2.4    The PSMR concluded that the converse of these conditions represent conditions that
would enhance the prospects for a ministry's attempts at organization-wide management
improvement.
2.5    Another category of problems in the management of ministries and departments
examined in both the Herbecq report and the PSMR relate specifically to the common
seices. Unlike most civil servants who are managed by the Principal Secretaries of their
ministies, the 10,000-odd members of the common services are managed separately.]/
Each common service is expected to ensure uniform standards, provide professional
backstopping for its members and provide opporunities for the development of expertise and
professional growth. Three main problems were identified: excessive staff turnover,
excessive vacancies, and insufficient understanding within the common services of their
functions. The problem of excessive vacancies was investigated by MIM in 1991 (financed
by the UNDP) and recommendations were made on the streamlining of the recruitment
process and the reduction of the time for promotions. Some of these recommendations are
being implemented. With regard to the difficulty in attracting and retaining qualified staff, it
would be necessary to address the issues concerning the current recruitmuent process and
career development. One solution would be the introduction of a merit-based recruitment
system, especially in respect of entry level staff to the professional and managerial cadres.
This could be introduced under the proposed Public Service Act (see para 3.2).
2.6    The following recommendations are made in the PSMR in respect of the two other
problems:
To reduce excessive staff turnover:
* adopt guidelines on reporting and promotion to minimize inter-ministeria
transfers (guidelines to require, among other things, advance consultation
between responsible officer and controlling officer).
* umprove personnel record keeping and information systems to better track stff
rotations.
0 encourage guidance rather than transfer as the first reaction to difficulty.
M h  tam  mmanged- refers to day-to-day control over the civil servant. Recruitmt intoe
sevce, promotons and teminations are managed by the PubLic Sice no   and DPMT.
Rotations or Isteal movements are the responsibility of the head of the common service or dt
Prncipa Secretary of a Ministry except m stations involving high ranking civil servants or inter-
ministeria movemets of non-common service staff wiich are orchestated by OPC and DPMT.
The common svices ae: Acounting, Administrave, Deat, Economic Planning, Meusi1a,
Pemnnel, Secreaial, Statstal and Stores. (The M egrid Common Service which was at
an incit stapg at the tih e of the PSMR was discontinued  tly teeafter an the
aeconmmdadon of he PSMR. Me_suus continue to be denitmental emvlovyes.)



6
To improve the understanding of the tasks and functions of the common services:
* schemes of service be introduced that show duties of each cadre (ob
descrptions) as well as entry, training and promotion requirements for all
common services.
* procedures manuals be prepared for various functions undertaken by common
service personnel (such as, accounting, stores, budgetary), induction training
be provided for new recruits, and professional seminars and other in-service
training be organized to assist career development.
* an open performance appraisal system be introduced.
2.7    The Herbecq Commission identified the absence of a Public Service Act as
contributing to the poor management of the personnel fnction. It recommended that an
appropriate Act be adopted with emphasis on the effective performance of the personnel
function. Eight years after the acceptance of the recommendation, the Government had not
implemented it. The recommendation re-surfaced in two of the studies commissioned as part
of the preparation of ID I (July 93). According to the two studies, the Act would etend
beyond initial concern with the personnel function to serve as the legislative framework withi
which government business is conducted. It would enunciate the principles of civil service
employment, notably merit-based recruitment and promotion and spell out the allocation of
responsibilities and methods of enforcing accountability. The Act would ensure transparency
and predictability. The Government has decided to prepare and adopt a Statement of Policy
on Institutional Development and Civil Service Reform as a companion document to the
Public Service Act.
B.    Cvii Service Pay and Employment
2.8   From one perspective, pay and employment conste the wage bill of the
Governmenat of Malawi and, as such, are important components of the budget. More
important is the fact that people constime the most important resource available to
Government for meeting its development objectives and that pay (and other forms of
remuneration) is a key element in creatng appropriate incentives for effective performance.
On both counts Malawi has, (at least until recently) done better than most SSA countries sin
independence. The share of wages In the budget averaged 16.8 percent over 1980-89
compared with 26.5 percent in a group of comparable countries. For the most part,
remuneation levels were adequate - in contrast to many SSA countries - and the wage
compression ratio of 32:1 compared favorably with the average of 13.5:1 in the same group
of countries. Staff have generally been better qualified, better motivated and less corrupt than
in other SSA countries.
2.9    But cracks have recndy appeared in this seemingly strong perfirmance. Ihe most
obvious manifestation is the increase in the share of wages in the recurrent budget from 22
percent in 1991/92 to 32 percent in 1993/94. More significanly, fundamental instiutonal
weaknes  have been exposed. These now follow:



7
Employment
2.10   The number of employees in the public service (civil servants in established posts,
tempomay employees, and industrial class) was of the order of 106,400 in March 1993.
Reliable data are not available and there appears to be little relationship between employment
data maintained by the pC sonnel agency and payroll data. There is also little evidence that
establishment control has been effective. In March 1993, the number of established positions
exceeded filled positions by some 13,000. The data that are available suggest the following
numbers in the three categories as of March 1993:
Civil servants (established positions):  65,200
Temporary employees:                     6,100
Industrial class:                       35,000
2.11   Over 1980/81 to 1989/90, established positions increased at an average annual rate of
4.8 percent. Tnis high rate of growth has not been matched by any improvement in
performance. While there was little growth in positions in the following two years, there was
an increase of 17 percent in the second half of 1992, reflecting a sharp increase in teaching
positions. The difficult economic conditions of the past two years have led to the questioning
of the effectiveness of establishment controls and of the appropriateness of current levels of
employment.
2.12 The overall numbers of the different categories of civil servants indicated in the
budget estimates differ from those on the payroll as well as those in DPMT records. The
officials in the orgizations dealing with these issues hold the view that a dvil so-vice cenus
would help to sort out the discrepancies. (Mhere was agreement on the need to conduct a civfl
service census at the wrap-up meeting of the Pre-appraisal Follow-up Mission in July 1993).
The census would help generate reliable benchmark personnel data that would be used to
develop an effective personnel management and control system. The key instument here is
the personnel management information system (PMIS) that would be developed under an
umbrella management information system (MIS) and linked to the payroll (see para. 3.4).
2.13   Any fresh perspective on the employment problem needs to take into account the
fndings from the reviews of ministerial organizations and staffing undertaken between 1985
and 1992, and the findings of the orgaization audit of the DPMT undertaken by the Easten
and Southern Africa Management Instittte (ESAMI) in July 1993. The next step is to subject
these findings to critical and rigorous analysis with a view to making credible proposals on
organitional restuctuing and stfing levels. What is needed is a level and mix of stffing
which reflects the prevailing budget constraints and the mission and objectives of each
ministry. A review of the mission and objectives of ministries and departnents provides an
importan opportunity to reinforce the service orientation of government.
Pay
2.14   The institutional arrangements, including the information base, for dermining pay
rates and associated fringe benefits in Malawi are inadequate. Ihis was highlighted in the
1992 wnd of pay increases (the first since 1989). Although the issue of affordability, in the
budgetary context, was ment to constrain the pay incres, the result of the process was an
increase in personal emoluments in the 1992/93 budget of 53 percent compared with the



8
ceiling of 13.6 percent. While the recent Price Waterhouse study 2/ identifies the rise in
non-established personnel as a contributory factor, the overwhelming influences were under-
calculation of projected pay costs and problems in converting old pay scales to new ones.
2.15   This largely reactive approach to pay determination was demonstrated in the approval
of increases of between 5 and 25 percent for civil servants from the lowest grades (25
percent) to the rank of Deputy Principal Secretaries (9 percent) in September 1993. (No
increase was approved for Principal Secretaries). Because the increases were approved in a
crisis (it followed a four-day civil service strike, the first since independence), there was no
time for a detailed calculation of pay costs. But the new salary and wage increases amount to
a new burden on the budget and significant cutbacks would become imperative in the
approved budget. (In June 1993, barely three months into the 1993-94 financial year,
departments were instructed to cut back expenditure on emoluments for non-established staff
by as much as 50 percent).
2.16   The experiences of wage and salary review in 1992 and 1993 underscore the urgent
need for the Government to develop and implement policies on remuneration and
remuneration review. This was a main recommendation on civil service pay in the PSMR and
it was also highlighted in the Price Waterhouse Report. A major corrective action would
revamp the existing institutional arrangement for managing remuneration reviews. This
would include clarifying tasks and responsibilities among the main organizations concerned
(Ministry of Finance, DPMT, EP&D, OPC, and Ministry of Labor) and to developing
mechanisms for ensuring effective coordination. The institutional arrangements should allow
for a more considered, proactive approach to determining remuneration levels and for a
proper balancing of affordability, adequacy and staff motivation.
2.17   As in many countries, Malawi has a system of fringe benefits which represent a high
proportion of total remuneration but is relatively arbitrary in its impact at the individual level.
Housing benefits are particularly costly and no longer represent any incentive for
performance. The Government is working on rationalizing housing and other fringe benefits.
This review needs to be integrated with wider considerations of remuneration and should take
full account of the motivational effects of any changes.
2.18 Two key issues in the management of remuneration are the desirability of some form
of pay for performance and the differentials between pay levels in the public and private
sectors. During discussion of the PSMR report, Government suggested implementing a bonus
scheme for incumbents of middle and senior level management positions and critical
professional posts. As an alternative, the Government advocated an employee performance
evaluation scheme that would make it possible to withhold annual increments for "bad
performers". According to the recent Price Waterhouse Study of Wages, Salaries and Fringe
Benefits, it would not be appropriate to embark on either a pay for performance or a
performance 'bonus' program at this time. Given the cursory treatment of the issue in the
Price Waterhouse Study, a more thorough examination of the subject appears appropriate.
Crucial issues would be the identification of performance indicators and the establishment of
clear guidelines for their application. On pay differentials between the public and private
2/ Study on Civil Service Salaries, Wages and Fnnge Benefits, conducted by Price Waterhouse for
the Govenmuent of Malawi, Lilongwe, July 1993.



9
sectors, the conclusion of the Price Waterhouse Study is that the differentials are not
significant. Ihis contradicts the recommendation in the PSMR on the need to raise salaries at
the managerial and professional levels to maintain an appropriate relationship between the
public, parastatal and private remuneration. The findings of the Civil Service Pay and
Employment Study (main mission was completed in November 1993) confims that pay
differentials between the civil service and the private sector are indeed significant. However,
the non-monetary benefits enjoyed by the most senior civil servants reduces the impact of the
differentials. Regarding the professionals and other senior and middle-level managers,
appropriate salary adjustments would be required within the context of the pay reform to be
undertaken under ID R.
C.    Managem(ent Information System
2.19   Concern about the information management system in the civil service originated from
the fragmentation, inconsistencies, incompatibility and inaccuracies of out-dated data
pertaining to public service personnel. Several studies on pay and employment and other civil
service-related subjects underlined the shortcomings of the data, in spite of some efforts under
way to correct the situation (USAID project in DPMT). That project considered the problem
as technical and localized. The proposed solution was purely technical and restricted to
DPMT. The civil service information management system was conceived as a tool to bring
about internal coherence to planning and monitoring and improve processing efficiency (speed
up processing of "events", that is personnel actions).
2.20   An Information Technology study has extended that concern beyond personnel
magement to financial management and broadened the scope from data processing to
information management, underlying a new concern - the need of infbrmation for decision
making. The study stresses the necessity of high level commitment to guarantee the success
of computerization and the usefulness of a government-wide policy on the subject. This is
expected to contribute to management improvement through linking of data used by the
personnel department, the payroll unit and the budget divisions.
2.21   With regard to the payroll and civil service personnel data, the starting point would
be clarification of the two sister terms, "civil service" and "public service". This clarification
would help to determine who to include in the Personnel Management Information System
(PMIS). In Malawi, teachers constitute an integral part of the civil service. Another
important clarification to make relates to the categories of "non-established staff" and
"temporary staff". The Malawi Public Service Regulations (MPSR) define three categories
of government employees: "established staff", "temporary employees" and "industrial class
employees". The "industrial class employees" that are not provided for in the budget estimates
are normally paid by the ministries concerned (notably Works, Education, Health and
Agriculture) from the two budget votes for "temporary staff" and "non-established staff";
there is no separate budgetary provision for "industrial class staff". The sub-heads used in
budget estimates should correspond to the three categories identified in the MPSR:
* established staff who receive salaries;
* temporary staff who also receive salaries; and
* industrial class staff who receive wages.



10
This would remove the confusing budget vote for "non-established staff' and make it easier to
systematically exclude 'industrial class staff" from the civil service (they would not be
included in the PMIS). A third clarification to make relates to employees of Treasury Funds
whose pay is reflected in the wage bill in the annual budget. Some of these employees are
civil servants (for example, those employed by the Post Office) while others are not but would
qualify as public servants. It is necessary to confirm if this distinction is widely understood
and whether both categories of employees should be included in the PMIS.
2.22 Another feature of the existing personnel information system is the virtual collapse of
the control system for recruitment, promotions, transfers, secondments, and training.
Rebuilding the control system should start without delay. One priority task is the replacement
of the computer of the Department of Data Processing (DPD). This is already underway (with
financing from the Government of Japan). This effort would be consistent with the MIS
actions that '-OM officials would like ID II to support. The following problems were
identified:
*  Lack of a functional link between DPMT and Payroll: Two computer systems
are to be purchased and installed (one for DPD, one for DPMT). Agreement
should be reached on procedures for the monthly transfer of payroll files,
including allowances, to DPMT.
*  Fragmentation and lack of compatibility of information: The purpose of the
transfer in above is to permit a merging of DPMT and Payroll files into one
single central file (the personnel management information system, PMIS); and the
analysis of the payroll/personnel files which will be the basis for a census of civil
servants and the restructuring of personnel information.
*  Lack of compatibility of information systems: The problem is related to how
decisions are made. One finds that PCs are used as data processors
(spreadsheets, word processors) but not as information management tools. DPD
is a data processing center and does nothing in information management. It runs
3 main applications for the Government (payroll, treasury accounts and pensions)
which are more than 20 years old, obsolete (sequential indexing and Cobol) and
cumbersome. DPMT's and Works' efforts, while using a more recent technology
(data bases), are also geared to processing and reporting rather than management.
No thought was given to information management and data administration
(creation of data dictionaries, designation of data owners, and so on). Finally
although the technology is available and running in Malawi, interconnected
systems do not exist in the administration. This is more the consequence of how
decisions are made rather than a necessity dictated by technical constraints.
2.23   Against the background of these problems, the following main features of the
information system to be installed and implemented under ID II should cover both the
personnel management system and the budgeting system.
*  The information system should be centered around a computerized public service
data base which should contain a profile of each public servant, the history of
his/her career, and include all elements affecting the budget. It should contain
profiles of the administration and staffing requirements, (possibly in the form of
job descriptions).



11
* Deconcentration or decentralization of this information system should be made
only after a thorough appreciation of the individual departmentes capacity to
manage the different elements.
*  Basic information about the public service will be collected through a census
covering the counting of public servants and the administrative structure,
geographical distribution and type of employment. Often numbers are known (at
least at payroll) but the whereabouts, responsibilities and posting of the public
servants are not. Post-census analysis is important to evaluate the effect of
incentives in the pre-reform situation: career and remuneration profiles, share of
fringe benefits in total remuneration, periodicity of promotion, male/female
distributions, qualifications and skills, age profile, occurrences of disciplinary
actions, and so on.
*  The information system must be linked to the payroll system (computerized),
itself part of a budget and public accounting system. Deficiencies in the budget
system and the accounting system or both must be remedied if public service is to
be successful, as these represent the fundamental tool of management and control.
The absence of that linkage in most civil service operations is the cause of
ineffective control of the wage bill. (rhe needs in respect of budgetary and
financial information are discussed in para 2.30).
D.    Budgetary and Financial Managenent
2.24   The shocks to the Malawian economy over the past two years highlighted
inadequacies in the budget system, processes, as well as in the staffing of the Ministry of
Finance. The combination of these weaknesses coupled with the rapid turnover of staff
compounds the problems of budget making. Strengthening of the budget system and
processes of the Ministry of Finance must support the budget in:
* making its proper contribution to the macro-economic stability of Malawi;
* facilitating decision-making on development priorities;
O  controlling within-year expenditure; and
*  encouraging more efficient and effective use of resources in the achievement of
development objectives.
2.25 Forward Budgeting: The major weakness in budgeting lies in the linkages between
in"estrn'~t pr!9.^sg,tie de  tn!f b3g ?M.d e reuxrrent budget. While the most
obvious symptom is insufficient resources for operations and maintenance, it is also reflected
in poor within-year expenditure control and a host of other weaknesses. (Many of the details
are being worked out in the Review of Budget Management being undertaken jointly by the
Government and the World Bank -particularly the issue of improving aid management, which
will be essential to the successful implementation of ID II). The single most important
institutional reform needed is to implement a system of forward budgeting. This has been
recommended in numerous reports over the past 10 years as a system that would zssist policy
makers and MOF staff to develop and base budget allocations on realistic estimates.
2.25 Given the fact that implementing forward budgeting was at the core of MOF's
component of ID I, its relevance is not in question. Indeed, the requirement under SALs II



12
and m that there be forward three-year revenue and expenditure budgets has led to them
being prepared, but they have had no effect on resource allocation decisions. The calculation
of the overall resources available for recurrent purposes was largely based on global forecasts.
The recurrent costs associated with investment expenditure were not systematically reflected in
the budgets. Malawi needs an understanding of the ramifications of forward budgeting and a
commitment to its implementation. An effective system should, as a minimum, identify the
full costs of current government policy for at least three years beyond the budget year. Such
a system should link planning and budgeting and provide the discipline and framework for
government decision-making, control and improved resource use. If the forward budget is to
achieve this goal, the staff of the Ministry of Finance will need to interact with operating
ministries as integrated entities. There will be implications for the way operating ministries
organize themselves lanning and budgeting staff are currently separate) and for relations
between MOF and the Department of Economic Planning and Development.
2.26   Recurrent Cost Implications of Development Expenditures: Malawi's budgetary
situation is such that, when investment projects are completed and ready to operate, there are
usually insufficient resources available for operations and maintenance expenditure. This
problem has been exacerbated in recent years by difficult economic conditions and by the
substantial increases in wages and salaries in 1992 and 1993. A system of forward estimates is
essential to achieving a proper balance between investment (capital) and recurrent expenditure.
Improving the balance between salaries and wages and operations and maintenance within
recurrent expenditure will be an important concern of any forward estimates system. It is
essential to develop the capacity for up-dating accurate estimates of the recurrent cost
implications of capital expenditure. While a number of recurrent cost coefficients were re-
estimated in the Public Expenditure Review of 1990, on a service-wide basis, the coefficients
currently available were estimated in the 1970s.
2.27   Expenditure Control: Ihere has been significant deterioration in within-year
expenditure control in recent years. This has been building since the payments system was
decentralized in 1987. The acceleration in recent times reflects the tight budgetary situation
and the breakdown of discipline at the level of the ministry and agency. Even when there are
no funds in individual accounts (and the number of these has proliferated significantly),
ministries and agencies continue to write cheques, and these continue to be honored by the
Reserve Bank of Malawi (RBM). The lack of on-line systems which provide MOF with up-
to-date information on actual expenditures compounds the problem. Over-spending is often
not apparent until many months after the event.
2.28   The solutions to this problem will require short and long-term measures. For the
short-term all possible stop gaps will be explored including the requirement that the RBM
dishonor bad cheques. For the longer-term, other project components associated with the
strengthening of MOF will be important elements in improving expenditure control. If the
decentralized payments system is to continue in its present form, heads of ministries and
agencies will have to be held accountable for living within their budgetary allocations.
2.29 Budgetary and Financial Management Information: Relevant, accurate and timely
information is essential for decision-making, management and control. At present it does not
exist. The proliferation of budgetary and financial management information systems is both a
symptom and a major cause of the problems. The decentralized nature of the payments
system places even greater demands on information systems. Furthermore, little has been
done to upgrade central planning, budgeting and accounting systems. These problems are part



13
of a wider information system weakness throughout the public sector. Proper reform of
budget and financial management processes will require a fundamental overhaul of
information systems.
2.30   Revenue Estimating: Given that a key function of a system of forward-budgeting is
to focus attention on affordability within a medium-term framework, there is a need to
strengthen further the capacity of MOF to provide reliable forecasts of tax revenues. This
will underpin the incorporation of more realistic revenue estimates into the formulation phase
of the budget. This will contribute to more effective expenditure control during the execution
phase of the budget.
2.31   Malawi has made impressive progress under the Tax Reform Implementation Project
which began in 1989. The efficiency of the tax system has been substantially improved and
the quality of tax administration has been raised. The Harvard Institute of International
Development (HIUD) has provided support to the project since its inception. This support will
end in March 1994. Reflecting the progress made in reforming both tax policy and tax
administration, the Government has created a Tax Policy Analysis Unit within MOF to be
based in Lilongwe. The Tax Unit will provide advice on tax policy issues, and coordinate
policy implementation and efforts to raise the quality of revenue estimates. The skill base in
this remains small in Malawi and, in the development of a disaggregated model of tax
revenue, there is no local experience. The development of such a model is a natural evolution
of Malawian capabilities in taxation. The crude approaches used to build revenue techniques
are unsatisfactory. To deepen the pool of tax experts and to broaden and deepen the sklfls of
the few existing experts will be a key and continuing challenge for Malawi.
2.32   Skills: The inadequacy of slills levels throughout the public service in budgeting and
financial management remains a serious barrier to the cost effective implementation of the
Government's development priorities. While the particular concern here is the general level
of skills of the public service, another major concern is the inadequacy of matching existing
skills with available positions. This concern needs to be addressed in the context of the
common services. Attempts to increase the number of qualified accountas have been
underway for some time: these efforts need to be strengthened. At the same time, there is a
need to develop the management skills of those in senior accounting positions. MOF will be
a major beneficiary of any effort in accounting. Within MOF there is also a clear need to
raise the skills levels of budget analysts. These appear to be inadequate for their cument tasks
and will certainly be inadequate for the effective management of the proposed changes in
budgetary and financial management systems and processes.
E.    Parastatal Sector Mangement
2.33   Overview of the Parastatal Sector: This sector comprises 132 enterprises: 38
Government institutions created by statute (called rtatutory bodies), 4 state-owned registered
companies, 54 independently-managed Treasury Funds, 3 trusts, and 33 companies wholly or
partly owned by two statutory bodies - the Agricultural Development and Marketing
Corporation (ADMARC) and the Malawi Development Corporation (MDC). By an
administrative decision, twenty-six of the statutory bodies and three of the state-owned
companies are supervised by the Department of Statutory Bodies (DSB). The sector accounts
for more than 25 percent of GDP. It has a monopoly over many services (such as radio



14
broadcasting, electricity supply, airlines); virtually controls the marketing of all smallholder
crops; encompasses many regulatory activities; and handles a number of developmental tasks.
2.34   In tandem with the objectives of the World Bank and IMF-supported structural
adjustment programs (whose objectives towards the sector are improving efficiency of the
commercial parastatals and reducing their financial burden on government) the Malawi,
Government in its Statement of Development Policies 1987 - 1996, sets out government's
policy towards the sector as continuing to provide a range of goods/services important because
they are necessary for basic welfare of the community or because the sector provides for the
socio-economic development of the country efficiently and equitably. In pursuing this policy,
government's emphasis lies on improving efficiency and effectiveness of the sector, including
government departments responsible for reviewing, monitoring and regulating the sector.
2.35   A number of institutions exercise varying degrees of control over the parastatal
sector. The Board of Directors and management do not have authority to set policy and are
required to seek approval from one or more government entities. These include the
Department of Statutory Bodies (DSB) which supervises the operations of statutory bodies and
acts as a catalyst to spur different government agencies to reach policy decisions on issues
affecting the sector; the Ministry of Finance (MOF) which has paramount authority over
budget approval and, hence, influence on parastatals that rely on government for either
subventions and fixing tariffs or both; the Department of Economic Planning and
Development (EP and D) which Is mainly concerned with policy and examines the feasibility
of new investments; and parent technical ministries which clarify governmint policy as it
relates to particular sectors and perform advocacy on behalf of parastatals with regard to other
decision making entities. Of these entities, DSB is centrally important in the development of
the sector.
2.36   Management of the parastatal sector has received attention from the Malawi
Government and international and bilateral donors in the last decade, largely due to the impact
of the sector on the economy. Bilateral and multilateral doncrs have financed programs to
improve the efficiency of the sector through interventions in the parastatals themselves, the
oversight agencies, and the policy and regulatory framework. These interventions have
markedly improved financial performance of the sector. Only two of the commercial
parastatals have recently reported operating losses and whereas total subventions to non-
commercial parastatals have increased, there has been marked improvement in some which
now show signs of attaining self-reliance and financial sustainability. Profitability is not a
reliable indicator of efficiency given that many of these parastatals are monopolies which set
tariffs based on cost: most of them perform social as well as commercial functions. The
recent improvement in financial performance of the sector is a marked improvement from the
last decade. Among factors credited for these improvements are the supervisory and
monitoring functions of the Department of Statutory Bodies.
2.37   The Department of Statutory Bodies (DSB): DSB was created in 1981 to supervise
and assist the statutory bodies. The current statement of Development Policy for the Malawi
Government defines its task as "to monitor parastatal perforniance and assist parastatals in
both policy analysis, planning and financial and personnel management". In the past decade,
and in pursuance of its remit, DSB has developed functional systems for monitoring and
evaluating financl performance of parastatals, proposed and implemented puiposive
initiatives to improve parastatal management; assisted in the design of financial systems for
some parastatals, and arranged training courses aimed at improving the managerial skills for



15
parastatals staff. It is to these interventions that most of the improvements in the sector are
attributed. To strengthen its capacity to undertake these tasks, the department has received
technical assistance from UNDP and the World Bank and is still receiving assistance from the
Overseas Development Administration of the United Kingdom.
2.38   In its assessment of sector performance, the PSMR acknowledged the relative success
of the sector but also recommended that DSB's task should be clarified by an Act of
Parliament that can give it legal status and allow it to hire staff and pay salaries at levels
commensurate with the private sectors. It also recommended that to meet its remit
satisfactorily, DSB requires high quality staff and must institute and adopt procedures that
improve the budget process for the parastatals and delegate more authority to managetL nt and
the Boards of Directors. The review recommended that DSB continue with its plans for
establishing panels to evaluate parastatal general managers and to eventually put them on
performance-based contracts; develop innovative ways to meet shortages of skilled staff such
as accountants; and develop housing schemes to promote home ownership among parastatal
employees.
2.39   Some positive developments have taken place since the above recommendations.
Through an ODA-supported project whose broad objective is to improve overall efficiency of
resource use within the parastatal sector, DSB has now a "Roving Accountant" stationed in
the southern part of Malawi where most of the parastatals are based. The purpose of this
position is to enable DSB to develop sustainable financial management capacity through
providing on-the-job training and developing up-to-date financial accounting and reporting
systems and controls. It will also provide direct accounting and financial management support
to a number of small parastatals which currenty cannot justify (or are unable to) recruit a full
time accountant. The need for DSB to provide accounting support to parastatals has always
been recognized and cannot be overstated. Given the size of the sector and the magnitude of
accounting problems, this intervention is timely, and will remain necessary for some time.
The department is still finding difficulties in filling the three auditor positions which have
been vacant since the review.
2.40   Some effort has been made to ensure that the parastatal sector is operating at opfimum
technical efficiency and effectiveness. DSB is carrying out eight technical reviews of selected
parastatals. The reviews will examine whether the sector is operating at justifiable cost levels
and that maximum returns are obtained from existing resources. The technical reviews are
assessing whether operations of the selected parastatals can be provided more cost effectively
through other means and by other operating practices. The products of these reviews are
expected to provide useful inputs and scope for expanding the pilot performance contracting
system embarked on in the past few years. However, DSB's capacity to manage and extend
these interventions still remains heavily restricted. This is a result of lack of the requisite
skills mix in the department and ambiguity in its task definition and relationships with other
supervisory agencies. Achievements attained in this area to-date must be safeguarded. This
can only be done by enhancing DSB's capacity to manage the existing scheme and extend it to
other parastatals. This is unlikely to be achieved in the present institutional framework which
cannot attract personnel w:th the skills needed to manage and extend the performance
contracting scheme.
2.41 DSB is unable to attract and retain staff with the requisite skills mix partly because
its senior administrative leaders are frequently redeployed Qike other civil servants), and
partly because the civil service cannot match the remuneration packages in the parastatal and



16
private sectors. It is necessary that DSB be able to recruit, on contract terms, staff with core
competencies in business planning and strategic management, accounting, financial
management and analysis, economic and project analysis/management and organizational
development. DSB must have continuity in leadership and professionalism and be able to
offer services that the sector would find valuable and be willing to pay for even by way of
levies.
2.42   Another problem is the lack of clarity in the tasks and relationships of DSB with other
supervisory agencies. As wells as getting rid of duplication, this would define the core skills
requirements of DSB. While legislation setting out DSB's role and functions as well as its
authority and relationships with other entities would be desirable, this would not be
appropriate at this time. This conclusion is based on the opinion of several parastatal Chief
Executive Officers and the Ministry of Justice. In the interim, DSB's tasks should be clearly
set out and communicated to all parties involved in the sector, as is provided for in the
Statement of Development Policies. The Mission Statement needs to be reoriented and
refocused towards those functions on which there is broad agreement. These relate to the
stablishment of performance indicators; monitoring and evaluation of pviformance indicators;
provision of assistance in accounting; appraisal of financial analysis and investment appraisal;
assisting in management development; and articulation of a privatization policy together with
an implementation strategy.
2.43   In recent yeas, DSB has embarked on a few privatization and
commercialization programs and reviews of general issues and policies that cut across the
whole sector (staff housing scheme, transport fleet management). Progress on these has been
slow and unsatisfactory. Although government's espoused policy for the parastatal sector
includes contnued review of organizations to determine suitability to continue operating as
parastatals, this has not been done rigorously. A number of reasons account for this, among
which is lack of a clearly stated government policy on privatization. At the moment, DSB
undertakes semi-structural privatization programs which run parallel to MOF's program to
privatize Treasury Funds. It is necessary that these efforts be properly coordinated by one
government agency and that DSB should be equipped to assume this responsibility.
2.44   Many resources of the parastatal sector are tied up in such things as transport fleet
and staff housing. DSB recognizes the negative impact this has on the finances of parastatals
and has been trying to analyze these issues and develop economically efficient and sustainable
policies. These issues should be resolved as soon as possible: until then, economic resources
which could be put to more beneficial and productive use remain tied up on them.
F.    Management and Skils Development
2.45   By the early 1980s, inadequacy of trained manpower had emerged as a major
constraint to Malawi's development. This was recognized as an issue of both availability of
entry level staff for all sectors of the economy and the need for training to improve the
professional and managerial skills of existing staff. Govermnent decided that the
establishment of a local management training institution would be the most appropriate
response and it turned to the World Bank for assistance. This was the background to the
establishment of the Malawi Institute of Management (MIM) in 1989 as the major component
of the on-going ID I. MIM mission was to provide tmining programs aimed at improving



17
maaagerial skldls in the public service, parastatals and the private sector and to provide
consulting services to all three sectors of the economy.
2.46 At the establishment of MIM in 1990, the total number of middle level and upper
management positions in the economy requiring management training was estimated at 7,600:
civil service (3,900), parastatals (2,200) and private sector (1,500). These positions grew to
about 8,000 in 1992, assuming a rate of 2.5 percent per annum. Using the same conservative
rate of growth, the total would be close to 10,000 by 1999. To this number must be added
senior and middle-level positions in local government and non-governmental organizations
(currently about 150, rising to about 400 by 1999). MIM has made strenuous efforts to meet
this management training need. A medium-term review of the Institute undertaken by UNDP
and the Government in June 1992 concluded that it had made satisfactory progress and that it
was responding fully to the needs of all three sectors In respect of management trainng and
consulting. In training and consultancy, MIM exceeded the targets set for each of the three
years, 1990 through 1992. More than 3,000 managers had taken part in its generic training
program and its staff had performed over 200 consulting projects. Its services are reputed to
be of very high quality. Its training programs are focused on key development management
areas, notably human resources management, project analysis and management, computer
applications in management, policy analysis and management, and information management.
2.47 Notwithstanding the positive impact of MIM and the strong Government commitment
to its continued growth, the overall approach to management training in the public sector Jill
leaves much to be desired. This is surprising because a national policy statement on training
was produced in 1989. This sets out the objectives of training, establishes training priorties
and provides an implementation strategy, which spells out the tasks of ministries and
departments, the provision of training budgets and the institutional framework for training.
What is needed is an update of the training policy with particular attention to implementation:
DPMT's coordinating activities, the responsibilities of individual ministries and departments
for the development and implementation of training plans, and the provision of annual training
budgets.
2.48 The training activities to be undertaken would be determined after training needs
assessments that would identify skill gaps, new competencies and techniques. A good starting
point would be the preliminary training needs already identified in the management reviews of
ministries and departments undertaken since 1985, as well as those identified in the four
studies completed as part of the preparation work for ID II. Training should be related to
career development (career path), linked to the overall incentive package. A special feature
of training under ID II would be design and implementation of training programs that could
help to enhance civil servants' commitment to changes in processes and systems, notably
forward-budgeting and information management systems.
G.    Governance Situation and hanagement Improvement
2.49 At the Consultative Group Meeting for Malawi held in Paris in May 1992, the donor
community decided to suspend non-humanitarian development aid to the country until
improvement in the country's governance. Asserting good governance as a critical element
for equitable economic development, the donors looked for improvement in basic freedoms
and human rights. The Government responded by embarking on measures that have
progressively enhanced these freedoms and rights, including the expansion of the space for



18
political freedom. The Minister of Finance in his March 1993 budget speech in Parliament
aid that Government was committed to achieving improved go-r'nance in the sense of
popular participation by the people in decisions that affect them, .countability of
administration to the people, the absence of corruption, adherence to the rule of law, and
respect for human rights. Government gave concrete proof of this new commitment when it
sccessfully organized a referendum in which most of the population voted for multiparty
democracy in June 1993. Following the improvement in the country's human rights record
and the progress made toward political pluralism (including the formation of political r-rties
and establishment of independent newspapers) with multi-party elections scheduled for May
1994, a successful Consultative Group meeting was held in December 1993. Donors agreed
at that meeting to resume aid to Malawi; pledges in the amount of US$305 million were
offered at the CGM.
2.50   Ihere are evident lirkages between some management issues and governance in the
country. The linkage between governance and improved performance in the civil service is
well documented in the regional technical paper on 'Governance Approach to Civil Service
Reform.n."/ In the absence of openness, transparency, accountability and predictability,
ndamenal change in respect of decentralized decision making and increased initiative on the
part of middle and senior lvel managers cannot be achieved. Officials would continue to be
afraid to embrace meaningl decentralization, and tend toward risk avoidance. Another
llustration of the linkage between governance and management improvement is the
recommendation in two of the studies commissioned under the preparation of ID II on the
adoption of a Public Service Actl/. Both studies state that a major objective of the Act
would be to ensure that public service is conducted with due regard to transparency and
predictability. The elements of governance highlighted in the 1993 budget speech -
participation, accountability, absence of corruption, rule of law and respect for human rights-
are critical to the establishment of an institutional environment conducive to the achievement
of improved management performance.
I/ By Mamadou Dia, 1993. Technical Paper No. 225, Washington, D.C.
A/ These are the Study on Wages, Salaries and Fnnge Benefits by Pnce Waterbouse and the
Organizational Audit of the Department of Personnel Management and Training by ESAMI.



19
CHAPTER 3. THEPRojECr
A.    Rationale and Objectives
3.1    The consistent message in the management studies of line ministries undertaken since
the late 1980s is that weak management capacity constitutes a major bottleneck to the
implementation of development programs and projects. In 1989 Government obtained an IDA
credit to support the first Institutional Development project (ID I) which was co-financed by
the UNDP. Under this project, the Malawi Institute of Management (MIM) was established
and a tax modernization program was implemented in the Ministry of Finance (MOF). ID I
is scheduled to be completed by December 1994. MIM's achievements in the areas of training
and consultancy are highly rated by both public and private sector organizations. The tax
modernization program, too, enabled Government to carry out tax policy reform, especially
the broadening of the tax base. However, the sub-component on government financial
management reform (co-financed by UNDP) was not implemented. This was largely because
of continuous project re-design arising from a piecemeal approach to the problem to be
tackled and partly to progressive reduction in the funds made available by UNDP. To remedy
the situation, a comprehensive budgeting and financial management reform (including the
introduction of forward budgeting system and a new public accounting system) will be
financed under ID II. Against this background, 11)  has been designed to:
o  address specific systemic management issues that constitute bottlenecks to
efficiency and effectiveness in the civil service;
*  assist the Department of Statutory Bodies to better manage the interface between
the parastatal sector and the Government; and
-  strengthen the Malawi Institute of Management (MIM).
B. Improving Civil Service Policy and Information Framework (US$3.3 million)
3.2   Policy and Legislative Framework (US$53,000): This component is concerned with
issues that cut across all ministries and departments of the civil service, beginning with the
policy and legislative framework. The other main issue is the design, installation and
implementation of appropriate management information systems for the personnel and finance
functions. Government has submitted a Policy Statement on Civil Service Reform and
Institutional Strengthening acceptable to IDA in the form of a letter signed by the Minister of
Finance (Annex 1). Regarding the Public Service Act, a draft concept paper was discussed
during appraisal and IDA provided comments as well as samples of Civil Service and Public
Service Acts. Cabinet approval of the concept of a Public Service Act was confirmed at
negotiations and Government subsequently submitted to IDA the draft of the legislation.
Promulgation of the Public Service Act by Parliament is a condition of effectiveness.
3.3   Information Management Framework (US$843,000): The project will finance a
civil service census - a critical first step in the development of a personnel management
information system (PMIS). Government is to issue a statement that will set out the
objectives of the census and explain how it would be conducted. Next, Government would
establish a Census Executing Unit (CEU), located in the National Statistics Office, responsible



20
for the conduct of the census. The Head of the CEU would be accountable through the
Commissioner of the National Statistics Office to the Secretary to the President and Cabinet
(SPC). Appointment of the Head of the unit as well as its Chief Technical Officer and
Accountant is a condition of craedit effectiveness. Details on the objectives, methodology and
strategy of the census are provided in Annex 2.
3.4   Personnel.Information (US$1.4 million): The project will support the design and
implementation of a computerized personnel information system (PMIS). The ;ersonnel
information system in DPMT would be linked to the payroll system in DPD. To this end,
Government is purchasing equipment for both DPMT and DPD to be financed with PPF.
The project u ill provide support (with PPF) to DPD to facilitate its move from Blantyre to
Lilongwe, scheduled for the first semester of 1994.
3.5   FInancial Information (US$170,000): The first step in the development of a
financial management information system (FMIS) is review of budgetary and financial
management information needs. This is to be financed with PPF. It is focused on basic
information and systems needs to support budgetary and financial management. The project
will finance the design, development and implementation of a computerization plan for
financl management. GOM would appoint a Data Administrator located in DPD. He or she
will work closely with officials directly involved in data management in MOF, notably the
Accountant General's Office and the Treasury as well as in EP&D, to ensure that these
organizations' financial management information needs are met.
3.6   Training in Infonration Management (US$805,000): The project will finance
taining in information management for officials in the main government organizations that
would be involved in both the PMIS and the FMIS. The training activities would comprise
fellowships, both long-term and short-term, workshops and seminars. Some training activities
would be conducted in-country; others would be in the Region or overseas.
C. Strengthening the Capacity of the Department of Personnel Management and
Training (US $4.0 million)
3.7   The project will provide support to DPMT in the form of TA, equipment and training
to improve its performance in key personnel management functions. The project will finance:
e  review of the institutional arrangements for determining remuneration;
* re-design of the pay structure and rationalization of fringe benefits and
allowances, linked to job evaluation;
*  preparation of procedure manuals covering functions undertaken by personnel
common services staff;
O development and launching of an open performance appraisal system; and
*  development and introduction of career paths.
Ihe project will support the re-structuring of the Department and the enhancement of its staff
skdlls.



21
3.8    Review of Institutional Arrangements for Determining Remuneration
(US$322,000): The project will finance TA to undertake review of the institutional
arrangements for determining remuneration (pay plus fringe benefits and allowances). The
review will pay particular attention to clarifying the tasks and responsibilities of the main
organizations (MOF, DPMT, EP&D, OPC and MOL) and propose approaches to
coordination. The re-design of the pay structure would be undertaken simultaneously with a
pilot test of job evaluation. DPMT staff would be involved in the job evaluation task through
workshops.
3.9    Redesign of Pay Structure Linked to Job Evaluation (US$1.0 million): The project
will finance TA, equipment and workshops needed to undertake a comprehensive job
evaluation of the civil service. The result of the job evaluation exercise would be used to
determine the new pay structure.
3.10 Procedure Manuals for the Personnel Function (US$75,000): The project will
finance local TA to undertake the production of procedures manuals covering functions
undertaken by DPMT and HRMU staff.
3.11   Open Performance Appraisal Systen (US$271,000): The project will finance local
TA and workshops and training for launching an open appraisal system. The workshops will
be for the middle and senior-level managers who would have to implement the system.
3.12   Career Paths (US$575,000): The project will fund TA, equipment, workshops and
training to develop the necessary capacity within DPMT and to cover the operating expenses
(materias, printing of career path brochures and supplies but excluding salaries and wages or
any form of income supplementation) neoded to undertake the exercise.
3.13   Organizational Restructuring and Rationalization (US$884,000): The project wiUl
assist in the establishment of a Personnel Policy Research Unit (PPRU). The Unit is expected
to enable DPMT to develop capacity in personnel planning and in undertaking systematic
review and improvement of personnel policies and to increase DPMT's internal coordination
and its overall effectiveness. The project will provide TA, books, equipment and training.
Through this Unit, the project will finance workshops to foster effective integration of
personnel budgets in the budgetary process. The project will assist in rationalizing the
Department's relationship with other ministries and departments by financing workshops that
may result in the devolution of clerical, secretarial and copy typists to the ministries.
Government has agreed to merge the Manpower Planning and Training Divisions of DPMT as
part of the rationalization process. Implementation of this decision is a condition of credit
disbursement for the training category under the DPMIT component.
3.14   Skills Development (US$830,000): The project will finance fellowships for training
in specialized skills, short-term courses, and fellowships for tailored training programs to be
provided locally. The target population for this training is the central staff of DPMT and
personnel assigned to the Human Resources Management Units being implemented in line
ministries under the project. The creation of the HRMUs on a pilot basis in five ministries
(Agriculture, Education, Finance, Works and Health) is a condition of credit disbursement
for the training category under the DPMT component.



22
D.    Strengthening Institutional Capacity of the AMinistry of Finance (US$5.5 million)
3.15  'rhe proje,ct will finance the following elements to enhance capacity in MOF with a
view to achieving increased operational efficiency and effectiveness.
3.16 Installation and Implementation of Forward Budgeting (US$734,000): As
preparation for the launching of forward budgeting, Government will combine responsibility
for revenue budget and development budget under a Senior Deputy Secretary for National
Budget, effective from 1994/95 financial year. (Ibis was done before negotiations in April
1994). The project will finance a strategic review of the budget and financial management
information needs of the Government as well as a review of the program budgeting
experience. (See also para 3.5). One local expert and an expatriate TA would be hired for 24
months each to work with MOF staff to plan, design and introduce forward-budgeting. The
project would finance workshops at the different stages as well as one study tour at the design
stage. The workshops would cover all relevant MOF staff and selected staff from line
ministries and departments. Forward-budgeting together with a tax-inclusive budgeting system
would be formally introduced Government-wide after a trial phase in 1996/97.
3.17   Recurrent Cost Implications of Development E xpenditure: As part of the project,
and building on the experience of ministries such as Works and on international experience,
MOF will coordinate the development of up-to-date recurrent cost coefficients. To ensure
that the perspectives of all stakeholders are encompassed, MOF will establish a working group
for each major sector, with representatives from line ministries, EP & D and MOF. To
ensure that the first cut of the forward budget is based on sound estimates, the coefficients.
will be developed during the first 12 months of the project, under the guidance of the
consultant assisting with the development of the forward budget system. Regular review of
the coefficients will be institutionalized as part of the system for updating the forward budget.
3.18   Tax Policy Analysis Unit (US$1.1 million): The project will support the Tax Policy
Analysis Unit by providing training, TA and equipment. Staff training will be a priority and
-his would include long-term and short-term training in-country and overseas. One long-term
TA would be recruited to assist the Unit during its first two years. The equipment to be
provided would include computers and furniture.
3.19   Design and Implementation of New Public Accounting System (US$2.1 million):
The project will finance the design and implementation of a new public accounting system for
government, providing support through technical assistance for software design, installation,
the purchase of hardware and ancillary equipment, and training for operators, users and
maintenance staff.
3.20 Enhancement of Siklls in Budgeting and Accounting (US$1.6 million): The changes
to budgetary processes and systems that would accompany the introduction of forward-
budgeting demand the development of new skills in MOF. Following the budgetary and
financial management information needs review, a training needs analysis will be undertaken
with the support of local short-term technical assistance. In light of the needs analysis and the
skill needs identified through the forward-budgeting workshops, training programs will be
developed and implemented under the project. The project will assist the Accountant
General's Office to identify training needs and in the formulation and implementation of a
comprehensive training program for common service accounting staff. Funding support
would be provided for an assessment of training facilities and training needs; for the



23
conversion program for non-accounting graduates recently approved by government; for
upgrading the skills of serving accounting staff; for the development and implementation of
induction courses for recruits at the level of Assistant Accountant and Accountant; and for the
development and implementation on a pilot basis, in conjunction with MIM, of a management
program for Chief Accountants.
E.    Support to the Department of Statutory Bodies (US$1.9 million)
3.21   The project will finance activities relating to:
*  clarification of the task and functions of DSB and its relationship with other
supervisory agencies;
*  strengthening DSB in promoting improved financial and economic performance of
parastatals;
e  development of a government privatization policy; and
e  enhancement of the skills of DSB staff.
*  strengthening DSB's operational efficiency
3.22   Clarification of the Task and Functions of DSB and its Relationship with other
Supervisory Agencies (US$21,000): DSB has prepared and circulated its proposed mission
statement which proposes clarification of its task in relation to those of other supervisory
agencies. The project will finance a consultative workshop for participants drawn from
representatives of the parastatal sector, line ministries, E.P&D, MOF and DSB itself to
discuss the proposed mission and definition of responsibilities. The output of this workshop
will be a well understood, accepted and publicized definition of tasks, responsibilities and
relationships among the various entities involved in the parastatal sector.
3.23   Promoting Improved Financial and Economic Performance of Parastatals (US$1.1
million): The project will finance equivalent of 5h person years in long and short term
consultancies to:
*  evaluate and advise on scope for extending the pilot performance contracting
scheme and assist DSB determine performance indicators for parastatals as well as
design a complementary reward/sanction scheme;
* prepare guidelines for ensuring sound financial management in the parastatal
sector; and
*  prepare guidelines related to employment, salaries and fringe benefits of staff in
the parastatal sector.
3.24   Privatization Policy for Malawi Government (US$145,000): The project will
finance a short-term consultancy to assist DSB to co-ordinate the development of privatization
policy for the Malawi Government, covering statutory bodies and treasury funds. Funding
support would also be provided for two workshops: the first to present and discuss case



24
studies on experiences in Malawi and other countries as well as obtain views on broad
orientations and the second to discuss the draft privatization policy.
3.25   Skills Development (US$472,000): The project will finance fellowships in economics
and accounting as well as short-term fellowships in public enterprise management and reform,
financial management and performance contracting. The project will also finance local
training for DSB staff in information technology, performance monitoring and evaluation.
Seminars and workshops would also be organized for DSB staff and some staff from selected
parastatals
3.26   Strengthening DSB's Operational Efficiency (US$193,000): To enhance DSB's
operational efficiency, the project will finance the purchase of vehicles and of a limited
number of computers.
F.    Strengthening the Malawi Institute of Management (US$8.1 million)
3.27   The MIM component represents about one-third of total project costs. The Institute
will be a pivotal presence at all stages of the project, as both the agent for change and the
vehicle of change. Special attention will be paid to securing its presence and credibility
through a well directed movement to financial self-sustainability. Specifically, project funds
would be used to finance:
e  a second phase of technical assistance that would help to strengthen the Institute's
capacity in training and consultancy;
X  staff training;
*  fellowships to MIM's courses;
* books and equipment for the Institute's Learning Resource Center; and
* construction of management staff housing on the Institute's campus outside
Lilongwe.
3.28 Technical Assistance (US$1.2 million): A total of 9-person years of TA (most of
them short-term) would be provided under the project. TAs would intervene mostly in rare
skill areas (Finance and Accounting, Management Information Systems, and Consulting,
Training and Research Techniques). MIM would use lessons learned under ID I (through
twinning with ARA consultants of Canada) to ensure that effective skills transfer takes place.
The TA to be financed will be managed with support from consultants who have experience in
the required areas of specialization.
3.29   Staff Training (US$837,000): In September 1993, Government directed three MIM's
MDCs on secondment from the civil service to retn to the service. With their departure,
MIM's staff strength was reduced to five. The Governing Board has approved the recruitment
of six new MDCs and two trainee MDCs. The project will provide fellowships (ong-term and
short-term) for upgrading the skills of new staff. The project will also finance training and
refresher courses for existing MIM staff. Eight (8) long-term and sixteen (16) short-term
fellowships would be financed under the project. 75 percent of the fellowships would be
utilized during the first three years of the project. This will be monitored in the annual
reviews of the MIM component.



25
3.30 Fellowships to MIM Courses (US$773,000): Under ID I, an in-country fellowship
fund of US $1.4 million was established (with UNDP co-financing) to attract participants to
MIM's courses. MIM has continued to rely on this fund instead of vigorously marketing its
courses. To avoid an abrupt end to an arrangement that has enhanced managerial skills in the
country, US $773,000 would be provided to replenish the fund. However monitorable targets
would be set in MIM's implementation plan to ensure progressive phasing-out. At
negotiations, the targets set for the progressive phasing-out of fellowships to MIM's courses
require that project support for the fellowships be provided as follows: 25 in 1994, 150 in
1995, 100 in 1996, 75 in 1997 and 50 in 1998. Compliance with these targets will be
monitored annually by IDA.
3.31   Support for MIM's Learning Resource Center (US$1.5 million) : The project will
finance library books and audio-visual equipment to be used in the Institute's Learning
Resource Center. The project will also finance computers and ancillaries to support traiing
activities. The library and audio-visual center on MIM's campus have adequate space for the
books, computers and audio-visual equipment.
3.32   Campus Management Staff Housing (US$688,000): The project will finance the
construction of a total of five housing units near the MIM campus to accommodate campus
management staf. Land for house construction has already been secured and lease documents
are available. The cost estimates for the housing units were provided by the Ministry of
Works and reviewed during appraisal. The house designs are ready and it is estimated that
construction would be completed within the first two years of the project.
3.33 Support for MIM's Operational Pertormance (US$3.1 million): (The amount
indicated is the total project cost for this item). The project will finance vehicles and some
elements of operational expenses (excluding staff salary) to enhance the oterational efficiency
of the Institute. The extent of operational support would be progressively phased out as
MIM's self-financing capacity increases during the second half of project life. Specifically,
MIM will be required to progressively cover its salaries and operating costs from its
Endowment Fund: 20 percent in 1995/96, 40 percent in 1996/97, 60 percent in 1997/98, and
80 percent in 1998/99.
CHAPTER 4. PRojECr COsr AND FINANCING
A.    Costs and Financing
4.1   Project Costs: Total project costs are estimated to be US$25.6 million, including
physical and price contingencies. Donor-supported projects have tax-free status in Malawi;
project costs are not subject to taxes and duties. The project cost summary is provided in
Table 4.1.



26
Table 4.1: Project Cost Summary
(Mal Kwacha'000)             (US$'000)              % Foreign % Total
Local   Foreign    Total     Local  Foreign   Total Exchange Base Costs
1. Civil Serv. Policy &
Info. Framework         2,097.4   11,066.1   13,163.5    487.8 2,573.5   3,061.3   84     13
2. Department of Personnel
Mgmt & Training         1,796.4   13,884.6   15,681.0    417-' 3,229.0   3,646.8   89     16
3. Ministry of Finance     239.5   21,452.5   21,692.0     55.7 4,989.0   5,044.7   99      22
4. Dept of Statutory Bodies  150.1    7,720.7   7,870.7    34.9 1,795.5   1,830.4   98       8
5. Malawi lust. of Mngt  13,917.8   16,409.7  30,327.5   3,236.7 3,816.2   7,052.9   54     30
6. PSM Improvement Unit    5,424.8    1,571.3   6,996.1   1,261.7  365.4   1,627.0   22      7
7. PPF                       -      4,300.0   4,300.0       -   1,000.0   1,000.0  100       4
Total Baseline Costs     23,626.0   76,404.7  100,030.7  5,494.4 17,768.5  23,263.0   76   100
raysical Contingencies    76.8    ?.485.7   2,562.4      17.9  578.1    595.9   97         3
Price Contingencies     4,547.8    3,016.9   7,564.7   1,057.6  701.6   1,75s.2   40       8
Total Project Costs      28,250.6   81,907.3  110,157.9  6,659.9 19,048.2  25,618.1   74   110
4.2    Base cost estimates are in November 1993 prices. Physical contingencies amounting to
about 3 percent of base costs are included. Price contingencies have been estimated at about 7
percent of base costs. Annual rates of inflation are estimated at about 7 percent for
international inflation in the costs of foreign goods and services, and about 22 percent for
local inflation.
4.3    Flnancing: The proposed IDA credit of US$22.6 million equivalent would finance
approximately 88 percent of total costs, net of taxes and duties. This would cover all foreign
exchange costs (US$19.0 million) and 53 percent of local costs (US$3.6 million). The local
costs comprise the cost of running the PSMIU and contributions to the incremental operational
expenses for the different project components. A PPF in the amount of US$1.0 million was
approved on October 14, 1992. The financing plan of the project is set out in Table 4.2.
Table 4.2: Summary Financing Plan
(US$'000)
LOCAL               FOREIGN               TOTAL
IDA                             3,509               19,048               22,557
Government                      3,061                  -                  3,061
TOTAL                           6,570               19,048               25,618
4.4    Co-financing of the component on the Department of Statutory Bodies is under
discussion with UK/ODA.



27
B.    Procurement
4.5   Procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 4.3.
Table 4.3: Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
(US$'000 equivalent)
Project Element                    Procurement Method                    Total
ICB      LCB    Other    N.B.F.       Cost
1. Civil Works
1.1 Buildings                       -    688.3          -       -        688.3
(619.5)                        (619.5)
2. Goods
2.1 Equipment/Computer
(3,838.3)                                (3,838.3)
2.2 Vehicles
(282.4)              (282.4)
2.3 Furniture                       -     22.7          -        -        22.7
(20.4)                         (20.4)
2.4 Books
Ref. Books                                             -
(515.8)                       \          (515.8)
Manuals/Journals/Per.              -        -      347.2       -        347.2
(340.0)             (340.0)
3. Consultancies
3.1 Technical Assistance
(6,483.8)
Project Prep. & Implem. Support                (1,391.3)
Capacity Building                              (5,092.5)
3.2 Training
(6,619.3)            (6,619.3)
4. Miscellaneous
4.1 Operating Costs                 -        -   3,672.3  2,141.9       3,672.3
(2,831.6)           (2,831.6)
4.2 Refinancing PPF                                             -
(1,006.0)            (1,006.0)
Total                                 -    711.1   18,411.0  2,141.9     75,618.1
(4,354.2)   (639.9) (17,563.1)          (';.,i57.2)
N.B.F.: Not Bank financed
Figures in parenthb'-es are the amounts financed by the IDA credit.



28
4.6   Civil works e   _mated to cost $688,000 will be proued thrOugh local competive bidding (LCB)
since fte value is smal, mobilization cost for foreign conacto  would be high and it may not be of
interest to them. Local capacity exists. For LCB, agreemet was reached during negodations t  there
will be local adverdsing, public bid opening, clearly stated evaluadon criteria and award to the lowest
evauated bidder. Foreign bidders will not be precluded from paicipation.
4.7   Goods are estmated to cost $5.0 milion. Of this reference books and text books estmated to cost
$516,000 would be procured by ICB foowing the Bank's Guideis. Traing manuals, jouroals and
periodicals in the amount of $347,000 would be purchased through LCB or through consolidation agents
selected tirough competition. Computers and other equipment estmated to cost $3.8 million would be
procured through ICB. Furniture estimated to cost $23,000 would be procured through LCB. Vehicles
aggregafting to $282,000 required by five beneficiary agencies will be purchased in a phased manner
through Intenauonal Shopping or through IAPSO. All purchases wil follow procedures acceptable to
IDA.
4.8 Consultants and technical assistance personnel to be financed by IDA would be appointed in
accordance wift Bank's Guidelines (1981) and would be employed on terms and conditions satisfactory
to IDA. Consultancy services in the amount of $6.5 million will be selected on the basls of terms of
reference and short-ists acceptable to IDA. Draft sample tems of reference (TORs) for all major
consultancy services were confirmed during negotiations. Adoption by Government of a model
consultancy contract acceptable to IDA, including a sample letter of iniaton, for the recruitment of
consultants under the project will be a condition of credit effectvenes. For training ($6.6 mfllion), a
comprehensive program, including a detailed program for the first year of project implemention was
discussed and agreed to at negotiations. (See Annex 8 on TrIaing Plan). Clearance of MDA for trainees
would be adhered to. Operaing costs estimated at $5.8 million will follow normal Government
procedures and will be finaneed on a diminishing basis.
4.9   All consultancy conats above $100,000 for firms and $50,000 for individuals, and goods and
civil works packages of over $100,000 equivalent, will be subject to prior review by IDA.
Consultancy conats, with value below those levels for each contract and awarded on the basis of a
short list, would be subject to post-review by IDA. Prior review wil apply to terms of reference and
single source consultancy contrcts regardless of the value of the contract. All other procurements will be
subject to post review.
4.10 Malawi has agreed to use the Bank's Standard Bidding Documents for ICB procurements.
4.11   Procurement performance in Malawi recorded some improvement during the past two years,
largely because of the support provided by Bank staff through training and coaching. The national
procurement system is being reviewed with support from IDA under an Agriculural Services Project
credit approved in May 1993. An IDF grant of US$375,000 was approved in August 1993 to finance the
services of an accountant and a procurement specialist who ar expected to assume duty shordty.
Procurement tr -in is being localized at MIM. The IDstits staff were associated with the
procurement truin;mg programs run by the Bank in 1992 and 1993. Procurement is expected to beneit
from the substantial supervision responsibility that the Resident Mission would bear during project
implementation.



29
C.    Disbursements
4.12  The project is expected to be implemented over five years and to disburse over a six-
year period, 1994-2000. Disbursements will be made against standard Bank documentation.
All disbursements would be fully documented except for the following expenses which will be
claimed on the basis of Statements of Expenditure: (a) contracts for goods and works and
consultants' services, provided by firms, not exceeding $100,000 equivalent and (b) contracts
for consultants' services, provided by individuals, not exceeding $50,000 equivalent, under
such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
Disbursement documents shall be retained k y the project accountant and MIM's accountant for
review by Bank supervision missions and independent auditors. The project is expected to be
completed by December 31, 1999. The closing date is set for June 30, 2000. Disbursement
arrangements are summarized in Table 4.4.
Table 4.4: Disbursement Arrangements
CATEGORY            Amount of the Credit       % of Expenditures to be
Allocated (Expressed in       Financed
SDR Equivalent)
l ____________________    (US$   million.)                                   l
(1) Civil Works (MIM)              0.6                      90%
(2) Equipment, Vehicles,           4.5                  10G% of foreign
Furniture & Books                                 expenditures and 90% of
(a) MIM            0.9                              \local costs
(b) Other          3.6
(3) Technical Assistance           5.8                      100%
(a) MIM            1.0
(b) Other          4.8
(4) Training                       5.9                      100%
(a) DPMT           1.1
(b) MIM            1.4
(c) Other          3.4
(5) Incremental Operating          2.5                  100% of foreign
Costs                                                expenditures and 70% of
(a) MIM            0.7                              local costs
(b) Other          1.8                                                l
(6) Refunding of Project           1.0              Amounts due pursuant to
Preparation Advance                                 Section 2.02 of this
Agreement
Uinallocated                       2.3                                      l
TOTAL                             22.6
4.13 Specal Accounts: To facilitate disbursement, two Special Accounts will be opened in
a commercial bank, acceptable to IDA, one by PSMIU and the other by MIM. The initial



30
deposits amount to US$200,000 and US$100,000 respectively and cover four months of
eligible expenditures. Replenishment of the Special Accounts should be made monthly and
will be fully documented except for contracts valued at less than $20,000 equivalent which
will use Statements of Expenditures (SOEs), for which documentation shall be reviewed as
part of the annual audit of the project. Replenishment will be supported by bank statements
and reconciliation of statements.
4.14  Impact on Recurrent Budget: Agreement was reached during appraisal that adequate
provision would be made for local costs and other recurrent costs associated with the different
project components by the relevant ministries and departments in their annual budgets
throughout the life of the project. Government agreed at negotiations to make provision in its
annual budget for 17 percent of the recurrent costs of the PSMIU.
D.    Accounts and Audits
4.15  The project will maintain accounts, in accordance with International Accounting
Standards, to record project receipts and expenditures and assets and liabilities. The project
costs and financing plan include provision for the PSMIU and MIM to purchase computers
and supporting equipment and accounting software to facilitate project accounting and
financial management requirements. It has been agreed that MIM would appoint a qualified
accountant on contract pending the incumbent senior accounting officer obtaining his
professional qualification. The appointment of a qualified accountant will be a Condition of
Credit Disbursement for the MIM component of the project.
4.16   Annual financial statements produced from the project accounts will be audited, in
accordance with International Standards on Auditing. by an inder a.&d .ntaudiour acceptable to
IDA. Project management will be required to ensure that project accounts and internal
controls are sufficient to ensure that the auditor's report contains no material qualifications
and to submit such report and the audited financial statements to IDA within nine months of
the end of the accounting period audited. Terms of reference for the choice and installation
of the accounting system and the audit were agreed at negotiation. Appointment of an auditor
acceptable to IDA will be a condition of effectiveness.
CHAPTER 5. PROJEC MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
A.    Channelling IDA Funds to MIM
5.1    Government shall pass on US$5.9 million out of the proceeds of this IDA credit of
US$22.6 million to the Malawi Institute of Management (MIM) as a grant.
B.    Overall Arrangements
5.2    A Public Sector Management Improvement Unit (PSMIU) will be established in the
Office of the President and Cabinet (OPC) reporting to the SPC through the Principal
Secretary (Administration). The PSMIU will comprise a Project Manager, an Assistant



31
Project Manager (an Institutional Development and Project Management Specialist) who will
concentrate on xhe coordination of project elements that cut across ministries and
departments); an Information Technology Coordinator who will provide direction and
coordination for the management information systems development and related elements of ID
U; and a project accountant who would be responsible for all ID II financial management and
accounting. All these PSMIU professional staff will be hired on a contract for three years
initially, renewable for another two years, subject to performance. The unit will have a small
number of support staff. The project manager and the project accountant shall be
maintained for the duration of the project and their qualfications shall be satisfactory to
IDA. TORs for the Project Manager are provided as Annex 12. Government will ensure
effective functioning of the PSMIU throughout the life of the project through provision of
adequate staffing and operational resources. Agreement on appropriate modalities were
reached at negotiation.
5.3    The main responsibilities of the PSMIU will be to: ensure the successful and timely
execution of ID n components; establish and administer effective ID II project execution and
management structures and processes; ensure the timely and appropriate procurement of all
technical assistance, equipment, training, and related services required for the successful
execution of ID Tl; ensure the timely identification and resolution of project execution issues
and the optimal application of successful improvement measures; and, evaluate the overall
performance of ID Tl, its individual components and project elements, providing regular
reports to the SPC and the Inter-ministerial Committee on Institutional Development on
project issues and progress; and keep and maintain project accounts (excluding the MIM
component). The PSMIU will coordinate the preparation and submission of annual reports,
audit reports and work plans to IDA for all l) 11 components.
5.4    The PSMIU will be assisted by a Project Coordinator designated by Government in
each of the major beneficiary organizations: MOF, DPMT and DSB. These organization-
based Coordinators will work in close liaison with the PSMIU and will have primary
responsibility for project implementation within their organization. This will build
management capacity and promote project ownership. The qualifications of the officials
designated to serve as Coordinators of the project shall be satisfactory to IDA. Their
appointment will be a condition of effectiveness. As under ID I, MIM's management will
continue to be directly responsible for implementation of the MIM component with the
Principal serving as coordinator. An organizational chart depicting the project administrative
arrangements is provided as Annex 17.
5.5    The Project will cover the salaries and expenses of the professional and support staff
of the central PSMIU. The Project will support up to twelve months of TA to assist the
PSMLU staff in the design, execution, and management of specialized elements of the ID II;
and will cover the costs of necessary computer and office equipment to operationalize the
PSMIU. It was agreed at appraisal that the Project Manager would be appointed before
negotiations. The candidate who emerged first in the recruitment process cleared with IDA
attended negotiations and formal offer of appointment would be made after his compensation
package would have been finalized to the satisfaction of IDA.
5.6    As ID II involves a number of ministries and departments, overall coordination,
direction and policy guidance for the project would be entrusted to an Inter-ministerial
Committee on Institutional Development (ICID) chaired by the Principal Secretary,
(Administration) in OPC. Members will be drawn from the main ministries and departments



32
involved in the project. The line ministries will be properly represented. This will deepen
project ownership. The ICID will meet quarterly and present progress reports to the SPC.
PSMIU will act as secretariat to the ICID.
C.    MIN Implementation
5.7   The existing implementation arrangement under ID I would be maintained for the
MIM component under ID II. MIM's Board of Governors has functioned effectively as
MIM's policy-making body with responsibility for approving the annual budget and training
strategy, and for reviewing major personnel decisions and contract awards. MIM's Principal
is Secretary to the Board. When the founding expatriate Principal left in March 1992, the
Board promptly appointed the most senior Malawian on the staff as his successor. The Board
acted with thoroughness and dispatch in probing the conflict opposing the Principal to MIM's
Management Development Consultants during the first quarter of 1993. The Principal's
appointment was terminated in September 1993: an Acting Principal has been appointed.
Government has already consulted the Association on the procedures for appointing a new
Principal. Although the leadership crisis had negative consequence for MIM's performance in
1993, the decisive resolution of the crisis should allow rapid recovery.
5.8   Endowment: The Endowment fund represents amounts set aside under ID I (July
1989 to June 1994) to enable the Institute to survive without donor finances after the project
period. The amounts are principally derived from fees the Institute charges for courses and
consulting and the UNDP's support, in the form of fellowships. The fund has grown to K5.4.
million and is expected to increase to about K7.0 million by June 1994, (twice as much as the
target of K3.0 million set at the beginning of the project). Even after allowing for the
continued impact of inflation and the devaluation of the Kwacha, this is a remarkable
achievement. However, 75 percent of the Fund is invested in fixed deposits of 5 years
maturity with the Leasing and Finance Company (LFC) and this means that the interest earned
might not be as significant as originally expected and the goal of self-financing in respect of
operational costs would not be achieved at the en" of ID I as expected. A critical review of
the evolution of the Endowment Fund together with projected revenues that would be
available from 1995 through 1999 is provided as Annex 13. The recommendations of MIM's
Governing Board on achieving better management of the Endowment Fund is provided as an
Addendum to the Annex. MIM would be required to produce an annual report on the progress
made toward self-financing through the Endowment Fund. The report will be sent to IDA by
December 31 for information and comments. Assurance on this point was obtained from
Government at negotiation.
D.    Technical Assistance
5.9   The Technical Assistance Matrix provided in
Annex 14 summarizes the requirements under the project.   L*ag-tewj8hort-tru
Total long and short-term TAs would be 373 person-
months for all the project components. The mix of long                * long
and short-term TAs and the breakdown between foreign
and local are indicated in figures 1 and 2 respectively.  420A
No policy support TA is involved in the project. Of the                 shor atwa
total TA, 84 person-months (23 percent) will support                    tnn
project implementation while the balance (77 percent)          __
would be for capacity building. Long-term TAs would be



33
used mostly in the early years of the project with short term TAs (12 months or less)
comprising about 75 percent of TA requirements in the last
two years. Long-term TAs would also be
recruited in rare skill areas for different project  ForeXolLeeal C jb
components such as a data administrator
(Information Framework), job evaluation expert
(DPMT) and forward budgeting (MOF). To                 _               Fomlon
ensure that local resources are used as far as
possible, a Register of Local Consultants and       cow                Local
Experts in Management is being compiled,                    78%
financed under PPF. (See the terms of reference
in Annex 1 1).
E,    Implementation Schedule, Reporting and Monitoring
5.10   The project will be implemented over 1994-1999. A draft Implementation Schedule to
accompany the Implementation Plan is provided as Annex 7. Annual review of the project is
envisaged with a comprehensive mid-term review during the third year. For every review,
project coordinators will be expected to: prepare an annual report summarizing progress in all
key project areas of activity and a work program for the following year. The annual report
would be submitted to IDA within three months after the end of each calendar year. No later
than December 31, 1996, Government would carry out, jointly with IDA, a mid-term review
of the project. The review will cover the following:
*     overall project performance against established and agreed key performance
indicators (see Annex 9);
e     evaluation of project achievements and problems;
0     an assessment of project sustainability; and
*     evaluation of consultants' performance.
An Implementation Completion Report will be submitted to the Bank no later than six months
after the closing date of the loan.
5.11  Implementation Manual. An Implementation Manual is under preparation and a draft
was discussed during negotiations. The manual will be finalized for use at the project launch
workshop. An outline plan for the launch workshop is provided as Annex 15.
F.    Client Consultation
5.12   The ESW on which this project is based - the Public Sector Management Review
(PSMR) - was carried out by the Government and the Bank. The discussions of the PSMR
report at both the completion and Green Cover stages involved a significant mumber of senior
and middle-level civil servants. The Task Force set up by Government in October 1992 to
work with the Bank on project preparation involved many civil servants drawn from ministries
and departments. About 120 civil servants were involved in workshops organized in the



34
context of diagnostic studies on the Department of Personnel Management and Training and
Salaries, Wages and Fringe Benefits between May and July 1993. A Government technical
team of selected senior officials from the primary beneficiary organizations participated in the
work of the appraisal mission in October/November 1993. The main features of the project
were also discussed with some leaders of the emerging opposition groups during appraisal.
Their .cactions were positive. In all, the preparation of the project was highly participatory
and this has helped to deepen government ownership. Systematic client consultation will be
maintained during project implementation through the monitoring and evaluation mechanisms
discussed under the Implementation Schedule. This will include two surveys of staff of
selected government ministries and departments: the first prior to the mid-term review and the
second about 12 months before project completion. To enhance commitment to the
achievement of project objectives across line ministries and departnents, the mid-term review
could be combined with a country portfolio performance review.
G.    Environmental Impact
5.13   The environmental category of the credit is C because the civil works envisaged for
MIM, (campus management staff housing in Lilongwe) would not have significant impact on
the physical environment. As was the case under ID I, the architectural design to be used
would be modest and would rely on maximum use of natural ventilation and local materials.
CHAPTER 6. PROJEC BENEFTTS, IMPACT AND RISKS
A.    Impact and Benefits
6.1   Improved performance of personnel, budgetary and financial management would
enhance efficiency and effectiveness throughout the entire civil service system. This will help
to enhance macroeconomic stability. The conduct of government business would benefit from
the predictability, transparency and accountability fostered by provisions in the Public Service
Act. All this would favorably affect the implementation of development programs and
projects, including those supported by the Bank. Better management of the government-
enterprise relationship by the Department of Statutory Bodies would enable Government to
derive more substantial benefits from its parastatals. And the development of a privatization
policy would help to rationalize the parastatal sector and to prepare the ground for a
privatization program. Continued success of the Malawi Institute of Management in providing
training and consultancy services to government, parastatals and the private sector would
eventually enhance the quality of national economic management.
B.    Risks
6.2   The evolving govemance situation in the country would be marked by periodic
problems that could hinder effective implementation of some management improvement
measures. While this needs to be acknowledged, the gains from a distinct trend toward
openness and transparency would limit its negative consequences. Furthermore, given the
context of impending elections, the leaders of the main opposition parties as well as



35
representatives of the media were briefed on the main features of the project. Attention was
drawn to its apolitical character: a project that will help enhance the quality of public
management to the benefit of both the governors and the governed. A major problem
encountered in implementing the component on the Ministry of Finance under ID I was rapid
staff turnover. Although this persists, the existence of a core staff at the PSMIU together with
designated coordinators for project components under ID II would limit the negative
consequences. The weak implementation capacity noted at the country implementation
reviews held in 1991 and 1993 could slow project implementation at the initial stage.
However the corrective measures already in place together with a robust Government
implementation plan for ID II would help to minimize the risk. Implementation of pay reform
measures might be difficult because of the tight budgetary constraint which could continue for
the foreseeable future. But increased revenue mobilization and prudent financial management
could help provide the necessary resources.
CHAPTER 7. AGREEMENTS, ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATION
7.1    Government has submitted a Policy Statement on Civil Service Reform and
Institutional Strengthening acceptable to IDA in the form of a letter signed by the Minister of
Finance (Annex 1). The Government has also adopted the concept of a Public Service Act and
has submitted to IDA the draft of the legislation (para 3.2). The Government's
Implementation Plan was discussed at negotiations. It will be incorporated in the
Implementation Manual that would be used at the project launch workshop (para 5.11). The
various budget functions within MOF have been merged into a single division under a Senior
Deputy Secretary. Further fine-tuning is to be completed by May 31, 1994 (para. 3.16). A
candidate has been selected for the position of project manager and is expected to assume duty
as soon as his compensation package is settled.
7.2    At negotiations, the Government gave assurances that it would:
(i) Follow IDA Procurement Guidelines for procuring works and goods and IDA
Guidelines for Selection of Consultants and use World Bank's Standard
Bidding Documents (para 4.7, 4.8 & 4.10).
(ii) Submit annual accounts and financial statements audited by independent
auditors acceptable to IDA within nine (9) months of the end of its fiscal year
to IDA (para 4.16).
(iii) Make provision for a proportion of the recurrent cost of the PSMIU to be
agreed with IDA in the annual budget of the OPC (4.14).
(iv) Ensure that MIM meets the targets agreed with IDA regarding the progressive
phasing out of fellowships to its courses (para 3.30).
(v) Ensure that the MIM submits to IDA by December 31 of every year an annual
report on the progress made toward self-financing through its Endowment
Fund (para 5.8).
(vi) Follow the project implementation plan agreed with IDA (para 5.14).
(vii) Submit to IDA annual progress reports within three months after the end of
each calendar year (para 5.10).



36
(viii) Conduct a joint Annual Review of project implementation not later than June
30th after the end of the year under review and carry out a comprehensive
mid-term project review by December 31, 1996 (para 5.10).
(ix) Ensure effective functioning of the Public Sector Management Improvement
Unit through provision of adequate staffing and operational resources (para
5.2).
(x) Install an accounting and audit system for the project (para 4.16).
(xi) Implement the training program agreed with IDA, beginning with the detailed
program for the first year of the program (para 4.8).
7.3        Effectiveness of the credit will be subject to the following conditions:
(i)  submission to IDA of a copy of the Public Service Act promulgated by
Parliament (para 3.2).
(ii)  appointment of an independent auditor acceptable to IDA (para 4.16).
(iii) appointment of Head, Census Executing Unit as well as Chief Technical Officer
and Accountant of the Unit (para 3.3).
(iv) appointment of project coordinators with qualifications satisfactory to IDA for
the components on DPMT, DSB and MOF (para 5.4).
(v)  adoption of a model consultancy contract acceptable to IDA, including a sample
letter of invitation, for the recruitment of technical assistance personnel under
the project (para 4.8).
7.4    Disbursement of the credit will be subject to the following conditions:
(i)  The Training Category of the project credit for the component on the
Deparunent of Personnel Management and Training will be subject to: (a)
Merging the Manpower Planning and Training Divisions of DPMT (para 3.13)
and (b) creation of Human Resources Management Units (HRMU) on a pilot
basis in five ministries: Agriculture, Education, Finance, Works and Health
(para 3.14).
(ii)  All categories of project credit for the component on the Malawi Institute of
Management will be subject to the appointment of a professionally qualified
accountant who would be responsible for the financial management of the MIM
component (para 4.15).
F.    Recommendation
7.5   Subject to the stated actions, conditions and agreements, I am satisfied that the
proposed credit would comply with the Articles of Agreement of the Association and
recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.



Anuex I
Page- IOf 10
Tdehiami U.oavw* 13 199                                                   po  o  04
Tdis4                    W                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P.O. BOX ioOl9
LILONOW  3
Ref. No. 20/02OIC                                            3rd   May,  1994
.;Mr. E.V.K. Jaycox,
Vice Preident,
Africa Region,
The World Bank
Washington D.C.
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Dear Mr. Vice President,
LETr   OF POLICY  ON  CIVL SERVICE REFORM  AND  LNSTITUTIONAL
STRENGTHENING
I am writing to you in connection with the proposed credit for the Second Institutional
Development Project, and especially to inform you about policy decisions and measures that the
Govenment has aIready take, or is about to take in order to improve the performance of the
Public Sector. The credit, amounting to US$2w.6 million, that we are seeKing from the
International Development Association (IDA) in support of our Second Instittional Development
Project (IDP 2) will enable us to further improve the performance of the Public Sector through
institutional strengthening and management development.
2.    As you are aware, the Malawi Government has aledy benefitted from assistance
provided by IDA and the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) under the First
Insdtutional Development Project (IDPI) whose focus was on the establishment of the Malawi
Institute of Mangement and implemctation of Tax Reform Policy in the Ministry of Finance.
I am picased to report that good progress has been made by this project. However, we realise
that there is more to be done inlorder to ensure that the performnance of the Public Service,
contributes significandy to Malawi's economic asid social development; hence our request for
additional assistance under the Second Institutional Development Project.
3.    T'he Malawi Govemmcnt is committed to implementing civil service reforms and
insttutional strengthening in the public Sevice. In addition, it is Government's policy to
reduce dependency on foreign expertise and correspondingly to promote programmes that
contnibute to Malawi's efforts of becoming self-sufficient in professional expertise and economic
security. The Credit which we are now requestin in pursuant of this commitment will go a



Annex 1
Page 2 of 10
public services as well as other objectives as speled out in the Statement of Development
Policies (DEVPOL) 1986-1997.
4.   In DEVPOL, the Govermment has defined its economic and social objex.;tives for the neot
decade as "the reduction of pove, ignorance and disease through the achievement of rapid and
sustined economic growth; an impovement of income distrbution; and a reduction in he'
instability of welfare for both the individual and the nation." The Govenment recognis  the
critical role at the Civil Service plays In its efforts to relise these national development
objectives. As the operational arm of Govemment, the Civil Service is charged with the tuk
of providing an enabling physical, economic and adminisrative environment that faciliates the
achievement of the nation's social and economic objecdves. To this end, it is Government's
policy to periodically subject public sector organisations, including the civil service, parastatal
companies and local government institutions to extemnal reviews of their operations,
responsibilities, functions, structures and establishment levels. This is done in order to ensure
that their capacities match the demands that are being placed upon them; opportunities for
increasing their overall efectiveness and efficiency in the delivery of public services are
identified; and waste and duplication are curbed. The Herbecq Rcport (1985) and the Public
Sector Management Revew Report (1993) (PSMR) are examples of such reviews, and it has
been specificaly stated in the Statement of Development Policies that Government will continue
with a programme of such reviews.
GOVERNMENT'S COMMIMENT TO MANAGEMENT IMPROVEMENT
5.    A number of problem areas in the organisation and operation of the civil service which
impede effective delivery of government services to the nation have been highlighted in the
above studies. Most of these management and institudional weaknesses remain common to all
ministries and departments. The Government is committed to refonns in the organisadon and
operation of the Civil Service and to strengthning its institutional and human resource capacities
through: implementing recommendations to improve management and institudonal weakesses
set out in the Herbeqc Report and the Public Sector Management Review and other reports, and
through paying attention to govenance issues in the design and implementation of civil service
reform and institutional strengtening measures.
MANAGEMENT PROBLEM AREAS
6.    The piece-meal approach to management improvement, after the Herbecq Report and the
PSMR, whereby a number of miiustries and departments embarked on studies of management
problems and initiat management improvement programmes, did not achieve much. Most of
the management and organisational concerns idendfied in these reviews are still unresolved.
Some of these institutional and management weaknesses are summarised below.



Annex I
Page 3 of 10
PERSONNEL MANAGEMiENT
7.    Thee is no clear legislative framework within which the Malawi Civil Service funcfions.
Thert is need for a Public Service Act which would set out the roles and responsibiitdes of
Ministries and Departments involved in pesonne management activities within the Civil
Sevice. This Act should clarify the duties, responsibilities and rights of civil servants.
8.    The Department of Personnel Management and Training (DPMT) does not possess
adequate resources or capabilities for job evaluation and grading. Consequently, considerable
omalies acist acros the Civil Seace in job elasifieation and wlay roationnhips. Curnt
civl serts performance appraisal systm is also deficient. There is no direct connection
between job performance and remunration.
9.    Schemes of Service and Career Paths do not exist for most Civil Service occupational
groups.  Similarly, Ministries' training and staff   development programmes. are not
systematically formulated and are not based on identified skill-deficiencies or specific training
needs.  Overall, the Civil Service is characteised by high levels of staff tum-over and
vacancies, as well as staff establishments that are based on precedence rather than on objective
asessment of current and future workloads.
CIVIL SERVICE PAY
10. There is no systematic process for reviewing and determining civil service salaries and
benefits. Institutional arrangements, including information bases, for determining pay rates and
benefits are inadequate. Government's efforts in this area have geeraely been reactive. Such
efforts have not protected civil servants against inflation thereby contributing to poor morale and
inability to attract and retain professional and specialised personnel.
ESTABLISHfMENT CONTROL
11.  It appears ftat thee is considerable over-staffimg in the junior ranks of the Civil Service.
Government realises that uncontolled growth in the Civil Service establishment could undemine
its future fiscal stability. However,currently, reliable employment data concerning the
Government's workforce are not avaiable and there is a general lack of compatibility between
the Government's vaious employment management information systems, such that it is not
possible to reconcile the differences In establishment numbers presented in the Budget Estimates,
in the records of the Department of Personnel Management and Training, and in the
Government's Payroll system. To correct this, and to enable the Government to exert more
control over the growth of the Civil Service, there is need for a fundamental overhauling and
harnonising of the Government's current personnel and financial information systems.



Annex 1
Page 4 of 10
COMMON SERVICES
12.  Three man problems have been identified in the maagemnent of common services.
These are: excessive staff turnover, excessive vacancies, and insufficient understanding wiin
the common services of their roles and functions, especially when assigned to line ministries.
BUIDGETING
13.  There are deficiencies in the Government's current Budgeting systen and staff skil
leves. At present, budgedng does not always play a proper role in. contributing to
Goverment's strategic decision-makdng nor to resource allocation. The absence of poper
forward budgeting has resulted in significant weaknesses in the linkages betwen investmet
planning, the Development Budget and the Recurrent Budget.
14.   Crrent budgeting processes do not adequately identify the full costs of current policy and
development expenditures beyond the budget year, and it is not possible to ensure that when
investment projects are completed there will be sufficient funds for operations and maintence.
The formulation of realistic budgets is further hampered by inadequate tax forecasting
capabilities.
15.  CoiWol of within-year expenditure has deteriorated in recent years.  the absence of
efficient and integrated budget systems, a significant shortage of adequately trained financinl
manage  in Government, a lack of up-to-date infomation on actual expenditures and increasing
budget demand pressures have combined to result in significant ovending by individual
ministries.
LINE MINISTRIES AND DEPARTMENIS
16.  Specific shortcomings in the management capabilities and practices in the line ministries
and departnents include unclear sector strategies and managers' roles and responsibilities;
excessive centralisation in decision-maldng; inadequate generation of programme performance
and cost data; inacequate programme evaluation and therefore insufficient basis for proper
programme planning and budgeting; inadequately structured and gencrally not needs-based
training programmes; weak staff supervision at all levels; and, inadequate vertia and horizontal
management communication systems.
PARASTATAL SECTOR & THE DEPARTMENT OF STATUTORY BODIES
17.  Ther are over 133 parastatarganisations in Malawi. These were created to provid*
goods and services which neither the private sector nor the Civil Service could provide
efficiently and equitably. By 1984 jarastatal oranisations were contributing approximately 25%
of the GPP. This underscores the importance of this sector when it comes to evaluating de
overal performance of the economy. Management and operational practices of stanttoty
organisations are critical if they are to continue making a worthwhile contribution to National



Annex 1
Page 5 of 10
Development. To ensure this, the sector is cuentldy implementing reform activities which am
aimed at improving the financial performance and operational efficiency of parastatal
organisations.
18.  The Department of Statutory Bodies (DSB) is charged with the supervision, performance
monitoring and provision of assistance to parastatal bodies. However, a number of constraints
have been highlghted which severely limit the ability of the DSB to carry out its rolc. The first
problem is lack of clarity in the role and reationships the DSB has with other supervioy
agencies. Secondly, the DSB needs to be able to attract and retain professional staff with
ipeciflc sildUs and competencies in order to make effective interventions in the parastatal
organisations. Lasdy, DSB's capaity and capability of promoting both improved financial
performance of the parastals through accounting support and technical efficiency reviews, and
developing a privatisation policy implementation plan (to include Treasury Funds) needs to be
expanded.
GOVERNANCE ISSUFS
19.  The Government will give special attcntion to issues concerning good governance in
conjunction with the design and implementaion of civil service reform and institutional
development measures. Government is also committed to the process of evolutionary change
involving a redefinition of the role of the state and progress towards the privatisation of
functons dt  are found to be no longer cost-effective or appropriate for the public sector to
car out. Specifically, recent events have made it clear that the Govemment, in undertalcing
its public sector improvement initiatives, must give special attention to ensuring that te
character and capabilities of the Civil Service and its complementary public sector institutions
are compatiblc with the evolving responsibilities of Government.
20.  In the past two years, Malawi has experienced clirnatic and economic difficulties that
have heightened public awareness of the importance for the nation to achieve a status of genaal
self-sufficiency. Social and political events in the same pegod have made it clear that the
ciiens of Malawi wish to see fundamental changes in the mode of national governance; and,
have placed new importance on achieving additional progress in our efforts at nationwide social,
economic, and political reform. The Govenment of Malawi has moved swiftly in response to
these developments and mandates. It has placed a renewed emphasis on implementing initiatives
that are diected toward achieving greater national sef-sufficiency through increased economic
growth and the strengthening of domestic professional and productive capacities.
21.  In addition, the Government recognises "good governance* as a prerequisite for
susinable economic and aional development. In my 1993 Budge Speech to Parliament, J-.
stated that the Govemment is committed to achieving improved governance throigh.
*participation by the people in decisions that affect them; accountability of administration to t
people; the absence of corruption; adherence to the rule of law; and, respect for human dgktS.
These principles of good governance shall also provide the overall framework for the



Annex I
Page 6 o^f 10
Government's initatives directed toward Civil Service Reform and Institutional Strengthening
which are described in this Policy Statement
ThE CEARACTER OF CHANGE
22.  In adopting this Policy on Civil Service Reform and Institutional Strungening, fte
.Govemment is committing iLtlf to on-goimg efforts of incrasing the capacides of the Civil
Sevice and Statutory Bodies. The Government's over-riding goal in these endeavours is to
develop a Civil Service and a parasl secor that opeate with maximum effeciveness and
.cfficpc7y, adhere to the principles of good governace and operate in a  tmhner that ensures:
equal opportunity for all without regard to race, origin, sex, religious - belief, political
affiltion, or physical disability; faimess and equitable adminston of plicies, rules and
regulaions; transparency, consistency, and predictability in decisions and practices; merit as
the primary criterion for selecdion and advancement; reward for innovation, initiative and
exceptonal performance; responsiveness to the needs of the public; and attendon to excellence.
THE OBJECTIVES OF CIVIL SERVICE REFORM
23.  The Government's initiatives in Civil Service Reform shall be directed toward:
(a)   Implementing cost-effective and susainable solutions to  the management
problems and deficiencies of the Civil Seivice that were cited in the Herbecq
Report, the Public Sector Management Review, and subsequent Government
studies;
(b)   Improving Government's ability to attract and retain properly trained Malawias
to meet the Govcrnmcnt's professional and specialist manpower needs;
(c)   Promoting consistency and continuity in the administration of Government
prmgrammes by reducing the incidence of staff tum-over in the Civil Sece;
(d)   Improving the morale, motivation and work ethos of civil servants through
proactive measures such as the regular revicw and  tdonalisation of the pay and
benefit schemes;
(e)   Promoting a constructive and positive reladonship between Govemment and te
Civil Service through the inclusion of civil servants under the coverage of modem
Labour laws and policies and, the fair and consistent administradon of those laws
and policies which are predicated on the principles of collective bargaining; the
Rights of Employees and Employers to Organise; and, mutuat Respect and Trust
betwee the Pardes.



Annex 1
Page 7 of 10
(f)     Improving the representation, conditions, and opportunities of Women
in all sectors and at all levels of fte Malawi work force.
THE OBJECrIE  OF INSlUlTIONAL STRNGTHENNG
24.  The Government's current and continuing initiadves In Insdtudonal Strengthening and
ovetall Caacity Building shal be directed toward achieving the following pncipal oWcidves:
(a)   Implementfng cost-effectdve and sustainable solutions to the insdtudional
weaknesses cited in the Herbacq Commission Report, the Public Sector
Management Review, and subsequent Government studies;
(b)   Condnually increasing the effectiveness and efficiency with which Government
services are provided to the public;
(c)   Improving national and sectoral planning capabilities;
(d)   Increasing capacity to idendfy nadonal developmcnt needs and to design and
Implement national development programmes;
(e)   Ensuring that Govemment has an effective administration necessary for the
provision of public seices. To that end, Government shall sock opportunides
to reduce Govemment and streamline its opeations.
(s)   Supporting the systematic decentralisation and devolution of some public sector
decision-making from the central Government to the Regions and the Districts;
(g)   Integrating investment planning, the development budget and its recurrent budget
implications to ensure that the appropriate future allocation of funds for
operations and maintenance of capital projects is provided for and sufficiendy.
prioritised.
GUIDING PRINCIPLES FOR CIVIL SERVICE REFORM  AND INSTITUTIONAL
STRENGTHENING ACTIVITIES
25. The Government's offorts in Civil Service Reform and Institutional Strengthening shall
be guided by the following operating principles:
(a)   Maximnum use shall be made of local capacity in the formulation and execution
of Malawi's development projects;
(b)   When donor and extemal assistance is utilised, the process for projec seleion,
design, and management shall be collaborative, and not 'donoidriven';



Annex I
Page 8 of 10
(c)   When external technical assisaance is utLised, the requirement for successful sldlls
transfer to local staff shall be incorporated as a contractual condition;
(d)   The planning and design of Malawi's development projet and progammes 
always give appropriate atntion to the nation's and the Governmment's absorptve
capadcties;
(e)   A high priority shall be placed on manpower training and development activities.
The benefits that are derved from  hee experiences shall be increased by
ensuring tht those advities are based upon clearly identified needs and, that
attention is given to enabling and encouraging the applicadon of newly acquired
slls and knowledge.
(f)   The incorporation of public input and paricipation in reviews of Government's
performance shall be encouraged.
26. Management and institutional improvement efforts in Government Ministries and
Departments will be characterised by the following conditions:
(a)   Management will fully understnd and be fully committed to the improvement
objectives of each project;
(b)   Affocted managers shall participate in the preparation of improvement Action
Plans;
(c)   Appropriate consideration will be given to the organisations' capabilities to
implement and sustain any planned improvement;
(d)   Clear responsibility for implementadon actions will be established.
rNSUITTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT 2
27.  The formuladon of the IDP2 and the inital project preparation activities have been
characterised by a high degree of participation of a large cross-section of Governtnent managers
and staff. The efforts to dat represt a sucocssful collaborative effort betwecn the Govemment
of Malawi and the World Bank. For these reasons, the Govemment is conridcnt that the IDP2
will result in a successful and significant initial contribution to the achievemcat of the civil
see reform and institutional strengthening objecdves set out in this Policy Statement on Civil
Service Reform and Instittional Strengthening.
28.  The pincipal task of the IDP2 is to improve the effoctiveness and efficiency of the Civil
Service by addressing managemcnt issues that constitute bottlenecks to improved perfonance
Particulatteation will be fect od on correcting problens associated with the core functions of
the civil service, namely, personnel management, budgedng, and financial management.



Annex 1
Page 9 of 10
29.   Priority attendon will go to strengthening capacity in thc Deparment of Personiel
Management and Training and the Ministry of Finance. Strengthening these orgaisations will
include the clarification of management and staff tasks and responsibilities; development of
opeational manuals; restructuring of programmes and organisational units; introduction and
strengthening of planning and management coordination functions; and the training and
development of staff.
New programmes and systems will be initiated in these organiions.  These include:
development and implementation of Government-wide Personnel and Financial Management
Information Systems; implementation of a Government-wide Forward-Budgeting programme;
implementation of a servke-wide 'Open' Performance Appraisal System; implementation of
improved Job Evaluation methods, and introduction of Career Paths and Schemes of Service.
30.   The MDP2 will implement Government's institutional arrangements and operaions
directed at: Improved Established Control; (an initial step will be the conduct a Civil Service
Census); improved processes for reviewing and establishing policies and practices concerning
Government Pay and Benefits; a comprehensive redesign of the Government Salary structure;
improving the management and coordination of GoverTnent's Information Technology functions;
and updating the National Training Policy. The project will also will also seek to implement:
increased effectiveness and efficiency in Government functions performed by the Common
Serces; cost-effective solutions to common management problems in Ministries and
Departments across Government identified by the Public Sector Management Review.
31.   The IDP2 will include components directed at strengthening the institutional capacity of
the Department of Statutory Bodies and the Malawi Institute ef Management It is worth nothing
that the Malawi Institute of Management has recorded solid achievements since its foundation
in 1990 and it is intended ta these gains shall be consolidated and built upon to strengthen thfis
in-country training and consultancy capacity. The growing arrangement and sidlls training needs
for all sectors of the economy are provided for by this local insdtudQn. The capacity of MHM
to provide relevant arangement development prgrammes and to assist in the public sector's
training needs assessments, together with the design and implementaion of the necessary training
programmes, will be supported while MIM becomes a self-financing institution.
PBLIC SERVICE ACT
32.   To facilitate the implementation of the IDP2 initiatives the Government of Malawi will
putin place ough Parliament a Public Service Act (PSA). Thc PSA shall clarify the task of
the Civil Senrice; place in statute the duties, responsibilities, and rights of members of the Civil
Service; and ensure that the affairs of the Matawi Public Service are conducted with appropriate
regard to transparency and predictability. This Act will provide the l4gal-basis and overall legal
framework for the operations of the Civil Service, and for the on-going Civil Service
improvement and Institutional Strengthening initiatives presented in this Policy Statement.



Annex 1
Page 10 of 10
ESTABLISEbNT OF THE PUBLIC SECTOR MANAGEMENT IMPROVEMENT UNIT
WMN 3THE OMCE OF THE PRESIDENT AND CABUEF
33.   Any suvcsful Government-wide Cil Service improvementand insdtution sengthing
programme must be soundly planned, structured and manaed. Accordingly, the Govnment
has established a Public Sector Management Imprvement Unit (PSMIU) within the Office of
the Preident and Cabinet  This cenltal unit is responsible for the overall dirion andt
codintion of the distinct but related civil seice teform gnd instiutional strengthening
activities that will be undertaken during the implementation of IDP 2.
34.  The reonsibilities of the PSMIU shall include: establishing effective IDP2 Proj:et
Execution and Management Structurs to ensure achievement of Project goals and objectives;
estabUshing an achievable and cost-effective IDP2 programme of project activities that
maximizes synergy and makes tie most cfficient use of government and technical assistane
pernnel; providing effecdve direction in planning and implementing govemment-m de
institutional and management imprvements; ensurnng -the timely identification and optimal
application of successful management and institutional improvement measures, and evaluating
the overal performance of the DDP2 and its individual components and project elements and
providing regular reports on project progress.
35.   I would like to take this opportunity to underscore the Malawi Government's commitment
to the implementation of the policies, programmes and initiadves outlined in this Policy
Statement. On behalf of the Malawi Government, I would like to thank the IDA for the
asstance the organisation provided for the First Institutional Development Project and it Is my
sincere hope that our request for additional assistance through the proposed IDP2 will receive
favourable consideration.
Yours sincerely,
L. . Ch       M.go, MP.
MINISTER OF FINANCE



cnL fERVICE REFORM AND INSTIUONAL STRENGTHENING - DRAFT IMPLEMENTATION MATRIX
ISSUE                    . CBJECTIVES                            STRATEGIES                          RESPONSIBLE TIMEFRAME REMARKS &
& POLICIES                          & MEASURES                          PARTIES                             ASSUMPTIONS
1. Th need to bdabish        To ea h a l    bas and              G    w t to prr a                   OPC & MW            By API 194     A draft PUbIC S*  Ac wl be
a lO  basis& veed wow       fram     rthecperce                 daft Pic Servic Olit                                                    prvIded to IDA
laniR tc for h               of th Ch1i Senitwhckh:              etbi   to Pladmnt                                                       for rlsw. IDA WM offer
ope d In Of Ut CHl Seryte                                                                                                                coients to GOM an the fdft
* clevifleethe rule @1 th clvi                                                                             PSA
pUbbuooyergunwit
todd o dW
llsbeeb er imes       l                                                          . rme
mi wuedpmiebI.
2 It ne redl fe ddrae        loo  bbuide nhiaio md              Dwveop mid bunch a CMv              Oepumlet of         Odt 194-         Support being provded
It hh ghWmawoerm             sysntemlohprwuele in GOM            SelviwIcewlesyslem atOpen           Personnel           June915          ftrough IDA unde
vacecyrates i th             pdeallt.mdpraeshesthat a            Peromimce ApprIsal though           INIlsgemesIt                         Inemane Dewelpmen
adi SsMos and to             direcled ' :li tdwdalpmmtotevahlo                                       and Trebin                           Pr*ct U (ID to)
hIres fth eard mural                                             misols mid procedures ed an         (DPMT)
at Oe  Ci Sersveni            * decreafigt1hel hieldwene'tstallf  Inpeetln p Rpmius.
mid the    1sfficIenc          turover mdweuWAles                cm eofwvamkshps ami
mid IIeelensI of DOWeten crones.
I'sn I  mI I gealeu1          .b e10wed  1iIth
.                  . snic 
edtvenee mid ead   T bmc_          DeveopanrdbuicheC                  DPMT                Odt44           Suppet being pved
atlte emurleudGoe                 Career P_btord                                          Doe              wough IDA  der
h~~~ -                                               -    W aedprocwbb                                                  lOl_ l 
C~~~~~~~~pldl                          8        ;        Etd t0  dldd:Xd_S  td bw lest    "                                       ID n
he_mlae                          thoemid Cd Spmule.
Ratonal. he docurret cmv            OPMT               Jan - May94      Support being reqeste
Service pay srctu  am                                                   though IDA under l Oll PPF
racIly monidl.es.
Intod_  and apply a system          DPWT               Julyo4t          SuWo  ben provided
at Job Fvaluation  sthat                               Jan197           thrwog IDA under ID II.
in job gadbng that Is
comarosurate wtflh Wvl oi
respw lbyd overall job



-'          ltli      .         '      g  ".4
I|lt                         l:
3s 1  l,1 1llttilt,11 51til1 itlgltg~'s
(11111                   M      M
T  i            t   ef111:1  
| }| Eff}     ||                i  }1 iX 
~~~f~        : ftWt 'hf LI II  j~ 'ii-



CIVIL 8EOMCE WM               M8ONA STRNGHEING - RF IMPLEMENTAInON MATRD                                     '
188UE  OBJECTIVES           STRATEGIE                    RESPONSIBLE  TIMEFRAME REMARKS &
& POUCIES                    & MEASURES                  PARTIES                       ASSUMPTIONS
.       pE3schn Owe                         T.B.D.        po po to Marh94
-Veuon Pha                                  T.B.D.
Todw" qp bwfo                B eddng Buon Wth reds of Vs  DPDI DPMT     1OMW7         IDA Is slig GM In ft
Ih GMto dwelop oit  and      C_ns d_,Wn. dmklp ad                                      d_a  te TOW. for tb
mtamacmats    Ab Chil It a *ompam                                                      sttm. Spe.l uIIon  d
8w*l p_Mod IhhnuI            osnyulse    -                                             wed to be in to mesing
mwn empI   a upoun         Mampmw  Im lnbnudo                                        #thi ~ et vdhth lon4ag
ftrI      d_ long wus.  Si          B mllrds OPT                                       U.S. AID PWB pst VWt hs
am p"a                       p. gd oW DPDpaWd                                          been eIdnmy i OPMT ohma
.~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~mcd .mi tpreome.                                                       1ses
To edwvop anofth  Eulal      Eaibsh noasmy
Cw*d pFBIsa nb* 0M           rkwodkM m%pnats
lhat 3fm CH SaMoao emp hst  wso DPiT, OP.D Tremy
.nd Pqmll bfnt  h tof o A4ooott Gem nd
G        _wnmntSgid          EP&D So ci  effhol
-*dk  Co" puesms             Est*libudvm Co"h
_ 7 C     d~~~~~~~pocse aidrCeu.
Udbs a S8ao Reew             MOf            mnm94         Bg         a   u
dof0M FwalrMia_m t                                        Of    1 Projaid
lI_rmd   .a~                                              P_amli
App** a Dab A*do             DPD            ApOS I4
wa WDaft msomn  d
ofechepliadlo
.. evep I   It  11                     T   1a9'96
qismthftw provid UstkIgmi
aomfn **Wm'
mq*edfortEdaau.mt
C.. PrM ...            .             .
..     . ..      . *. *d A"Wf .itUOtQsI mew  G.0W    Undestake a Oblgnoci Riew  MOF       May4un 94     Oefg undert&  as put
d"mdrv p"ecesee esw         | of teacwumw prnn                                         of lIl PoJent Prao
|CLl proc_ pwo amtoos*l bu              t ID and    SNagst wi     bret



CML SERVICE REFORM AND INSTITUTIONAL SRENGTENING - DRAFT IMPLEMENTATION MATRIX
ISSUE                       OBJECTIVES                          STRATEGIES                         RESPONSI1LE TIMEFRAME REMARKS &
& POUCIES                          & MEASURES                          PARTIES                    ...  ASSUMPTIONS
.isiliingGObe *r 0                 PhMin an the PIP.
Commina the  r    _w u              MOF               Jan 94.          ThsbiscurenlyaCondllonof
fort. RevoNu and                                                       Negoalons for th ID I.
D_oe      n deo B     uder
Dev"p aWl olbmut a                  MOf
.eI dgg Afort                                                          Maybeklnldedaspertofthd ,
ta imloI assistae                                                      ID it Prjct P   _evrs
4condut of td TOW                                     JuWne14
. cnducl awibhops                                     Jtdy9 4I-
4Plotet                                               NovS4-
Maris
.T.kgd MOF andLh LJ                                   1 #449
bbwbuwtddhk
Totomwe b u      m nts  te         4thom MOFS Tax Po"y                  MOF               JUd 9407        Beig e       d thoh
MOP Tt PdcyAys  nl                 An*yb U*ikw0 dhe                                                        IDA s paod o IOIL
that,! h_wama oe                   _b cuayi peiin  iequpnn1
SOil's trrvee oasfn;               trb*   ad techical
owthayslpuS  tehlln e.kmtdisn       SitI.
of ane ebiPawad_ioAwiug1
To itocae  sems and                - Pacpae In th dsign and                                                GOM IBb recee asstance
buepvA ntoqopeat ofof              fnpimmetatlo sti                                                        fom IDA in th dWevemnt
he AccuInWt General tat Improve    comPrehensive Financial Information                                    of the Tam of Refere  for.
4  *  6    f4l, t d WZ0 ect  ....tvt*I   system being deveped In IDII,                                   Oth sysem deomnt
. *  .    - e  -I t ,         cna. ~mng that a prmwcpaI                                              P-
.~ 4*.  .-.~ ~..t vo         np,  ee~S iodt of   stem Bs a
mdne  compnAensed Pubbo
-I  s-nm.



CIML SERVICE REFORM AND INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING - DRAFT IMPLEMENTATION MATRIX
ISSUE                        OBJECTIVES                          STRATEGIES                           RESPONSIBLE TIMEFRAME REMARKS &
. ___________ & POLICIES                          & MEASURES                          PARTIES                              ASSUMPTIONS
AcnpshcuqssVe                        MOF               By Jutb 95
re w   d updatnd  0w                (M Gen)
reesueyb knucuos
olfet G0W0 Eepeniue
Conkrol T* Forea
Upgrade  dog s  tob
Md Quws MOF nd Comm
SeoIMdosdff UvmO
FoMduc of:
Conduct a  ban   eds                                    ByAl 94          To be propooed as pt
eeni                                                                     othUe lDlI Proec
Debsdp end admn*                                        Apri   -
a dtu pred roa eof
needsbalrkfcour,
_wakel"ends   tours.              .
5. Tha need for              To estbish an  dle  hdtkilA1onal       PMTro,w  mitd                        PMT,              1984
hpvment hi GOM               awugment hfrle reulr rewu             EP8D todevelop end                  Tresuy, EPD
po    d p       ur           and reiieme nottle GOes              hliwmn a pban for t
laing to cmI S ew            rasnratdienscemes.                   reguar. review Nid rfnemaent
Payandenft.                                                       of 00W1 remunwation
- eiftnd precsM
To Ida     and corr corret           DPMTto undte                        DPMT                Jul 94-          ThI sfeotwId  bsuo rted
m_mi   GOM    I  and                deeopmtand  pemen.                                       Jan 17           by IA tnder IDlls .
benefiseb ud s and leabish          d a practica mid efciv
a mod   cnsset epprelo              approech to Ch   "     Job
eiaddui m*Milfi and                  Evuon. Go _met-wd
admntdern a fair an   npaet                  on f is prooess
elanyd benefts prgrmme.             sd      t r n an equbble
._______                      and buna~ereM pay stiNWturde.                                             ____py
i  1he need to impwove       To  mpve the capabIltes of MalaiA    To umdetak (en a prrtsed             OPC (MOF,           OveraI           At present tswe Is no
%*8" t.  -.e t2  4    om     Cwd Servants tough ipleaton    basis)deled Tran  Needs                    088, HeNlh,         progranm  to    strured prog. or avanlbe
*':r- *  ".: - * dldrt4a      of MmtwStry and Dept-specfi stafr    Assessments hi a GOM ie             Educaton)           be detemined     f        ed m to uwdtke
~aso~                     de_elopment pnrogres.       -        mse and depts; and to                                   MOf 8 DSB       rbang needs ae nenwt
deelop and admIister reeds                              Jan '94SS        In al or mnot GOM Ms
vdrben saff dveopnent nd                                Healt g Ed.      and Doep.



CIIL EVCE WEORMU AND INSiTITUTIgONUFA STGIEJg   RF M MENTATION MAiTRIX                                                           *         -.
ISSUE                         OBJECTIVES.                         STRATEGIES                           RESPONSIBLE TIMEFRAME REMARKS &
& POLCIES                           & MEASURES                           PARTIES                              ASSUMPTIONS
tIi*g  pg nMbind                                        T.OD.
upon te dlohes                                                           MOF 8 OSS W  he
.                        ~~~~~fa ID IL
..doe of Healt                     .
Educobon may
- -
dwdopmt asinwm (*Idoh
WM Icukde a tmaiin nadb
To sbtrnhn tw capcll of DPMT    To underta  a _onprehen                  DPMT                SeqW4-           A comprehendft OPMT sd
InW    devebpmtand Tran              prodessionl developmet prmme                            Jn  97           Deelopnent Porame is
so uclA  anplnoy an   ednmls           MDWd w.ipAtatraisus                          in                          ftidedIn fte tol aNW
hi proddn guIdanc &      an e  e     ompeW  _a deopmt                                                            bod        A 1>
b d of GOMInI hff1g a               spedddb sbek pboad in
meetng  dafevaloptneeds.             oPUre outadned Human
Resource mangenlet mlb In
Lne  n and Deph.
To  r n glb teaWpeofMIld             Prowdeof Tech. Astc                 MIo         1S 9449                  Suppon to be prodd
to IneaIDy meet U     inig and       to MIM. b hcrease Ils traIbAng                                           by IDA wdeID 11.
depmenztds dof GOws                  and oonsulg cepales In
puib   d pva   Ismploya             to pdlt ydkdl df of
Fhince, Accouatg   Trang
Irean lVWaff . MIM                                      1994
byask now MD and two
Prosonf long and short-              MIM                199498           Suppolt to be prvded
term ellolwhips for upgrdn                                               by IDA under ID II.
the sWI bves Of mow staff.
Esdshme  ard Admin. of              MIM                 19949            Supor to be proded
a Lernng Resource Centre                                                 by IDA under ID H.
at MlU  lo, bilu  books. audio-



e~~~~~                            2 
uii    Ii       X           ,,Li     Il           
.l i  ,1,  liSfbilii. .I               - l



CIML SER%CE REOR ANSO                              STRNGHEING - DATIMPLMNA71O MARIX'
ISSUE                      OBJECTIVES                        STRATEGIES                        RESPONSIBLE TIMEFRAME REMARKS &
& POICIES                        & MEASURES                        PARTIES                           ASSUMPTIONS
.~~~~~~~~~~~~2 tnpa.aamtfaMgt
In perase
ussm   in dos perasita
.                           b~~~~~dw&opwwd
To dewdp a bIsp   Putdadui        UdAstb  a sliet4m                 DSB                o4"            To be auputed by IDA
PA*cys fti pmaflsdWs wd            M*Bncy mid cnuci                                                    nder ID 11.
Treesmy land ergm~edIan.          asPadhe bd_esSedlhod 
.  ,       .~       _ __ __ __ _                      Pstviielon Piw for" .m  ..
. The naed to InW          To aud   md eaet                  bq_dr* eoste                                        T8D             Donor Assistance to be
licgmut elecll          d Ca           amt P wa                   adW          and                                               sougp
ilmiXMi ts             uifdha _e OObl mbubhs and         Osumnabngme_ t
Pub*c eD                               as dnd In i_          Im nat Progmnas
-t GOMWB Pubi SadW                rsomenended hI the PSMR.
M 4enagemse R_se (PSMR).
U    re tby Nan                                     TOD            MOF.  8 ONd DPMT
DOa,tme llm aere                                                   wI hsv ebmmts cfr.
hiApoemA ut 4t et eatn                                              Ps8prMile are"
ergulealnby, rgo tiolan                                            'afteseed under ID Vi.
bob urni  Mm " b mable                                             TimMh  at Ham amd
bohd lb 0 oO ee   d                                                EdiicIObo ts yecedbe
MOP.                                                               shdAr   n abeeo
tImdenoroenunwly.
.Utnde an eaaan d                                   TOD            Donor Assistanc lo be
beldsasnd enu
deicencyatlacurestooM
ConnenonSendommWeandeluats
th_nSttand
dsdvaegsoan o    ltemath'
system as recnuaadhule
. . _            _                             PSUR.
.6         .4~'CI.ft  6 .**  * 64*Wv   Wd am  Conunise  an lnter-              ope               1994
.t .. I-ap~le Sq. ne              Mmustesr Comt an
. ,.           .nifwoet.V dl coe     en dftam     bulna Dai*dpml
I-* '*t   ti               Cml Gsuace ~Reorn gid   ittlhena  whih ha bison  w h (Nd
Roekarm ad _    ed bA  h    a aU a"  bIlls _                        merg) wIt n



CMtL SEVCEFEOR   N INSTTTOA SMNTENN - DATIMPLMENTATIQ R
ISSUE               08JECTIVES               8TRATEGIES                RESPONSIBLE TIMEFRAME REMARKS &
& POUCIES                & MEASURES               PARTiES                  ASSMPTIONS
_Za~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ii q                   _ld
Conumes repohgbUs             .
seaorimulo rnd
ad Cahi (SPC) Uim
XP8 Adnh I OPC to
omoeei d C8R lId 1S
addha
. Ebhil  Pubic 6be       OPC           1994       PsUiU o be eshed
_lAnmUnae  Iimmwreent                             as ID fs4peoifc orda-
(PIU) tob manisd                                  kIg urL may bt beso-
ooeebs C8R & IS actMI                             lo_ed hGOM
.idadian __ m h  Ihe ID 11                        deputgo upon 1D 11
bqiw'utAamui Redaw by    OPC           1994on
#iwrsofrnlD flui
-k peeto semidaddae hV
fledW      - b
Plmb _bocmdacnss
b 430S feapoSb_.  .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f



Annex 2
Page lof 4
CIVIL SERVICE CENSUS
A.    BACKGROuND 0D ODIwTvS
1.    In Malawi, there are dtree sources from which personnel information of the civil service
can be compiled. Ihese are budget records, personnel records and the payroll system mainained
by the Ministry of Finance, the Department of Personnel Management and Training (DPMI and
the Department of Data Processing (DPI)D) respectively. However, discrepancies have been noted
in the personnel information furnished by these sources. Ibis points to an information problem
within the civil service and the need to deal with it. Consequently, the civil service census to be
carried out as part of the Policy and Information Framework component of the Second
Institonal Development Project (IDP rI) will seek to achieve the following objectives:
*     provide reliable bendcmark data to be used to develop effective personnel
management and manpower planning systems;
*     sort out the exist  contradictions regarding the number and composition of the
civil service.
Ihe census wil also cover career and remuneration profiles, educational quaifications, gender
disibution, age profile and other related data.
B.    IrrrUnONAL ARREMFMr
2.    The Census will be carried out by the National Statistics Off (NSO) with some assistance
from a consultant. Most of the staff will come from the NSO but additional enumerators and
other support staff will be recruited for this assignment. This approach will be cost effective and
ensure Government commitment and continuity in updating the data-bank. Since the overall
coordination of the project is handled through an Interminierial Committee on lnstitutional
Development (ICMD), under the Chinship of the Principal Secretay (Administration) in OPC,
which has delegated the responsibility of the census to a Civil Service Census Technical
Committee (CSCTC). At the NSO a Census Executing Unit (CEU) will be set up to implement
the census.
C.    MErHODOLOGY
The Popuation to be Enumerated:
3.    Ihe first step in working out the methodology to.be applied to the civil service census
is to define more specifically the population to be enumerated. The task of coming up with such
a definition was left to the Civil Service Census Technical Committee. This committee decided
that, for the purpose of this census, the civil service comprises individuals actively filing
esablished, non-established and contract posts, all seconded employees, temporary employees,
members of the industrial class and laborers in the government.



Annex 2
Page 2 of 4
Enumeratin
4.    The enumeration method Is data collection through direct interviews, both at
establishment level and individual employees. The questionnaire will be sent in advance and the
following are procedures to be followed:
(a)    The questionnaire will be defined in such a way that it reflects all data needs of
users, presented according to data analysis requirements so that the data screen
on the computer will be pre-prepared to mirror the census form to facilitate data
entry and checking;
(b)   Ile census forms are printed, each one with Its own serial number, and are sent
to administrative units or subunits to be filled by the direct supervisors of
employees, who signs them, including his own identification number (or serial
number);
(c)    When the census takers visit the census points, the census forms are handed over
to the census taker by the supervisors and are reviewed by the census taker,
during a personal interview with the employee upon production by the latter of
proper idendfication and required adminitrative papers (such as payroll slip,
posting decision, birth certificates of children, etc.);
f the employee is absent, for whatever reason, form is set aside, to be reviewed
at a latter date according to published procedures. It is to be published that non
reviewed employees will have their pay withheld and eventually suspended
strting with the pay period immediately following the census, pending resolution
of their case.
(d)    Otherwise, the employee signs the census form and is handed a stub stamped by
the census taker; this stub carries the name of the employee, his id number and
the census form serial number, and
(e)    The census forms are reviewed and handed over, on a continuous basis, to the
data entry teams, who correct the data base preloaded in their (portable)
computers. At the end of the day, a diskette of updates is sent back to Lilongwe
for merging in the census central database after fiurther controls.
Execution
Frames -,f Cvi Service Instznaions
5.    Ministries/departments wil be visited with a vievi to constructing ministry/department-
specific frames of civil service institutions. In this exercise, information to be collected for each
institutionlisted will include nambers and names of establishments under the ministry/department,
geographical address and budgetary vote. These frames are required for the preliminary stage
of enumeration as well as for identifying assembly points for the final stage of enumeration.



Annex 2
Page 3 of 4
Selecdon and Plotng Assembly Points on District Maps
6.    Assembly points for the final phase of enumeration will be selected by 8 teams that will
be deployed to the field. Ihen the assembly poins will be plotted on a district map will serve
as a guide to the enumerator during field work 8 teams will be deployed to physically select
suitable assembly points in the field.
Collection of Information on Nomenclatures
7.    This information will facilitate questionnaire design. Nomencltres will be coded in
accordance with codes currently being used by the DPMT.
Development of Dwwny Cross-tabulations
8.    Dummy 'eross-tabulations have to be prepared by the major data users. This ensures that
all data requirements are covered by the questionnaire and that appropriate tabulation programs
are developed ahead of time. DPMT has promised to provide prototypes of cross-tabulations that
are curnty being used.
Qutionnaire Design
9.    This operation will depend on specifications of data users as reflected in dummy cross-
tabulations made available.
Preparation of Mauals and Control Forms
10.   Mamuals detailing concepts and procedures will be prepared. These will be used tor
training purposes and as references in the field. Besides, forms for monitoring progress of
enumeration and quality control will also be prepared.
PUot Census
11. Each question on the questionnaire needs to be tested so as to make the questionnaire easy
to complete. This is a dress rehearsal for the actual census. In this exercise, all the census
instruments, computer equipment and software and procedures of the census are tested. At the
end of the operation, all census instruments, computer equipment and software and procedures
of the census are tested. At the end of the operation, all census intuments and procedures will
be finalized and made ready for implementation in the actual census.
Deelopment and Testing of Data Entry, Vafidation and Tabulation Programs
12.   Dummy cross-tabulations and other specifications should be incorporated in the
development of these programs. Results of the pilot census will be used to test the programs.
raining In Running Data Entry, Valiation and Cross-tabulation Programs
13. 50 data entry clerks will be trained in running the data entry and validation programs to
be developed. A well trained statistician in running cross-tabulation programs will be deployed.



Annm: 2
Page 4 of 4
Enumeration
Recrufment of Census Enwnerators
14.   500 Census Enumeraors will be recruited from Labor Offices.
DaInng of Supervisors
15.   Supervisors will be required and trained at one trainig centaer.
Training of Census Enumerators
16.   Census Enumerators will be trained at 3 training centers concurrendy.
Data Collection and Entry
17.   Data collection and entry will be done in the field.
E.    POSr-ENUMERATION Acrrvm
-     Receipt of Census Returns
-     D3ata Cleaning
-     Production of Cross-Tabulations
-     ERand-over of Census Results to Users



Annex 3
Page I of 3
DETAILED CO6f TABLIS
EPENDITURE ACCOUNTS BY COMPONENTS - TOTALS INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES
(US$'1000)
Civi          Departm
Serv.         of Personnel             Depmnt   Malawi          PSM
Policy &      Mgmt &       Mistry      of Statutory  Inst. of  Improvemnt
Info Framwk    Training    of Finance   Bodies     Management  Unit         PPF        TOTAL
I. Invesunent Costs
A. Civil Works                                                           688.4                                688.4
B. Equipmnft          1,108.0       121.2      1,748.8         74.7      727.7         58.4                 3,838.3
C. Vehides              83.5         16.9         44.1         34.1       52.0         51.8                   282.4
D. Traiing             857.6       1,612.6     2,025.1        515.0     1,609.0         -                   6,619.3
E. Technical Assistance    631.6   1,655.7     1,562.0       1,223.5    1,160.8       250.2                 6,483.8
F. Books                             42.1         29.7                   791.3                                863.1
G. Other                              7.9         14.7                                           1,006.0    1,028.7
Total Invetment Costs  2,680.7       3,456.5     5,424.4       1,847.3    5,028.7       360.4      1,006.0    19,803.9
U. Recurrent Costs
A. Vehide O&M          42.2           9.9         8.6         18.7        24.0        13.4                   116.7
B. Equip. Oper. Costs  52.0         126.9        32.4         65.5                    41.9                   318.7
C. Opetfions          258.0         384.3                              1,129.9       125.2                  1,897.4
D. Incrementa Staff   242.7                                            1,899.2      1,339.4                3,481.3
Tota Recurrent Costs     594.8        521.0         41.0         84.2     3,053.1     1,519.9                 5,814.2
Totd Projet Costs      3,275.6       3,977.5     5,465.4      1,931.5     8,081.8     1,880.3      1,006.0    25,618.1
TaOes
Foreign Exchange       2,725.4       3,470.6     5,399.1      1,886.7     4,174.0       386.4      1,006.0    19,048.2



AmJ3
Pap2 of 3
g_MCf    ACORr BYCN_0                           - BABCOST
iva    -D _                             D_                      PS-                           PI,)
service    of  l!                     of Slaueq     Mawi            _                  '
Pdley&      Mus  af &Bod&                             _of       Wt           PP      TOM      *        Jot
b&t Pzmsk Tuiuabg        Flu...Mmp
L lCas
ow nvIW                                                                  581.4                            581.4      ISQ0      8.2
B. Uquia_             1,041.8       113.7     1,605.0         69.3       6585         S4.2               3542.6      5.0      177.1
C. Va                   79.1        16.0         41.0         32.0        46.S        48.0                262.6      S.0       13.1
D. T1'ahlo             792.4      1,4IS0      1,813.3        471.3      1,463.8                          603.7       S.0      32
L. To.dulo  Awis       619.4      1,58.0        508L0       1,18.0      1,114.4      240.0               6,253.8
P. loob                              36.0       2S.0                     679.5                            740.S
G. 0Ir                                7.0        14.0                                           1000.0  1,021.0
Tdol 1.,.    Cain      2,532.7      3,214.7     S,011.3       1,760.6    4,54.1        3422      1,000   18,405.6      3.1      S77.7
IL RDmm   Cose
A. Vaa O&aM            37.7          8.          7.0         ISA         19.          11.2                 99.2      S.0       5.0
D. Squip. Opr. Codb    43.9        106.2        26.4         S4.4                     3S.2                266.1      S.0      13.3
C. Op _ilm            231.8        317.5                                952.0        105                 1,6.8
D. bm.uAts Staff      215.2                                            1,37.2       1,1329              2,8.3
TOl Rewma OZB            528.6        432.1       33.4          69.8     2,S08.8      1,284.7              4,87.4      04        18.3
Told Da*ub CRa         3,0613       3,646.8     S,044.7       1,830.4    7,052.9      1,627.0    1,000.00  23,263.0    2.6      595.9
Pbw*d cowagada          99.7         85.1       174.9         32.1       196.6          7.4                595.9
Pdw Cooi-:ma            I14 5    24S.6          245.9          69.0       82.3        245.9         6.0  1,759.2      1        26.6
Told Pdht Cno          3,275.6      3,977.5     S,465.4       1,931.S    8,081.8      1,8103      1,006.0  25,61.1     2.4      6Z.0
Tm
Pamipg Bxhg            2,725.4      3,470.6     S,399.1       1,86.7     4,174.0       386.4      1,006.0  19,048      3.2      601.2



Annex 3
Page 3 of 3
EXENDITURE ACCOUNTS BREAKDOWN
(US$'000)
Base Cost           Physical Contingencies    Price Contingencies        Total incl. Coat.
For.   Local Duties         For.  Local Duties       For.  Local  Duties         For.  Local  Duties
Exch.  (Excl. & Taxes       Exch. (Excl. & Taxes     Exch.  (Excl. & Taxes       Exch. (3xcl. & Taxes
Taxes)       Total        Taxes)       Total         Taxes)      Total          TaMs)
1. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works        523.3    58.1         581.4  78.5  8.7          87.2   12.1   7.7         19.8    613.8   74.5
B. Equipment        3,542.6               3,542.6  177.1             177.1  118.6              118.6  3,838.3
C. Vehicles           262.6                 262.6  13.1               13.1    6.7               6.7    282.4
D. Training         6,003.7               6,003.7  300.2             300.2  315.4              315.4  6,619.3
E. Technical Asst.  6,253.8               6,253.8                           230.0              230.0  6,483.8
P. Books                      740.5         740.5                                  122.5       122.5           863.1
0. Other           1,000.00    21.0       1,021.0                             6.0   1.7         7.7  1,006.0   22.7
Total Tnvestments Costs 17,585.9   819.7  18,405.6  568.9  8.7        M.7  688.8 131.9         820.7  18,843.7  960.3
2. Recurrent Costs
A. Vehicle O&M         49.6    49.6          99.2   2.5  2.5           5.0    3.0  9.7          12.6    55.0   61.7
B. Equip. Oper. Costs    133.0   133.0      266.1   6.7  6.7          13.3    9.8  29.5        39.3    149.5  169.2
C. Operations                1,606.8      1,606.8                                 290.6        290.6          1,897.4
D. Incremental Staff         2,885.3       2885.3                                 596.0        596.0          3,481.3
Total Recurent Costs   182.6  4,674.7      4,857.4   9.1  9.1          18.3   12.8 925.8       938.5    204.5 5,609.6
Total Disbutsement    17,768.S  5,494.4   23,263.0  578.1  17.9       595.9  701.61,057.6     1,759.2  19,048.2 6,569.9



Annex 4
Page 1 of 3
DETAILED FINANCING TABLES
Components by Financiers
(US$'000)
IDA            Government         Total        Foreign  Local
Amount %       Amount      %      Amount  %   Exch.   (Excl. Taxes
1. Civil Serv. Policy
& Info Framerwork   2,906.5  88.7    369.1   11.3   3,275.6 12.8  2,725.4      550.2
2. DPMT            3,819.0  96.0    158.5    4.0     3,977.5 15.5  3,470.6      506.9
3. Ministry of Finance 5,448.6  99.7  16.8    0.3    5,465.4 21.3  5,399.1       66.3
4. DSB             1,927.0  99.8      4.5    0.2      1,931.5  7.5  1,886.7      44.8
5. MIM             5,883.9  72.8   2,197.9   27.2    8,081.8 31.5  4,174.0    3,907.8
6. PSMIU           1,566.1  83.3    314.2   16.7     1,880.3  7.3    386.4    1,494.0
7. PPF              1006.0 100.0                      1,006.0  3.9  1,006.0
Total Disbursement  22,557.2  88.1   3,060.9   11.6    25,618.1 100.0  19,048.2    6,659.9



Annex 4
Page 2 of 3
ExpendGitrs Aceounts by FUnancers
(US$'O00)
IDA           Governnent     Total            Foreign    Loca
Amount %    Amount  %        Amount   %       Exch. (Excl. Taxes
1. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works      619.5  90.0    68.8  10.0    688.4   2.7    613.8         74.5
B. Equipment       3,838.3 100.0                 3,838.3  15.0   3,838.3
C. Vehicles         282.4 100.0                   282.4   1.1    282.4
D. Trniing         6,619.3 100.0                 6,619.3  25.8   6,619.3
E. Technical Asst.    6,483.8 100.0              6,483.8  25.3   6,483.8
F. Books            855.2  99.2      7.2   0.8    863.1   3.4                863.1
G. Other           1,026.4  99.8     2.3   0.2   1,028.7   4.0   1,006.0      22.7
Total Investments Costs 19,725.7  99.6    78.3   0.4  19,803.9  77.3  18,843.7  960.3
2. Recurrent Costs
A. Vehicle O&M       97.6  83.6    19.1  16.4    116.7   0.5        55.0      61.7
B. Equip. Oper. Costs   256.8  80.6    61.9  19.4    318.7   1.2    149.5    169.2
C. operations      1,40S.5  74.1   491.9  25.9   1,897.4   7.4       -      1,897.4
D. Incremental Staff   1,071.5  30.8  2,409.8  69.2   3,481.3  13.6  -      3,481.3
Tota Recurrent Coss   2,831.5  48.7  2,982.7  51.3   5,814.2  22.7    204.5   5,609.6
Total Disbursement   22,557.2  88.1  3,060.9  11.9  25,618.1  100.0  19,048.2   6,659.9



Annex 4
Pap 3 of 3
LoclFordgn/Taxes by FEnan
(US$'O00)
IDA              Government        Total
Amount  %        Amount  %         Amount  %
I. Foreign              19,048.2 100.0                     19,048.2  74.4
la. Local (Excl. Taxes)  3,509.0  53.4    3,060.9  46.6     6,569.9  25.6
m. Taxes                                      -     -
Total Project           22,557.2  88.1    3,060.9  11.9    25,618.1 100.0



Annex 5
Page 1 of 2
DETAILED PROCUREENTf ARRANGEVENTS
Procurement Accounms by Yeas
(US$'OO0
Totas including Contngencies
1994      1995      1996      1997   1998  1999    Total
1. Woks
1.1 Bulding              150.1    538.2                                      688.4
Sub-total worsn            150.1    538.2                                      688.4
2. Goods
2.1 Equipmrentcompute    974.1   1,M.9    1,023.0    160.5  102.9           3,838.3
2.2 Vehicles             134.2    103.5      17.7      13.3   13.7           282.4
2.3 Purnitur              14.7      7.9                                       22.7
2.4 Ref. Books           146.6     86.9      93.6      93.3   95.4           515.8
2.5 M9anualsJournals     105.5     56.1      58.9      61.8   64.9           347.2
Sub-tota goods           1,375.1  1,832.3    1,193.2    329.0  276.9         5,006.5
3. Consultancies
3.1 Technical Assistance  966.5  2,822.7    1,956.5    738.1                6,483.8
3.2 Training             682.0  2,484.6    1,660.4    997.3  736.5 58.4    6,619.3
Sub-total Consulmacles   1,648.6  5,307.3   3,616.9  1,735.4  736.5 58.4   13,103.1
4.  Iscelaneous
4.1 Operaing Costs       832.6  1,291.7    1,042.7  1,094.5 1,145.5 407.2    S,814.2
4.2 Refinacing PPF     1,006.0                                              1,006.0
Total                    5,012.4  8,969.6   5,852.7  3,158.8 2,159.0 465.7   25,618.1



Annex 5
Page 2 of 2
f
Prowmurment Accounts by Finuniers
(US$'000)
IDA         Goverment       Total            Foreign   Local
Amount  %  Amount %         Amount  %        Exch.   (Excl. Tax
1. Works
1.1 Building          619.5  90.0  68.8 10.0       688.4   2.7    613.8         74.5
Sub-total Works        619.5  90.0  68.8 10.0        688.4   2.7    613.8        74.5
2. Goods
2.1 Equipment/Computer 3,838.3  100.0             3,838.3  15.0   3,838.3
2.2 Vehicles          282.4  100.0                 282.4   1.1    282.4
2.3 Furniture          20.4  90.0   2.3 10.0        22.7   0.1                  22.7
2.4 Ref. Books        510.9  99.0   5.0  1.0        515.8   2.0                515.8
2.5 MazalWsliournlsl
Periodicals          345.0  99.4   2.2  0.6       347.2   1.4                 347.2
Subtotal Goods        4,997.0  99.8   9.4  0.2    5,006.5  19.5   4,120.7       885.7
3. Consdtancies
3.1 Technical Assistance 6,483.8  100.0           6,483.8  23.6   5,981.6
3.2 Trining         6,619.3  100.0                6,619.3  25.8   6,619.3
Sub-total Cosultancies   13,103.1  100.0          13,103.1  51.1  13,103.1
4. bIscellancous
4.1 Operaion costs  2,831.5  48.7 2,982.7 51.3    5,814.2  22.7    204.5    5,609.6
4.2 Refinancing PPF  1,006.0  100.0               1,006.0   3.9   1,006.0
Subtotadl Meelaneous    3,837.5  56.3 2,982.7 43.7    6,820.2  26.6  1,210.5.6    5,609.6
TOTAL                22,557.2  88.1 3,060.9 11.9   25,618.1  100.0  19,048.2    6,569.9



Annex 6
Page 1 of 2
DETAILED DISBUFSIEENT ARRANGEMENTS
Dsbursemnnt iAccounts by Financiers
(USS'OOO)
IEDA             Government        Total          Foreign  Local
Amount    %      Amount       %    Amount    %   Exch.   (Excl. Taxes)
Works             619.5  90.0        68.8    10.0    688.4   2.7    613.8       74.5
Goods            4,997.0  99.8        9.4     0.2  5,006.5  19.5  4,120.7    885.7
Tehnical Asst.
& Training     13,103.1  100.0                   13,103.1  51.1  13,103.1
Openrtig costs    1,760.0  75.4     572.9    24.6  2,332.9   9.1    204.5  2,128.3
Salaries         1,071.5  30.8   2,409.8    69.2  3,481.3  13.6              2,128.3
Ref. PPF Advance  1,006.0  100.0                    1,006.0   3.9  1,006.0
22,557.2  88.1    3,060.9    11.9  25,618.1  100.0  19,048.2  6,569.9



Annex 6
Page 2 of 2
Disbursements by Semesters and Government
Cash Flow (US$'000)
Finacmiag Avaiable Costs to be fuinaced  Government
DDA            Project Costs        Cash Flow  Cumulative Cash Flow
Amount
1                        2,506.2        -2,506.2.4     -2,506.2
2         2,336.7        2,506.2           -169.5       -2,675.7
3         2,336.7        4,484.8          -2,148.1      -4,823.9
4         4,122.9        4,884.8           -361.9        5,185.8
5         4,122.9        2,926.4          1,196.5       -3,989.2
6         2,662.3        2,926.4           -264.1       -4,253.3
7         2,662.3        1,579.4          1,082.9       -3,170.4
8         1,303.7        1,579.4           -275.7       -3,446.1
9         1,303.7        1,079.5            224.2       -3,221.9
10         790.9         1,079.5           -288.6       3,510.6
11         790.9          232.8            558.0       -2,952.5
12          62.2          232.8            -170.6       -3,123.1
13          62.2            -               62.2       -3,060.9
Total    22,557.2       25,618.1             -          -3,123.1



g t-                                     R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
0                a  a-                          a  
a  a                          a
a  a                          a 
4'0            a         aBS           a     al aSlS    
m   80                               8g8     88|     
ai~~~~          aaa ai           a   a      a      a         
*r     Ni                              N            Nl|    a g g    
.r, _  g  g       g         Wg g g    lWg    X   g g g~~~~
S~~~~~~          aa   a         aS  a aa    aaa    a     a  l    |
p                                                      a 8 l    aS8         Sg| ll
2~~aaaaaaaa   a                                             
o      j aa         aa   a          aa  a    aa    a aa



o1   02 03  04  01  02 03 04 01  02  03  04  01   2  03  04  01  02  103  04 01  02   03  04  01  02  03  04
fCo x Staff H a                                                   axx xxxx xxxxxx   xxx xxxx ixxxx   xxxx xxxx
llncreCapsckce#    for 8elf+lnanchM                                                 xx                xxxx               xxxx                xxxx               xxxx
Award FWofbhip to MIMW  Courses                                   xxxx xx      xxx xxx       xxx  xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx K           XXXX XXX  XXX|
Inwnem (Stagt) elow,Np program                                    xxx  xxxxx   x xx xxx        xxx      MM xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxx xxxx
Coordnato Proeat Impbmentatbon                      xxxx xxx xxxx xxxx x       xxx  xxx           xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx              xxxx xxx xxxx      moac XXxx  xxxx xxx
Submit Annual Paports                                                                                                                        xxxx
PSM Expwt to AGslt Polwct Implementation                                                                   MM
Page 2



Annex 8
Page 1 of 1
TRAINNG PLAN
1.    Training is a key aspect of the Second Institutional Development project (ID II). It is
prominent in each component of the project. Four types of training will be undertaken.
First, the practical, hands-on training associated with implementating new systems, notably
the forward budgeting system, the new public accounting system and the management
information system for personnel and financial management (PMIS and FMIS). The second
type of training would enable enough staff in the Department of Personnel Management and
Training (DPMT) to acquire skills and techniques associated with the preparation of personnel
manuals, career paths, open performance appraisal and job evaluation. The third type of
training would comprise short refresher seminars or courses, mostly in-country. The fourth
type is of the 'staff development" variety, involving formal instruction and could be
sanctioned with the award of a diploma or a degree. The Malawi Institute of Management
(MIM) would be the major beneficiary.
2.    A comprehensive training program, together with a detailed program for the first year
of project implementation, will be discussed and agreed during negotiations. For the
Accountant-General's office, the training program would only be available in the second year
because of the need for traiinig needs assessment to be undertaken during the first year. The
TORs for the needs assessment will be agreed upon during negotiations.
3.    The training to be provided in-country would be at MIM and other local training
institutions. Whilst MM is expected to be the prime source of courses for middle- and
senior-level managers, the Polytechnic and the Malawi College of Accountancy will be
important in implementing the training programs. For example, the MCA would be the major
provider of training for the accounting staff.
4.    Given the huge scope of training activities to be undertaken under the project, the
Assistant Project Manager at the PSMIU will be required to devote about 40 percent of his
time to different training programs implementation. He will work with the project
coordinators to ensure that annual training programs are prepared on time and in a manner
consistent with the achievement of overall project objectives. The PSM expert to be recruited
to assist the PSMIU would be required to focus on the implementation of training programs
during his/her assignment. This would be crucial at three stages: during the first year of
project implementation; in the quarter preceding the mid-term review and in the first quarter
of the last year of project implementation. (This point is reflected in the Implementation
Schedule).



Amnex 9
Page I of 5
SCONI) EiSIIUONAL Dgzou
MATRIX OF P-ERltiMANC INDIC1S
Coinponant and Objeves              End Year I                 End Year 2               End Year 3         End Year 4         End Year S
A. Civil Service Policy and       0 Begin to reflect      0Coni    to ree  provisions   * Complete action   0 Revis            0 Evidene of
Information Franwot               provisinon of the PSA in   of the PSA. Prepaion of a  undertaen in yea    Handbook in the    aevement of
tb n          of the    Handbook on key provision of   2.                light of expence   initia objectiv
* Policy-F ework Pcivil service, e.g., merit-  the PSA for disemintion                                  in yau 2 ad 3.    of mbo         t
lbis sub-component wadd be        based recuitmit        among civil sevnts                                                   set out in tbe fir
consde   a sucee if at the end of   throu competitive                                                                          column.
tdo proect: (a) thee is evidenc of a  exanination nd cusla
commitment to predictability,     on rights and
acontability and transparency in    esp          of cvil
thke oduct of gvrnmnt businews   servants
as p_mised i the Publi Servoic
Act (PSA); and (b) the actions set  0 cany OMt aCtions in  * Continuous action on        * Continuous       0 Continuous       S Complete
out in tho implementation matrix of   the Implementation  implementation matrix of Policy   action on       action on          action on
Govmen's Policy Staement on       matrix and policy       Statement.                    Implementation      Implemation        Implementation
Civil Service Reform and          statement                                              matrix of Policy   Matrix of Policy   matrix of Policy
Instiutina Strengteing are                                                               Statement          Statement          Statement
faithfilly carried out.
* Information Franmewwork       0 the preparation phase    0 Censu is successfully    * Cotttinued        Revise PMIS and    Evidence of
This sub-component would be       of the census is        completed and benchmark data   implementtion of   FMIS and           achievement of
considered a success if. (a) a civil    completed and logistic    are provided on size and  follow-up actions to  operationalize  the objectives set
service census is completed with  arangements for         composition ot the civil service;  census report;  throughout the civil  out in column (1)
reliable data on the size and  . execution are in the final                              0 Test PMIS and    service
composition of the civil service;  stages;                * Begin to implement           FMIS in ministries
() follow-up actions are taken in the   0 DPMT and DPD are    appropiate follow-up actions to   and departments.
light of the census resuts regarding   sharing personnel data  censu resutls;            (compare FMIS to
personel policies and practies;   and hannonintion of     e Hanonization of DPMT         IMP's financial
(c) a peronn  managmt             data is in prgres;      personnel data and payroll data   m toring
inomation system (PMPS) is in use   0 development of PMIS   is completed;                ftamework)
throughout the civil service with the   is in prgres;         PMIS is full developed and is
DPMT psonnet data fully           * result of review of   intoduced in msinisries and
harmonized witb the payroll data;  budget and financial   deparments;
and (d) a financial               informtion needs are    0 Develop framework of FMIS
information systm (FMIS) is also  being used to begin first   for budgeting and accounting
widely used toughout the civil    stage of FMIS.          with applicatiaos for payroll,
servmce.                                                 I budgeting and treaswy.



Annex 9
Page 2 of 5
Component and Objectives            End Year 1                 End Year 2               End Year 3         End Year 4         End Year 5
B. Devartment of Personmel         Institutional         0 Job evaluation and pay       o Job evaluation   0 New slay         Evidence of
Mfanaee t snd Training            arranlgement for salary    reform continue in tandem;  and new salry      stmeture is        achievement of
review is in place and  0 Work on personnel manuals   stcture are        implemented;        initial objectives
This component would be considered   used on a 'test-run  is completed and manuals are in  concluded and    * Open             of project
a success if at the end of the prqect:  basis for the 1996/97  use in ministries and     Government adopts  performance        component as set
a new institutional arrangement for    budget;            departments;                   a new salary       appraisal system   out in the first
salary review is put in place and  0 Pilot test of job     d Pilot test of open          structure that     begins to have an    column.
used to undertake amnual review of    evaluation is uccessful    performance appraisal system is   would be  impact through
civil service salary; job evaluation is  and fulldscale job  successfully completed;    implemented in     linking
completed for the civil service and a   evaluation is launched;  * Significant number of career    1997/98 budget;    performance to
new pay structure is designed, linked  0 Significant progress is  paths are completed;   o Open             reward system;
to tbe job evaluation results; new  made in respect of    0 PPkU is firmly established   performance        0 PPRU is
pay reform incudes a sensible     personnel manuals,      and begins to review existing  appraisal system is  fimctioning as a
cowmpression ratio, enhances      career paths and open   personnel policies and practices.  used throughout the  catalyst for
Govenment's ability to attract and    appraisal system; and                              civil service;     impmving
retain qualified staff-,             Resuctuing of                                          Career paths are   personnel policie
approprate manuals prepared for   DPMT that was lunched                                  completed and      and practices and
pennel staff and introduced and   at the beginning of                                    DPMT assumes       champions
used throughout the civil service;  project (through                                    responsibility for    improved
an open performance appraisal     condition of                                           updating;          performance within
system is adOpted and put into use;   disbursement) is further                           0 PPRU continues   DPMT
career paths ate completed for major  consolidated through the                          to review personnel
caeer gups; and the restructured    creation of the Personnel                            policies and                                            l
DMPT is functioning more          Policy Research Unit                                   practices and to
efficiently and effectively with the  (PPRU)                                             promote internal
Perso    Policy Research Unit                                                            coordination within
playing a catalytic role.                                                                DMPT.



Annex 9
Page 3 of S
Component and Objectives            End Year I                 End Year 2               End Year 3         End Year 4         End Year S
C. Ministr" of Finance            0 Tangible progress is   Forward budgeting system is   O Porward         0 Continued use of  Evidence of
recorded in respect of  ready to be introduced on a pilot  budgeting system in  forward budgeting   achievement of
This component would be considered  introduction of forward    test basis in 1996/97 budget;  use in the pilot  system and new  initial objectives
a success if at the end of the project:  budgeting system -  0 design of new public      ministries and     public accounting    of project
o a forward budgeting system is   workshops organized,    accounting system is completed   departments and  system;            component as set
successfilly introduced and is in use  study tour concluded and   and first stage of installation is   introduction  0 Continued  out in the first
througbout government by 1997/98;   two budget experts at  embarked upon;                throughout         implementation of   column.
* a new public accounting system is   work with MOP staff;  O Implementation of training  government in    training programs
installed and in use throughout   a Preparation for design   program for accounting staff.  1997/98;
govemnent;                        of new public accounting                               0 Instaliation and
e the Tax Policy Analysis Unit   system is in progress and                              use of new public
(TPAU) is contributing significantly  training needs assement                           accounting system;
to reveue mobilization through its   for accounting staff is                             0 Continue
analyical work;                   cornpleted                                            implementation of
0 a significant number of staff in                                                      training activities in
MOF and line ministries and                                                             new systems for
departments have the requisite skils                                                    staff in MOP and
for operating the new budgeting and                                                     line ministries and
accounting systemS put in place; and                                                    departments.
(e) Budget management and the
performance of financial
management and accounting show
significant improvement.



Aonex 9
Page 4 of 5
Component and Objecves              End Year 1                  End Year 2               End Year 3          End Year 4         End Year S
D.  k     tinl of Statoz Bode      0 DSB mission atemen   Achievement of owral prject
is accepted and respected   compon_ t objectives as set out
lis compoen would be considered   by anl concered;         in colum  except the
a succens if at tho aed of the project:  * an agred number of    implementation of baining
* the misn stement of DSB is    paastaa  have been         pgram which could extend to
acepted and mpeced by both the    asssted to improe thdeir   year 3.
sumisr  W          _iai wd   fciald mmeot
_tdEqmt edb  o pm_                * pefo-m
-             .ztm  dnlw       co_wighasbee
* a sgnificnt nmber of prstta    extended to five
exhibi tot wood fnacl managennt;  parastata
* peformec contactig bas been    0 daft guidelies on
extended to tan or mler parastatl  conditons of service
* guidelies on condi   Of servc   have been completed;
dhat would aable praatas to       0 drft national,
cruit and  tn highly silled       privatizition policy has
professionals m appwved and       been completed;
implewated                         * agreed targets have
* a naonal policy on puivatiztion    b    met in
put togeher in a particiatry      implementing ting
m s bas been sbmitted to          prom
goverment;
* DSB has implemented an agreed
training prognun for its staff.



Anex 9
Page S of S
Coinpet and Objecivs                 End Year I                  End Year 2                End Year 3         End Year 4          End Year S
EL Ml i            f               0 Meet annal target        Mee  nual trge set in        0 Contnue to met       Continmu to mee   S Act*ment of
set in respect of tinig    respect of taining and       targets in rspect of  anmual targets in  overa project
Ths component would bo conidered   and constamcy,           consultsacy;                   traiing,            respect of tinig,   componet
a success if at th end of the project   0 Incease reouces in    0 Use own resources        cousult, and        constamcy, and      objectives as set
MIM has booome fWlly self-financing   Endowmet Fund by      (Ediowment Fund) to cover 35    daff development    staff deveopmet    out in column 1;
with a comprehenive and effectiwve    xxx%;                 percent of salaies and         program;            p am;                   Us own
cost ncovwey sydsm in place This   * Implement staff        operational cosb;              * Use own           * Use own           resources
would men that both the quantity   development prgm.        S Implenent daff deveopmet   resources             resources           (Endowment
and qudlty of tanimng activities and                        program                        (Endowment Fund)  (Eadownt Fund)   Fund) to cover
consultancies yied ani  that                                                               to cover 60 percent  to cover 85 percent  100 percent of
cover dto total costs of nning the                                                         of salaries and     of salaries and     salaries and
lnstitute. The critical yardstick is                                                       opmtional costs.    opeational costs.    cperationa costs
h prgssive reiamne on the
Instt's Endowmet Fund to cover
salie and opeafionl costs as
foUows: 35% in 1995; 60% in
1996/97; SS% in 1997/98 and 100%
in 1999/1999.



Annex 10
Page 1 of 1
DDA - SUPERVISION PLAN
Approx.             Activity               Skill Requirement    I  Staff
liming
6194      Board Approval
9194      Project Launching
- Conditions of (i)
effectiveness; (ii)
disbursements
- Project Launch Workshop
ID specialist Public Mgt  22 SWKs
Specialist; Procurement
Specialist; Auditing and
ii ______   __________________________   Accounting  Specialist              l
FY95      Supervision Mission (1)      ID specialist and Public    16 SWKs
* Focus on initial           Fin. Mgt specialist
implementation
Annual Review 
FY96      Supervision Mission (2)      ID specialist; Public/Fin.  12 SWKs
0 Review of project          Mgt Specialist IT Expert
implementation
* Anmnal Review
FY97      0 Mid-term review by GOM     ID specialist; Public      24 SWKs
and IDA                      Financial Mngt Specialist;
* Supervision Mission (1):   1T specialist
review of project
implementation
FY98      Supervision Mission (2)      ID specialist; Public       12 SWKs
* Review progress of project   Financial Mngt specialist
implementation
* Annual Review
FY99      Supervision Mission (2)      ID specialist; Public       12 SWKs
* Review progress of project   Financial Mngt specialist
implementation
* Annual Review



Annex 11
Page 1 of 2
DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE
FOR
"DEVELAMENT OF A REGISTER OF LOCAL MANAGEMENT
CONSULTANTS AND EXPERISW
BACKGROUND
'he Govenmen of Malawi is seeking the services of a Consultant to compile a Register of Local Experts
and Consutat in Management.
-he development of the Register of Management Experts and Consultant in Malawi is being undertaken
in conjunction with the Governnt of Malawi's Second Insional Development Project (IDP2) which
is supported by the World Bank. A primary objective in preparing such a Register is to enable the
Govenmet to make maimum use of locally-based and indigenous epertise in magement in the
deeopment and exion of the management improvement nitianives planned under IDP2.
Additional aims of this enagement include:
*     provision of awareness of in-country capability to carry out managemen improvement;
*     generion of iterest, deteminaion and self-reliance amongst Malawi's qualified persons
in Management development;
*     raising public confidence in Malmwian managers in the ability of local management
Consulting and Advisory expertise.
     minimizing Malawi's reliance on foreign based technical assistance in management
improvement - this has been expensive and usually not well atuned to the Malawian
organizational culture and realities, and not readily available on short notice.
AREAS OF COVERAGE
The Register will include the names of Management Experts and Companies located and practicing in
Mrai. It should include pernent information concerning the qualifications, experience, and areas of
experdse of each firm and individual. Management expertise sbould include, but not be limited to:
General Management
Policy Analysis and Management
Economic Management
Insltional (Organizational) Development



Annex 11
Page 2 of 2
Project Analysis and Management
Financial Management
Production Management
Human Resources Management
Small Enterprise Management
Public Enterprise Management
Information Management
Services Design and Delivery
Health Planning and Management;
Education and Training Management
Manpower Planning
Industrial (Labour) Relations
APPROACH TO THE ASSIGNMENT
The Consultant will be expected to announce the Register concept publicly and request eligible candidates
to complete a short questionnaire. The questionnaire will cover, among others, location of consultant,
size (if it is a firm or company), main areas of expertise, and three major consulting assignments
undertaken during the preceding five-year period. The Consultant will be expected to undertake selected
verification of responses in four major cities (Lilongwe, Mzuzu, Zomba and Blantyre) to ensure reliability
of information provided by candidates.
OUTPUT
The Consultant will be required to present a draft Register of Management Consultants and Experts for
Government's review and approval. After taking into account government's views and directions 10
bound copies of the final Register will be produced. The Register will be the exclusive property of the
Government and its dissemination shall be determined by the Principal Secretary (Administration), Office
of the President and Cabinet.
DURATION
The Consultant is expected to submit his draft Register three (3) months after the date of the signed
contract. The final Register will be due two (2) weeks after the communication of Government's views
and directions on the draft.



Annex 12
Page 1 of 3
TERMS OF REFERENCE
MALAWI INS1TITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II
PROJECT MANAGER
I.    Job Identificatio
A.    Title: Institutional Development Project II Project Manager.
B.    Ministry/Department: Office of the President and Cabinet.
C.    Location: Lilongwe
H.    The Pupose of the Post
The Second Malawi Institutional Development Project (ID II) Project Manager shall
be responsible to the Secretary to the President and Cabinet, through the Principal Secretary
Administration, for providing successful overall direction and coordination to the ID II.
Ihe ID II is a Government-wide institutional strengthening project involving five
distinct, but related components:
3     Policy and Information Framework;
*     Strengthening the Capacity of the Ministry of Finance (MOF);
*     Strengthening the Capacity of the Department of Statutory Bodies (DSB);
*     Strengthening the Malawi Institute of Management (MIM).
The incumbent shall carry out his/her responsibilities through the effective day-to-day
direction of a Public Sector Management Improvement Unit (PSMIU) within the Office of the
President and Cabinet (OPC), and the regular monitoring of the perfonnance of the GOM
staff and technical assistance resource engaged in the execution of the ID II.
m.   Orgaiizational Relationships
The incumbent shall report directly to the Principal Secretary Administration in the
Office of the President and Cabinet, receiving intermittent general policy and project
direction, and providing regular project progress reports.
The ID II is one of the most comprehensive and ambitious institutional development
and civil service reform initiatives to have been undertaken by the Malawi Government. Its
project activities will affect all segments of the Civfl Service and every Ministry and
Department within Government. The incumbent will be required to exhibit exemplary
leadership. It will be necessary for the incumbent to establish and maintain effective working



Annex 12
Page 2 of 3
relationships with Principal Secretaries and their Senior staffs within the OPC, and in the
central and line ministries and departments throughout Government.
The incumbent will establish and direct the activities of the PSMIU. He will
supervise a staff comprised of an Assistant Project Manager, an Information Technology
Coordinator, a Financial Officer and necessary support staff.
The Assistant will ideally be a technical specialist in Institutional Development,
Management Improvement, and Project or Program Management. The Assistant will assist
the Program Manager in the day-to-day management of the PSMIU's activities and in the
liaising with GOM and donor officials participating in the ID II.
The balance of the Unit's professional staff shall have ID II Program planning and
management responsibilities in Information Technology Management; Financial Management
and Procurement.
The PSMIU's coordinating functions will be complemented by the presence of a
Project Coordinator in three of the ID II beneficiary organizations: MOF, DPMT, and DSB.
These Coordinators will liaise closely with the PSMU and will be guided by PSMIU policy
and direction. Responsibility for project implementation will be devolved as much as possible
to the beneficiary organizations.
IV.   Dties of the Post
In carrying out the responsibilities of this post, the incumbent shall:
*     Provide the leadership, encouragement, and discipline required to enlist the
enthusiastic and effective participation of officials and senior managers across
the Malawi Public Service in the ID II.
*     Effectively direct and manage the day-to-day activities of the PSMIU to ensure
effective execution of the following PSMIU responsibilities both by:
-     Ensuring timely, effective and appropriate procurement of all technical
assistance, equipment training and related services as required for the
successful execution of the ID II.
-     Ensuring effective and efficient management and utilization of all ID II
project personnel and resources, through regular monitoring of
components and elements project activities.
-      Ensuring the timely idendfication and optimal application of
successful management and institutional improvemen. measures.
-     Evaluating the overall performance of the 1ID I and its individual
components and project elements and providing regular report, to the
PS Alnrinistration and the Int r-Ministry Committee o0 prrj ct issues
and progress.



Annex 12
Page 3 of 3
*     Ensure the effective transfer of skills between technical assistance engaged
under the ID II and participating GOM staff.
*     Serve as the liaison person between GOM and IDA in respect of the project.
V.    Minimum Oualifications
The incumbent of this post shall be an experienced Manager with:
0     At least 10 years increasingly responsible managerial and administrative
experience;
a     A track record of achievement in managing large programs, organizations or
enterprises in the public, parastatal, or private sector or both;
O     A minimum of a Bachelors degree in Public Administration or Management,
or Human Resources Management, or a closely related discipline. A Master's
degree (MBA or MPA) will be an advantage.
VI.   DESIRABLE KNOWLEDGE AND ABILITIES
KNOWLEDGE OF:
Malawi public sector programs, organizations, policies and regulations
Contemporary principles of public sector human resource management and financial
management
Contemporary principles of project management
ABILITY TO:
Effectively direct and manage an interdisciplinary team of professionals in the
planning and administration of institutional and management improvement in multiple
ministries and departments.
Effectively gain the confidence and respect of clients and co-workers engaged in ID I
and establish and maintain cooperative working relationships with all GOM and
external participants in ID H.
VI.   EMPLOYMENT TERMS
The Project Manager shall be recruited through open competition. The successful
candidate will be offered a three-year contract term with the possibility of a two-year
extension, subject to satisfactory performance.



Annex 13
Page 1 of 4
EVOLUTION OF THE ENDOWMENT FUND OF THE MALAWI INSTfIUTE OF
MANAGEMENT
A.  REVIEW OF THDE ENDOWMENT FUND
1.    The Institutional Development Project I, provided for the establishment of an
endowment fund (at MIM's inception) whose purpose is to enable MIM attain financial
sustainability in the post-project period; after June, 1994. The amounts placed in the
endowment fund are set aside during the project period (July 1989 to June 1994) and are
derived from fees paid by clients, donor fellowships, interest received, consulting fees and go
on. The fund was projected to grow to K3 million by the end of the project and it was
expected that returns on investments would be adequate to enable MIM to survive without
government and donor finance in the post-project period.
2.    A summary of the Investment of the Endowment Fund at 31st March, 1993 and the
projected interest payable to the end of the project period follow.
INTEREST
TO
Financial   Amount   Date of      Maturity    Interest      Project
Imtitution  Invested   Investment  Date         Rate        End
LFC        400,800    16 OCT.91  16 OCT 96   18%            90,180
LFC        350,000    8 JAN 92    8 JAN 97      19%         83,125
LFC        140,000    26 MAY 92  26 MAY 97   19%            33,250
LFC        110,000    26 MAY 92  26 MAY 97   19%            26,126
LFC        460,000    7 OCT 92   7 OCT 97    22.75%         130,812
LFC        456,000    7 OCT 92   7 DEC 97    24%            136,800
LFC        400,000    9 DEC 92   9 DEC 97    24%            120,000
LFC        530,000    31 DEC 92  31 DEC 97   24%            159,000
LFC        600,000    7 JAN 93    7 JAN 98      24%         180,000
LFC        844,000    17 FEB 93   17 FEB 98    24%          251,174
LFC        326,000    14 APR 93  14 APR 98   24%            97,800
NBS        90,000     SAVINGS ACCOUNT           22%         24,552
NBM        65,837     FIXED DEPOSIT             24%         19,751
NBM        16,441     SAVINGS ACCOUNT           24.75%      5,086
TOTAL ENDOWMENT FUND AS AT 31 MAkCq 93                 = K4,789,078
INTEREST EXPECTED ON CURRENT INVESTMENTS                = K1,357,655
TOTAL IN ENDOWMENT FUND AT END OF THE PROJECT = K6,146,733
LFC - Leasing and Finance Company of Malawi
NBM - National Bank of Malawi



Annex 13
Page 2 of 4
The growth of the fund has exceeded initial expectations. However, there are
concerns about the manner in which the fund has been managed to date. By investing over
90% of its funds in fixed deposits MIM has tied up its funds and denied itself the flexibility
needed to manage investments pragmatically in an inflationary environment. MIM will not
benefit from general increases in interest rates on the investments with fixed maturity dates,
most of which will mature between 1997 and 1998. With the ofFcial inflation rate estimated
at 28.7% (April 1993), MIM is not earning positive returns on its investments. MIM has
exposed itself excesF ely to risks associated with the performance of LFC by investing 85%
of its portfolio in this institution.
3.    Investment options in Malawi are limited at the moment. However, MIM should
adopt a more pragmatic approach to the management of its investments if it is to realize
positive returns and use the fund to attain self-sustainability. The options available to MIM
include stopping investing in long-term instruments unless there is an irreversible drop in the
inflation rate; diversifying its investment portfolio into such instruments as treasury bills and
real estate; spreading its investments over a number of institutions; reducing investments in
current accounts; and using new financial facilities that may become available on the market.
The goal here is a prudent and productive mix of investments. As most funds are tied in
long-term instruments, it is unlikely that MIM will need technical assistance to help it manage
the fund at this time. MIM should use the in-house expertise, supplementing this with locally
available expertise from the public accounting and financial management consulting firms
where necessary.
B.    A1TAINJX.ENT OF SELF-FINANCING
4.    Even though the Fndowment fund has outgrown initial expectations and MIM's
performance has in many respects been impressive, it is unlikely that MIM will be able to
stand on its own by the end of the project in 1993194. In the attached Schedule A - (best
possible scenario), MIM will only be able to finance itself in the first post-project year while
in Schedule B - (conservative scenario), the Institute will not be able to finance itself at all
after the project. Various factors cause this including inadequate returns form the endowment
fund, increases in operational costs and price sensitivity of MIM's courses. Attainment of the
projected levels of income under both scenarios is heavily dependent on MIM operating at full
capacity, achieving the dosired levels of assets utilization and containing its operational costs.
5.    Assuming that the projected levels of income and expenditure are attainable, MIM can
strive to attain financial sustainability through a number of options. The first is to raise its
fees to cost recovery levels. This could make MIM uncompetitive and should only be
pursued after thorough analysis of market demand and price sensitivity of demand. The
second would be to cut costs. The item on which substantial savings can be made is rentals
for staff accommodation. While this is tenable, its implementation will have to be within the
overall housing policy framework for parastatals which is currently under review. The third
would be pragmatic investment of the endowment fund. This is limited in the short-term as
most of the funds are tied up already in long-term instruments. This leaves continued
government subvention or donor support or both as the most viable option in the short-term.
if the last option is pursued, it should ideally be targeted at financing the shortfall in the
operating budget and the equivalent of MIM's income from course fees and interest from the



Annex 13
Page 3 of 4
endowment fumd for two years after the project. MIM would then use income it will receive
from course fees and interest on the endowment fund increase of its endowment and invest it
as pragmatically as in the options highlighted here. Supplemented by cost-cutting measures
and acceptable price adjustments, this would provide the best chance of enabling MIM to
attain financial sustainability.



Annex 13
Page 4 of 4
ADDENDUM: OBSERVATIONS OF MIM'S GOVERNING BOARD
ON THE ENDOWMENT FUND, DECEMBER 1993.
The Board considered the Strategic Plan for the use of the Endowment Fund and An
Addendum to the Strategic Plan as well as observations from the World Bank. The Board
agreed that the recommendations in the three papers should be wherever feasible (and subject
to its approval) be implemented.
The Board approved that the fund should be managed along the following strategies:
*     MIM should cease investing in long-term instruments. This strategy can be
reversed if there is an irreversible drop in the inflation rate.
     MIM should endeavour to reduce its exposure to LFC by gradually reducing
its investment with the institution. Eventually MIM will need to limit
investing in any one institution to not more than 40 per cent of its resources.
*     Investment in long-term financial instruments shall gradually be reduced to 20
per cent except where the yield is positive in real terms and the risk of the
yield being negative is minimal.
*     Only a float equivalent to MIM's weekly requirements will be held in a
current account. The rest will be invested in instruments ranging from 24
hour call accounts to 3 months fixed deposit accounts, or other instruments.
*     MIM will explore the possibility of interest computation and payment on a
monthly basis on deposits with LFC.
*     MIM should diversify its investment portfolio to include real estate and
Treasury Bills.
*     MIM should look out new facilities such as those to be available after the
formation of a capital market and unit trusts. The Institute will be poised to
take advantage of such facilities.
The Board further approved that the fund expenditure should be limited to amounts
not exceeding 50% of income from interest earned subject to implementation of the following
measures by MIM:
Find means to enhance income-generating through the development of
new markets.
Reduce costs without affecting the quality of the product.
Set and implement a pricing policy that makes profit while remaining
competitive.



Annex 14
Page 1 of 3
TECHMICAL ASSIANCE MATRIX
Component and sub- |            TAs              I  aI/Foregn 1    Person    |              Comments
Component                                                      Months
A. Policy and         Data Administrator          F              36             Individual; position to be localized. Cro
Information                                                                     be based in the Ministry of Finance)
Framework
B. Department of      PSM expert to produce       L              4              Individual; to be appointed
Personnel Management  manuals for personnel function
& Training
PSM expert to produce career   F           3              Individual; to be appointed during Qtr 1,
paths                                                     95
Job evaluation expert (pilot  F            6
exercise)                                                 Firm or individual; to be appointed
during Qtr I of 1995
Job evaluation expert to lead    F         36
work on pay reform                                        Firm/individuals; to be appointed,
during second half of 1995
Personnel policy expert     F              24
Individual; to be appointed during Qtr 3
Of 1995



Annex 14
Page 2 of 3
Component and sub-              TAs               Local/Foreign     Pemon                   Comments
Component                                                      Months
C. Ministry of Finance  Budgeting expert          L              24             Individual; to be appointed during Qtr 1,
95.
Public financial management    F           24             Individual; to be appointed during Qtr 1,
specialist                                                95
Computer systems            F              12             Individual; to be appointed Qtr 3, 96.
development expert
(accounting)
Economist (Tax Analyst)     F              24             Individual; to be appointed Qtr 1, 95.
Computer programmer/analyst  L             24             Individual; to be appointed Qtr 1, 95.
c(ax Policy Unit)
Human Resource Management  L               6              Individual; to be appointed Qtr 3, 94.
expert
Training expert             L              6                dwividual or Firm; to undertake training
needs assessment for forward budgeting
and accounting during first year of
l___________                          ._______                                   project. To be appointed Qtr 1, 95.
D. Department of      Senior Financial Analyst    F              24             Firm/Individual; to be appointed by Qtr
Statutory Bodies                                                                1, 95.
Personnel Management        L              18             Individuals; to be appointed Qtr 1, 95. 2
Experts                                                   persons for 6 months in CY95 and 1
person for 6 months in CY96
Performance Contracting     F              24             Firm. To be appointed Qtr 1, 95. 2-
Specialist                                                person teams for 6 months each in CY95
and CY96.
Privatization Expert        F              6              Individual/firm; to be appointed Qtr 1,
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 9 5



Annex 14
Page 3 of 3
Componemt and sub- |            TAs             | Local/Foreign |    Person    |            Commnents
Component      I                                                lMonths
E. Malawi Institute of   Economics and project    F               12            Individual; to be appointed in Qtr 4 of
Management            management expert                                          1994
Finance and accounting expert  F           12             Individual; to be appointed in Qtr 4 of
1994
Training, consulting and    F              12             Individual; to be appointed in Qtr 4 of
research techniques expert                                 1994
Business management         F              6              Individual; to be appointed in Qtr 2 of
specialist                                                 1996
Human resource management   F              6              Individual; to be appointed in Qtr 2 of
expert (industrial relations)                              1996
Management information      F              6              Individual; to be appointed in Qtr 4 of
systems specialist                                         1995
Human resource management   F              6              Individual; to be appointed in Qtr 3 of
l____________  expert (manpower planning)                                        1995
F. Public Sector      Public Sector Management    F               12            Individual. For periods of 3 months
Managemnent           Specialist                                                between 1995 and 1998.
Improvement Unit          -_-_                   _                                                                   l



Annex 15
Page 1 of 1
Outline Plan for Project Launch Workshop
Date:               First half of October 1994
Agenda:             Overview of project components; procurement, disbursement,
accounts and audits; other project implementation issues.
Implementing Training Plans.
Duration:           3 days
Particpants:        Project Manager                 1
Project Coordinators            4
Two persons from each
beneficiary organization       10
Five persons from selected
line ministries                 5
Two persons from cher
training institutions           2
Other PSMIU staff               2
IDA: 4 professionals from
Washington                      4
Resident Mission                1
Other donors                   2
TOTAL                   31
Cost Estimate:



Annex 16
Page 1 of 2
KEY PROJECT DOCUtMENS AND SELECTED REPORTS AND
PUBLICATIONS RELATING TO THE PROJECT
Government of Malawi,jnstitutional Development Project II. Qrganizational Audi of
the Department of Personnel Management and Training, Consultant Report,
June 1993.
Office of the President and Cabinet The Strengthening of the Dertment of
Statut  Bodies, Draft Report by G. A. Armstrong of Crown Agents for
Overseas Governments and Administrations (London), May 1993. And
"Comments and Recommendations from the Departmer't of Statutory Bodies."
==, Department of Personnel Management and Training (DPMT), Malawi
Tinmg RLQicy, April 1989.
D, PMI), A Blueprint for Management Improvement. Preparing the Ministry
of Works and Supplies to Meet the Challenges of Malaw's Future, The Final
Report of the Management Study of the Ministy of Works and Supplies by De
Leuw, Cather International Ltd in association with Price Waterhouse, January
1988.
A Career Path in Data Processing, February 1991.
Malawi, Public Service RegulatLns, Revised Edition, 1991.
--, Accountant General, Accountant General's Department. Training Needs, July
8, 1993.
ILO, Malawi - Comprehensive Human Resources Study, 1987
Malawi Institute of Management, Annua'lRp, 1990 and 1991
Prospetus, 1991, 1992, and 1993.
,Addendum to the Strategic Use of the Endowment Fund. Management o the
Endowment Fund.
Further Assistance Requirement After 1992, Lilongwe, November 1992.
Study of Vacancies in Malawi Civil Serice, Report for the UNDP, 1991



Annex 16
Page 2 of 2
A Model Act to Provide for Matters Relating to the Public Service of Malawi,"
Appendix XII to the Herbeqc Report.
"Report of Mission to Appraise the HIID Malawi Tax Implementation Reform
Project," 1991.
Republic of Malawi, Draft Development Plan for the Ministay of Finance by Price
Waterhouse, August 1988.
W      ages. Salaries and Fringe Benefits Study, Final Beport by Price
Waterhouse, Lilongwe, June 1993.
SPC Circular, Ref No. PO/103/4/OC/III/116 of 20 July 1992 on Malawi overnment
Civil Service Home Ownership Scheme.
Tax Reform in Malawi. Progress to Date and Future Steps, January 1993.
UNDP, Joint Consultative Group on Policy, Terms of Reference of the Worlkng
=roup on Payments to Government Staff fin Malawi], September 1992
A Note on Budgetary Expenditure in Malawi, April 1993.
Malawi - Strengthening of the Malawi Institute of Management.
MLW/89/021. Report of the Mid-Term Evaluation Mission, Lilongwe, July 1992.
=---, Sector Review of Education. Training and Employment, 1990
World Bank and Government of Malawi, Malawi - Country Implementation Review:
Aide Memoire, Lilongwe, November 14, 1991.
Malawi - Country Implementation Review: Summary Report, Lilongwe, May
3-5, 1993.
World Bank, Civil Service Pay and Employment Study, Interim Report, Washington,
D.C., June 1993.
--, Malawi - Public Sector Management Review. Selected Issues. Vols I & II.
Washington D.C., March 1993
"Malawi - Budget Management Review: Issues Paper," Washington D.C.
Malawi Training Sector Survey, 1990



r                                I0~~~~~~r
cR                                                                                   0
ii8
FO ..... . . ..   . . .. . . . .. .-- -- - .........   . .



Annex 17
Page 2 of 5
Malawi Institute of Management
Organization Chart
PRAUCUAL  |
DEPUCTY                             RENISTRAR
PRINCE'PALl
RESEARCH &                    STORES      PRHASE   ADMINISTRATION 
TRAINIG           ACONSOE7FICE                                      |
SUPPORT CENTRE
-AUDIOVISUAL UI                                         SERTRASEtCS
-PRODUCTION UNff
R ANSPORT SERVICES
0 TECHNOLOGY UNIT



Annex 17
Page 3 of S
DEPARTMENT OF STATUTORY BODIES - EXISTING STRUCTURE
DEPUTY
COMPTROLLER
LIZ~~~~~~~~~ Zj                      COMPTRO LRI
PRINCEPALPRINCIPAL                  PRIiNCIPAL                              PRINCEPAL
ADM    RAION            PERSONNEL          ECONOMIS                                AUD.r J
OURCER                  OFFICERTCEb7CHB
SEMNORg     
ACCOUNTANT          AUDlTOR
ACCOUNT'S  |
ASSISTANTr-|



Annex 17
Page 4 of 5
MINISTRY OF FINANCE
MINITER
SECPTARY
TO THE
TREASURY
SEN                   ACCOUNTANT GENEfAL      CONTROLLER       COMMISSIONER     CONTROLLER      CONTROLLER
SECFtETARY                      ~~~~~CENTRAL GOVT    INOETX         CUSTOMS a         DATA
| SECRETARY    |         ACCOUNTANT GENERAL    STORES            M               EXCISE    D       AESSING
'-I~I 
DEPUTY SECREtAR                         DEPU1Y SECRtETARY          DEPVTY SECRETAW
WDGET SECTION                 RILABTER^ AID             MIULTILATERAL AI
ASSIlSTAN CHU
ECONOMIC AFJRMS|



Annex 17
Page S of S
ORGANIZATION CHART OF THE DEPARTMENT OF PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT AND TRAINNG
Seoretrry for Personne
Mansogonwnt 6 Training
Saff Training
Management Services                      Personnel Adminitrton                         Manpower & Traning
|  Usidon             l                        DisWion          ll                         Dvdn           |*
Division
ob   Organization        Codtos          Career        Management              Manpower         TriigPereormat Po((cy
Inspotlon  & Method            ofatehsceof Comn                                  IIanringI                           [esarc LUrit
seomies



IBRD 24575
T.a,Es S   roon
12    To On'E    5
N                                         \                                    MALAWI
~~~~~ 0 N 1qetreng.  
-t  Korono                                    ADMINISTRATIVE
7S ghaytDIVISIONS
This ma    a  er  p,P~5 paredto                                                                         EGON
by The World   prePore staff                                                                          REGIONS
eolsoyfor IIe co-elvemte                                                                             AND 
of reoders  asn  rs for the                              \                                               AND
GMoopTh- dersrnr7otio.e-sf ed               0/ /Xtrgstoeio                                            DISTRICTS
ari  the boundor.es shon
on this moap do not r-pliv on the      CJ                I   ,
port of The World Goofk Gr,p,            Koron
5to        M   lcmteOy o ' ony 0r                                                                   PRINCIPAL ROADS
endorsement Or oaceptonce
su,ch bounoories.
NO;'i(J9. 1 ff '1                                         RIVERS
I kre                     0    TOWNS
Hkhoto                            DISTRICT CAPIlALS
t      R      oN _      i0 St. AeGotiSi.              *       NATIONAL CAPITAL
Al,rnbo       F                                              DISTRICt BOUNDARIES
S  t    owelIO O  ;          It MALWI)
2                   |               u    ^ I     Cisumulu...                          REGION BOUNDARIESe
ZAMBIA                                                                 otnot                     INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
Malawi                  KILOMETERS 0    20   40   60   80   100
-           I ~ O   \ f   >  '    \t_   |   hMILES 0  20  40      60
j ( 5wE N~~~~~~~~~~Ikhot7kdot
-uk -               Ntcltr                         MOZAMBIQUE
Y   \  I'it3KoV:,/. _    A Vedo                /                              toNono\
TNoA   LsALWIToGe
-I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
_              \O AO4 A Ro Nolo
34                                                   3
1wf 11  S                      JUTHERN9
otoko ~M.ACHINGA7
MdOZAMBIQUE                                          f     );on
ZALIRE    'MUS                 t   wr  e   7                     T      R        D        U       LA
~~ 7  > 9 I TNZAiA-                         ;Y ete                                                                t  r
NrLMtst    9   }   f         ^    j --A                             . Alt
January 1 993



