Document of
The World Bank
FOR OmFCAL USE ONLY
Repoft No. P-6236-MI
MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT EQUIVALET TO SDR 16 MILLION
TO THE REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
FOR A SECOND INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MAY 17, 1994
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No: P-    6236 MW
Type: MOP
This document has a resticted distribution and may be  ed bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: Malawi Kwacba (MK)
US $1 = MK 4.3
MK1 = US$ 0.23
MK1 = 100 Tambalas
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADP           Agricultural Diversification Project
ASM           Agicultal Sector Memorandum
ASP           Agricultural Services Project
BMR           Budget Management Review
CBI           Cross Border Initiative
CEM           Country Economic Memorndum
CSR           Civil Service Reform
DPD           Data Processing Depatment
DPMT          Dqetment of Personnel Mangement and Traiming
DSB           Department of Statutory Bodies
EDDRP         Entrepneuship Development and Drought Recovery Program
EP&D          Economic Planning and Development
ESAMI         Eastern and Southern Africa Management Institute
FESDP         Financial Sector and Enterprse Development Project
FMIS          Financial Management Information System
HIID          Harvard Ifstitute for International Development
HNP           Health and Nutrition Project
IBRD          International Bank for Reonstuction and Development
ICB           International Competitive Bidding
ICED          Inter-miniteria Committee on Institutional Development
LD            Institutional Development
IDA          hIternational Development Association
LCB           Limited Competitive Bidding
MIM           Malawi Institube of Management
MIS           Management Information System
MOP           Ministy of Finance
MPSR          Malawi Public Service Regulations
NEAP          National Environment Action Plan
OPC           Office of President and Cabinet
PIAS          Poverty Impact Asessent Study
PMIS          Personnel Management Information System
PFP           Policy Framework Paper
PFPS          Popuation and Family Planning Study
PPF           Project Preparation Facility
PSDP          Private Sector Development Project
PSMIU         Public Sector Management Improvement Unit
PSMR          Public Sector Management Review
RFSP          P.rAJ Financial Service Project
SDF           Social Development Fund
SDR           Special Drawing Rights
SPC           Secretary to the President and Cabinet
SSA           Sub-Sabaran Africa
TA            Technical Assistance
TDAC          Trade and Distibution Adjustment Credit
TOR           Terms of Reference
UNDP          United Nations Development Program
USAI)         United States Agency for Intewnationad Development
FHSCAL YEAR
Aprl 01 - March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
SECOND INSIMTUMIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           Republic of Malawi
Main
Benericiaries:      Department of Personnel Management and Training
Ministry of Finance
Department of Statutory Bodies
Malawi Institute of Management
Amount:             SDR 16 million (US$22.6 million equivalent)
Terms:              Standard IDA terms with 40 years maturity
Financing Plan:     IDA           US$22.6 million
(in US$ million)    Government  US$3.0 million
TOTAL:       US$25.6 million
Economic Rate
of Return:          Not Applicable
Poverty Category:   Not Applicable
Staff Appraisal
Report:             Report No. 12668-MAI
Map:                IBRD No: 24575
This document has a restricted distribution and may be us,d by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed
without World Bank authorization.
This document has a restricted distibution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Woltd Bank authorization. l



MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
FOR A SECOND INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.    I submit for your approval the following memorandum and recommendation on a
proposed credit to the Republic of Malawi of SDR 16.0 million (US$22.6 million equivalent),
to help finance a Second Institutional Development Project. The proposed credit would be
granted on standard IDA terms with 40 years maturity. The Government would contribute
US$3.0 million equivalent. Part I of the memorandum discusses country policies and Bank
Group assistance strategy. Part II discusses the proposed project.
PART I: COUNTRY POLICIES AND BANK GROUP ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
A. Recent Economic and Social Performance
2.    The single most important developinent since Malawi's independence in 1964 - the
country's recent move to a multiparty democracy - provides an opportunity for a thorough
update of the country's assistance strategy. The effects of transition are not limited to
political governance but also have wider consequences for economic management and growth
prospects for one of the poorest countries in the world.
3.    Historical Perspective. During the 1960s and 1970s, Malawi's development strategy
emphasized infrastructure and estate agriculture as prime vehicles for increased production
and growth. Over two decades, Malawi's economy was open and world market prices for its
major exports (tobacco, tea, coffee, and cotton) were relatively high, real GDP more than
doubled, and real per capita income grew by 3 percent per year. The period of strong growth
ended in the early 1980s with the onset of economic problems and external shocks, including
deterioration of terms of trade, oil crises, disruption of external transport routes through
Mozambique, and weather-related shocks. In combination, these shocks led to an economic
crisis culminating in 1986/87 with a decline in per capita income and policy setbacks which
reversed the openness of the economy and discouraged private sector investment and output.
4.    The adoption of a strategy in 1989/90 based on "Growth Through Poverty Reduction"
was a crucial point in Malawi's development. Efforts have been made to develop structural
policies focused on removing the binding constraints to sustainable growth while
simultaneously addressing the roots of pervasive poverty. The new attempt to reliberalize the
economy included reforms to redress the policy bias against smallholders, remove constraints
on private sector participation in all sectors of the economy, and move toward a more liberal
external sector policy. Increasing adoption of fertilizer and hybrid seed in the smallholder
sector combined with expanding private sector participation in production and marketing
resulted in per capita GDP growth of 2 percent annually during 1989-91.
5.    Developments in the 1990s. Economic management was challenged by new internal
and external developments, including bilateral donors' decision at the May 1992 Consultative
Group meeting to withhold all new non-humanitarian aid pending tangible and irreversible
reform in Malawi's approach to governace issues and the unprecedented drought throughout
southern Africa in 1992. Following several years of macroeconomic stability and positive
per capita growth, Malawi's economy contracted by nearly 8 percent in 1992.



2
6.    The return of normal weather during the 1992/93 crop season helped facilitate
recovery of production in the agricultural sector, allowing overall GDP to grow by some 11
percent in 1993. Following the June 1993 referendum that endorsed the move to multiparty
democracy and subsequent steps taken by the Government (general elections are to be held on
May 17, 1994), donors agreed to resume economic aid and financial support at the December
1993 Consultative Group meeting.
7.    Monetary and IIscal Developments. After several years of fiscal and monetary
discipline, macroeconomic balances started to deteriorate in early 1992. In response to the
withdrawal of donor support and the impact of the drought, the Goveroment tightened its
fiscal and monetary policies in June/July 1992 through various measures, including increase in
the rediscount rate and devaluation of the kwacha. Yet, the weakening of the economic and
financial situation persisted. Given the substantial shortfall in external financing and the
additional requirements for drought-related financing, the Government became a major user of
domest!c credit in 1992/93. In mid-1993, further tightening of monetary policies supported a
general improvement in the rate of broad money growth and inflation. By January 1994, the
annual rate of inflation had declined to 20 percent (compared to 33 percent in March 1993).
8.    The fiscal deficit (before grants) rose from 6.3 percent of GDP in 1991/92 to 9.1
percent of GDP in 1992/93 (15.7 percent of GDP including drought-related operations);
largely on account unexpectedly high increase in civil service wages in 1992, and the
weakened revenue performance caused by lower economic activity in the wake of the drought.
Early in 1993/94, the Government introduced additional revenue and expenditure measures
that helped achieve economic stabilization, brought the fiscal program back on track, and
reduced the deficit (before grants) to 6.6 percent of GDP in FY93/94.
9.    External Policies and Exchange Rate. In 1992, the sharp reduction in non-
humanitarian aid put extreme pressure on foreign exchange reserves and consequently on
Malawi's import liberalization program. Despite two major devaluations in 1992, the external
value of the kwacha remained under considerable pressure largely as a result of economic
difficulties and inappropriate fiscal and monetary policies in 1992/93. In February 1994, in
response to continuing decline in external competitiveness, the Government replaced the fixed
exchange system with a market-based exchange system under which the exchange rate is
determined by supply and demand conditions at weekly wholesale fixing sessions. After eight
weeks of operation under this market-based system, the exchange rate had effectively
depreciated by 25 percent; the rate has stabilized at around 7 kwacha per 1 US$. The new
system also provides for licensing of additional foreign exchange dealers, brokers, and
bureaux de change to enhance competition in the financial sector. Additional trade
liberalization measures have been introduced to complement the exchange system as part of
the ongoing trade and tariff reform program, including elimination of the remaining exchange
controls on imports, removal of the surrender requirement for export earnings (except for a
temporary 10 percent surrender requirement on traditional exports), and removal of export
licensing requirements for ten agricultural commodities.
10.   Structural Policies. Despite some of the worst economic setbacks since
independence, Malawi has sustained its structural policy reforms over the past couple of
years, though at a slower pace than originally envisaged. In the agricultural sector, reforms
continued to improve food security, smallholder incomes, and efficiency of resource use.
Restrictions on smallholder production of high-value crops have been lifted, and access to
high yielding inputs has been further expanded. Private sector participation in the marketing



3
and distribution of agricultural products and imports was expanded to include cotton and
tobacco. Business registration and land lease procedures were streamlined and an Investment
Promotion Act was promulgated to eliminate barriers to private sector entry and enhance
investment. Although new foreign banks have not come into Malawi, the expansion of
existing financial institutions into wholesale banking has increased competition. A cornerstone
of the parastatal sector reform, the restructuring of the Agricultural Development and
Marketing Corporation (ADMARC), has been largely completed with the sale of two
subsidiaries and partial divestiture of two others during 1991 and 1992, a return to net
profitability during the past 5 years, and the transfer of ADMARC's investment portfolio into
the ADMARC Holding Company in August 1993. To support human resource development,
the Government (in line with the recommendations of the 1990 Public Expenditure Review)
has also increased expenditure shares for health and education in the face of overall resource
constraints, expanded child-spacing activities, and supported strengthening of institutions in
the social sector.
11.   Recent Social Developments. The impacts of negative growth during the drought
year, high inflation, and high population growth have precluded any serious increase in per
capita consumption since 1990. During the drought year, per capita consumption declined by
2.7 percent; only substantial humanitarian assistance from donors helped to prevent a more
drastic decline and widespread starvation. In 1993 the rural poor benefitted from the strong
recovery of the agricultural sector; per capita private consumption increased by 15 percent. A
significant portion of this recovery was the result of structural changes in agriculture,
particularly the rising adoption rates of hybrid seed and fertilizer by smallholders between
1989 and 1992.:
12.   Recent improvements in several social indicators show that the Government's
increased emphasis on human resource development is helping to reverse the deteriorating
trends of the 1970s and 1980s. The annual population gro-wt rate declined from 3.6 percent
in the mid 1980s to 3 percent in the early 1990s, the total fertility rate dropped from 7.6 to
6.7, the average infant mortality rate dropped from 138 to 136, and the under-five mortality
rate dropped from 246 to 234. Life expectancy, however, is estimated to have declined as a
result of AIDS mortality from 46 years in the 1980s to 44 years in 1993.
13.   Sustainability of Reforms. Although Malawi has made progress in deregulating the
economy in recent years, development of the private sector has remained sluggish, the supply
response has not been adequate for sustained growth and balance-of-payments viability, and
there has been little diversification out of the traditional exports of tobacco, tea and sugar.
The formal economy remains highly concentrated, and financial markets are narrow and
fragmented. Investment response has been obstructed by official caution and long delays in
decisionmaking. The trade tax regime has not been sufficiently oriented toward export
markets on which Malawi's future production and employment growth will rely heavily.
Most importantly, with regard to sustainability, the design and implementation of reform
programs have not been underpinned by systematic consultation with, or involvement of, a
broad cross-section of the Malawian society.
14.   While Malawi has not exhausted its structural adjustment agenda. Long-term
prospects for achievement of positive per capita income growth are greatly enhanced by
Malawi's success in keeping its adjustment program largely on track. The core elements of a
sound macroeconomic framework, tight fiscal and monetary policies and a market-based
exchange system, have already been put in place. With stabilization of the political situation



4
and the full resumption of donor support, Malawi will be able to continue its macroeconomic
reforms, regain the adjustment momentum achieved between 1988 and 1991, and implement
additional policy measures necessary to underpin the adjustment efforts. Sustainability of the
adjustment process will critically depend on further deepening and expanding those structural
reforms that have been implemented over the past four years as well as more systematic
participation of various stakeholders in the des.gn and implementation of future reform
programs.
15.   Of particular concern are the declining trends in investment and savings ratios.
Domestic savings dropped from 9.4 percent of GDP in 1990 to 1.8 percent of GDP in 1992,
and only partially recovered in 1993 through private sector savings due to an excellent
agricultural crop. Private sector investment declined from 11.3 percent of GDP in 1990 to
3.2 percent of GDP in 1993, mainly because of the overall weak economic performance in the
drought year and the subsequent tight foreign exchange situation. Sustainable future growth
will critically depend on increased domestic savings to finance a larger share of total
investment. Prerequisites for increased domestic savings include continued improvements in
the financial position of the public sector, higher private savings generated through reforms in
the financial sector and improved profitability of the enterprise sector, and substantial
reduction in transport costs as a result of the re-opening of lower-cost transport routes to the
sea through Mozambique.
16.   In the short term, economic prospects are overcast by continued weak world market
prices for tobacco, uncertainty resulting from the ongoing political transition, and a relatively
poor 1993/94 maize crop due to erratic rainfall and many farmers' inability to purchase
fertilizer on credit as a result of failing to repay loans from the last crop season. Maize
production in recent years has fluctuated between 1.6 million MT in 1990/91 to 660,000 MT
in the 1991/92 drought year, 2 million MT in 1992/93, and around 830,00 MT projected for
1993/94. Despite relatively high carry-over stocks from the last season, the Government has
already put out an official appeal for international assistance to the tune of at least 300,000
MT of maize imports to avoid famine later in the year. The first issue on the agenda of the
Government (after the May 1994 elections) will be to reestablish the rural credit system whieh
collapsed in the wake of the 1992 drouglit and the recent political transformation process, and
to avoid a continuing downward spiral of low credit, low fertilizer uptake and Ivor harvest.
B. External Envirorunent
17.   Malawi's economy remains extremely fragile and vulnerable to external shocks due to
the landlocked position and potential interruption of external transport links, the narrow
resource base which increases susceptibility to movements in world commodity market prices,
and the continued vulnerability to weather-related shocks.
18.   Weather-Related Shocks. Extreme fluctuations in weather in the past decade caused
drastic drops in food production. Consequently, poverty has been exacerbated by widespread
food insecurity. Except in periods of extraordinary droughts (such as 1991/92), establishing
of the Strategic Grain Reserve (SGR) has helped the country achieve national food security in
most years. Because of Malawi's heavy dependency on agriculture, any weather-related
setbacks in agricultural production also trigger a decline of economic activity in other
productive sectors as a result of reduced demand, decline in domestic savings, and suppressed
investment. In the long term, Governmernt plans to reduce susceptibility to weather-related



5
shocks by promoting agricultural and economic diversification, promoting small-scale
irrigation where economically viable, and promoting the development and adoption of
drought-resistant maize varieties and water-conserving cultivation techniques.
19.   Rehabilitation of External Transport Routes. As a landlocked country Malawi is
dependent on its neighbors, especially Mozambique, for transport routes to the sea. In the
1980s, civil war in Mozambique played havoc with external trade routes; almost all imports
and exports were directed - at considerable cost - through South Africa and Tanzania rather
than along the much shorter traditional railway link through Mozambique to the Indian Ocean.
Loss of the Mozambican routes increased the insurance and freight component in total cost of
imports from 22 percent in 1980 to 41 percent in the early 1990s. The additional transport
cost to the economy, most of which is in foreign exchange, has been around US$75 million
(equivalent to approximately 5 percent of GDP) p.a. on average since the 1980s.
20.   In response to these pressures, Malawi has joined various initiatives for regional
economic integration (South African Development Community and Preferential Trading Area
for Eastern and Southern Africa) and has pursued complementary external transport strategies
such as development of the Northern Transport Corridor to Dar es Salaam. With the 1992
Mozambique peace accord, the routes to Beira and Nacala are rapidly regaining their
importance for Malawian trade. Although the Nacala line reopened and has been partly
rehabilitated, current traffic along this line is still only about one third of capacity. Further
traffic increases along the Nacala line are unlikely unless rehabilitation work is completed and
operating efficiency of the railways is increased; a restructuring plan for Malawi Railways is
currently being developed with coordinated donor support. Upgrading the Nacala line to full
capacity status, could reduce the insurance and freight margin to 35 percent and save about
US$25 million in annual transport cost. This will boost profitability in the manufacturing
sector and enhance Malawi's external competitiveness, thus facilitating economic
diversification.
M"ALA - TERASOF-TRDE ANDEI
75
70
1012  SII 1"   1#5  10    107   19#   18   1900  1#11  1Sf   1
Figure 1



6
21.   Terms of Trade Developments. Malawi's export base, almost exclusively centered
around tobacco (on average accounting for 70 percent of all export revenues in the past four
years), is one of the most concentrated in the world. In view of declining world market
prices for primary commodities in general and for tobacco in particular, Malawi has been
subject to tremendous terms-of-trade shocks over the past two years (Figure 1). In 1992 and
1993, these losses were equivalent to 4.8 and 6.7 percent of real gross national income,
respectively; in dollar terms, the terms of trade loss over the past two years amounts to some
US$200 million. This terms-of-trade shock is comparable to the oil crises experienced by
industrialized countries in the early seventies. Malawi's medium-term balance-of-payment
prospects will continue to be largely determined by its terms-of-trade. Over the next three
years, unit values for Malawi's exports are expected to improve only moderately (at about 2
percent in US$ terms) because of the unfavorable outlook for world market prices of tobacco.
22.   Nevertheless, exports are expected to be favorably affected by the broad-based
liberalization of production and marketing of non-traditional agricultural crops through
accelerated removal of remaining barriers to competition. In the medium term, the volume of
non-traditional manufactured exports is expected to grow by 10 percent annually as a result of
a more liberalized business environment and a flexible exchange system; recent development
in assembly and export of electronics, textiles, and even buses are indicative of private sector
potential in manufacturing. The external current account deficit (excluding grants) is expected
to decline from 12.4 percent of GDP in 1993 to 8.4 percent of GDP in 1996. This would
support the stabilization of Malawi's debt service ratio at about 23 percent of exports of goods
and nonfactor services over the medium-term; current policies with regard to meeting all debt
service payments on time and limiting external borrowing largely to concessional long-term
loans will be continued.
23.   Extemal Financing Requirements. Although Malawi's adjustment effort will help
support a reduction in its external financing requirements in the long term, and
notwithstanding the prospects for improvement in some external conditions, Malawi will
continue to face balance of payments pressures over the next three to five years. Currently,
over 85 percent of the development budget is financed by external partners, which exemplifies
the country's high dependence on external assistance. Total financing requirements for 1995-
1997 are estimated at US$2,136 million. Disbursements from Malawi's own resources and
from existing and identified expected commitments of grants and loans will provide about 90
percent (US$1,918 million) of the total financing requirement. This leaves a residual
financing gap of US$218 million, of which US$164 million will be required as balance of
payments support.
24.   Although the lion's share of public investment will continue to be financed by external
assistance, over the medium term domestic savings and direct foreign investment are expected
to finance an increasing share of total investment. The drive to attract foreign private
investment will be a key element of the overall development strategy. In view of the
increasing competition for private investment within the region and around the world, Malawi
is one of first countries committed to accelerated removal of barriers to Cross Border
Investmnent (CBI), which is jointly supported by the AfDB, the EU, the IMF and the Bank.



7
C. Country Development Objectives and Polides
25.   Poverty Alleviation. Malawi's central problem is poverty and consequently, poverty
alleviation is at the core of its development agenda for the 1990s (as outlined in Government's
Statement of Development Policies for 1987-96). Successive adjustment programs since the
early 1980s have not succeeded in lifting Malawi out of the ranks of the poorest developing
countries in the world; despite following good macro-economic management, economic gains
have not been distributed broadly across the population. Although Malawi's social indicators
and human resource base have slightly improved in recent years, these continue to compare
unfavorably even with other sub-Saharan countries.
26.   More than half the population lives below the poverty line, almost entirely in rural
areas, including about 60 percent of smallholders and estate workers. The principal factors
behind the pervasive problem of low incomes include limited employment opportunities,
exacerbated by time constraints for female-headed households, unequal access to land, low
physical productivity of land and labor in agriculture, low levels of human capital, and rapid
population growth. In the past, these problems have, inter alia, been linked with governance
issues, manifested in patterrs of resource allocation that were explicidy directed toward
development of infrastructure and larger estates and were not sufficiently responsive to the
needs of the poor majority, and which placed serious constiaints on aspiring or new
participants in economic activity.
27.   In recognition of the need to directly address poverty-related issues and broaden the
base of economic growth, the Government has integrated poverty reduction into its overall
growth strategy through a three-tier approach:
*     Expanding employment opportnities through a liberal environment for private sector
entepreneurship and initiative, expanded access to fnancial capital, and policies ar *
programs that encourage labor-intensive activities and participation by women;
3     Enhancing agricultural productivity for poor, small farmers and ensuring sustainable
use of land resources; and
*     Expanding access to human capital through increased public expenditures for
education, health and other social services.
This approach is being further supported by an integrated family-planning strategy to curb
rapid population growth and reduce overall fertility rates, targeted agricultural and nutritional
transfer programs, and greater involvement of nongovernmental organizations in poverty
reduction.
28.   Enhanced Supply Response. In the long term sustainable poverty reduction will
require a lasting supply response and expansion in the rate and quality of investment,
especially from the private sector. The Government's major challenge is to open the economy
and facilitate participation in the economic process of those economic agents who were
excluded in the past. Government's strategy now is to place greater emphasis on policies and
structural reforms that would promote a greater supply response by reducing ownership
concentration in manufacturing, distribution and finance sectors, enhancing domestic
competition, accelerating economic diversification, raising average productivity across all



sectors, improving external competitiveness, and allowing all segments of the population to
participate in economic activities without restrictions by area or type of activity.
29.   Agriculture will continue to be a mqlor source of growth in Malawi, providing
employment and subsistence for some 80 percent of the pcpulation. Agricultural productivity
has stagnated over the past decade as a result of limited adoption of improved inputs and
technologies by smallholders, and the consistently declining average size of landholding.
However, the sector has untapped potential for growth which can be mobilized through
liberalizing markets and prices of agricultural roducts and abolishing the monopoly power of
public enterprises. Tho Government recognizes that agricultural diversification led by the
private sector will lay the foundation for long-term economic growth through a broader base
of agricultural production, improved farm incomes and new employment opportunities, and
will also stimulate growth and employment in the non-farm sectors.
30.   Over the past three years, the Government has been pursuing fertilizer and seed
marketing reforms, expansion and deepening of agricultural credit, strengthening of extension
and research, supporting the dissemination of fertilizer/hybrid maize technology, and
extending licenses to smallholders to grow high-value crops, including burley tobacco.
Recent refinements in sector policy include measures to support the smaller farmers (with less
than one hectare of land) who face the greatest food insecurity, to improve land utilization in
the estate sub-sector, and to promote diversification away from tobacco production.
Government's goal is to reduce the export share of tobacco from presently 70 percent to much
less than 50 percent by the end of the decade.
31.   Growth in the manufacturing sector is expected to be generated by liberalization of the
exchange system, rationalization of the external tariff structure, and the indirect effects of
gricultural sector growth. The development strategy for the industrial sector will emphasize
removal of constraints on private sector activity, elimination of economic monopolies held by
parastatals and private conglomerates, and the maintenance of a market-determined pricing
system. It is Government's strategy to broaden the overall ownership base in the industrial
sector through attracting more domestic and international investment. To facilitate broad-
based participation of Malawians in the country's productive process, the Government plans to
establish unit trusts comprising investments currently held entirely by public enterprises or
private conglomerates. Orientation of the sector toward export production will be encouraged
through further streamlining of export incentives (export duty drawback, export credit
guarantee schemes, inbond manufacturing) and consolidating the investment enhancing
measures introduced under the Investment Promotion Act and to ensure that cumbersome
administrative procedures, such as obtaining land leases, are rapidly eliminated.
32.   Natural Resource Conservation. Environmental protection and resource
management are integral components of Malawi's development strategy. Rapid population
growth and low agricultural productivity have led to an increasingly unsustainable demand on
land and forest resources, as shown by growing soil erosion rates, declining soil fertility,
widespread deforestation, increasing scarcity of potable water, an4 overfishing in Lake
Malawi. It is Government's policy to strengthen management of natural resources, with
emphasis on indigenous forest management, afforestation, fisheries, and soil conservation. A
relatively strong institutional and policy framework has been set up in response to specific
environmental problems. Existing programs will support improved cultivation and livestock
practices, social forestry, and new energy demand management measures. The Government
plans to finalize a National Environmental Action Plan (NEAP) by June 1994 through a



9
participative process involving public and private sector institutions, NGOs, and the rural
communities. Policy reforms to be Implemented from 1994/95 onward will include: frequent
adjustment in fuelwood rates and urban and district water tariffs, stricter enforcement of estate
conservation and afforestation covenants, strengthening of the regulatory framework for
pesticide use and industrW pollution, development of new soil conservation measures, and
institutional strengthening in environmenJl policy formulation.
33.   Human Resource Development. Adequate attention to human resource development
is an important factor contributing to poverty alleviation and a greater supply response. Low
education and health levels have limited the ability of small farmers, particularly women, to
respond to incentives and have limited the potential for broadening sources of income for the
economy. An improved public investment planning process is now in place to facilitate the
shifting of resources to social sectors. The Government's strengthened commitment to the
social sectors has been reflected in proportionately higher budgetary allocations for education
(increase from 11 percent in 1991/92 to 18 percent in 1994/95) and health (increase from 7
percent in 1991/92 to 10 percent in 1994/95), although much of this increase has so far been
directed toward urban and semi-urban areas.
34.   Increasing attention is now being given to improving the efficiency and effectiveness
of expenditures in the social sectors through better focusing of such expenditures: on rural
areas, where most of the poor live, rather than cities; on primary education and cost-efficient
secondary education, from which the majority of the poor can benefit, rather than universities;
and on low-cost rural health centers rather than expensive urban hospitals. To address the
problem of high population growth rates and population density, the Government is committed
to strengthening family planning activities, including increased population education in school
curricula, expansion of child-spacing services, and support for a new National Fainily Welfare
Council. The use of modern contraceptive methods has increased, while fertility and infant
mortality rates have declined. However, the recent spread of AIDS, in epidemic proportion,
is posing a new challenge which is only begihning to be addressed: HIV infection in the 15-49
age group is estimated to be among 20% of the urban and 8% of the rural population, giving
a national average of almost 9.7%.
35.   As part of the overall objective of human resource development, reaching, organizing
and improving the lot of women have become integral to Malawi's goals. About 90 percent
of Malawian women live in rural areas and 30 percent of households are headed by women,
many of them poor. There is a particular need for labor-saving technologies that can relieve
the constraints on women's time and enable them to seek other income-earning opportunities.
The Government has provided increased support to organizing women's groups to boost their
access to technical information and credit in the agriculture and small-scale enterprise sectors.
A strong institutional framework has been developed with the recent establishment of the
National Commission on Women, and women-in-development (WiD) programs in several
ministries. Although many WID initiatives have not reached their full potential, there have
been several noteworthy accomplishments, includmg: expansion of the child-spacing program;
increased access and retention rates for girls in secondary education; and implementation of
pilot credit programs for women's participation in small-scale, income-generating activities, as
well as schemes for appropriate technology dissemination.
36.   Capacty Building. Enhancing civil service productivity and capacity building to
improve implementation of development projects are key elements underpinning the above
strategy. The relatively undeveloped state of human resources, shown by pervasive shortages



10
of trained personnel in critical areas of project management, accounting and procurement, and
frequent turnover of higher level staff in Government, has adversely affected development
projects in Malawi. There is a need to use and develop human resources available outside
Government, inciuding the involvement of NGOs and local communities in project planning
and implementation. Pilot efforts are currently underway to build capacity at the district level
for more decentralized implementation of programs in community development and social
services.
37.   The civil service has been increasingly beset by declining productivity and morale, in
part due to inadequate compensation, but also to the extreme top-down, control-oriented style
of management and lack of transparency and accountability under the single-party system of
government. The Government's strategy is to enhance civil service efficiency by restoring
appropriate compensation levels, improving working conditions, and strengthening training.
In the new political environment, the Government has also begun to make efforts towards
greater openness and transparency in decision-making. However, it is clear that the
Government's capacity to carry out policy reforms and implement projects will remain limited
during the current period of political transition. Any new government is likely to need some
time to articulate its economic policies and strategy. These factors add uncertainty and
complexity to the overall context in which the Bank's assistance strategy and lending
programs for Malawi can be formulated.
D. Bank Group's Country Assistance Strategy
38.   Status of Policy Dialogue. In the late 1980s and early 1990s there was frequent
tension in the policy dialogue between the Bank and Malawi resulting from differences in
opinion aDout the rigor and scope with which the country was to tackle its pervasive poverty
problems. The recent change in Malawi's political environment not only provides an
opportunity for accelerated adjustment, but has also distinctly improved the dialogue between
the Government and the Bank. This is shown by Government's frequent consultation with the
Bank on critical economic decisions, joint chairing by Government and the Bank of economic
briefings for the private sector and political opposition, and increasing convergence of views
about the necessary fundamental changes in Malawi's economic policies. The latter was
manifest in the negotiations for the 5th PFP (issued on March 11, 1994).
39.   As part of a broader effort to improve the quality of its projects and sector work and
its dialogue with the Government and with other donors, the Bank is increasingly emphasizing
systematic client feedback in design and management of projects (e.g., government task forces
for project design, project launch workshops, mid-term reviews, country portfolio
performance reviews). Experience with systematic client consultation (SCC', such as in the
preparation of the National Environmental Action Plan, the Agricultural Sector Memorandum,
and the Country Economic Memorandum has been very positive so far contributing effectively
to local ownership and relevance of policy recommendations. SCC will become integral to
the processing of future operations (for instance, the proposed Social Development Fund) and
forthcoming economic and sector work. It must be recognized, however, that a consistent
and broad effort to further local ownership and to ensure that projects are pianned and
administered by competent local personnel could well entail some slowdown in project
preparation and implementation.



11
40.   Portfolio Performance and Management. Since the Bank's first operation in
Malawi in 1966, the Executive Board has approved 64 IDA credits, and 10 Bank loans .
Although 78 percent of Malawi's completed projects were rated satisfactory by OED
(compared to the Bank-wide average of 75 percent), problems in implementation of
investment projects have increasingly become of concern. The Government's limited capacity
to implement a large number and wide variety of projects has been a key constraint to project
implementation. Two Country Implementation Reviews (November 1992 and May 1993)
identified the lack of trained personnel in project management, accounting, auditing and
procurement as major constraints to project implementation. In PY93 these existing
weaknesses were compounded by additional difficulties resulting from the drought and the
withdrawal of donor support. The consequences included operational expenditure cuts
(including local funding of projects) across all sectors and unfilled vacancies In key civil
service positions. Portfolio performance deteriorated in FY93 vis-a-vis FY92; average project
ratings dropped from 2.04 to 2.13 and the number of problem projects increased from 3 to 5.
41.   The Bank is addressing these constraints on several fronts. The Bank's Resident
Mission is collaborating with two committees created by Government to monitor and act on
issues identified in the May 1993 Country Implementation Review. The portfolio of IDA-
financed projects has been reduced through scheduled project completion from 23 operations
in FY92 and FY93 to 17 operations in FY94. This reduced portfolio is more in line with the
absorptive capacity of the country, especially given that IDA-funded projects are part of a
larger portfolio funded by external aid agencies. Increased resource allocations to project
supervision and the practice of mid-term reviews will facilitate continuous fine-uning of
projects. Particular emphasis has been given to ir.creased staffing and adequate levels of local
funding for project implementation. As a result of intensified project supervision and filling
of key vacancies in project implementation units, three of the five FY93 problem projects
have either been upgraded already or are expected to be upgraded in the current fiscal year;
the remaining two problem projects were approaching their closing dates and will be phased
out as scheduled. Finally, in important areas where local funding was constrained by fiscal
adjustments and the drought, the IDA shares were increased to facilitate faster project
implementation.
42.   Procurement and disbursement-related issues are being effectively addressed through
visits by staff from headquarters twice a year to assist implementing agencies with their
specific problems and remove backlogs, hold seminars and workshops to build local capacity
in procurement and disbursement procedures, and assist Government in the reform of
procurement legislation. In addition, a grant from the Bank's Institutional Development Fund
has been initiated to finance two specialists who will work with staff in implementing agencies
to build capacity in procurement and accounting. Increased importance is also being attached
to compliance with audit covenants. Frequent advance communications has resulted in a
significant reduction of overdue audit reports. The continuing foreign exchange shortage has
led to increasing problems with meeting the 30-day threshold in meeting debt service
payments. This emerging problem is currently being addressed by giving Government
monthly updates of forthcoming debt service due dates.
43.   The Resident Mission's responsibilities in portfolio management and project
preparation have been continuously upgraded over the past two years. Several operations,
especially those with problem components (such as in infrastructure and agriculture), are
closely supervised by Resident Mission staff. Two long-term local consultants have been
recruited to assist in portfolio management and project preparation in the agricultural sector;



12
an additional local consultant will be hired shortly to work on macroeconomic issues. The
Resident Mission is expected to further expand its involvement in project preparation,
monitoring of problem projects, maintaining follow-up with Government on the Country
Implementation Reviews, and preparation of the FY95 Country Portfolio Performance
Review.
44.   Composition of Bank's Assistance Program. The overarching objective of the
Bank's work in Malawi is getting results in the field that support sustainablepoverty
reduction. With the view to achieving economic growth and equity the Bank's assistance
strategy is putting emphasis on accelerating the supply response from the private sector and
on strengthening the human resource base. The Bank and Government agree on the strategic
issues facing the country. The country's development agenda and policies are consistent with
the polices advocated by the Bank. In the short term, increased emphasis on supervision and
portfolio management will enable the Bank to rew. t quickly and flexibly to the changing needs
of the country. Over the medium and long term, Malawi's economic reform program will be
supported by appropriate economic and sector work and new lending operations (Table 1).
45.   Economic Divers fation and Broad-Based Private Sector Participation. The
Government and Bank agree on the rigor and timing of the accelerated economic liberalization
process. The Bank's assistance is geared toward facilitating the country's diversification
away from tobacco into other exports. Two critical economic and sector reports will provide
the analytical basis for the Bank's lending activities. In the context of the Agricultural Sector
Memorandum, strategy options have been identified that will help trigger broad-based
agricultural growth. The Country Economic Memorandum, currently underway, will analyze
the reasons for the elusive supply response by focusing on financial, institutional, and
infrastructure constraints to private manufacturing sector development.
46.   Under the ongoing adjustment operation (EDDRP) barriers to entry were removed,
investment enhancing measures have been introduced, and the dispersion and levels of
external tariffs were reduced. Further deepening of these measures will be supported by the
proposed Trade and Distribution Adjustment Credit (IDAC) which will also support policy
measures to broaden the ownership base and remove the economic monopolies of public
sector enterprises and private conglomerates. Sound macroeconomic policies to be promoted
under TDAC will include completion of the tariff and trade tax reform, and consolidation of
investment and export promotion activities. As part of the CBI the TDAC will promote
policy changes to increase regional trade and private investment flows.
47.   With regard to project lending, the Bank will focus on providing institutional and
physical infrastructure to support private sector activities. The proposed Agricultural
Diversification Project will promote broad-based and private sector-led agricultural
diversification by building upon the liberalization of economic policies and institutional
arrangements completed under adjustment operations. The project will provide investment
financing to support viable private agricultural diversification schemes, support dissemination
of production, processing and marketing technologies, provide financial support for essential
infrastructure components such as cooling and storage facilities, and develop a market
intelligence system to facilitate private sector marketing decisions. In this context, efforts are
underway to develop more integrated sector approaches by coordinating this effort with other
donors.



13
48.   Bank support for the development of small enterprises and private manufacturing is
currently provided under the Financial Sector and Enterprise Development Project (FSEDP).
These efforts will be deepened under the proposed Private Sector Development Project
through financing investment in export-oriented activities, deepening the financial sector to
provide wider and improved financial services to the private sector, and consolidating the
operations of financial and other support institutions serving small- and medium-scale
enterprises to ensure that the most efficient institutions will achieve cost recovery, while those
that cannot attain commercial viability are phased out.
49.   The Bank's investment operations in the infrastructure and energy sectors also provide
indirect support to private sector development and economic diversification. The ongoing
Power V hydroelectric scheme is designed to ensure that electricity supply is not a binding
constraint to growth in the manufacturing sector. Another power project in the outer years
would be necessary to help ensure implementation of the least-cost power development
program and help meet the economic and social needs of Malawi. The ongoing Infrastructure
Project is providing for expansion and maintenance of the road infrastructure to provide
efficient connections between industrial centers and Malawi's border points. The forthcoming
Malawi Railways and Lake Services Restructuring Project will complement private sector
development and economic diversification by reducing Malawi's external transport costs.
50.   Improvement of Social Indicators. Policies that affect poverty reduction, education,
health, family planning, food security, and gender issues in development remain in the
forefront of the Bank's assistance strategy. In this context, the Bank's agricultural sector
strategy and rural poverty reduction are inseparably interlinked. A Poverty Impact
Assessment is currently being carried out to analyze the impact of past and ongoing projects
and programs on the poor. By evaluating the effectiveness of different approaches and
identifying the factors that lead to good or poor performance, the study will form the basis
for proposals to expand and replicate successful programs (for instance under the proposed
Social Development Fund).
51.   Critical support to strengthen primary health care programs, increase family planning
activities, and improve medical support services is being provided through the Population,
Health and Nutrition (PHN) Sector Credit and the proposed Health and Nutrition Project.
After initial implementation problems, this operation is now providing increased support to
peripheral health services. Continued support to the sector will focus on improving rural
health services, including strengthening preventive health care regarding STDIAIDS, malaria,
diarrhea and cholera.
52.   Although interventions under the PHN Sector Credit have contributed to increased
awareness of the linkages between population, health and nutrition, the level of support to
family planning has been low due to political sensitivities. The coming socio-political change
has created an opportunity for fertility reduction efforts; these are needed if the benefits from
past investments in health and sustainable poverty reduction are to be realized. The Bank
will carry out a Population and Family Planning Study to assess the linkages between
population and poverty, unemployment and gaps in basic services, as well as changes in
official attitudes and socio-cultural reaction to population and family planning activities. The
study will provide the ground work for programmatic family planning interventions and
activities (under the proposed Health and Nutrition Project and Social Development Fund) that
would substantially reduce Malawi's total fertility rate and slow its rate of population growth,
thus supporting higher per capita income growth rates.



14
53.   Ongoing Bank operations in the education sector (Education I and Education II) focus
on the expansion and quality enhancement of primary education and increased efficiency in
resource use. With the forthcoming Education Sector Im Credit, the Bank will take on a slice
of the Government's sectoral investment program, concentrating on those elements having
direct bearing on poverty alleviation, equity in access to basic education (such as low cost
construction of rura; and urban primary classrooms), and improving educational quality and
management of the sector through strengthening of pedagogical skills and upgrading teachers'
training. Human resource development in Malawi continues to suffer from one of the lowest
secondary school enrollment ratios worldwide. The Bank will help broaden access to
secondary education through policy measures to reduce unit costs. Concurrently, the Bank
will help put in place mechanisms for mobilizing resources from the private sector and the
community at large for education and training.
54.   The 1992 drought has amplified the need for additional investment in the development
of rural water supplies and measures to enhance food security. Under the proposed National
Water Development Project, the Bank will help improve access to clean water (especially in
rural areas), reduce the incidence of water-borne diseases, and reduce the negative effects of
future droughts. With regard to the emerging drought in the current crop season, the
potential role of the Bank to assist the Government in ensuring food security is currently
being discussed.
55.   Within the context of the above operations, supporting activities that focus on
women's economic, sociological and cultural roles in the context of poverty alleviation are
given special emphasis, particularly in health care and family planning, participation in sLnall-
scale income-generating activities in- and outside of agriculture, and schemes for appropriate
technology dissemination and credit provision.
56.   Indirect support to poverty alleviation is also being provided through increase in
private sector employment generating activities and economic diversification. The ongoing
Agricultural Services Project and Rural Financial Services Project will help expand the range
of support services (including credit) to poor smallholders, with specific emphasis on women.
Similarly, the conservation of natural resources and sound environmental policies are
preserving the employment base for the rural poor.
57.   Environmentally Sound Policies. The Bank's lending portfolio reflects a clear
response to the growing need for environmental control and natural resource conservation.
The central environmental issue of land degradation through soil and nutrient loss is being
addressed through promotion of environmentally sound practices under the Agricultural
Services Project. With the forthcoming Environmental Support Project, the Bank will assist
Government to implement priority actions emerging from the National Environmental Action
Plan (NEAP) and the Forestry Policy Review. The project will seek to reduce population
encroachment of critical protected areas, support local communities' efforts to conserve and
manage local woodlands, prevent and reverse the process of catchment degradation (thereby
conserving rivers as breeding habitat for endemic fish), and help Government address the
environmental problems of deforestation, natural resources degradation and soil erosion found
in the settlement areas now abandoned by Mozambican refugees.
58.   Capacl*y Building. Given implementation constraints in several key ministries, the
Bank is providing technical support to strengthen public sector management through the



15
ongoing Institutional Development I Project and the forthcoming Institutional Development II
Project which is based on a recent Public Sector Management Review. Very good results
have been achieved in developing local management through support for the Malawi Institute
of Management. Eventually these efforts will reduce Malawi's dependence on foreign
consultants and expatriate managers and will supply the high caliber manpower needed for
developing the domestic private sector. Appropriate measures to streamline and improve the
budgetary process are being developed under the Budget Management Review. Overall
streamlining of civil service management will enhance the transparency of public
decisionmaking, thus reinforcing an important aspect of economic governance. The problems
of high staff turnover and unfilled vacancies which have been a persistent obstacle to effective
public sector management are also being addressed.
59.   The Bank's approach to institutional development will contribute to overall
macroeconomic stability by enhancing transparency and supporting greater continuity in public
sector decision making. Capacity building initiatives are being expanded to the parastatal
sector by strengthening the monitoring and management functions of the Department of
Statutory Bodies and assisting the sector to develop the next phase of parastatal divestiture.
Unde the ongoing Local Government Development Project, the Bank helps to improve the
financial and administrative capacity of the local government system to provide and maintain
municipal services and infrastructure at a level consistent with the enhanced emphasis on
private sector development.
60.   Level of Bank Support. Bank lending in FY94 will be limited to one investment
operation of US$22 million. This is in line with the emphasis on consolidation of the
portfolio in the short term, in view of the likely preoccupation of policy makers with the
political transition, and in recognition of likely difficulties in implementing sensitive policy
changes before the general elections. In addition, the Bank is actively examining the
possibility of supplementary financing of US$20 million under the ongoing adjustment
operation to help finance the unexpected balance of payments shortfall resulting from this
year's severe drought. Starting in FY95, the Bank could embark on a three-year base case
lending scenario comprising 7 operations (6 investment projects and 1 adjustment operation)
with an average annual IDA allocation of US$66 million (in line with Government's
implementation capacity, but slightly below pre-drought and pre-transition levels). The base
case lending scenario requires that the Government's overall development priorities and the
scope and timing of further structural policy change remain focused on equity and growth,
and agreement is reached on the macroeconomic framework between the Government, the
Bank,and Fund. The base case scenario would support real GDP growth of 4.5 percent p.a.
in the medium term and a deceleration in the rate of inflation to 5 percent. It would allow the
Government to reduce the fiscal deficit (after grants) to I percent of GDP, and move closer to
a sustainable balance of payments position.
61.   If the environment for effective implementation were to deteriorate, the lending levels
for FY95-FY97 could be reduced to a low case scenario with 4 investment projects and an
average annual IDA allocation of US$33 million. The low case lending scenario would be
triggered by the adjustment program falling off track or by a considerable slow-down in the
Government's decisionmaking process, particularly with respect to policies that are essential
underpinnings for the Bank's operations. Under increasing macroeconomic difficulties and
limited implementation capacity, the Bank's strategy would focus on implementing the
ongoing portfolio and new activities that support the provision of basic services to the social
sectors without requiring major policy changes in the areas of economic liberalization.



16
TABLE 1:
MALAWI
Policy Goals and Major Instruments
POLICY GOALS                                 INSTRUMENTS                       _TMING_|
Support stable macroeconomic    PFP                                              PY95, FY96 |
framework                       Trade and Distribution Adjustment Credit (TDAC)  FY97
Country Economic Memorandum (CEM)                FY95
______________________  Budget Management Review (BMR)                            FY94
Liberaize private sector activities   TDAC                                       FY96
CEM                                              FY95
Agricultural Sector Memorandum (ASM)             FY95
Private Sector Development Project (PSDP)        FY97
Enhance availability and access to   Fmancial Sector and Enterprise Development Project   FY92
financial services              (FESDP)
Rural Fmiancial Service Project (RPSP)           FY93
Incrase and diversify agricultural   Agricultural Services Project (ASP)         FY93
production                      ASM                                              FY96
TDAC                                             FY96
Agricultural Diversification Project (ADP)       FY96
Improve efficiency and capacity    ID-II                                         FY94
of public sector                Pay and Employment Study                         FY95
BMR                                              FY95
Maintain and expand key         Railways Restructuring Project                   FY95
infrastructure                  National Water Development Project               FY95
Infrastructure H Project                         PY97
Urban Housing Review                             FY96
Improve natural resource        National Environmental Action Plan (NEAP)        FY94
management                      Forestry Policy Review                           FY95
.____________________  Environmental Support Project                              FY96
Expand and improve basic        BMR                                              FY95
education                       Education Sector Credit m                        FY96
Reduce population growth        Poverty Impact Assessment Study (PIAS)           FY95
Social Development Fund (SDF)                    FY97
Population and Famity Planning Study (PPPS)      FY95
Improve health status           BMR                                              FY95
Health and Nutrition Project (HNP)               FY97
Support empowerment of women    P_AS                                             FY95
SDF                                              FY97
PFPS                                             FY95
HNP                                              FY97
Target programs to reach        PIAS                                             FY95
vulnerable groups               SDF                                              FY97
HNP                                              FY97



17
62.   But if the Government's commitment to accelerated structural change and economic
liberalization is demonstrated by swift decision making and energetic Implementation of the
basic prerequisites for an accelerated supply response (including effective redressing of
existing economic monopolies and furffier liberalization of the external sector), the Bank's
lending levels could be upgraded to the high case scenario. The number of operations for
FY95-97 would be increased to 10 (with an average annual allocation of US$105 million),
entailing specifically the processing of those projects that would enhance the supply response
and private sector development.
63.   Aid Coordination and Relationship with IMF. The Bank's position as a lead donor
in Malawi has been enhanced through formal donor coordination under the SPA and through
CGs. In addition, the Bank has frequently sponsored informal donor meetings in Malawi,
including debriefings of macroeconomic missions and economic briefings for the donor
community and opposition parties. These meetings have helped to achieve broad consensus in
development strategies, as well as providing donors with a forum to express their concern to
Government. During the recent interruption of non-humanitarian aid flows, the Bank's
leadership was central in helping to sustain the adjustment process.
64.   At the request of the Government and with broad concurrence of the donor
community, the Bank convened a CG meeting in December 1993 where donors confirmed
resumption of economic aid and financial support to Malawi in recognition of the exceptional
progress made in political transformation and of the macroeconomic policy measures
undertaken in the ongoing adjustment process. Total donor pledges for 1994 consisting of
existing and new commitments amounted to US$305 million, of which US$63 million were
new pledges. The Bank is prepared to convene another CG meeting in 1994 if requested by
the Government.
65.   The Bank is also taking a lead in coordinating co-financing and parallel financing
arrangements for individual projects. With regard to investment projects in the agricultural
infrastructure, human resources, environment and energy sectors, the Bank will continue to
work closely with the AfDB, IFAD, USAID, ODA, KFW, CDC, AfDB and EIB. Parallel
financing for the EDDRP has come from the AfDB, EC and OECF, and the ASAC has been
supported by ODA, AfDB, USAID and KfW.
66.   Aid coordination on a sector-by-sector basis is still in its initial stages and basically
takes place through local donor meetings, with particular success in agriculture and the social
sectors. More formalized donor coordination on a sectoral level is being pursued through, for
instance, the Public Sector Investment Program and the forthcoming Budget Management
Review. The Bank will coordinate the implementation of policy measures under the CBI. Aid
coordination will continue to be an integral part of the Bank's assistance strategy in Malawi to
help ensure that donor project financing remains consistent with sectoral priorities and in line
with overall macroeconomic objectives, and adequate balance-of-payment support is available
to back the adjustment program.
67.   Over the past two years, close collaboration between the Bank and Fund has been
critical in adjusting the macroeconomic framework in response to a series of destabilizing
external and internal shocks. There are no differences with the Fund on the scope and timing
of structural and macroeconomic policies. The fourth arrangement under the Fund's
Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility (ESAF) was approved in September 1991 and the
second tranche was released on March 31, 1994. With the major elements of the



18
macroeconomic framework now in place, the Fund's management is prepared to support
acceleration of the structural policy reform in Malawi with a new arrangement under the
Extended Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility later in 1994. It is planned to update the
fifth PFP to cover the period 1994/95-1996/97.
68.   IFC and MIGA Activities. IFC's equity participation and lending commitments
total about US$33 million (gross) and include seven investments in textiles, sugar, tourism,
ethanol, plywood, a development finance corporation, and a leasing and finance corporation.
All credits are fully disbursed and IFC is looking for new investment opportunities in Malawi.
The Bank's assistance strategy supports policy reform in areas of concern to IFC. Signature
is pending for approval of IFC's equity participation in a recently established merchant bank.
Possible areas for future IFC involvement include participat.on in setting up of a unit trust
fund to broaden the ownership base of the economy, and enhancing domestic savings. IFC's
equity participation could also become an important catalyst in the restructuring and
broadening of the ownership base of selected parastatal investments (ADMARC's investment
portfolio) and private sector conglomerates. There are no MIGA operations in Malawi.
69.   The activities of the Foreign Investment Advisory Service (FIAS) under Bank
supported operations (FSEDP and EDDRP) have been instrumental in developing the agenda
for recent investment policy reforms. FIAS will continue to coordinate, with other arms of
the Bank, the expansion of opportunities for private sector development and investment.
FIAS' continued support will remain critical to consolidate the achievements made under the
Investment Promotion Act and to assist the Malawi Investment Promotion Agency to become
fully operational.
E. Agenda For Board Consideration
70.   In response to the political uncertainties, economic difficulties, and significantly
reduced donor support during the past two years, the Bank adjusted its country assistance
strategy as reflected in reduced lending activities and emphasis on assisting the Government in
managing the economy under significant fiscal constraints. Over the past twelve months,
progress with regard to timely and full implementation of conditions under various IDA
operations has shown Government's commitment to adjustment even under difficult
circumstances. In the period following the current political transition, the Bank expects to
remain a major partner in helping Malawi tackle its day-to-day economic problems as well as
in addressing long-term economic and social issues of development. The Bank's lending
strategy specifies the trigger mechanisms that would lead to a deviation from the base case
lending scenario. In addition, three additional risks are inherent in the proposed strategy.
*     Although, at this time, a significant deterioration of internal conditions appears
unlikely, a small probability remains that the political transition process might not
continue as smoothly as anticipated and the recent restoration in private sector
confidence and economic stabilization could be reversed. Depending on the degree
ofpolltical and economic destabilization, the Bank would respond appropriately, for
example, by limiting project lending, postponing new adjustment operations, and
retaining a specialfocus on portfolio management.
*     The Bank's expectations of the next Government's willingness to collaborate
(particularly if there is a change after May 1994) might be overstated and significant



19
differences in opinion about adjustment could emerge after the elections. Reachaing
early agreement on specific policy actions necessary to delink economic and political
powers and broaden the ownership base, and managing the transition out of tobacco,
would be indicative of congruty between the Government's and Bank's developnent
strategies. The completion of the Country Economic Memorandum and the
preparation of the next adjustment operation, the Trade and Distribution Adjustment
Credit, will be central in reaching consensus on the path and timing of policy
measures. Should preparation of the adjustment operation stall because of
fundamental differences in opinion between Government and the Bank, the Bank's
lending activities would be limited to the low case scenario. If Government moves
aggressively ahead with economic liberalization, the Bank would move several
operations forward and upgrade the lending strategy to the high case scenario. A
clear indicator for Government's commitment to supply response and private sector-
led growth would be implementation of policy actions critical to enhanced foreign and
domestic private sector investment, such 3s actions to remove private and public
sector monopolies.
3     Even if the political transition continues smoothly and the next Government is in full
agreement with the proposed strategy, the expected supply response could be delayed
by negative developments in Malawi's external environment. The adjustment process
in Malawi will take time and sudden negative terms of zrade movements or serious
droughts could temporarily jeopardize economic performance and compromise the
timing of the reform program. Under such adverse circumstances, it Is expected that
the donor community - including the Bank - would continue to assist Malawi,
especially through additional quick-disbursing balance of payments support, provided
that the Government remains committed to its medium-term adjustment goals.
PART H. PROPOSED PROJECT
71.   Background: The civil service in Malawi provided reasonably adequate support for
the successive stuctral adjustment programs implemented in the country in the 1980s. It was
also one of the few civil service institutions in Sub-Saharan Africa whose staff were paid close
to decent salaries. But there were some important weaknesses, first highlighted in the Civil
Service Commission report of 1985 and documented in detail in the Public Sector
Management Review (PSMR) undertaken jointly by the Government and the Bank in 1991
and issued as a Grey Cover Report in 1993. The PSMR found that the performance of the
civil service was low because of poor definition of responsibilities, inadequate and poorly
targeted training, failure to undertake program evaluation and poor financial management. On
civil service pay and employment, the PSMR found that existing pay levels are inadequate to
attract and retain staff in the professional and technical areas, thereby creating vacancy rates
of about 35 percent. In contrast, there is overstaffing in the junior ranks where staff salaries
are comparable to those in the other sectors. According to the PSMR, the problems of the
parastatal sector include lack of clarity in the definition of the role of the Department of
Statutory Bodies (DSB) charged with managing the interface between parastatals and the
Government.
72.   As a follow-up to the PSMR report, Government has requested IDA support to
implement some of the reports's recommendations through a second institutional development



20
project (ID II). ID II would be a successor to the on-going IDA-supported institutional
development project (ID I) that is being implemented with UNDP co-financing. UNDP is
providing assistance for strengthening financial management, accounting and auditing and the
modernization of the tax system in the Ministry of Finance while the IDA credit of US$11.0
million credit is devoted to the establishment of the Malawi Institute of Management with a
small proportion for the tax modernization program. UNDP also provided US$4.2 million to
MIM for technical assistance and training. Implementation of ID I is scheduled for completion
in June 1994. Significant progress has been recorded in implementing the Tax Modernization
Program but Government is still experiencing difficulties in revenue estimating and would like
assistance provided under ID II. The UNDP-supported institutional strengthening actions in
the Ministry of Finance, reconstituted as a "Government Financial Management Development"
project in 1992, was still being reviewed in November 1993 due, in part, to reduced funding.
In the circumstance, Government has decided to transfer the design and installation of a
forward budgeting system to ID H. Although MIM has been firmly established as a training
and consulting institution and its physical infrastructure is nearing completion, two main areas
of fiuther support have been identified: (i) technical assistance and training and (ii) campus
management staff housing. The Department of Statutory Bodies also requires strengthening if
it is to effectively supervise the parastatal sector.
73.   Project Objectives: The objectives of the project are to: (i) address specific systemic
management issues that now constitute bottlenecks to efficiency and effectiveness in the civil
service; (ii) assist the Department of Statutory Bodies to better manage the interface between
the parastatal sector and the Government; and (iii) strengthen the Malawi Institute of
Management (MIM).
74.   Project Description: The project would be implemented over a five-year period
(1994-99) and has five main components:
(i)   Improving Civil Service Policy and Information Framework (US$3.3 million):
This component will be concerned with issues that cut across ministries and departments of
the civil service, beginning with the policy and legislative framework. Government would take
steps to promulgate a Public Service Act and adopt a Statement of Policy on Institutional
Development and Civil Service Reform. The other main issue addressed is the design,
installation and implementation of appropriate management information systems for the
personnel and finance functions. The project will finance a civil service census which is a
critical first step in the development of a personnel management information system. The
project will also finance the design, development and implementation of a computerization
plan for financial management.
(ii)   Strengthening the Capacity of the Department of Personnel Management and
Training (US$4.0 million): The project will provide support to DPMT in the form of TA,
equipment and training to enable it improve its performance with particular reference to key
personnel management functions. Specifically, the project will finance: (a) review of the
institutional arrangements for determining remuneration; (b) re-design of the pay structure and
rationalization of fringe benefits and allowances, linked to job evaluation; (c) preparation of
procedure manuals covering functions undertaken by personnel common services staff; (d)
development and implementation of an open performance appraisal system; and (e)
development and introduction of career paths. The project will also support the re-structuring
of the Departnent and the enhancement of the skills of its staff.



21
(iii) Strengthening Institutional Capacity of the Ministry of Finance (US$5.5 million):
The project will finance: (a) the installation and implementation of forward budgeting; (b) the
design and implementation of a new public accounting system; (c) support to the tax policy
analysis unit; and (d) skills development in both budgeting and accounting through the
provision of short-term TAs, training fellowships and the organization of workshops and study
tours.
(iv)   Support to the Department of Statutory Bodies (US$1.9 million): The project will
finance activities relating to (a) clarification of the role and functions of DSB and its
relationships with other supervisory agencies; (b) strengthening DSB's role in promoting
improved financial and economic performance of parastatals; (c) development of a
government privatization policy; and (d) enhancement of the skills of DSB staff.
(v)    Strengthening the Malawi Institute of Management (US$8.1 million). MIM will be
given further support to assist it in consolidating the solid achievements it has recorded under
IO I. Project funds would be used to finance: (a) a second phase of technical assistance
(essentially on short-term arrangements) that would help to strengthen the Institute's capacity
in training and consultancy; (b) staff training; (c) fellowships to MIM's courses; (d) books
and equipment for the Institute's Learning Resource Center; and (e) construction of
management staff housing on the Institute's campus in Lilongwe.
75.   Project Financng: The total cost of the project is estimated at US$25.6 million of
which IDA will provide US$22.6 million and local contribution would be US$3.0 million.
The IDA credit would finance approximately 88 percent of total project costs net of duties and
taxes. A PPF of US$1,000,000 approved in October 1992 and May 1994 is being used to
finance project preparation activities. A breakdown of costs and financing plan are shown in
Schedule A. Amounts and methods of procurement and disbursement arrangements and
schedule are shown in Schedule B. A time-table of key processing events and the status of
Bank Group operations in Malawi are shown in Schedules C and D. The Staff Appraisal
Report, No. 12668 dated April 22, 1994, is attached, as well as map number 24575.
76.   Project Implementation: A Public Sector Management Improvement Unit (PSMIU)
will be established in the Office of the President and Cabinet (OPC) to provide overall
direction and coordination to ID II. The PSMIU will be headed by a Project Manager who
shall report to the Secretary to the President and Cabinet (SPC) through the Principal
Secretary, (Administration) OPC, who serves as the de facto deputy to the SPC. In addition to
the Project Manager, the unit will comprise two other professional staff members: an
Information Technology Coordinator who will provide direction and coordination for the
management information systems development and related elements of ID II and a project
accountant who would be responsible for all ID n1 financial management and accounting
activities. The PSMIU's coordinating function will be complemented by the presence of a
Project Coordinator in three ID II beneficiary agencies: MOF, DPMT and DSB. These
organization-based Coordinators will work in close liaison with the PSMIU. However, in the
spirit of building management capacity and promoting project ownership, responsibility for
project implementation will be devolved as much as possible to the beneficiary agencies. The
Management of MIM will be directly responsible for the implementation of the MIM
component, as is currently the case under ID I. Overall policy guidance for the project would
be entrusted to an Inter-ministerial Committee on Institutional Development (ICID) chaired by
the Principal Secretary, (Administration) OPC. Members of the ICID would be drawn from
the main ministries and departments involved in the project. Attention would also be paid to



22
ensuring adequate representation of line ministries. This would help to deepen project
ownership. The ICID would meet quarterly and present progress reports to the SPC. The
PSMIU will act as the secretariat to the ICID.
77.   Project Sustainability: The project would help translate government commitment to
management improvement and strengthening institutional capacity into concrete actions that
could be further consolidated and expanded with Government's own resources after the life of
the project. In this connection, Government has indicated its determination to institutionalize
the PSMIU at the end of the project and make it responsible for promoting public sector
management improvement on a continuing basis. In the case of the Malawi Institute of
Management, it is envisaged that self-reliance in financial terms would be achieved in the
course of the project.
78.   Lessons Learned from Previous Bank Involvement: Lessons learned from Bank
experience in supporting institutional development both in the specific context of Sub-Saharan
African countries (notably as reported by the Operations Evaluation Department in 1990,
'Free-Standing Technical Assistance for Institutional Development in Sub-Saharan Africa")
and at the global level, include: (i) the need to involve key country stakeholders at all stages
of the project cycle (the participation imperative); (ii) reliance on project implementation
through existing institutional structures; (iii) attention to the borrower's institutional absorptive
capacity; and (iv) the fact that institution building requires long-term assistance and continuity
in implementation. These same lessons have been highlighted in Bank's TA projects in
Malawi that have sought to strengthen institutional capacity over the past decade (TA I: Ln
2027-MAI and TA II: Cr. 1428-MAI). Attention has been paid to these important lessons in
the design of the project. Thus, project preparation that began with the joint Government-
Bank PSMR in 1991 continued over a 36-month period in order to foster government
ownership and commitment. Significantly, too, the project's implementation strategy seeks to
avoid institutional overload through reliance on existing institutional structures. Tbe long-term
view of institutional development is reflected in the five-year time frame and the provision of
assistance for continued strengthening of the Malawi Institute of Management, established
under the first Institutional Development project.
79.   Rationale for IDA Involvement: From experience with the structural adjustment
process since the early 1980s, the Bank is well placed to assist the Government in its eftorts
aimed at achieving management improvement in the civil service. This in turn should help
strengthen economic and fimancial management in both the core and sectoral ministries that
are implementing IDA-supported projects. In the case of the Ministry of Finance, IDA's
contribution under ID II would complement on-going institutional strengthening actions being
supported by the UNDP as a component of ID I. Since IDA financed the first phase of the
development of the Malawi Institute of Management (with UNDP co-financing) under ED I,
further strengthening of the Institute under ID II would help to consolidate and build on the
achievements recorded with a view to nurturing it into a self-reliant management development
institution.
80.   Links with Country Assistance Strategy: The project's objectives are consistent with
the Country Assistance Strategy for Malawi which focuses on, among others, improved
portfolio management and capacity building. The project will lead to improvements in
systems and procedures for managing the core personnel, budgeting and financial management
functions in the civil service. This will enhance implementation capacity and impact favorably
on portfolio management. The technical assistance and training elements in the project are



23
carefully targeted to enhance capacity in the three beneficiary departments and ministry
(MOF, DPMT and DSB) and in the Malawi Institute of Management.
81.   Agreed Actions: At negotiations, the Government gave assurances that it would: (i)
follow IDA procurement guidelines for procuring works and goods and IDA guidelines for
selection of consultants and use World Bank's standard bidding documents; (ii) submit to IDA
annual accounts and financial statements audited by independent auditors acceptable to IDA
within nine (9) months of the end of its fiscal year; (iii) make provision for a proportion of
the recurrent cost of the PSMIU to be agreed with IDA in the annual budget of the OPC; (iv)
ensure that MIM meets the targets agreed with IDA regarding the progressive phasing out of
the fellowships to its courses; (v) ensure that the Malawi Institute of Management submits to
IDA by December 31 of every year an annual report on the progress made toward self-
financing through its Endowment Fund; (vi) follow the project implementation plan agreed
with IDA; (vii) submit to IDA annual progress reports within three months after the end of
each calendar year; (viii) conduct a joint Annual Review of project implementation not later
than June 30th after the end of the year under review and carry out a comprehensive mid-term
project review by December 31, 1996; (ix) ensure effective functioning of the Public Sector
Management Improvement Unit through provision of adequate staffing and operational
resources; (x) install an accounting and audit system for the project; and (xi) implement the
training program agreed with IDA, beginning with the detailed program for the first year of
the program. Before Board presentation, Government adopted a Statement of Policy on Civil
Service Reform and Institutional Strengthening and submitted to IDA the draft of legislation
on Public Service Act. Effectiveness of the credit will be subject to the following conditions:
(i) submission to IDA copy of the Public Service Act promulgated by Parliament; (ii)
appointmnent of an independent auditor acceptable to IDA; (iii) appointment of Head, Census
Executing Unit as well as Chief Technical Officer and Accountant of the Unit; (iv)
appointment of project coordinators for the components on DPMT, DSB and MOF; and (v)
adoption a model consultancy contract acceptable to IDA, including a sample letter of
invitation, for the recruitment of technical assistance personnel under the project. And the
following are Conditions of Credit Disbursement fo ,ecific project components:
Regarding the training category of the project credit for the component on the Department of
Personnel Management and Training, Government will confirm (i) merging the Manpower
Planning and Training Divisions of DPMT and (ii) creation of Human Resources Management
Units (HRMU) on a pilot basis in the ministries of Agriculture, Education, Finance, Works
and Health. Regarding all categories of project credit for the component on the Malawi
Institute of Management, Government will confirm the appointment of a professionally
qualified accountant who would be responsible for the financial management of the
component.
82.   Environmental Impact: The environmental category of the credit is C. The civil
works envisaged for MIM, campus management staff housing in Lilongwe, would not have
any significant impact on the physical environment. Furthermore, as was the case under ID I,
the architectural design to be used would be modest and rely on maximum use of natural
ventilation and local materials.
83.   Program Objective Categories: Human and institutional capacity building is a major
issue addressed in the current country strategy for Malawi. It is also the case that successful
implementation of management improvement measures to be financed under the project would
enhance quality of public service delivery and benefit the entire citizenry, including the poor.



24
84.   Project Benefits: Improved performance of personnel, budgetary and financial
=anagement would enhance efficiency and effectiveness throughout the entire civil service
system. This will help to enhance macroeconomic stability. The conduct of government
business would benefit from the predictability, transparency and accountability fostered by
provisions in the Public Service Act. All this would favorably affect the implementation of
development programs and projects, including those supported by the Bank. Better
management of the government-enterprise relationship by the Department of Statutory Bodies
would enable Government to derive more substantial benefits from its parastatals. And the
development of a privatization policy would help to rationalize the parastatal sector and to
prepare the ground for a privatization program. Continued success of the Malawi Institute of
Management in providing training and consultancy services to government, parastatals and the
private sector would eventually enhance the quality of national economic management.
85.   Project Risks: The evolving governance situation in the country would be marked by
periodic problems that could hinder effective implementation of some management
improvement measures. While this needs to be acknowledged, the gains from a distinct trend
toward openness and transparency would limit its negative consequences. Furthermore, given
the context of impending elections, the leaders of some of the opposition parties as well as
representatives of the media were briefed on the main features of the project. Attention was
drawn to its apolitical character: a project that will help enhance the quality of public
management to the benefit of both the governors and the governed. A major problem
encountered in implementing the component on the Ministry of Finance under ID I was rapid
staff turnover. Although this persists, the existence of a core staff at the PSMIU together with
designated coordinators for project components under ID II would limit the negative
consequences. The weak implementation capacity noted at the country implementation
reviews held in 1991 and 1993 could slow project implementation at the initial stage.
However the corrective measures already in place together with a robust government
implementation plan for ID II would help to minimize the risk. Implementation of pay reform
measures might be difficult because of the tight budgetary constraint which could continue for
the foreseeable future. But increased revenue mobilization and prudent financial management
could help provide the necessary resources.
86.   Reconunendation: I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association and recommend that the Executive Directors
approve it.
Lewis T. Preston
Attachments                                                            President
Washington, D.C.
May 17, 1994



Annex Al
April 1994
Page 1 of 1
Malawi - Selected Indicators of
Bank Portfolio Performance and Management
Indicator                  FY91           FY92           FY93          FY94**
(current)
Portfolio Performance
Number of projects under implementa-     20             23             23             17
tion
Average implementation period (years)    1.85          2.38           2.75           3.37
Average ratings
Development objectives               1.85           1.83           1.78
Overall status                       2.25           2.04          2.13
Percent (#) of projects rated 3 or 4      -              -
Development objectives             13.6 (3)        4.3 (1)          0              --
Overall status                     22.7 (5)       13.0 (3)       21.7(5)           --
Canceled during FY                        0              0              0
Disbursements ratio (%)                  21.7          22.55           17.6
Disbursement lag (%)                    -72.8         -110.6         -110.4           --
Memorandum item: % completed           Up to CY1992: of 37 rated projects, 22% were unsatisfactory
projects
rated unsatisfactory
Portfolio Management
Supervision resources (total US$)      853,537        900,738       1,096,875       971,798
Average supervision (US$/project)       42,677         39,163        47,690         57,165
Supervision resources by location (in %)  100           100            100            100
Percent headquarters                  73            85             91             80
Percent resident mission              27            15              9             20
Supervision resources by rating category
(US$/project)
Projects rated 1 or 2               37,398         34,992        43,731         36,379
Projects rated 3 or 4               58,513         66,967        61,945         79,246
Memorandum item: date of last/next                                               May '931FY95
CPPR
** All dollar figures for FY94 have been pro-rated.



March 1994
Annex A2
Page 1 of 1
Malawi Bank Group Fact Sheet, FY 91-97
IBRD/IDA Lending Program, FY 91-97
Past               Current               Planned
Category                         FY91      FY92     FY93    FY94           FY95       FY96       FY97
Commitments (US$m)               103.6    204 2      76.8    28.3          40.0   50 - 140  110 -- 136
Sector l%)
Agriculture                     8         3       92                            0-- 11      0- 14
Industry and finance           31                                                           0 -- 26
Energy
Power                                    27
Public sector management                                  85
Infrastructure and urban
development                              12                             100                 0 --30
Human resources                64                                              21--O       18-0 46
Environment                                                                    14-- 40
Mining and other extractive
Multisector                     7        68        8      16                    0-- 54      0-- 68
TOTAL                     100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0          100.0      100.0      100.0
Lending instrument (%)
Adjustment loans                7        71        8      15                    0 -- 64     0 -- 68
Specific investment loans
and others                     93        29       92      86            100   46 -- 100   32 -- 100
TOTAL                     100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0          100.0      100.0      100.0
Disbursements (US$m)              70.9    101.7    136.4    72.3            61.0       69.0      106.0
Adjustment loans             21.9      41.7     82.7    43.7            5.0        6.0       50.0
Specific investment loans
and others                    49.0      60.0     63.7    28.6           66.0       63.0       56.0
Repayments (US$m)                 11.0      12.0     13.0     9.0            9.0       10.0       12.0
Interest WUSWm)                   13.0      14.0     14.0     9.0           10.0       11.0       12.0



ANNEX A3
March  1994
Page  1 of 2
Malawi: Priority Poverty Indicators
AfMo  Saav,ql_.ffin   8Pu  Ns
3540       15-20       r-  I.                             *- -. 
Uni Of                        yws    atd"&         Saka.          Lop.    wume
Indca&'t  assaw  age  ae  (,wa    hJWc.   Le
POVERTY
Uper povety Han                          loawcu.                 ..         .. Mr.
H nadlo inx                             %Ofpop.                            ..          ..          .
Lwpovety lie                             local ..               ..          ..
Hadeou index                            %fpop                  ..          ..          ..         ..           _
GNPpercapta                                us$                 60         120         230         350         350       1.610
SHORT TERM INCOME INDICATORS
Umidled wbn s                              aa.                   .. ..  -- .
Umked rural w^W
Rural tms oftra..
Comwun pricen dx                         1987-100               _           -         190           .           -
Ler ino.me 
Food                   .                    U                  .           .         195
Urban
Rural
SOCLAL INDICATORS
Publicqendc  r on baic soc  sennees      %ofODP                  .          .           2           -           _           -
Carcm aolmnm r
P*inary                               %sd.doage pop.           44          56          71          70         113        100
Male                                        0                  55         67          77          76         122         106
Fcnd,o                                                        32          44          64          60         106         98
MoAlty
1finntmosality                        thu livebirths          200         183        143         104          70         40
t1d 5 moality                                    ^                          .         195        177          98          53
lmmunizAtion
MeCAe"                                  %agVgroup               .          .          65          40          73          70
DPtr                                         '                             .          75          35          81          74
Cahdmldnutiro"(underS)                                           .          ..         60           -
ljf.expatoy
Tcel                                      yaesm               39          42          45          51          63          67
Femlesiils                                ratio              1.03        1.03        1.02        1.06       0.s9        1.08
Toa feulity rate                      birsperwoman             7.8         7.7         7.6         6.4        3.7         3.5
Matrna mortality rate                 100,000 lwbiffhs           .          -         380             
Populao  growth rate                        Infaut mortaity rate                       Prmay enrolmet
-paxxt)                                (tho.oflive bids)                             (pmeent)
6+*                                      250                                        120+
5                            ~~~~~~~200                                   100
4                                                                                    so
150
3                                                                                    60
100
2                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~40
1                   'o ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~20
0                               0                                          0
nidd6f     mid 70s   w .                   did6Cs    m  i70S      Me                  aid6fS    mid70s       mm
-   Lowmcoms
206



ANNEX A3
March 1994
Page 2 of 2
Maawi: Resources And Expenditures
Meat S.., Lan.wman                 Nea
IS3 J4-2 ~  IS-2      r       -
YOM - Ym             0saw       S-iwas          O.W.     h
HUMAN RESOURCES
Popoldon (mw4991)                                           3,975       5,244      8,796     488,932   3,127,265     773,203
Ag. dependency ratio                      ratio             9OS3         0.98       0.98        0.97        0.66        0.71
Urban                                    %ofpo        ~       4.9         7.7        12.0       28.7        40.1        53.9
Pqatowthmt                                                    2.4         3.0         3.3        3.0         1.9         1.7
4.5        7.6         5.0         5.0         5.2        3.1
Labor fore (154"4)                      thous               1,943       2,382      3,592     203,947   1,448,104     302,448
AuiouIWre                             %oflaborofoee            92         87           .            .
Jndutry                                                         3          6           -
FannIe                                      *                 45          45          41          37          33          32
Femal per 100 oales
Urban                                   number                 ..        73           .
Rural                                                                   119            .
NATURALRESOURCES
ArJa                                   thou. s krn            118        118         118      23,066      3882t8      23,990
Density                               pop.pera.4km           34.0        44.0       69.0        20.0        77.0        31.0
Apdkrhuadlmd                           %oflndaw   a          40.7        43.8        45.2       51.0        47.4        41.8
Change    dmapiculurallad                annull%              0.3         0.3         0.5         0.0        0.0         0.0
Adkuttare lnd under irigaon                %                 0.0         03          0.4        5.5        13.7        12.6
Forauss a  woodxland                    tu.sq.k                50         48          37       6,651       9,197       5396
Deforsation(net)                         a-al %              *0.4        *0.4        *2.9
INCOME
Househod inoome
Shwe of top 20%  of hoeholds          %of income              51          ..          _
Sh1e otboaom 40%obowebolds                                    22          _           _      
Share ofbonom 20%ofhousebold                                  10          _           ..
ECPENDITURE
Food                                    %ofODP                  _        42.2       22.9           .
Staples                                    ^                            20.1         6.8
Mek, fI, mik, desk gp                                                    6.8                     ..
C4anl imlports                        Io meloto                19         41         11       7,838      36,008      44,418
FoodaidIncereals                                                           0         175       2,677       6,669       4,047
Foodpdodiooperaputa                   197941-100             90          98          77          94         122         101
Ftilrconstio                              kha                 3.0         7.0       20.0        14.5        47.5        94.2
Shae ofagrl G ODP                       %ofGDP               48.0        34.8       32.0        29.2        28.7
Houming                                 %ofODP                  _         4.9        6.8           _           _          _
Aa  owbsoldhsize                    pasousper housebold         .3 
Urban                                                          3          4
Fedix------ ow sing                     %cfGDP                  _         3.6        1.1
Fuadandpower                            %ofODP                  ..        2.1        3.6
sergempions percapa                   kgofoilequiv.           25          46          41         100         350       1,249
Househlds with electricity
Uba                                  % ofhoushobo              _          .           .           _
Rurl                                                           .          -_
TnrAprt and cornwtkad_                  %ofODP                  _         6.0        7.8           _           .
Fued   met tonspot equ pm_                                                6.7        2.2
Toalradlangh                               ku                  ..          _       12,192
NVESTENT IN HUMAN CAPITAL
Acstoelthare                             %ofpop.               ..          _           _           .
Population per phsician                  peSOeS            47,321          ..     45,737
Popation per nume                                          40,979       3,972       1,800          _
Popul   per bospital be                                                              645       1,328       1,048        S09
Acc  to so water                           ofpop.    .3 _                           55.0        36.7        70.6
UrbAW                                                         ..          ..       97.0        74.3        793
Rwl                  -                     m                   _                     0.0       24.2        62.8
OaWNiezthoiwa(under.5)                  %ofecase                _          _          14          35          32
EAuagon
Gamos  olmm  ratio
Soondary                            %ofsdbolap pop.             2          4           4          18          44         56
Female                                     *                   1          2           3          14          37          _
Pplldherrat0o: piaay                 Pupils prtsach            40         61          64          39          39         25
Pupil4odurreio: secnday                                        20         19          27           ..         20
Fq& rftd* Vs 4                          %ofe t                  _67                   69          69
Rq"pue          s no. pdmuy%oftotal entol_                                16          21
Dliteray                             %ofpo (ae 15+)            78          _          39          51          39
Fcnsale                            %offenm(aghl5+)             _          *-         69          62          52
Newsp  dciulaon                        pertho  pop.       _         _
Some Word Bank Inteao  Ecooias Depare  April 1993
207



Ainex A4
Mch 1994
Page I of 3
MALAWI- Key EcSmac ldiats
Actucl                   Estad                  projct
1989       1990       1991        12          1993       1994        1995        1996
Nata Accaunt (% GDP at
curct market priea)
ASricut  /a                                            31.2%      29.7%       31.5%      25.6%       34.7%      33.6%       33.6%      33.5%
lUy  la                                                17.3%      18.1%       17.7%      19.6%       11.1%    18.3%         18.6%       18.8%
Sevice. /a                                             40.8%      41.6%       41.4%      45.1%       39.8%      40.9%       40.9%       41.0%
Total c   aump                                           95.5%      90.6%       92.1%      98.2%       94.9%      93.2%       89.2%    87.1%
ros domestic inveatment                                  20.2%      19.1%       20.0%      18.8%       12.9%       154%       17.26       17.9%
Private invest  mchuds                                 15.0%      14.3%       12.0%       9A%         5.5%       6.8%        7.3%        7.9%
ic isen doks)
oaveanm ithwestmnt                                      5.2%       4.8%        8.0%       94%         7.4%        8.7%       9.8%       10.0%
Expo  GNFS lb                                            18.8%      24.0%       23A%       23.0%       16.7%      21.5%       21.1%      21.3%
Imps GM /b                                              34.5%       33.8%      35.6%       40.1%       24.5%      30.1%       27.4%      26.3%
Gros donestic svngs 1                                    4.5%        9.4%        7.9%       1.8%        5.1%       6.8%       10.7%       12.8%
Grss naslJsssavms to                                     6.9%       11.3%        8.0%       0.2%        4.7%       4.0%        7A%         9.5%
_Manorandiu nitms
Gross domesti prduct (million
$ at currat prices)                                  1589.9      1861.3     2191.8 1850.7          2027.3   1818.2         1948.5     2084.7
Oss noa product per capit                              170.0       200.0      230.0       210.0       226.6      204.5       200.1       198A
(USS. Atas method)
Red amagrowv     h rae
aross d i  produ                                        5.0%       4.7%        6.7%       4.0%        9.3%        1.9%       4.S%        4A%
at maket price
Goa  Domtc Incom                                        6.0%       4.2%        8.2%      -12.3%      10.0%       5.0%        4.9%        4.7%
Realdad per capa
gowth raes
Grossdomesticprdat                                     1.6%        1A%        3.1%      -11.6%       6.3%       -1.1%        1.5%       14%
at -aft pice
Tow al_elmpti/I                                       12.1%       -4.7%       3.5%      -11.8%        1A%        0.3%       0.8%        1.3%
Privae c    C_m/ol                                   -11.0%        8,2%      8.3%        19.7%    18A%          12.2%       3.5%        1.9%
1/ Savig and consmpto excukds emeqrcy gn  and inpost related to displaed peross.



Annex A4
March 1994
Page 2 of 3
MALAWI Key Ecoomic Indi
AcUal                    Estimated            Poted
1989      1990       1991      1992       1993       1994       1995      1996
Bance of Payment (UJssm)
Exports (ONPS) /b                                   298.7      447.3     512.7      425.6      334.2      392.7     418.5      452.4
Merchandiw f.o.b.                                  268.8      411.6     475.5      397.3      310.6     368.2      392.6      424.7
Impots (ONFS) /b                                    447.4      537.5     686.6      701.9      544.0      550.9     544.2      558.5
Mechadis f.ob.                                     251.1      304.2     373.6      350.0      262.9     324.3      328.9      336.4
Roure balance                                      -148.7      -90.2    -173.9    -276.3    -209.8    -158.2    -125.7    -106.1
Net artansfres                                       -13.9     -11.1      .33.3     -26.1       -3.7       -3.9     -17.8      -19.0
mcluding offiil current
trnfers)
C*ffea aocout balnce                                -138.1     463.5    -194.3    -222.9    -118.3    .154.4    -156.2    -136.5
(after offia cpal gnts)
Net pivatefo   durect                                 0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0
invesment
)LT loan (net                                        S7.4      106.5      114.8      89.2      134.3      135.3      87.7       91.9
Officil /I                                          46.6       98.7     112.0       87.0      152.5      1294       79.0       82.6
Privae                                              10.8        7.8       2.8        2.2        1.8        5.9       8.7        9.3
Otdr catal(e, Inclng                                 43.5      -25.5       83.5      -7.5       -5.9       20.7        0.0.      0.0
erors and  aoes)
aNmge in resrves(- incr) /d                          33.8      -23.1      -9.9       97.6        6.0      -44.6     -20.7      -23.8
Manorandr itran
Resorce balartc (% of                               -9.4%      -4.8%      -7.9%    -14.9%     -10.3%      -8.7%      -6.5%     -5.1%
GDP at curet market
pro)
Red mual grwdh rae
(1990 p&Ne)
M      _ nadiseexpoaus/2                          -10.0%     45.7%       4.6%      -1.3%      -2.9%      6.5%       3.1%       4.6%
(f.o.b.)
Manufacbu.es
Mccbadiwaeips/3                                    11.6%      13.3%     15.1%       5.4%     -12.5%      1.4%       -0.5%      1.3%
(c.i.f.)
Publc finance (% of
ODP at currnt mae
pd) /c
C.arra rvaumu/4                                     21.8%      19.5%      18.8%     17.6%      16.5%      17.9%     19.0%      19.2%
Cwrentexpedites /4                                  22.8%      19.6%      19.3%     19.5%      17.0%      17.1%     15.5%      15.0%
1/Publc taepriss loa  are inclued hee.
2/ Fgur in 19S9-92 are affected by sbsanta scb caried ovet at evd-19S9 and, to a lser extent, at emd-1990 and
end-1991.
3/ xcl        puaes of be aipa  in 1991 and drough-related maimn 1992-1993.
4/ Fiseal yer begining in Apri of the year i4dca   excluding specl dought-reled qoato  in 1992/93 and
1993/94.



Aonex A4
March 1994
Page 3 of 3
MAiLAWI Key ERaa* Indica rss
Acal                      Esnaed               Pr"ectd
1989       1990       1991        1992       1993       1994        1995       1996
Curtaccountoplus(+)                                      1.0%      .0.1%       -0.5%      -1.9%      0.5%        0.8%       3.5%       4.2%
or deficit (.)
Capal expndite                                           6.7%       6.1%       5.1%        7.0%       6.1%       6.7%        6.7%       6.7%
Foreign fiancing                                         6.5%       7.9%       5.2%        8.0%       9.9%       5.5%        5.0%       4.5%
Mnay Indicats
M21GDP (at cunreat maket                                16.7%      16.2%      16.3%       18.3%     ..
pnces)
Orwth of M2 (%)                                          5.4%      124%       21.6%       21.8%     .-
Private sector cred                                       1.5        34          1.7        0.4        0.1
growtotal credit growth
Price iices (1990=100)
Machandise expot price                                   96.0      100.0       109.7       93.3       79.0        80.5       81.0        82.7
idex
Merhad  import price                                     93.5      100.0      104.5       105.0       98.8        96.7       95.6       96.6
index
Merchadise taens of trade                               102.7      100.0       105.0       88.9       80.0        83.2       84.7       85.6
index
Real exchange ra  /I
(USS/LCU i0                                              99.7      100.0      104.5        97.7       95.9       95.9        95.9       95.9
Rel itst rat /2                                          1.3%       3.1%       2.2%       -0.3%       2.3%
Coumer price index (%)                                  15.7%      11.5%       8.2%      23.2%       22.1%       19.8%       6.9%       5.0%
grwth rate)
(DP defto (% gwwh
ate)                                                    22.3%      10.6%      13.3%       17.9%      22.4%      19.7%        7.0%       5.0%
1/ Figure for 1993 is takn fran Januaiy 1994 IPS.
2/ Prim  knding rate of commercial ban.
la GDP componet a  estimated at fac  coa.
this fact sho  be ad.
lb 'G   PS' - -goods anod onawct    e 
/c Inlude nat unrequited traensfr nexldin officia capial grant.
/d hnludes use of IYP resoue.
Ic Refes to cair gov_Amt



Aux AS
Marc 1994
Peg 1 at1
MALAWI-Key xposur bdlctr
Acual                          stmud                     Prjeted
1989         190          199          19           1            1994         19           1996
Total debt aUtmdn and disbursd
(T)O) (US$m) la                                     1299.0       1416.6       1613.1       1583.9       1770.0       1895.2       1937A        2006.6
Net dl_emes (USSm) is                                 98.6         81.0        198.2         81.7        148.5        156.1         87.6         91.9
Ttal debt rvic M(MS) (USSm)                          117.9        104.1        108.6        103.2         86.4         91.0         92.7        105.0
Debtn 4debt mvce bIdo )
TDO/XGS b                                         420.2%       323A%        310.2%.      366.8%       525.8%       475.0%       454.3%       434.6%
TDO/GDP                                            81.7%        79.3%        73.6%        85.6%        87.3%       104.2%        99.4%        96.3%
TDS/XGS hb                                         39.5%        23.3%        21.2%        24.3%        25.8%        23.2%        22.1%        23.2%
Coaceasbonal (1) fDO                               76.0%        76.1%        79.8%        86.1%        85.4%        86.6%        89.9%        89.7%
IBRD expou  nilol (%) (1)
IRD DS/public DS                                   25.7%        19.5%        14.7%        19.J%         0.0%        18.1%        164%         18.2%
Prtelrdcre&dWMtDpubo DS                           96.0%        79.2%        60.8%        77.9%        60.5%        6S.1%        73.9%        92.4%
IBRD DSIXGS hb                                      4.8%         3.3%         2.9%         3.5%         0.0%         3.3%         2.8%         2.6%
IBRD potfolio sd                                ..           ..           ..           ..           ....
IFC (UsSa)
TIa                                                  0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0
Equity  eAd    qulty Ic                              0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.5          0.0          0.0
MIGA
MIGA guwaAe  (US$m)                                  0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0
1/ Dea on this sectoon com  from DRS which ane bId a exiting commment a of ed 1992.
/I.    us public nd publicly gvwomted deb pelvue nogeeeed.
use otiW acfdis end not ahotea c    .
lb. *XGS dnots expots of goods eisi ncluding w8 m           inamom
Ic. Includes equity nd quAequty teobotblh o  and equity lnsu.



Mareh 190
Ann" AS
P4ge 1 of I
Status of Bank Group Operations in Malawi
Statement of IBRD Loans and IDA Credits
LOA data as of 21281U
teeve to           L"t ARPP
Amount h USE fnNon         *Ahal            vmfwion ret
Lowe of       .ecel                                    f-a oenoelteio)                       p,ojction    Development   Overel
crdit n.      Vyw     Borrower          Aino.,             lOARD     IDA    Undi.bwsd          (US* mion)    obleotiv.    $tetp*
M        -il -------
47 credits clsed                                                        697.26
C15490.MAL       1986   MALAWI  AGRI RES.                                 23.80          0.61            0.61       2          2
C17670.MAL       1987   MALAWI  ED. SECTOR CREDIT I                       27.00          1.39            1.39       2          2
C18610-MAL       1988   MALAWI  AGRICULTURE CREDIT                         6.90          0.27            0.27       2          2
C18790-MAL       1088   MALAWI  TRANSPORT I                               13.40          2.58            2.59       2          3
C19660-MAL       1988   MALAWI  AGRI. MARKETING & EST                     10.30          3.38            3.39       2          2
C19900-MAL       1909  -MALAWI  ENERGY I                                  46.70         14.93           14.93       1          1
C20380.MAL       1889   MALAW)  IN8TIT.DEV                                11.30          2.64            1.44      2           2
C20690.MAL       1990   MALAWI  INFRASTRUCTURE I                          29.80          9.62            0.89       2          3
C20830.MAL       1990   MALAWI  EDUC. SECII                               36.90         24.72           21.36       1          2
C22200 MAL       1991   MALAWI  PHN SECTOR CREDIT                         55.50         44.97           37.47      2           3
C22210.MAL       1991   MALAWI  FINANCIAL & ENTERPRI                      32.00         19.51            9.21       2          2
C22260-MAL       1991   MALAWI  FI8HERIES DEV.                             9.00          7.49            1.66      2           3
C23790.MAL       1992   MALAWI  LOCAL GOVT.                               24.00         22.64            8.75       1          2
C230O-MAL        1992   MALAWI  POWER V                                   56.00         53.12           19.74       1          2
C23960-MAL(S)    1992   MALAWI  ENTERPRENEUR OEV & D                     124.30          5.28            6.26      2           2
C26130.MAL       1993   MALAWI  FINANCIAL SERVICES                        25.00         25.02            6.82      2           2
C26140.MAL       1903   MALAWI  AGRIC SERVICES                            46.90         46.15            4.63      2           2
TOTAL                                                                    682.50        293.11           146.3
10 Loan.(* olosed                                              104.62
Total diauwad (IBRO and IDA)                                   1384.27
Of which has bean repaid                                      79.86
Total now held by IORD ond IDA                                1304.42
Amount sold
Of which repaid
Total undiabureed                                              293.;2



Annex A7
March 1994
Page I of 1
Central Govemment Budgetary Opetions 1984M5-1993/94
(K million)
1991/92   1992/93   1992/93   1993/94
1984/85   1985/86   1986/87   1987/88   1988/89   1989/90   1990/91    Actual Approved    evised  Estimate
Total Bevenu  and Grants          393.7    489.6    544.6    652.4    962.1  1,162.6   1,155.9   1,389.9   1,499.0  1,606.2   1,728.6
Revaue                         353.2    442.0    492.9    583.4    752.9    991.0  1,043.2   1,181.9   1.291.3   1,315.7   1,572.7
GrOants                         40.5      47.6      51.7      69.0    209.2    171.6    112.7    206.0    207.7    290.5    155.9
2otAl Expenditure                 432.0    529.2    632.6    750.3    858.7  1,292.9   1,371.9   1,506.5   1,866.2  2,169.4   1,918.7
Recurrent Expanditure          289.1     364.8    425.6    560.5    616.5    962.8   1,060.3   1,191.6  1,339.0  1,701.7   1,437.3
Dvelopment Expenditure         142.9     138.4    160.2    189.8    207.4    295.3    311.6    314.8    427.2    467.7    511.3
Uxtra-budqUry                             26.0      46.7                34.8      14.6       0.0       0.0    100.0        0.0       0.0
.lcrcrs
efotore Grants                 -78.8    -67.1   -139.7   -166.9    -1W5.8   -301.9   -328.7   -324.6   -574.9   -853.7   -345.9
Overall Deficit                -38.3    -39.5    -88.0    -97.9    103.4    -92.7    -92.7   -116.6   -367.2   -563.2   -190.0
rinancing                          38.3      39.5      88.0      97.9   -103.4       92.7      92.7     116.6    367.2    563.2    190.0
Foreign Loans (not)            53.0      73.5      99.5      80.0    163.0    190.6    265.4    333.3    295.0    202.4    295.0
Borrowing                   102.7    143.2    219.8    198.2    258.3    284.6    403.2    408.2    412.4    319.9    412.4
Rsey_nt                      49.7      69.7    120.3    118.2        95.3      94.0    137.8       74.9    117.4    117.5    117.4
foestc Borrowing (nst)         -14.7    -34.0    -11.5        17.9   -266.4    -97.9   -172.7   -216.7          72.2    360.8   -105.0
(5* per ct of GDP)
Revenue (excluding grants)         20.7      22.7      22.5      21.2      21.2      21.9      20.6      19.8      20.9      21.6      25.5
ReourcWnt Expenditure              16.9      18.7      19.4      20.3      17.4      21.3      20.9      20.0      21.7      27.9      22.0
De.elopmnt. Expenditure             8.4       7.1       7.3       6.9       5.8       6.5       6.1       5.3       6.9       7.7       8.3
Deficit Before Orants              -4.6      -4.5      -6.4      -6.1      -3.0      -6.7      -6.5      -5.4      -9.3    -14.0       -5.6
Overall Deficit                    -2.2      -2.0      -4.0      -3.6       2.9      -2.0      -1.3      -2.0      -5.9      -9.2      -3.1
GOP at Current Market Prices   1,707.7   1,949.9  2,191.2   2,756.5   3,552.3  4,527.0  5,069.9   5,969.9   6,174.5   6,101.8  6,174.5
Soarces Ministry of Pinanc



Schedule A
MALAWI
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II
PROJECT COST SUMMARY
(Mal Kwacha'000)            (US$'000)         % Foreign  % Total
Local   Foreign    Total     Local  Foreign   Total   Exchange Base Costs
1. Civil Serv. Policy &
Info. Framework         2,097.4   11,066.1   13,163.5    487.8 2,573.S   3,061.3   84       13
2. Department of Personnel
Mgmt & Training         1,796.4   13,884.6   15,681.0    417.8 3,229.0  3,646.8   89        16
3. Ministry of Finance     239.5   21,452.S   21,692.0     55.7 4,989.0   5,044.7   99        22
4. Dept of Statutory Bodies  150.1    7,720.7   7,870.7    34.9 1,795.5   1,830.4   98         8
5. Malawi Inst. of Mngt  13,917.8   16,409.7  30,327.5   3,236.7 3,816.2   7,052.9   54       30
6. PSM Improvement Unit    5,424.8    1,571.3   6,996.1   1,261.7  365.4   1,627.0   22        7
7. PPF                       -       4,300.0   4,300.0      -   1,000.0   1,000.0  100         4
Total Baseline Costs     23,626.0   76,404.7  100,030.7  5,494.4 17,768.5  23,263.0   76     100
Physical Contingencies     76.8    2,485.7   2,562.4     17.9  578.1    595.9   97           3
Price Contingencies     4,547.8    3,016.9    7,564.7   1,057.6  701.6   1,759.2   40        8
Total Project Costs      28,250.6   81,907.3  110,157.9   6,659.9 19,048.2  25,618.1   74    110
FINANCING PLAN (US$'OO0)
LOCAL               FOREIGN               TOTAL
IDA                             3,509               19,048                22,557
Government                      3,061                  -                   3,061
TOTAL                           6,570               19,048                25,618



Schedule B
Page 1 of 2
Table: Summary of Proposed Procurnent Arrangements
(US$'000 equivalent)
Project Element                    Procurenent Method
Total
ICB      LCB    Other    N.B.F.        Cost
1. Works
1.1 Buildings                       -    688.3          -        -       688.8
(619.5)                        (619.5)
2. Goods
2.1 Equipment/Computer              -         -         -        -
(3,838.3)                                (3,838.3)
2.2 Vehicles                                  -
(282.4)             (282.4)
2.3 Furniture                       -      22.7         -        -         22.7
(20.4)                         (20.4)
2.4 Books
Ref. Books                         -        -          -        -
(515.8)                                  (515.8)
Manuals/Journals/Per.              -        -      347.2       -        347.2
(340.0)             (340.0)
3. Consultancies
3.1 Technical Assistance
(6,483.8)
Project Prep. & Implem. Support                (1,391.3)
Capacity Building                              (5,092.5)
3.2 Training                        -         -         -        -
(6,619.3)            (6,619.3)
4. Miscellaneous
4.1 Operating Costs                 -         -   3,672.3  2,141.9      3,672.3
(2,831.6)            (2,831.5)
4.2 Refinancing PPF                                              -
(1,006.0)            (1,006.0)
Total                                 -    711.1   18,411.0  2,141.9     25,618.1
(4,354.2)   (639.9) (17,563.1)          (22,557.2)
N.B.F.: Not Bank fininced
Figures in parentheses are the amounts financed by the IDA credit.



Schedule B
Page 2 of 2
DISBURSEMENT ARIANGEMENTS
CATEGORY           Amount of the Credit      % of Expenditures to be
Allocated (Exprsed In       Financed
SDR Equivalent)
(US$ million)
(1) Civil Works (MIM)              0.6                     90%
(2) Equipment, Vehicles,           4.5                 100% of foreign
Furniture and Books                              expenditures and 90% of
(a) MIM           0.9                             local costs
(b) Other         3.6
(3) Technical Assistance           5.8                     100%
(a) MIM           1.0
(b) Other         4.8
(4) Training                       5.9                     100%
(a) MIM           1.4
(b) DPMT          1.1
(c) Other         3.4
(5) Incremental Operating          2.5                 100% of foreign
Costs                                              expenditures and 70% of
(a) MIM           0.7                             local costs
(b) Other         1.8
(6) Refunding of Project           1.0             Amounts due pursuant to
Preparation Advance                                Section 2.02 of this
l _______________________  _________________________      A greem ent
Unallocated                       2.3           _
TOTAL                            22.6
ESTIMATED IDA DISBURSEMENT (US$'000)
Project Year
Year I       Year2       Year3     Year4    YearS    Year6
Annual                4,673          8,246      5,325     2,607    1,582       124
Cumulative            4,673         12,919     18,244    20,851   22,433    22,557



Schedule C
Page 1 of 1
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
SECOND INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Timetable of key Project Processing Events
(a) Time taken to prepare         About 4 years
(b) Prepared by                   Governmnent with IDA assistance*
(c) First IDA mission             January 1991
(d) Appraisal mission departure   October 18, 1993
(e) Negotiations                  April 1994
(f) Board approval                June 1994
(g) Planned date of effectiveness  October 1994
*     This report is based on the findings of a Bank appraisal mission which visited Malawi
in October/November 1993, comprising Messrs Ladipo Adamolekun (Principal Public Sector
Management Specialist and mission leader), Gerard Boulch (Public Sector Management
Specialist), Noel Kulemeka (Economist), Frank Molobi (Development Economist), and Marc
Maleta (Consultant, Public Enterprise Management Specialist). Djordje Jovanovic (Senior
Country Officer) and Malcolm Holmes (Public Financial Management Specialist) assisted in
appraising some of the project components. Mike Stevens (Senior Economist) was the Lead
Advisor and Katrina Sharkey (Public Sector Management Specialist) was Peer Reviewer. Ms
Brigida Tuason helped to prepare the project cost tables and Ms Sylvie Lelievre provided
secretarial support in the preparation of the report. Messrs Praful Patel and Stephen Denning
are managing Division Chief and Department Director respectively for the operation.



Rhn Tt: 0324./9 *t 16.19.21
Schedule D
Page  1 of 3
stats Of t uric a   p sr,tf4s  tn tMI
PfDS2        mrS y Stastun:t of Laws and IDA Credits
(LOA data as of vza/%-nit date as of 03/24/94)
... .............................
By Cawtry
Country:   WAWI
Anwt In USS mittion
(test Manwettatlas)
Loan or       Ftscat                                                                                  Urdis- Closing
Credit No.      Year  Borrowe                         Purpose                     8ank         IDA     bursed   Date
..........    ......  ........                        .......                      ....          ....... .......
Credits
4? Credfts(s) closed                                                                         697.25
C15490*MAL     1985    ALAI                           ACRJ ARE.                              23.80        .61  10131193(A)
C17670*MAIL    1987    1A.AUt                         ED. SECTOR CREIT 1                     27.00       1.39 12/15/94(3)
C18510-MAL     1988    NALAWI                         AGRICWTVRE CR30tt                       5.90        .27 06/30/95
C18790*QA1L    1988    4ALAUt                         TRANSPORT I                            13.40       2.59 06/30/94
C19660-14AL    1989    MALAWI                         AGRI.MARXETtMN  & EST                  18.30       3.38 06/30/96
C19900CAL      1989   K4ALAI                          ENERGY I                               46.70      1493  12/194
C20360*MAL     1989    KALAIt                         INSTIT.DEV.                            11.0        2.64  12131/94
C20690*MAL     1990    HALAWI                          NFRASTRUCTURES I                      28.80       9.52 12/31/95
C0830-4AL      1990    HALAWt                         EDUC.SEC.tI                            36.90      24.72 0630/96
C2200-MAL      1991    NALAWt                         PHN SECTOR CREDIT                      55.50      b4.9? 06J30/97
C22210-MAL    t19i1   PALAwt                          FiNANCIAL & ENtERPRI                   32.00      19.51 06/30/9?
C250-M4AL      1991    MALAWI                         FtSHERIES OEV.                          8.80       7.49 06/30/99
C23790*MAL     1992   MUAUt                           LOCAL GOVT.                            24.00      22.54   2/Z31/99
C2386O*wAL     1992    HALAWt                         POUER V                                55.00      53.12 06130/98
C25960UMAL(S)  1992    MALAWI                         ENTREPRENEuR DEV & 0                   120.00        .ff 06/30/94
   C251304MAL    1993    MALAWt                          FtIANCIAL SRVtCES                     25.00      25.02 12/31/96
C2a1404 AL     1993    YALAWt                         AGRIC SERVICES                         45.80      45.15 09/30/99
*   C239624-ALCS)  1994    MALAWI                         ENTREPRENEUR 0EV e 0                     4.30       4.31 06/30/94(R)
TOTAL nurber Credfts u   18                                                                   582.50    283.12
Loans
10 Loans(s) closed                                                                104.52
All closed     for    ?4ALAWI
TOTAL mtnter Loars *    0
TOTA.***                                                          104.52    1,279.7
of which repad                                                  51.55        28.30
TOTAL held by Bank & ICA                                          52.9?    1,251.45
Azount sold                  *
of which repald
TOTAL urdisbursed                                                                       283.12
Notes:
* Not yet *ffective
aot yet signed
'a Total Approved, Repayments, rd Outstardirg balance represent both active and Inwctive Loans ard Credits.
tR) indicates fornmally revlsed Closing Date.
CS) Indicates SAL/SECAL Loans and Credits.
The Not Approved and Bank Repayments are historfial value, all others are mrket value.
The Signing, Effectfive, ard Ctosing dates are based upon the Loan  epartmnt off icat data ad are not taken
from the Task Budget file.



Schedule D
Page 2 of 3
MALAWI
Statement of IFC Investments
as of December 31, 1993
FY    Type of Obligor           Business           Loan       Equity Total
US$ million
1987    VIPYA PLYWOOD          PLYWOOD             3.9       0.5   4.4
1986    LEASING & FINANCE CO. MONEY/CAPITAL    0.7            0.2   0.9
MARKETS
1982    ETHANOL CO. LTD.        CHEM/PETROCHIEM   2.3         0.2   2.5
1980//84 MALAWI HOTELS LTD.   TOURISM              2.1         --   2.1
1979   INDEBANK                 DEVELOPMENT          -        0.6   0.6
1977/81 DWANGA SUGAR CORP.  SUGAR                  11.3         -   11.3
1982    D. WHIEAD & SONS   TEXTILES                10.8        --  10.8
TOTAL GROSS COMMITMENTS                    31.1        1.5  32.6
LESS: CANCELLATIONS, EXCHANGE
ADJUSTMENTS, REPAYMENTS W%TIE-OFFS
& SYNDICATE SALES                          26.1       1.1  27.2
TOTAL IPC COMMiTMENTS                       5.0       0.4   5.4



Schedule D
Page 3 of 3
MALAWI
SECOND INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Disbursenent Delays
The Bank's portfolio in Malawi is fairly large and includes 17 ongoing operations.
While some improvement in project implementation was recorded, the Government's limited
capacity to implement projects remains the major issue. One of the issues observed in project
implementation is slow disbursement, i.e., slower than originally anticipated in the SAR. As
indicated in the attached Table, the overall disbursements (as of February 28, 1994) were
about 51% of the approved credits. The major generic problems in disbursements are: (a)
shortage of trained/experienced staff resulting in inadequate knowledge of Bank's
disbursement procedures; (b) frequent turnover of disbursement staff; (c) lack of counterpart
funds; and (d) lack of staff incentives. On the Bank's side, disbursements are slowed down
by: (a) too complex project components; (b) occasional Bank's staff delays in procurement
approval; and (c) project budget issues not resolved at project negotiations. To remedy the
problems, a number of disbursements workshops were carried out. In addition, the following
actions were taken in FY93 and FY94: (i) two disbursement workshops have been carried out
in Malawi (and will continue in future once a year) for disbursement officers working in the
Government and in parastatals; (ii) Bank disbursement officers have visited Malawi
periodically to assist various ministries/agencies in resolving pending disbursement issues and
clearing the bacldog. As a long-term approach, following the CIR (May 1993), the
Government has prepared an action program on how to Improve project implementation
including improvement in disbursements.



IBRD 24575
T. Qo' Cs. SO Ea                                                                   1
y   c * 0 M                                                 MALAWI
s_t.r.pa         ^kD  
ADMINISTRATIVE
Crrsen \W    t4frhsnasn                     DIVISIONS
Th,s map hos been prepared
by The World Bonr's staoff                 5   Chss'ba                         REGIONS
e.cl.snve!y for the connenence                                                   AND
of reoden and s for the
~ternoIrge of The World BankDITCS
roup.  edenominoatons used                   0'  9tngstonro
ond the borsndorres sho-n
on this map do not rmply. on the  / J  f .5t1
port of The World Bonk Group,.
ony judgment on the legol        careers
Status of ane Otorry or any          RrsnO                                   PRINCIPAL ROADS
endorsement 0r aCceptance o
such boundories
N ORT  EN                                    RIVERS
E  ndecr    L                  0   TOWNS
Nkhata                   \   (3   DISTRICT CAPITALS
s     R              sON
0 St. Augustin,      i    NATIONAL CAPITAL
Mtimbo e rka fAT  r     /                -    DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
Isuwetear zJ     /(MALAWI)
S                            [       t 7       >    Chisumulu              -    REGION BOUNDARIES           .
ZAM B I A               5L-rtLik                       ama [        _       INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
Malowi            KILOMETERS 0  20  40  60  80  100
0 w _    O  )t^_s  9 ffi  Q  |                MILES 0    20    40    60
) I *$4~~~~~~~~~ Nkhotollot
MOZAMBIQUE
To L.sok    k     z<Mchm | ..I,ego 
)     \~~t LOLNGWE                 fsim| 
a k X f ;! j t {~~ , | Monkey 
P                          N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ol ToNcl
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ta Bolosr
M lJACHINGA                 1
M O Z AM  B I Q U E              X        t~~~~~~~~~~~Lwonde 
TANANNIA      'NN:IN   _X                 Chik-:wo,          z     <
N G O  6 (<|      $    \                 R~~~~~~~~~~CHIKW     fTo8o
-+ zf ilAB) ~~~MOZAMS,9 ,, hrm
rlBOTSWAA N       \       AaAfA               
January 1993



