Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 23850
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-26240)
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$22.56 MILLION
TO THE GOVERNMENT OF
THE REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
FOR AN
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT II
March 26, 2002
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQTUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Malawi Kwacha
At appraisal US$1  =  4.3745MWK (10/08/1993)
At ICR US$1  =  67.640 MWK (01/30/2002)
FISCAL YEAR
Suly 1 June 30
ABBRE ViATIONS ANND ACRONYMS
AGD             Accouitant General's Department
CAS             Country Assistance Strategy
CFAA            Country Financial Accountability Assessment
CIPFA           Chartered Institute of Public Finance and Accountancy
DHRIMD          Dcpartne-nt .)fH-1uinan Resources and Development
DISTMS          Depsrhtneiit ofIfnformation Systern, Technology
DPD             I)ata Processing Department
DPMT            Depar-tment Ot Pcrsonnel Management and Training
DSB             Department of statutory Bodies
DSC             Department of Statutory Corporalions
FIMTA-P         Financial Management, Transparency and Accountability Project
GOM             Government of Malawi
ICR             Tmplementation Completion Report
IDP1            Malawi Institutional Development Project
IDP2            Malawi Institutional Development Project II
IFMIS           Integrated Financial Management Information System
JEG             Job Evaluation and Grading Exercise
M&E             Monitoring and Evaluation
MM              Malawi Institute of Management
MOFEP           Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
MTEF            Mediu,n Term Expenditure Framework
OPC             Office of the President and Cabinet
PAEC            Public Accountants Exam Council
PPPA            Pay, Personnel, Pensions and Advances
PSCMA           Public Sector Change Management Agency
PSD             Program Support Document
PSM'LT          Public Sector Mtanagerment Improvement Unit
PSMR            Public Sectoral Management Review
SAR             Staff Appraisal Report
SDI             Staff Development Institute
Vice President:   Callisto Madavo
Country Managcr/Director:   Darius Mans
Sector Manager/Director:   Brian Levy
Task T eam Leader/Task Manager:   Navin Girishankar



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MALAWI
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT II
CONTENTS
Page No.
1.   Project Data                                                           1
2.   Principal Performance Ratings                                          1
3.   Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry  2
4.   Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                   8
5.   Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                    14
6.   Sustainability                                                        16
7.   Bank and Borrower Performance                                         18
8.   Lessons Learned                                                       20
9.   Partner Comments                                                      20
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                       22
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                       23
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                       25
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                       26
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components       28
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                          29
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                      30
Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution to the ICR                                31
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID:    P001657                      I ProjectName:  INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT II
Team Leader:  Navin Girishankar              TL Unit:       AFTPR
ICR Type: Core ICR                                         Report Date: March 26, 2002
1.    Project Data
Name:   INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT II                       L/C/TF   IDA-26240
Number:
Country/Department:  MALAWI                                             Region.  Africa Regional
_____________                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Office
Sector/subsector:  BA - Civil Service Reform
BR - Public Enterprise Reform
BY - Other Public Sector Management
KEY DATES
I     . _            Original               Revised/Actual
PCD.     02/18/1988                Effective.  02/18/1988            02/18/1988
Appraisal:   10/08/1993                   MTR.:    07/21/1997             07/21/1997
A pproval:   06/09/1994                Closing:    12/31/2000            06/30/2001
Borrower/lImplementing Agency:  | Government of Malawi/Office of the President and Cabinet
Other Partners:
STAFF                       Current                          At Appraisal
Vice President:             Callisto Madavo                  Edward Jaycox
Country Manager:            Darius Mans                       Stephen Denning
Sector Manager:             Brian Levy                        Praful Patel
Team Leader at ICR:         Navin Girishankar                 Oladipupo Adamolekun
ICR Primary Author:         Ranjana Mukherjee
2.    Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome:      S
Sustainability:   L
Institutional Development Impact:  M
Bank Per,formance:    S
Borrower Performance:     S
O:AG (if available)      ICR
Quality at Entry:                            U
Project at Risk at Any Time:  No
1



Note on Methodology and Approach. The report was prepared according to the Bank's ICR
guidelines and drew on a variety of sources of information including standard project documents
(for example, the Staff Appraisal Report), the Mid-Term Review, project supervision and other
status reports, correspondences between the Bank and GOM, relevant ESW, Country Assistance
Strategy documents, a detailed completion report by the Borrower, and interviews with GOM
officials, Bank staff, and other partners associated with the Project.
The preparation of the ICR, however, was constrained in three ways. First, the current practice of
developing a detailed log frame outlining the projects objectives, expected outputs, components
(and their linkages to broader CAS goals) had not yet been standardized. Consequently, the Staff
Appraisal Report for Second Institutional Development Project (IDP2) did not specify the
expected outputs, outcomes, and goals of the project. The ICR, therefore, has relied on the CAS,
related ESW, and in-country consultations to assess the various aspects of performance required
under the current guidelines. Second, some potentially important documentation was found to be
missing, apparently during the decentralization of task management responsibilities to the Bank's
Pretoria Office in 1997 (back to headquarters in 1999). Third, the primary Task Team Leader for
the Project had left the Bank for medical reasons in 2000 and was unavailable to provide detailed
briefings on project implementation.
3.   Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
Project Background. During the early-to-mid-1990s, rapidly evolving economic and political
conditions in Malawi provided the context within which the IDA-financed Second Institutional
Development Project (IDP2) was designed and implemented. Specifically, Malawi was nearing
the end of thirty years of authoritarian one-party rule under the President-for-life Dr. Hastings
Kamuzu Banda. Characterized by severe restrictions on political, economic, and civil liberties,
the Banda era was fast coming to a close as popular and international pressures for change
materialized in a 1993 referendum. General elections soon followed in 1994 as the country
moved rapidly towards multi-party democracy. This period of political transition and uncertainty
posed major challenges for Malawians in all walks of life including public administration, the
private sector, the judiciary, law enforcement, and the media. At the same time, the donor
cornmunity sought to re-engage a new democratic regime that was eager (i) to develop programs
to i:lght poverty (for example, by providing primary education, health and other basic services)
and (ii) to demonstrate its commitment to good governance. Uncertainty over the trajectory of
political change, as well as severe capacity constraints further complicated the country's efforts to
reorient public policy and modernize its public sector.
In addition, Malawi-one of the poorest countries in the world-was facing a severe economic
dowvnturn in the early 1990s, caused by a constellation of factors. A severe drought swept across
most of southern Africa that caused a 2.7 percent decline in Malawi's per capita consumption.
Bilateral donors significantly reduced (and in some cases, withheld) commitments to new non-
humnanitarian assistance in response to the poor governance practices at the end of the Banda era.
The flow of repatriated earnings from migrant workers--typically Malawians employed in South
Africa--had also halted. Taken together, these factors contributed to a rapid deterioration in
macroeconomic balances, inflation ranging between 20 and 35 percent, and a fiscal deficit of
nearly 16 per cent of GDP. Over this period, the economy contracted nearly 8 percent. The task
of r estoring a sound macroeconomic and fiscal framework loomed large.
Despite a brief hiatus in non-humanitarian bilateral assistance, Bank's own program in Malawi
continued with a portfolio covering eight projects (comprising commitments of USD 370 million)
2



over the 1991-93 period. By 1993-94, the political transition was already affecting the Bank-
Government dialogue, as electoral pressures rendered sensitive policy reforms difficult to
implement. IDA's 1994 deliverables was limited to the USD 22 million IDP2 operation as well as
supplementary financing for the ongoing Entrepreneurship Development and Drought Recovery
Program. Difficulties in preparing relevant and responsive interventions in support of the
Government's poverty reduction strategy were compounded by capacity constraints and
institutional weaknesses in civil service. This combination of political uncertainty, macro-fiscal
crisis, and poor public sector capacity, already evident in the early 1990s, would continue to
inform and impact-and in many cases, adversely-IDA's country program, including the design
and performance of specific operations such as IDP2
Original Objectives. Against this backdrop, the Malawi Second Institutional Development
Project (IDP2) was appraised on October 8, 1993 and declared effective on December 1994.
According to its original objectives, the project sought to (i) address specific systemic
management issues that constituted bottlenecks to efficiency and effectiveness in the civil service;
(ii) assist the Department of Statutory Corporations (DSC) better manage the interface between
the parastatal sector and the Government; and (iii) strengthen the Malawi Institute of
Management (MIM).
Given the primacy of macro-fiscal concerns and their public management underpinnings, IDP2's
focus-albeit vaguely defined-on systemic management issues in the civil service as well as
management of the parastatal sector was broadly relevant. Specifically, the project objectives
drew on a joint Public Sector Management Review (PSMR), undertaken during the 1992-93
period, which diagnosed weak employment control systems and inefficient parastatal
management as key factors contributing to the unsustainable fiscal burden (accounting for nearly
20 percent of GDP at the time). The PSMR also highlighted pay and personnel issues and severe
skills gaps that resulted in poor civil service performance. In seeking to address these concerns,
IDP2's objectives included strengthening personnel management systems as well as building
indigenous capacity--albeit, narrowly through MIM-to deepen the skills base in areas critical to
effective public sector management.
While responsive to the macro-fiscal crisis of the early 1990s, the project's objectives did not
directly address the accountability and governance concerns that are considered critical to
successful democratic transition. Issues of governance and accountability were acknowledged
during the design of IDP2, however, the Bank made the strategic decision-in the midst of
political uncertainty, lack of demonstrable commitment to reform, and poor capacity-not to
support interventions to improve the quality of govemance and more far-reaching institutional
reforms. During the design of IDP2, the task manager recommended that the operation focus on
"management improvement [which] would amount to changes at the margin," notably in
technical issues that are not closely related to the quality of govemance. Yet the Govemment and
the Bank did come to recognize the need to strengthen accountability systems in the mid- to late-
1990s. Even as IDP2 was being implemented, the Bank supported two IDF grants were
supported-one for Capacity Building in Accounting and Procurement, and one for establishment
of an Anti Corruption Bureau-to strengthen Malawi's public sector fiduciary framework.
3



3.2 Revised Objective:
The objectives remained unchanged through project closing.
3.3 Original Components:
As originally envisaged, the Project sought to achieve its three-fold objective through the
implementation of the following five major components over a five-year period (1994-1999):
A. Improving Civil Service Policy and Information Framework (USD3.3 million):
In addressing systemic management bottlenecks in public administration, the
project sought to establish an enabling policy and information framework for the
civil service, which affected all ministries and departments of the Govemment of
Malawi. It was envisaged that the Govemment would take steps to promulgate a
Public Service Act and adopt a Statement of Policy on Institutional Development
and Civil Service Reform. In addition, the component would support the design,
installation, and implementation of appropriate management information systems
for the personnel and finance functions of the Govemment. These included
financing for a civil service census, the first step in the development of a personnel
management information system, as well as design and development of a
computerized financial management information system.
B.   Strengthening the Capacity of the Department of Personnel Management and
Training (USD4.0 million): In addition to Component A, the project sought to
address systemic civil service management issues by providing technical
assistance, training, and equipment to the Department of Personnel Management
and Training (DPMT)-which was re-named the Department of Human Resources
Management and Development (DHRMD)-to carry out its core personnel
management functions. Specifically, the component aimed to help the Department
review institutional arrangements determining pay; undertake a job evaluation to
re-design civil service pay and rationalize allowances; prepare procedure manuals
for common services staff; introduce an open appraisal system and career paths. In
addition, the component was to support the restructuring of the DPMT and enhance
the skills of its staff.
C.   Strengthening Institutional Capacity of the Ministry of Finance (USD5.5 million):
Given the widely-acknowledged need to improve the macro-fiscal situation in the early
1990s, the project included a third component design primarily to support
expenditure and revenue management. On the expenditure side of the budget, the
component would seek to introduce forward budgeting under a medium-term
planning framework, as well as develop a new public sector accounting system.
Training, technical assistance, workshops, fellowships, and study tours in the areas
of budgeting and accounting were to be provided under this third component of the
Credit. On the revenue side, a tax policy analysis unit was to be facilitated.
D. Support to the Department of Statutory Corporation (USD1.9 million): As
noted above, a key concern during the design of IDP2 was the fiscal burden. This
component was designed to help clarify the role and functions of the Department of
Statutory Bodies (DSB) and its relationship to other supervisory bodies; strengthen
the DSB's role in promoting financial and economic performance of parastatals;
develop a privatization policy; and enhance the skills of DSB staff.
4



E.   Strengthening the Malawi Institute of Management (USD8.1 million): A fifth
component sought to further develop the Malawi Institute of Management (MIM)
as a key vehicle for building public sector capacity, originally established under the
Malawi-Institutional Development Project (IDP1). Specifically, financing under
the component was intended to support a second phase of technical assistance to
the Institute; staff training; fellowships to MIM courses; books and equipment; and
related civil works.
Based on diagnostic work conducted prior to design (specifically, the Public Sector Management
Review), the project's support for core personnel and financial management systems within the
civil service as well as supervision of parastatals-under Components A, B, and D-was
relevant. A second phase of support for MIM under Component E was also justified by the
urgent need for indigenous capacity to address endemic skills-related constraints across the public
and private sectors. Interventions supported under Component C-while not explicitly identified
by the PSMR-were included to strengthen budgetary and revenue administration systems, and in
the process improve fiscal performance.
As noted earlier, the institutional capacity building needs of the Malawian public sector in the
1990s were myriad. The five components listed above therefore constituted a relevant response,
particularly in seeking to address key constraints that contributed to fiscal mismanagement and
operational inefficiency. However, the widely-acknowledged problems of poor implementation
capacity and weak commitment to support far-reaching reforms suggests that project design was
overly ambitious. A greater degree of selectivity in the design of IDP2 would have enhanced
consistency and coherence among project components, as well as more direct linkages between
project activities and objectives. Issues of design and complexity are discussed in section 3.5.
3.4 Revised Componentts:
While IDP2's objectives remained unchanged, project components were modified at the mid-term
based on lessons learned from the evolving implementation experience. Specifically, during the
Mid-Term Review, activities that had lagged such as the introduction of career paths were
replaced with more innovative approaches to in-country training and capacity building. As
reflected in the 1999 amendment to the DCA, the Govemment incorporated the Capacity
Building through Training and Fellowship Fund Components. These are described below.
A.   Capacity Building Through Training (US$750,000): In an effort to shift the
focus of training from long-term overseas courses to in-country, short courses, the
component sought to support indigenous training institutions including civil works,
equipment, training facilities, and libraries. The consortia of training institutions
that were involved included the Malawi College of Accountancy (MCA), the Staff
Development Institute, Polytechnic Management Centre, and the Data Processing
Department.
B.   Fellowship Fund (US$500,000):  Administered by DHRMD, the Fund was
intended to allocate resources to indigenous training consortia (comprised of MCA,
MIM, SDI, the Polytechnic, and DPD) in order to support training-largely of
public sector employees-on the basis of expressed demand for course offerings.
The facility sought to enhance the performance and quality of indigenous
institutions involved in training public officials through a competitive, demand-
driven system.
5



3.S Quality at Entry:
The ICR rates Quality at Entry of the project as unsatisfactory due to overly complex design;
inadequate provisions for poor implementation capacity, particularly in areas such as
procurement; failure to make explicit the assumptions under which project objectives would be
achieved; and absence of a robust project performance monitoring system. These issues are
discussed in further detail below.
While goals of IDP2 were relevant to the macro-fiscal concems, the design of specific
components was overly ambitious given the country context. Portfolio-wide performance
problems (such as low disbursement rates) resulting in large part from overly ambitious design
were widely acknowledged in the early 1990s and raised at the senior management levels in the
Bank. In fact, Bank management recommended a simpler project design while clearing the
project for appraisal. Yet, project design was not streamlined or rationalized during appraisal.
Rather, the component on expenditure and revenue management was included to improve the
coie machinery of public expenditure management (which by itself could form the basis for entire
Bank operations). In addition, even at the time of appraisal, the project was micro-planned and
"over-designed" in great detail. Finally, several of the activities were not adequately sequenced
in accordance with technical considerations of "good practice" (for example, strengthening
accounting reforms before undertaking medium-term expenditure planning) or in recognition of
the need to smooth out the intensity of procurement or related implementation activities over the
life: of the project.
Despite the wamings regarding project complexity, inadequate attention was given to the poor
implementation capacity within the Malawian public sector. At the time of effectiveness, IDP2's
five components consisted of twenty-eight distinct sub-components, and nearly 373 person-
months of technical assistance (Table 3.5.1). The responsibility for individual components was
dispersed across several implementing agencies, each with varying levels of capacity and
commitment. The efforts of the central Project Office in the OPC did mitigate the resultant
coordination problems.  Several of project activities were contract-intensive, which placed
significant demands on borrower's contracting and supervision capacities. According to the SAR,
two Bank procurement workshops and a detailed Govemment implementation plan were
considered sufficient to mitigate the implementation risks associated with complexity.
6



Table 3.5.1: Sub-components and activities financed under IDP2
Component          Sub-components                                          Cost ($ OOOs)
A. Strengthening   Policy And Legislative Framework                                 53
Civil Service      Information Management Framework                                843
Policy and         Personnel Information                                          1400
Information        Financial Information                                           170
Framework          Training In Information Management                              805
Sub-total for Component A 3300
B. Strengthening   Review Of Institutional Arrangements For Remuneration           322
Department of      Redesign Of Pay Structure Related To Job Evaluation            1000
Human Resource     Procedure Manuals For Personnel Functions                        75
Management and     Open Performance Appraisal System                               271
Development        Career Paths                                                     75
Organizational Restructuring And Rationalization                884
Skills Development                                              830
Sub-total for Component B 4000
C. Strengthening   Installation And Implementation Of Forward Budgeting            734
Ministry of Finance  Recurrent Cost Implications Of Development Expenditure          0
Tax Policy Analysis Unit                                        1100
Design And Implementation Of New Public Accounting System      2100
Enhancement Of Skills In Budgeting And Accounting               1600
Sub-total for Component C 5500
D. Support to      Clarification of Tasks And Functions Of DSB                      21
Department of      Promoting Financial And Economic Performance Of Parastatals     1100
Statutory          Privatization Policy For Malawi Government                       145
Corporations       Skills Development                                              472
Strengthening DSB's Operational Efficiency                      193
Sub-total for Component D 1900
E. Strengthening   Technical Assistance                                            1200
Malawi Institute of  Staff Training                                                837
Management         Fellowships To MIM Courses                                      773
Support For MIM's Learning Resource Center                      1500
Campus Management Staff Housing                                 688
Support For MIM's Operational Performance                      3100
Sub-total for Component E 8100
TOTAL FOR PROJECT                                      22800
In addition, the distinction between objectives and specific project activities was not, in all cases,
clearly articulated. Specifically, the third objective-strengthening MIM-was too narrowly
defined when the larger issues of strengthening the indigenous training sectors was in fact the
ostensible objective of Component 5. During the restructuring of the project at the Mid-Term
Review, the Government concluded that capacity building support for a broader set of indigenous
training institutions was required-through the Fellowship Fund-to improve Malawi's "capacity
to build capacity."  While the components were restructured, the project's objectives or
performance indicators were not appropriately revised (see below).
The SAR for IDP2, like other projects without a clear log frame, did not make explicit the
assumptions (especially exogenous factors) under which project outputs would contribute to IDP2
and CAS goals, were symptomatic of a weak project monitoring and evaluation system. To the
7



extent that they were defined in the SAR, performance measures consisted largely of input or
process indicators rather than output or outcome indicators. These did not include baselines or
benchmarks of public sector institutional performance against which the impact of the project
could be assessed. Little guidance was provided on how to assess IDP2's impact on beneficiary
organizations. The Quality Assurance Group's (QAG's) 1999 Supervision Assessment for 1DP2
cited these weaknesses in the M&E aspects of design.
4.   Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Notwvithstanding problems of poor capacity and weak commitment to reform, the project's
outcomes are rated as satisfactory since it achieved its two major objectives-addressing
systemic civil service constraints and strengthening MIM-which accounted for nearly ninety
percent of the committed IDA financing. Specifically, the project overcame its design problems
in part because of the Govemment and the Bank's willingness to shift resources away from non-
perfomming activities early on and their responsiveness to emerging capacity building priorities.
An adaptive approach to implementation resulted in modifications in the design and, in the
process, furthered the objectives of the project. In addition, IDP2's support for developing
managerial and analytical tools for civil service management-only partially and in a technocratic
manner-proved beneficial in informing Govemment decisions on emerging reform issues and
shaping its longer term strategy on public sector reform. The specific outcomes of the project are
discussed in greater detail below:
Addressed Systemic Issues in the Civil Service
Overall, the project satisfactorily helped the Govemment diagnose and address systemic issues
affecting the efficiency and effectiveness of the civil service.  While sustained political
commitment to comprehensive budgetary and administrative reform was notably weak, the
project supported the deepening of the core technocratic capacities (for example, job evaluation,
functional reviews, personnel audits, program budget classification) necessary for reform, if and
when such commitment was forthcoming. On numerous occasions during and after project
implementation, these technocratic tools also enabled Govemment to vet politically expedient
proposals (such as the restructuring of housing allowances or wage increases for top cadres) on a
more empirical and rational basis. Some of the managerial and analytical tools supported by the
project have also provided the basis for the design of ongoing public expenditure reforms.
* Pay and Personnel Management. Under the project, a range of analytical and managerial
tools were developed-albeit partially and in a technocratic manner-to enable the
Govemment to modemize its approach to managing personnel and human resource
management. By investing in these tools (for example, job evaluation, functional
reviews, personnel infomnation system, the personnel audit system, and procedures
manuals), the project helped diagnose the institutional and incentive problems that had
undermined civil service performance including the non-competitive wage structure for
managerial and technical cadres. In addition, it provided the basis for Govermment to
make more informed choices about administrative reforms (for example, the elimination
of ghost workers based on the civil service censuses, monetization of allowances, and
wage increases for managerial staff), which the Government undertook on an incremental
basis during and after project implementation. In several instances, the diagnostic work
undertaken under IDP2 enabled Govemment to the required information and policy
framework on which to base decisions regarding the incremental reform of civil service
8



systems such as the provision of housing allowances and benefits, the introduction of
performance contracting among top cadres, or more far-reaching wage reform. This
diagnostic work also shaped various Government strategies between the 1995-2000
period including the 1996 Action Plan for Civil Service Reform as well as the cabinet-
approved 2000 Public Sector Reform Strategy. In some cases, IDP2 investments in the
policy and information framework for civil service management have enabled
Government to more effectively undertake day-to-day tasks related to establishment
control and monitoring of ghost workers.
*  Public Expenditure Management. In addition to civil service issues, the project achieved
important gains in the initial development of a budgeting and forward planning system
(the Medium-Term Expenditure Framework) and a comprehensive IT-based solution to
public sector 'financial management (the Integrated Financial Management Information
Systems). It also helped reform accounting policies and procedures across Government,
establish standards for public sector accounting, and deepen the skills base in public
financial management in Malawi.
*  Public Sector Training and Capacity Building. Aside from support for training suppliers
(described below), the project successfully financed the training, both in-country and
abroad, for several civil servants in areas critical to public management. These included
training in cabinet decision-making, public financial management and accounting,
personnel management and human resource development, strategic management and
project management, as well as information technology and computer science. Retention
and sustainability was greater in cases where training was provided on a short-term basis
in Malawi. In some cases, however, training in middle-level cadres resulted in their
migration to the private or donor sectors in search of better career prospects.
Strengthened MIIM (and other institutions)
The project was highly satisfactory in supporting the development of MIM into one of the
premier management training institutes in the sub-region. In addition to providing consulting
services to Government and private sector, MIM currently offers a wide array of courses (in
strategic management, economics, financial management, procurement, and various sectoral
policies) on a cost-recovery basis. As a semi-autonomous institution, MIM's ability to cover its
operating costs represents a noteworthy success among the myriad capacity building efforts
undertaken regularly in Africa (Table 4.1.1).
Table 4.1.1: MIM's Operating Costs
Accounting Year  MIM coverage of o erating costs (%)
Target           Actual
1995-96                 20              20
1996-97                 40              49
1997-98                 60               61
1998-99                 80               85
1999-2000              100              122
In addition, Malawi's training sector was also strengthened through IDP2's innovative demand-
driven fund, which encouraged competition between MIM and other training institutions.
9



Assisting the Department of Statutory Corporations (DSC)
Notwithstanding the above-mentioned achievements, the project performed unsatisfactorily in its
attemnpts to better manage the interface between the parastatal sector and the Govemment.
Several key activities including the introduction of performance contracts and the completion of
technical reviews were not undertaken in part because of weak commitment and shift in
Government's approach to monitoring parastatal performance. As a result, the DSC's role
remarns poorly defined, while the Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning (MOFEP) has taken on
monitoring the financial and economic perfomiance of parastatals. It is worth noting that the objective
was support by less then ten percent of IDA financing commitments under this project.
4.2 Outputs by components:
While the pace of implementation of IDP2 was uneven over the project life and across
components, many of the intended outputs were achieved. In addition, intensive supervision by
the Bank's task manager(s) helped revive activities that had lagged, particularly in cases where
Govemment's commitment and capacity were weak. Near project closing, priority activities
(such as the Networking of Capital Hill and IFMIS implementation) benefited from a partial
extension. Repeated delays in other areas, however, led to the cancellation of nearly USD 2.5
million. The main reasons for implementation problems included overly ambitious
implementation targets in the SAR, poor follow-through on the part of senior Govemment
officials, frequent transfer and tumover of personnel in implementing agencies, lack of clarity on
IDA procurement rules, poor supervision of consultants, and poor capacity in Govemment.
The specific outputs achieved under the original components as well as activities added at mid-
term are detailed below (with actual disbursements inclusive of physical and price contingencies):
A.   Improving Civil Service Policy and Information Framework (US$3.4 million):
In 1996, the component supported the harmonization of the Public Service Act and
the Constitution, particularly as they related to personnel management issues. In
addition, two civil service census was completed and the offices of the Data
Processing Department (which managed the payroll system) were shifted to
Lilongwe, along with the procurement of new computer equipment and a generator.
A Personnel Audit Office was established in the Department of Human Resource
Management and Development (DHMRD) and personnel audits, initiated in 1998,
revealed a range discrepancies in payroll systems. Considerable training of officers
(12 for post-graduate degrees in Computer Science, and a total of 35 for related
short-term courses in South Africa) was conducted. Finally, during the period of
extension, a Local Area Network was developed across 13 ministries on Capital
Hill in Lilongwe. The Network is designed to provide for the roll-out of various
Government-wide information systems including the Integrated Financial
Management Information System (IFMIS) and the Pay, Personnel, Pensions, and
Advances (PPPA) system. The Network was servicing over 500 users following its
installation, although systems security issues were yet to be finalized. The
component's performance is rated as satisfactory.
10



B.   Strengthening the Capacity of the Department of Personnel Management and
Training (US$3.7 million) The main outputs of the component included a
consultancy to review institutional arrangements for determining remuneration and
prepare a draft remuneration policy; a job evaluation and grading exercise (JEG) to
develop a rank order of jobs and recommend wage relativities; and procedure
manuals for personnel management. A Personnel Policy Research Unit was set up
in 1994 to provide new capacity for policy analysis and analytical work related to
civil service management.
At the Mid-Term Review, the Open Appraisal System and Career Paths activities
under this component were canceled and resources were reallocated to emerging
priorities. Specifically, the reallocation allowed for the strengthening of the
Cabinet Office through study tours to OECD countries, and the production of a
Cabinet Handbook. Training was also provided for officers to study legislative
drafting in Uganda.
Reallocated funds also financed nearly twenty functional reviews of line ministries
undertaken by the Public Sector Change Management Agency (PSCMA) and the
establishment of Govemment Contracting Out and Rationalization Units. The
functional reviews themselves were not undertaken in a participatory manner, with
high-level political commitment or the involvement of civil servants in the relevant
ministries and DHRMD's officers responsible for the job evaluation exercise. Nor
did all the reviews adequately consider the implications of the planned
decentralization of service delivery responsibilities to district assemblies. Despite
these shortcomings and subject to further refinements, the reviews could provide a
partial basis for a restructuring program within the civil service as well as an
assessment of the appropriate size of the civil service. On the whole, the
component's output performance is rated as marginally satisfactory.
C.   Strengthening Institutional Capacity of the Ministry of Finance (US$5.1 million):
Under Component C, the Government undertook the initial development of the
Medium-Term Expenditure Framework, which was a forward expenditure planning
tool incorporated into the budget process since 1999. During its first phase, the
MTEF experienced teething problems due in part to the lack of credibility of the
annual budgeting process, as well as the poor quality of fiscal data. However,
several Government officials were exposed to the basic principles of medium-term
planning and a program classification system was introduced-both of which
provide a building block for the next phase of MTEF implementation.
A review of Government accounting policies and procedures was undertaken as the
basis for the design of the Integrated Financial Management and Informnation
System (IFMIS). The IFMIS package was procured and custornized to meet most
of the original specifications. Further development of the system is required before
it can be certified for implementation across Government ministries and agencies.
This also requires a systematic piloting of the application and review of the budget
and accounting procedures that underpin the system.
Public sector accounting standards were adopted under the component as well as an
arrangement with MCA and the Public Accountants Exam Council (PAEC) to
introduce public sector professional qualification along lines of CIPFA in the UK.
The component also financed a training needs assessment for the Accountant
11



General's Department as well as the upgrading of skills for several members of the
accounting cadre. For example, ten officers sought post-graduate accounting
degrees and professional qualifications. Forty-seven received short in-service
training. The component's support for the Tax Policy Unit was not effectively
utilized due to delays in staffing the unit. Overall, the component produced key
outputs-critical to the Government's budget planning and execution systems-in
a satisfactory manner.
D.   Support to the Department of Statutory Corporation (US$1.2 million): The
Office of President and Cabinet (OPC) issued guidelines to clarify the role of DSC
vis-a-vis parastatals, however, the new arrangements were not enforced due to lack
of awareness. Capacity building under this component did not produce the desired
results in part of because of a weak enabling environment and poor commitment.
For instance, DSC officials went on a study tour of Uganda, Mauritius and South
Africa, and a workshop on the new role of DSC was held for CEOs of parastatals.
None of these activities, however, resulted in substantive policy change. In
addition, over 90 percent of those who received training through 1997 left the
department, and only about half trained after 1997 still remain. Other activities
critical to improving the performance of parastatals including the introduction of
performance contracts and the completion of technical reviews were not
undertaken, despite the adoption of a privatization policy and establishment of a
Privatization Commission under an IDF grant.  Ultimately, the DSC was
unsuccessful in effectively monitoring parastatal performance; the Government has
now established a separate Parastatal Monitoring Unit in the Ministry of Finance.
The component is rated unsatisfactory.
E.   Strengthening the Malawi Institute of Management ($6.5 million):  The
component helped established an Endowment Fund at MIM, which grew from
MKW 9 million in 1994 to MKW 51 million in 2000. In addition, assistance for
civil works have contributed to an impressive campus with residential facilities,
which are attractive to clients from Malawi and neighboring countries. Facilities
including a Conference Center are being fully utilized, and have helped generate
revenues that contributed to nearly a third of MIM's annual income. Along with
private consultancies undertaken by MIM staff, these revenue-raising activities
have helped firmly established concepts of cost-recovery and have helped the
Institute cover its operating costs. MIM's training and consulting capacity were
considerably strengthened in a wide range of skills areas under the original
component as well as supplemental assistance provided under the Fellowship Fund.
Five houses for MIM's campus management staff were not constructed. The
component is rated as highly satisfactory.
F.   Capacity Building Through Training ($0.65 million): This activity, added
following the Mid-Term Review, supported the procurement of computer
equipment, books, and civil works for several indigenous training institutions
including MCA, SDI, Polytechnic, and DPD. Notably, MCA's new Lilongwe
Campus as well as the kitchen at the Blantyre Campus were constructed under this
component. This revised component is rated as satisfactory.
G. Fellowship Fund ($0.50 million): The Fellowship Fund supported the training of
1584 officials, of which 1313 were from the public sector. The Fund's resources
were allocated, in four phases, on a demand-driven basis across the five
participating institutions noted above. Training was provided in a wide range of
12



skill areas including project and strategic management, training of trainers,
secretarial skills, accounting, bookkeeping, problem-solving, and computer
literacy. In addition to financing courses in areas for which there was expressed
demand, the Fund also encouraged some competition between participating
suppliers. The revised component is rated as highly satisfactory.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
NOT APPLICABLE
4.4 Financial rate of return:
NOT APPLICABLE
4.5 Institutional development impact:
In evaluating the institutional development impact (IDI) of the project, the ICR attempted to
assess the degree to which both individual agencies (or entities) as well as public management
systems were better able to efficiently utilize financial and human resources. While the project
has contributed to significant improvements in the efficiency of resource utilization at the agency-
level (for example, in DHRMD, AGD, or MIM), tangible gains in institutionalizing more
effective Government-wide systems for resource management are yet to materialize.
Human resource utilization
The project improved the ability of public institutions to utilize their human resources through the
substantial investments in training, both in-country and abroad. Several individual agencies at the
center of Government including OPC, DHRMD, the MOFEP, and the AGD benefited directly by
training their staff in skills that were central to their core mandates. Given the low skills base in
Malawi at the end of the Banda era, these substantial investments in new skills particularly
accounting, computer literacy, personnel management, and project management led to the
accumulation of institutional leaming and knowledge.
Moreover, three types of innovations under the project helped establish new rules of the game for
the development and efficient utilization of scarce human resources.  First, in-country
partnerships between MCA or PAEC and the Government strengthened three-way linkages
between tertiary educational institutions, professional bodies, and the public sector. Second, the
development of a demand-driven training facility spawned a broader incentive framework within
which suppliers would compete to provide a higher quality product (i.e., in-country training) to
their public sector clients. Third, MIM's use of consulting services to raise revenues (and cover
its operating costs) demonstrated that Malawi's training institutions could more effectively
leverage their own human resources more strategically.
As far as the civil service system is concerned, the project made attempts to develop the basic
technocratic building blocks for effective personnel management (for example, civil service
census, personnel audits, job evaluation and grading, and functions). In-country consultations
and ongoing dialogue with the Government indicated that this technocratic base for more
inforned decision-making on personnel issues is still intact. In other words, the Government-
with additional support on the margins and a clear political direction-could undertake more far-
reaching pay and employment reforms, and in the process, considerably improve the utilization of
human resources in Malawi's public sector. Some technical difficulties require further support
such as methodologies for assessing the deleterious impact of HIV/AIDS on attrition rates and
coordination problems between core agencies that hinder the development of coherent
Government-wide pay and employment policies.
13



Financial resource utilization
The project's impact on the utilization of financial resources varied across individual institutions.
Training of accounting cadres and the partnerships with professional and tertiary educational
institutions enhanced the ability of public sector bodies to carry out basic financial management
functions. The likely benefits of training in accounting skills were mitigated, however, by
migration of skilled personnel to the private sector. In some cases, the introduction of
managerialist principles such as cost-recovery (for example, at MIM) and demand-side financing
(for example, through the Fellowship Fund) generated efficiency gains for individual agencies,
including considerable revenue raising potential.
IDP2's support for public expenditure reforms such as the review of accounting policies and
procedures, the initial development of the MTEF, and the customization of IFMIS were largely
technocratic, and are yet to be fully implemented across Govemment. However, process and
institutional innovations did result in various aspects of budget preparation and execution. As a
result, Malawi has made gains in budget comprehensiveness as well as compliance with reporting
requirements and cash management. Improvements in the preparation of budget estimates and
expenditure ceilings for individual ministries have also materialized. At the same time, the
MT:EF introduced medium-term forward planning in an environment characterized by poor fiscal
data and unpredictable resource flows. The exercise, therefore, has not enjoyed the required level
of credibility and support from various sectoral line ministries. Similarly, IDP2 was only able to
initiate efforts to strengthen budget execution and monitoring systems across Government. The
IFMIS was procurement and partially customized. However, additional development and piloting
of the system is required before it can be implemented across Government and register the
necessary impact on downstream elements of the budget.' It is envisaged that mechanisms to deal
witht budget implementation such as IFMIS would be further developed, along with revised
accounting procedures and parliamentary oversight in the context of proposed follow-on support from
IDA., specifically, the Financial Management, Transparency, and Accountability Project (FMITAP).
IDP2 did not favorably impact the govemance and monitoring arrangements underpinning
nonperformance in the parastatal sector, which has been another source of poor fiscal
performance. Low operational efficiency, abuse of office by some Board members, failure to
collect dues, and the resultant contingent liabilities are indicative of the longstanding structural
deficiencies-related to the state's role in productive activities-that continue to burden the
Malawian fiscal system.
Givren this marginal impact on the institutional framework within public management systems,
the IDI of the project is rated as modest.
5.   Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
A key factor outside the control of government was the devastating impact of the HIV/AIDS
pandemic on the civil service as well as the population at large. Attrition due to untimely deaths
adversely affected project implementation across components, and severely eroded early gains
made in human resource development. Under certain components, nearly 15-20% of the staff,
who received training, expired over the life of the project.
In addition, the performance of consultants (both intemational and local) at times did not meet the
expectations of the Borrower. For instance, studies were not undertaken in a participatory
14



manner or with the objective of transferring skills and know-how to civil servants. Management
tools were developed by vendors, in some cases, with little involvement of Government teams.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The efficacy of IDP2 in meeting its objectives depended in large part on sustained political
commitment to public sector reforms including withdrawal of the state from direct involvement in
productive activities, pay and employment reforms within the civil service and modernization of
the expenditure management system. Weak political commitment to structural reform is
indicative of the new pressures associated with the transition to a multi-party system in Malawi.
Increasingly intense political involvement in the bureaucracy has affected inter alia the
environment for fiscal management and public administration. These pressures have placed new
stresses on the integrity and professionalism of the civil service, in some cases, at the expense of
otherwise technocratically-sound efforts such as those supported under IDP2.
Other factors under the Government's control that affected implementation at various stages of
the project's life included weak capacity and poor follow-through. Pervasive capacity problems
across components slowed implementation in three ways. First, unplanned staff turnover and
redeployment-also identified as a major problem in the PSMR and under IDPI-adversely
affected work programming under specific components. For instance, more than half the officials
trained have been posted away from the DSC, thus not utilizing newly acquired knowledge and
skills in the Department. The DSC also rotated five permanent secretaries and three deputy
secretaries, who served as project component coordinators, over the period of implementation;
this contributed to the nonperformance of the component after 1997. One of the reasons for high
turnover was the problem of poor incentives within the civil service, which made retention of
trained personnel difficult. Second, lack of familiarity with IDA procurement regulations caused
significant delays, particularly with regards to civil works and large consultancies such as IFMIS
installation. Despite the participation of project staff and component coordinators in various
procurement workshops, more intensive day-to-day involvement of the Bank's procurement
officer in the Country Office was found to be necessary. Third, the Govemment's capacity to
supervise consultants, particularly in highly specialized areas such as IFMIS, was understandably
low. Over the course of implementation, the Bank acknowledged the need to provide technical
advice on an ongoing basis to the borrower to ensure that consultants delivered high quality,
tailor-made products.
Inadequate follow-through by senior civil servants and component coordinators adversely
affected implementation. On numerous occasions, actions and deliverables agreed during
supervision missions were not undertaken. Slippage on key activities resulted in part from the
assumption, on the part of component coordinators, the project would be extended. Also, the
Government did not adequately insulate the Project Manager in the PSMIU (Project Office) from
various pressures within the civil service including the repeated efforts by various PSs to compel
the Project Manager to reallocate funds between components without IDA approval. This
required the Bank to more intensively monitor commitments and review reallocation requests
near the end of the project. Multiple reporting responsibilities between the Project Managers and
senior bureaucrats exacerbated such problems. While the Project Manager (who also served as
the Project Accountant) was supposed to report directly to the Secretary to the President and
Cabinet (through the Deputy Secretary), he was actually contracted by the Secretary of DHRMD
as part of Government's policy of mainstreaming project staff. However, when the Manager was
mainstreamed, he was not given a PS-level appointment which further limited his authority to
manage and coordinate IDP2-related activities.
15



Despite the above-mentioned problems, the Government did demonstrate-in some cases-a
willingness to adapt project design in response to evolving priorities and emerging lessons during
imp:lementation. Various innovative solutions to capacity building, emerged as a result. For
instance, the demand-driven Fellowship Fund represents one such innovation that emerged from
Mid-Term Review, and provided the basis for "second generation" training efforts in the future.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
SEE, ABOVE
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
NOT APPLICABLE
6.   Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
While change in budgetary and administrative systems has been slow, the flow of project
benefits-resulting from (i) development of technocratic capabilities in civil service and budget
management; (ii) training of public officials in critical skill areas such as accounting, (ii)
improvements in organizational strengthening for key agencies, and (iii) changes in the incentive
framework for the supply of training-should continue for the foreseeable future. In addition,
IDP:2's efforts on financial and civil service management have provided a "stepping stone" for
strategic focused efforts to deepen budgetary reforms in the context of the proposed FIMTAP.
The ICR's rating of sustainability as likely is explained in greater detail below:
*  The project helped develop a range of technocratic tools for core agencies such as the
OPC, DHRMD, and the MOFEP, which provide a rational and empirical basis for
Government decision-making on emerging reform proposals such as those related to the
rationalization of housing allowances and benefits, the introduction of performance
contracting among top cadres, improved budget execution, and measures to improve the
quality of fiscal data. In addition to helping develop the 1996 Action Plan for Civil
Service Reform as well as the cabinet-approved 2000 Public Sector Reform Strategy,
IDP2's support has provided a stepping stone for more strategically-focused initiatives on
budgetary reform such as FIMTAP.
* As noted above, IDP2 registered greater impact through capacity building (skills,
equipment, and organizational strengthening) at the individual agency level than on
public management systems as a whole. Individual agencies such as DHRMD, OPC,
DISTMS (formerly DPD), and MOFEP continue to rely the skills and technical tools
acquired during the project.
*  IDP2 investments in the policy and information framework for civil service management
have enabled Government to carry out day-to-day tasks related to establishment control
and payroll auditing. While these functions remain weak due to resource constraints and
coordination problems, the technocratic capability exists to undertake the more
systematically. In addition, institutional arrangements established under the project, such
as the Personnel Policy Research and Personnel Audit Units in DHRMD and the
Contracting Out and Rationalization Units continue to function-with varying degrees of
effectiveness-in accordance with their mandates.
16



*  Several civil servants were trained in critical skill areas under IDP2. While some left to
pursue opportunities in the private and donor sectors, several personnel have remained in
Government and taken on positions of responsibility in their functional areas. Retention.
of these skilled personnel requires that Govemment provide more attractive incentives.i
The recently introduced performance contracting scheme. for P4/S4 level cadres and
above should partially forestall further migration of managerial and high-level technical
staff to the private sector. Further progress, however, will be needed on improving-wage
levels among lower cadres directly involved in service delivery. Also, the GoVerrmeiit
has begun to support HIV/AIDS-prevention efforts within the civil service.
Demonstrable progress on this front will be the highest priority- if IDP2's considerable
investments in public sector capacity building are to be sustained over time.'
*  The supply-side of training-namely, the private and public sector institutions that
provide-has been strengthened as a result of IDP2. Managerialist principles such as
cost-recovery and competition have been established among these institutions. Linkages
between such institutions, professional bodies, and Govemment bode well for the transfer
of knowledge and development of robust skills standards on an ongoing basis;
particularly in areas critical to financial management and civil service management.-
In addition, the initial efforts under IDP2 to strengthen budgeting and public financial
management (for example, MTEF, IFMIS, revision of accounting procedures and policies, and
adoption of public sector accounting standards) have provided the basis for, a refocused strategy
on capacity building for public expenditure management reform. Building on the experience with
MTEF and IFMIS, the Government is seeking to deepen reforms of the budget system as well as
mutually reinforcing civil service reforms. The proposed IDA-financed follow-on operation,
FIMTAP, is under preparation to support capacity building in this critical area of public sector
reform. This successor to IDP2 is intended to assist Malawi in promoting effective and
accountable use of public expenditures through improved budget implementation and increased
transparency. The objectives would be achieved through (i) improving management systems and
information flows; (ii) promoting compliance and oversight; (iii) strengthening performance
monitoring; and (iv) developing critical skills, and (v) distance leaming.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
As far as the systemic civil service issues are concemed, the Government has established a
variety of arrangements-at the strategic and operational levels-in order to build on and, in
some cases, mainstream the diagnostic and capacity building work supported by IDP2.
At the strategic level, a Joint Govemment of Malawi-Donor Working Group on Public Sector
Reform in OPC is monitoring and reviewing donor-assisted public sector capacity building
activities. Chaired by the Deputy Secretary to the President and Cabinet, the Working Group
serves not only as a clearing house for proposals on public sector reform in Malawi, but also as a
coordinating arm for leveraging donor assistance. Most recently, the Govermment's Program
Support Document (PSD), which proposes long-term, flexible support for various public sector
reforms, is being appraised by the donors in January 2002. Efforts to better prioritize and
sequence Malawi's public sector reform agenda are also underway.
Public expenditure management reforms-based primarily of MTEF-Phase 2 and FIMTAP
proposals-are being coordinated by the Secretary to the Treasury in the MOFEP. The recent
joint-donor CFAA mission in particular provided added momentum to the Govermment's
proposed sequencing strategy that focuses first on expenditure accountability. Accordingly, the
Bank is supporting the preparation of FIMTAP (described above) through a Secretariat in OPC,
17



and in close collaboration with Govemment counterparts in the MOFEP, DHRMD, the
Parliament, National Audit Office, and the Office of the Ombudsman.
The personnel and administrative reform agenda remains under the purview of the OPC, with
DHIiRMD taking the lead on the introduction of performance management in the civil service
(inc;luding monitoring of the recently-introduced contracting scheme for top cadres), the
development of a remuneration policy, and ongoing support for functional reviews. Various
donors interested in supporting this far reaching agenda are awaiting completion of the joint
appraisal of the PSD before committing to longer term programs of support.
At thte operational level, some of the innovations from IDP2 including demand-driven financing
of public sector training are being scaled up and developed further.  For example, the
Govemment intends to scale up this innovation and support training in key areas using a
matching grant scheme under FIMTAP. Even as it invests more heavily in the training of
personnel, the Govemment is also in the process of developing-based on the analytical work
undertaken under IDP2-an affordable, medium-term pay policy to enhance the incentives of
qualified staff to perform in the public sector.
7.   Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank worked closely with the Govemment over the 1991-1993 period to diagnose the public
management underpinnings of Malawi's macro-fiscal crisis. IDA's decision to help address this
system-wide constraints, while simultaneously supporting much-needed training in the public
sector, was appropriate. However, the inclusion of several, complex activities on civil service
management, public expenditure reform, parastatal reform, and training-despite the dual risks of
weakc commitment and poor capacity-failed to demonstrate selectivity. At appraisal, the Bank
had not clearly defined the objectives or establish an adequate monitoring and evaluation system.
Rather, it was overly optimistic about the Govemment's implementation capacity and
commitment to implement technocratic solutions to longstanding public management problems.
Bank performance during lending is rated as unsatisfactory.
7.2 Supervision:
At appraisal, Bank noted the need for continuity in task management and intensive supervision
given Malawi's capacity weaknesses. While there was some turnover of task managers (three
over the 1994-2001 period), the project was supervised intensively with regular involvement of
the Country Office/Resident Mission staff. The key qualitative aspect of supervision was the
Bank's willingness to review and incorporate emerging lessons from implementation, and adapt
project design accordingly.  In addition, supervision missions were able to identify non-
performing components early on and shift resources towards emerging priorities. The Bank also
enjoyed, in many cases, a relatively fruitful dialogue with the Govemment on innovative
approaches to capacity building, civil service management, and budgeting. These informed, to
some extent, the redesign of project activities at the Mid-Term Review.
Near project closing, the Bank did intensively monitor commitments, which were being
reallocated several times without prior IDA approval. This was due in part to repeated efforts by
various Principal Secretaries to compel the Project Manager to reallocate funds to their
components. Since the Project Manager in the PSMIU (Project Office) was not adequately
18



insulated from these pressures within the civil service, the Bank more vigorously vetted attempts
to reallocate resources without appropriate justification.
Overall, Bank performance during supervision struck a balance between flexibility (to allow for
learning by doing) and restraint (to ensure compliance and accountability) to good effect, and
therefore rated as satisfactory.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Although the Bank was overly ambitious during the design of IDP2, an approach that emphasized
"adaptive implementation" encouraged flexibility and learning-by-doing during much the project
life. It also resulted in the restructuring of the project and thereby, the inclusion of two high
performing components. The benefits of adaptive implementation outweighed the Bank's initial
tendencies to over-design a complex project.. Overall Bank performance is therefore rated as
satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Government worked closely with the Bank on the PSMR diagnostic, which formed the basis
for project identification. Subsequently, component coordinators participated actively in the
design of the operation. The Borrower's performance during preparation is rated as satisfactory.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
As noted earlier, the Government's performance during implementation was adversely affected
by a range of factors including poor follow-through by senior level staff, lack of awareness of
procurement rules, high staff turnover in specific components, as well as weak supervision of
consultants. Such problems, however, were portfolio-wide concerns that typically resulted in
implementation delays and low disbursement rates. Therefore, the Government's performance
during implementation is rated as unsatisfactory.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
As implementation units, MIM and the PSMIU (Project Office) performed satisfactorily. Both
units carried out basic project management, financial management, and reporting requirements in
a timely and efficient manner. Had it been empowered with a stronger mandate (including a
manager of Principal Secretary rank), the Project Office would likely have promoted greater
compliance with implementation targets and performance targets across components. The agency
performed in a satisfactory manner.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Despite the Government's weak political commitment and poor follow-through, efforts at the
technical level-by the Project Office and individual component coordinators-contributed to the
incremental progress made in addressing systemic civil service issues and building capacity. The
ICR therefore rated borrower performance as marginally satisfactory.
19



8.   Lessons Learned
In poor capacity settings, a flexible approach to implementation- "adaptive implementation "-
can generate innovate solutions to problems of institutional change. The Government recognized
that overly complex project design had resulted in implementation delays in the first half of the
project life. At the Mid-Term Review, both the Government and the Bank effectively reallocated
resources and designed more relevant activities such as the Fellowship Fund to fill skills gaps on
a demand-driven basis. That innovation is the basis for a second generation Training Fund,
which is currently under preparation.
In poor capacity setting settings, complex public sector reforms can tax the limited absorptive
capacity of Government and therefore, should be more selective. IDP2 attempted to address-
albeit technocratically-multiple aspects of public sector reform, without gaining traction in any
one area (for example, public expenditure management or civil service reform). A more selective
approach that focused on making tangible gains in specific reform areas.
When implementing complex public sector reforms, reforming governments should sequence
initiatives in ways that provide a sound technical foundation for successive reforms, while
enhancing their credibility. Certain personnel or budgetary reform measures were implemented
under IDP2 without a clear understanding of technocratic 'good practice.' For example, the
funcltional reviews were undertaken prior to the job grading and evaluation exercise. Nor were
these initiatives sequenced in ways that enhanced the credibility of the overall reform effort. The
MTEF, for instance, introduced medium-term forward planning in an environment characterized
by poor fiscal data and unpredictable resource flows. As a result, the MTEF exercise was not
viewed as credible or useful by various sectoral line ministries. The Government's current
strategy is to focus on budget execution and implementation to build a credible annual budget
process, before launching into a second phase of public expenditure planning.
When commitment to reform is weak, investing in technocratic, public management tools does not
by itselflead to implementation of reforms and improvements in frontline performance. While
the project supported the development of various technocratic tools to diagnose constraints and
modernize systems in budget and personnel management, implementation lagged.
9.   Partner Comments
(a) B'orrower/implementing agency:
The G3overnment provided a comprehensive completion report on the achievements of IDP2, with
detailed inputs from each component. The full report is in the files and Annex 8 provides the
report's executive summary. The main comments are as follows:
* IDP2 largely achieved its objectives, particularly, in addressing system-wide issues in the
civil service, strengthening of MIM, and supporting capacity building more broadly.
* The rapidly evolving dynamics following the transition to multiparty democracy generated
new pressures on the public sector, which required a restructuring of the project at the 1997
Mid-Term Review.
* Implementation problems were attributable to overly ambitious targets at appraisal, frequent
transfers and turnover of personnel in implementing agencies, breakdown in communication
vvith the Bank on procurement issues, nonperformance of consultants, and lack of capacity.in
iimplementing ministries.
20



* Delays in receiving 'no objections' from the Bank also contributed to low disbursement ratios
and delays in meeting deliverable dates. In addition, the Bank was considered inflexible in
the transfer of funds from non-performing components.
(b) Cofinanciers: NOT APPLICABLE
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector): NOT APPLICABLE
21



Annex 1.     Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                             Actual/Latest Estimate
Addlress systemic management issues that are  *  Development of policy and information framework for
bottleneck to efficiency and effectiveness       budgetary and administrative reforms
Assist DSC manage interface between the      *   Lack of clarify in DSC role in management remains
parastatals sector and government             *  Excessive fiscal burden from non-performing parastatals
remains
Strengthening the Malawi Institute of Management  *  MIM developed as premier management training
(and other institutions)                         institution in the sub-region
*   Improved competitiveness and capacity of indigenous
training sector
OLutput Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                             Actual/Latest Estimate
Improving Civil Service Policy and Information  *  Harmonization of Public Service Act and Constitution
Framework                                     *  Completion of civil service censuses; relocation of DPD
*   Establishment of Personnel Audit Office
*   Initiation of personnel audits
*   Training of officers in computer science
* Development of Wide Area Network
Strengthening the Capacity of the Department of  *  Review of institutional arrangements for remuneration
Personnel Management and Training             *  Drafting of remuneration policy
* Job evaluation and grading; labor rnarket surveys
* Procedure manuals for personnel management
* Establishment of Personnel Policy Research Unit
* Study tours to Cabinet Offices in Commonwealth
countries
* Preparation of Cabinet Handbook
* Completion of twenty functional reviews
* Establishment of Government Contracting Out and
Rationalization Units
Strengthening Institutional Capacity of the Ministry  *  Initial development of MTEF
of F'inance                                   *  Review of accounting policies and procedures
* Design of the Integrated Financial Management and
Information System (IFMIS)
* Adoption of public sector accounting standards
* Training of over 60 staff in financial management
Support to the Department of Statutory Corporation  Guidelines to clarify the role of DSC
* Study tour to neighboring Anglophone countries
* Training of DSC officials.
Capacity Building Through Training               Procurement of computer equipment, books, and civil
works for indigenous training institutions
* Civil works at MCA's Lilongwe and Blantyre campuses.
Fellowship Fund                               *  Training of 1584 officials in project and strategic
management, training of trainers, secretarial skills,
accounting, bookkeeping, and computer literacy.
**The SAR did not define specific indicators of performance for either outcomes or outputs.
These are reconstructed from the project description as well as the background ESW.
22



Annex 2.     Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component
(in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal     Actual/Latest   Percentage of
Estimate       Estimate        Appraisal
Project Cost By Component
Strengthening Civil Service (CS) Policy and        3.10           1.61             6%
Information Framework
Strengthening Dept. of Human Resource              3.60           4.08             16%
Management & Development (DHRMD)
Strengthening Ministry of Finance & Economic       5.00           5.32             21%
Planning (MOFEP)
Support to Dept. of Statutory Corp. (DSC)          1.80           1.14             4%
Strengthening Malawi Institute of Management       7.10           6.08             24%
(MIM)
PSMIU                                              1.60           0.94             4%
PPF                                                1.00           0.63             2%
Total Baseline Cost                                23.20          19.80            93%
Physical Contingencies                            0.60           0.00
Price Contingencies                               1.80           0.00
Total Project Costs                25.60          - 19.80
Total Financing Required                 25.60          19.80.
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Appraisal Estimate
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Miethod
Expenditure           ICR            NCB         OTHER 2/         N.B.F.      Total Cost
Category                                         ._.
1. Works                                     0.87                                   0.87
(0.87)                                  (0.87)
2. Goods                 5.00                0.38          0.46         -            5.84
(4.87)              (0.38)       (0.46)        -           (5.71)
3. Services                                    -          13.10         -           13.10
-          (10.30)       -          (10.30)
5. Miscellaneous           -                               6.81         -            6.81
-          (2.92)        -            (2.92)
Total                 5.00                1.25        20.37              .      26.62
1/   (4.87)              (1.25)       (13.68)   .              (19.80)
I/ Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2/ Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
23



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Actual/Latest Estimate
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category            ICB           NCB        OTHER i/         N.B.F.      Total Cost
1. Works                           -            0.87            -              -            0.87
2. Goods                          5.00          0.38           0.46            -            5.84
3. Services                         -             -           13.10            -            13.10
4. Miscellaneous                                  -            6.81            -            6.81
Toial                         5.00           1.25          20.37                        26.62
1/ Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating
costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
24



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
NOT APPLICABLE
25



Annex 4.    Bank Inputs
(a) Mlissions:
Stage of Project Cycle                                               Performance    n
. Implementation  Development
Month/Year         Count              Specialty       -       Progress     -Objective
Identification through      I    Task Team Leader
negotiations                1   Public Sector Management
1    Others
Supervision
10/1994          1   TTL - Public Sector Management        S              S
06/1995          1   TTL - Public Sector Management        S              S
2    Public Sector Management
3    Economics
11/1995          1   TTL-Public Sector Management          S              S
1    Public Sector Management
1    Economics
01/1996          1   TTL - Public Sector Management        S              S
03/1996          1   TTL - Public Sector Management        S              S
06/1996          1   TTL - Public Sector Management        S              S
1    Public Sector Management
1    Economist
07/1997          1   TTL - Public Sector Management         S             S
1    Public Sector Management
2    Economics
2    Others
02/1998          3   Inforniatics                           S             S
05/1998          1   TTL - Public Sector Management         S             S
2    Economics
04/1999          1   TTL - Public Sector Management         S             S
1    Economics
11/1999          1   TTL - Public Sector Management        S              S
1    Public Sector Management
1    Other
03/2000          1    TTL - Public Sector Management        S             S
_ ________________      1   Public Sector Management
05/2000          1   TTL - Public Sector Management         S             S
2    Informiatics
10/2000          1   TTL -Public Sector Management         S              S
2    Informatics
02/2001          1   TTL - Public Sector Management         S             S
I    Infornatics
05/2001          1   TTL - Public Sector Management         S             S
1    Informatics
ICR                     1    TTL - Public Sector Management
10/2000           1    Public Sector Management
26



(b) Staff.
Stage of Project Cycle,                 Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks            US$
Identification through Negotiations              125.0              271,319
Supervision                                      296.0            1, 124,541
ICR                                                6.6               18,245
Total                                            427.6             1,414,105
27



Annex 5.    Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
Macro Policies                         NA
Sector Policies                        M
Physical                               M
Financial                              M
Institutional Development              M
Environmental                          NA
Social
Poverty Reduction                NA
Gender                          NA
Other (Please specify)          NA
Private sector development             NA
Public sector management               M
Other (Please specify)                 NA
28



Annex 6.    Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                     Rating
Lending                                   U
Supervision                               S
Overall                                   S
6.2 Borrowerperformance                 Rating
Preparation                               S
Government implementation performance     U
Implementation agency performance         S
Overall                                   S
29



Annex 7.    List of Supporting Documents
Government of Malawi
* DHRMD, Job Grading and Salary Restructuring Exercise (Bryher Partnership), 1999.
* DHRMD, National Salary Survey, 1999.
* DHRMD, Personnel Audit Report, 1998.
*  Government of Malawi, Contracting Out Programme (KPMG), 1997.
*  Government of Malawi, Rationalisation Programme (KPMG), 1997.
*  Govemment of Malawi, MTEF-Phase 2: Consolidation and Revitalization, 2000.
* Government of Malawi, IFMIS Change Management and Roll-Out Strategy, 2001.
* OPC, Action Plan for Civil Service Reform, 1996.
* OPC, Government of Malawi, Cabinet Handbook, 1999.
* OPC, Govemment of Malawi, Review of Civil Service Action Plan, 2000.
* Second Institutional Development Project, Preliminary Project Completion Report,
Prepared by PSMIIJ/Project Office, 9/1/2001.
World Bank
* Country Assistance Strategy Document, 15494-MAI, 3/19/1996.
* Country Assistance Strategy Document, 18349-MAI, 8/4/1998.
* Country Assistance Evaluation, 21395-MAI, 11/14/2000.
* Joint Public Sector Management Review: Selected Issues, 9643-MAI, 3/31/1993.
* Public Expenditures: Issues and Options, 22440-MAI, 9/1/2001.
Project Documents
*  Second Institutional Development Project, Staff Appraisal Report, 12668-MAI,
5/17/1994.
*  Second Institutional Development Project, Memorandum and Recommendation of the
President, P6236-MAI, 5/17/1994.
*  Second Institutional Development Project, Development Credit Agreement, 1994, and
Amendment, 1999.
*  Second Institutional Development Project, Quality Assurance Group (QAG) Panel
Review of Supervision, 1997.
* Second Institutional Development Project, Mid-term Review, 1997.
* QAG. Malawi-Second Institutional Development Project; Supervision Assessment, 1999.
* All relevant project Supervision Reports with aide-memoires and back-to-office reports.
*  All relevant intemal correspondences.
* All relevant correspondences between IDA and the Government of Malawi.
* All progress reports submitted by the Project Office.
30



Annex 8.    Borrower's Contribution to the ICR
THE SECOND INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (JDP-II)
1.0 PREFACE:
This Preliminary Project Completion Report has been prepared by the Public Sector Management
Improvement Unit (P.S.M.I.U.), the Implementing Unit for the Second Institutional Development
Project. The report is intended to give an account of the Project design and implementation by
analyzing the extent to which Project objectives has been achieved.
The IDP2 Project became effective in December 1994 (July, 1995 for the MIM Component) with
funds amounting to SDR1 6,000,000 (US$22.6 million).
The closing date of the project was 31st December, 1999 (changed to 30 " June, 2000 at Mid
Term Review). However, in May, 2000, the Bank gave a Ino objection' for a partial extension of
the Project to 30th June, 2001. The activities which were granted extension include the following:
Category l(b): Construction of Malawi College of Accountancy (MCA), Lilongwe campus
(US$11,780.79) and Blantyre Cafeteria (US$155,803.45)..
Category 2(a): Supply of Library Book (US$205,648.63) and furnishing of MIM Conference
Centre (US$36,220.00).
Category 2(b): Installation of the Integrated Financial Management System (IFMIS US$1.617
million) and Networking of Capital Hill US$1 million).
Category 5(b): Running costs for the Project Office (PSMIU) estimated at US$80,000.00. All
other activities financed under the Credit were closed on the scheduled date of 30th June, 2000
and payments for these closed activities will be completed by 31 st October, 2000.
2.0 BACKGROUND
On 8th September, 1994, the Government of Malawi (GOM) signed a Development Credit
Agreement (DCA) with the World Bank for the Second Institutional Development project (IDP H).
The main objectives of the Project were as follows:
(i) Address specific systematic management issues that constitute Bottlenecks to improved
efficiency and effectiveness in the Civil Service;.
(ii) Assist the Department of Statutory Corporations to better manage the interface between the
parastatal sector and the Ministries and Departments; and
(iii) Strengthen the Malawi Institute of Management.
31



The Project consisted of the following parts:
PartA: Civil Service Policy and Information Framework
The objectives for this component were:
1. Reform of the Policy and legislative framework of the Civil Service including the enactment of
Public Service Legislation.
2. Canrying out a Civil Service Census.
3. Design and implementation of computerized personnel information system.
4. Design, development and implementation of a computerization plan for financial management.
5. Provision of training, including fellowships, long and short-term training, workshops and
seminars in infornation management for officials involved in the implementation of the above
activities.
6. Acquisition of computer hardware and software to support the above activities.
Part R. Strengthening the Department of Personnel Management and Training (later renamed
as the Department of Human Resource Management and Development (DHRM&D).
The component was intended to achieve the following:
(1) Carrying out a review of Institutional arrangement for determining remuneration.
(2) Re-designing the pay structure and rationalization for fringe benefits and allowances linked to
job evaluation.
(3) Preparation of procedure manuals covering functions undertaken by Personnel Common
Services Staff.
(4) Development and launching of an open appraisal system.
(5) Development and introduction of career paths.
(6) Establishment of a personnel policy research unit in the DHRM & D to develop capacity in
personnel and undertaking systematic reviews and improvement of personnel policies.
(7) Acquisition of equipment and the provision of training to support above activities.
Part C: Strengthening the Ministry of Finance
The objectives for this component were:
(1)    Installation and implementation of forward budgeting.
(2) Carrying out a strategic review of the budget and financial management infornation needs of
the borrower, as well as review of the program budgeting experiences,
32



(3) Development of up-dated recurrent cost co-efficient.
(4) Designing and development of a new Public Accounting system.
(5) Enhancement of Skills in budgeting and accounting..(6) Provision of training and acquisition
of computer hardware and software to support the above activities.
Part D: Strengthening the Department of Statutory Bodies
The objectives of this component were:
(1) Clarification of DSB's tasks and functions and its relationship with other supervisory agencies.
(2) Promotion of improved financial and economic performance of parastatals.
(3) Development of a policy for privatization.
(4) Enhancement of Staff skills.
(5) Acquisition of vehicles and computers.
Part E: Strengthening of the Malawi Institute of Management
This component was intended to achieve the following:
(1) Strengthening MIM's capacity in training and consultancy.
(2) Provision of staff training including fellowships.
(3) Financing fellowships to MIM's Course.
(4) Acquisition of Library Books and audio-visual equipment for MIM Leaming Resource
Centre, and computers and ancillaries to support training activities.
(5) Construction of five housing units of management staff..
(6) Acquisition of vehicles and equipment to support above activities.
3.0. PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION
The IDP2 was designed during the one party system of Govermment. However, implementation of
the project started when the country had changed to a multi party system of Govemment. This
required a review of project objectives and refocusing of priorities to suit the Country's changed
status. As a result of this and in line with the covenants in the DCA, there was a Mid Term
Review of the project from 21st July, 1997 to 1st August, 1997. The Mid Term Review re-
allocated resources (refer Table 1 page 7) and introduced new objectives to ensure that the project
was in line with the country's changed Social and Economic Status. The new objectives
introduced at the Mid Tem Review included the following:
(a) Support GOM to complete strategic and detailed functional reviews of Ministries and
Departments and assist in the establishment of the Contracting Out and Rationalization Units.
(b) Strengthening support for the Cabinet Office.
(c) Providing support to key training Institutions in Malawi through establishment of a
Fellowship Fund and provision of basic infrastructure and equipment to the training institutions.
The Institutions that were selected included MIM, Staff Development. Institute, the Polytechnic
Management Centre, Malawi College of Accountancy and the DPD Training Centre.
As a result of these additional objectives, the funds were re-allocated at Mid-Term Review as
shown by Table 1 below:
33



Table 1
INITIAL           MID TERM REVIEW
CATEGORIES                      ALLOCATION            RE-ALLOCATIONS
(SDRs)                  (SDRs)
1. Civil Works:
(a) for Part E of the Project                     430,000                404,000
(b) for Part B.8 of the Project                                          352,000
2. Equipment, vehicles, books and furniture:
(a) for Part E of the Project                     640,000                809,000
(b) for other Parts of the Project              2,550,000               1,870,000
3. Consultancy Services:
(a) for Part E of the Project                     725,000               1,044,000
(b) for other Parts of the Project               3,400,000              4,180,000
4. Training:
(a) for Part B of the Project                     800,000               1,295,000
(b) for Part E of the Project                    1,000,000               797,000
(c) for other Parts of the Project               2,410,000              2,834,000
5. Incremental Operating Costs
(a) for Part E of the Project                     500,000                503,000
(b) for other Parts of the Project               1,280000               1,038,000
6. Re funding of Project
Preparation Advance                             725,000                401,616
7. Unallocated                                   1,540,000               472,384
TOTAL                                           16,000,000             16,000,000
Table 2 shows that as at 30th June, 2001, the Project has disbursed a total of US$21.7 Million
(MWKl.6 billion) of the credit proceeds and has no commitments. A total of US$2.5 million
(MWK 185 million) will remain un disbursed and hence revert to the IDA.
The disbursement figures above show that whilst concrete results have been achieved in the
attainment of Project objectives in some components, other components have failed to achieve the
required objectives resulting in the US$2.5 million being not utilized at the end of the Project.
Among the main reasons for the failure to obtain the desired results are the following:
(a) The targets set in the Staff Appraisal Report were overly ambitious given the real capacity of
beneficiary agencies. The staff appraisal report set targets for disbursement of US$16.6 million
within two and half years of Project Implementation while the actual results of disbursement were
only US$3.5 million during the same period. It is essential for future Projects therefore that a
carefiul analysis is done at the planning stage with a deliberate policy of involving personnel who
will actually implement the Project in negotiations with the Bank.
(b) Frequent transfer and turnover of key personnel staff in implementing ministries resulting into
loss of continuity and appropriate monitoring of Project implementation. This was especially at
34



the Department of Statutory Corporations where a total of four (4) personnel were transferTed at
the PS level and three of the DS and Project Coordination levels. This resulted into loss of
continuity and a total of US$674,400 remained unutilized at the end of the Project on 30th June, 2000.
(c) Breakdown of communication on procurement issues between implementing agencies and the
Bank. This was the case with MIM where 5 staff houses at the MIM campus could not be built
due to lapse of time. MIM were actually requested to re-issue the tenders with the project having
three months remaining to close.
(d) Recruitment of technically incompetent consultants resulting in delayed implementation of
Project activities. This was the case with DHRM&D where the contract for Leadership
Development was cancelled almost 10 months after engaging them as consultants on the Job
Evaluation Exercise at a total cost of US$440,000 to the Govemment. The subsequent
recruitment of the other consultants and the delayed implementation of the Job Evaluation
Exercise like the open Appraisal System could not be implemented during the life span of the
Project.
(e) Lack of capacity in some implementing ministries resulting in Project activities not being
implemented. This was demonstrated in the Tax Policy Unit, where there were considerable
delays in providing additional staff to work in the Unit resulting in US$368,000 remaining
unutilized by the end of the Project..
(f) Delays by the Bank in issuing 4no objection" led to some activities in the Components not
being implemented in time. This was apparent with the Networking of Capital Hill activity.
Government through the Project Office sent a request for Ono objection" to the Bank to award the
contract with PQ Africa Limited on 10th November, 1999. The Bank's response was received
three months later on 22nd February, 2000. This was despite frequent reminders from
Govemment on 8th December, 1999; 5th January, 2000 and 5th February, 2000.
(g) The Bank's inflexibility in transferring funds from non-performing components to performing
activities. It was noted that whilst other Components performed well and required transfer of
funds from non operating components, the transfer could not be effected because of the rigidity of
the covenants in the DCA, resulting in USD2.5 million being unutilized. The Bank should be
urged to be more flexible, particularly with regard to movements of funds between
Components/Activities in the same project.
Detailed below therefore, is an overview of the implementation status of each beneficiary
component.
A. CIVIL SERVICE POLICY AND INFORMATION FRAMEWORK
(DPD AND DHRM&D).
At the Mid Term Review of 1997, a total of US$3.5 million was allocated to this component. As
at 30th September, 2000, a total of US$2.4 million had been disbursed whilst US$1 million is
committed for the implementation of the Network Project. A total of US$65,900 under the
training component will remain unutilized and hence revert to Bank.
This Component has effectively attained its objectives. The Civil Service Census was completed
in mid 1996 at a total cost of US$1.05 million. Harmonization of the Public Service Act and the
Constitution of the Republic of Malawi was completed in 1996 and the move of DPD offices
from Blantyre to Lilongwe is almost complete. The required computer equipment Generator set
were all procured for the component.
35



Out of the US$860,000 allocated to training, a total of US794,100 has so far been spent. A total
of twelve officers obtained postgraduate degrees in the various field of Computer Science whilst a
total of thirty-five officers attended short-term training courses in and outside the African region.
Personnel Audit Exercise
IDP2 provided funding of US$101,600 for DHRM & D to established a Personnel Audit Office
and conduct personnel audit of employees in the Civil Service. The exercise was completed in
October, 1998. The exercise revealed some discrepancies between payroll and personnel data.
The report was submitted to Cabinet and after approval Cabinet further directed that all the
recommendations should be implemented in full. In order to implement all the recommendations
in the report the Department needed a further MK19.5 million. However, the Project Office could
not finance this as funds were not available at that time.
Networking of Capital Hill
The World Bank gave a no objection for the Government to sign the Networking contract with
the consultant PQ Africa Limited on 31st August, 2000. The value of the contract was cost
approximately US$1.2 million with the Bank financing US$1 million while the balance was
financed by Government's own resources. The Network Project, which started in October, 2000
was Completed in December, 2000. The Govemment signed an acceptance document in March,
2001 after being satisfied that the Networking was working and that all items specified in the
contract were delivered. The Government Wide Area Network (GWAN) services now has over
500 users. The Government of Malawi has now embarked on Phase 2 of the project where
Networking is being Rolled-Out to the City Centre. However, the process is very slow due to lack
of funds or intermittent funding for the Project.
B. THE DEPARTMENT OF HUlMAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT AND DEVELOPMENT
AND CIVIL SERVICE REFORMS
Funds totaling US$3.9 million were allocated to the Department at the Mid Term Review of
1997. The sum of US$450,000 was re-allocated from Career Paths Component to strengthening
support for Civil Service Reforms through the Public Sector Change Management Unit
(PSCMA). A further amount of US$150,000 was allocated to strengthening support for the
Cabinet Office. As at 30th September, 2000 a total of US$3.7 million had been disbursed for the
department leaving a balance of US$182,500 which will revert to the Bank.
In terms of the objectives as set out in the DCA, the department has achieved some of the
objectives but could not complete all due to the rationalization priorities at the Mid Term Review.
In 19,95, the department engaged Price Waterhouse to review the institutional arrangements for
determining remuneration. The review was completed and the department adopted the
consultant's recommendation.
Job E'valuation Exercise
In Ju'ly, 1997, the department engaged Leadership Development to conduct the Job Evaluation
Exercise. The broad objective of the exercise was to evaluate jobs in the Malawi Civil Service
and develop a rank order of jobs based on their relative work so that civil servants could be paid
according to relative values of their jobs.
36



The consultants only managed to capture and develop a few job descriptions before the GOM,
terminated the contract in March, 1998 on the grounds of technical incompetence. At the time of
termination of the contract a total sum of US$440,000 had been paid to the consultants. This
necessitated the recruitment of the Bryher Partnership in January, 1999 to complete the assignment.
The consultants completed the assignment in May, 1999 and the consultant's report was submitted
for Cabinet approval in September, 1999. Cabinet reviewed the report and directed that:
(i) The eighteen (18) grade structure as recommended by the consultants was too compressed
hence the need to extend the structure to between 25 and 30 grades.
(ii) The salary structure of the ratio 18:1 as recommended by the consultant should be increased
to the ratio 31:1 as agreed between the GOM and the donor community.
With the use of counterpart staff and the Job Evaluation Management Team, DHRM & D has
produced a 25 Grade and salary structures which have been approved in principal by the Cabinet
Committee. A final decision is awaited for the approval and implementation of the recommended
Job Grade and Salary Structures.
Procedure Manuals
With the assistance from the consultants, Department Management Associates, the department
has produced the following manuals:
(i) Human Resource Planning and Development
(ii) Human Resource Management
(iii) Management Services
(iv) Career Paths
(v) Personnel Management Information Systems and Record Management.
Copies of the manuals were made available to Ministries/Departments during the launching
ceremony held on 8th August, 2000.
The Personnel Policy Research Unit
The Department established the Personnel Policy Research Unit in 1994. With the assistance of a
consultant the Unit is now offering support to the creation of a new capacity in policy analysis
and analytical work within the civil service.
CIVIL SERVICE REFORMS: PUBLIC SECTOR CHANGE MANAGEMENT AGENCY:
At the Mid Term Review a total of US450,000 was allocated to strengthen support for civil
service reforms being conducted by the Public Sector Change Management Agency (PSCMA).
The aim was to utilize IDP2 funds to support strategic reviews and the subsequent detailed
functional reviews; assist in the establishment of the Government Contracting Out Unit and the
establishment of Rationalization Unit. Both the Contracting Out and Rationalization Units have
been established and the balance of funds which were completely utilized by 30th June, 2000
assisted in conducting detailed functional review in various line Ministries.
Strengthening Support for Cabinet Office
Funds totaling US$150,000 were in 1997 set aside for strengthening support for the Cabinet
Office. A high level delegation led by the Secretary to the President and Cabinet conducted a
37



study tour in America, Europe, Africa and Australia to study how Cabinet Offices operate in
those countries. This eventually led to the production and issuance of the Cabinet Handbook. As
part of skills enhancement one officer was also sent for a four-week Legislation Drafting course
in Kampala, Uganda in May, 2000. This component was also benefited three computer equipment
and accessories under the IDP2.
Open Appraisal System and Career Paths
Due to the rationalization of priorities at the Mid Term Review and the delayed completion of the
Job Evaluation Exercise follow-up objectives of Developing and launching Open Appraisal
System and Career Paths as agreed in the DCA were not implemented under the IDP2 Project.
C. MINISTRY OF FINANCE - MEDIUM TERM EXENDITURE FRAMEWORK (M'ITEF)
The initial objective under this component as set out in the DCA was the installation and
implermentation forward budgeting. The approach adopted was to initially introduce the Medium
Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF). The basic objectives of MTEF are:
(i) To develop a realistic and predictable budgetary framework for a medium term period (three
years) based on robust fiscal framework and a set of accurately costed Government strategic
priorities.
(ii) To strengthen the budgetary process within Ministries and Departments, partly to improve the
basis of costing of policies and programmes and on the other hand to ensure a budget and
planning framework which would support the efficient management of Government operations.
The MTEF exercise was thus meant to address three crucial elements of the budgetary outcome i.e.:
(a) attaining macro-economic and fiscal stability;
(b) allocating resources to strategic priorities; and
(c) using the resources effectively and efficiently.
In 1995 therefore, the Government engaged Mokoro Limited to assist in the development and
introduction of MTEF. Work by the consultants was completed by the end of 1998 and the
Government adopted the MTEF budgeting process during the 1999/2000 fiscal year. The cost of
the censultancy was US$362,100. The Component spent a further US$457,100 on foreign and
local training, study tours, workshops and procurement of computer equipment and accessories.
Development Budgets are fully integrated.
D. MINISTRY OF FINANCE: TAX POLICY UNIT.
Under the DCA, the objective was for the IDP2 Project to strengthen the Tax Policy Unit. The
aim was to ensure that the Tax Policy Unit would be able to:
(a) Evaluate the impact of economic policies on the tax base and revenue.
(b) Evaluate the economic and revenue impact on tax policies.
(c) Developing and maintaining models for forecasting tax revenues.
At the time the Project became effective in December, 1994, the Tax Policy Unit had only one
senior officer. There was need for Government to provide an additional staff compliment of five
economists. It took a long time for Government to staff the Tax Policy Unit with the required
38



number of personnel. As a result only two people out of a possible five obtained postLgraduate
training under IDP2. The technical assistance which was to be funded by IDP2 was never
recruited resulting in an amount of US$368,800 remaining unutilized at the end of the project.
However, under the Malawi Economic Management and Reform (MEMAR) Project the Unit was
able to develop two useful models namely:
(i) a revenue forecasting model and
(ii) an income tax model for Pay As You Eam (PAYE)
E. ACCOUNTANT GENERAL'S DEPARTMENT
Enhancement of Skills in Accounting and Budgeting.
A total of US$1.6 million was allocated for this component. The aim was to assist the Accountant
General's Department to identify training needs and in formulation and implementation of a
comprehensive training program for common service accounting staff. Funding support would
also be provided for an assessment of training facilities and training need, for the conversation
program for non accounting graduates, for upgrading the skills of serving accounting and for the
development and implementation of induction courses for new recruits.
The British Council were therefore recruited to provide training needs assessment and review
training facilities within the country. A report, which was adopted by Government was produced
in 1997. The total cost of the consultancy was US$242,000.00
Besides this, the Department managed to send ten (10) officers for post-graduate accountancy
degrees and ten officers for professional accountancy qualifications. A further forty-seven (47)
officers were sent on short term courses abroad as well as within the African Region.
Arrangements were made with the Malawi College of Accountancy (MCA) to train officers at
both the technician and professional levels.
The department has also recommended to Government the adoption of Public Sector Accounting
Standards and is liaising with MCA and Public Accountants Examination Council (PAEC) to
introduce a Public Sector Professional Qualification along the lines of CIPFA in the United
Kingdom. As at 30th September, 2000 a total of US$1.5 million had been disbursed with a
balance of US$100,000 remaining unutilized largely because the Bank would not grant a "no
objection" for overseas training.
F. STRENGTHENING SUPPORT FOR THE DEPARTMENT OF STATUTORY
CORPORATIONS
A total of US41.85 million was allocated to this component in order to achieve its objectives as
spelt in the DCA. Before the Mid Term Review the Department started implementing its
activities on a faster pace then most other components of the Project. The Privatization Policy and
Act were both done and approved in 1996 and the privatization Commission, a body established
to oversee and implement the privatization programme, began its operations in the same year.
Improving Parastatal Financial and Economic Performance
In late 1995, Deloitte and Touche were engaged to introduce performance contracts for
parastatals but the assignment was subsequently cancelled after it became apparent that both the
parastatals and the Government were not yet ready for such an exercise. Some technical
assistance was sought to introduce a system of monthly and quarterly reports. A computer-based
39



format was designed for this exercise. However, after the Technical Assistance work, the
Department never developed its own capacity to carry on this work and as a result no meaningful
progress was made.
At Mid Term Review, in light of the failure to introduce performance contracts, a critical review
of the components objectives were undertaken. An additional objective of carrying out technical
reviews for the parastatals was introduced. It was planned that about eight (8) technical reviews
studies would be done before the end of the Project. However, due to transfers and frequent
changes of staff at the top level of the department, not much was done to implement the reviews.
Work had stated on Air Malawi privatization and MANEB but by the end of the Project, neither
could be completed. Air Malawi will now be completed under another project through the
Privatization Commission while MANEB has been cancelled. The effect of this is that a total of
US$674,400 remain unutilized at the end of the Project.
The I)epartment sent number of officers for both short and long term training. However, due to
the problem of frequent transfers of staff, 90% of staff trained before the Mid Term Review are
no longer with the Department while only 60% of staff trained after Mid Term Review still
remain in the Department
thereby increasing the problems of capacity.
G. CAPACITY BUILDING THROUGH TRAINING
At Mid Term Review, a total US$750,300 was allocated to this component. The Mid Term
Review of training of the effectiveness of training showed that there was need to adopt a broad
approach to training by providing support to key training institutions in Malawi. This approach
would not only allow a change from long courses overseas to in-country short courses, on the job
training, and day-release programmes, but it would also support capacity building of professional
staff at levels lower than those at, or near the most senior levels of Government. In this
perspective the training institutions were to be provided with support for the most critical needs
such as training facilities, library facilities, books and computer equipment. The Institutions
selected were as follows: Malawi College of Accountancy (US$500,000 for construction of
Lilongwe Campus and Blantyre Cafeteria); Staff Development Institute [SDI] (US100,00 for
computer equipment and books); Polytechnic Management Centre (US$100,000) for computer
equipment and books); and Data Processing Department (US$50,000 for computer equipment).
All the equipment and books for SDI, DPD Training Centre and Polytechnic Management Centre
were procured and delivered/installed before 30th June, 2000. Construction work at MCA is
discussed later in this report.
H. F:ELLOWSHIP FUND
At Mlid Term Review, a Fellowship Fund (FF) in the amount of US$500,000 was initiated to
facilitate training of personnel at the following institutions: MCA, MIM, SDI, Polytechnic
Management Centre and DPD Training Centre. The Fellowship Fund (FF) was to be administered
by D'HRM & D. Overall the Fellowship Fund was a success in that it realized its objectives. A
total of 1584 officers have been trained under the FF, against 5570 that had responded to the
varicus advertisements. Out of the 1584 officers trained, 131 were from the Public Sector while
the rest were from the Private Sector. It should be noted that fewer people from the Private Sector
benefited under the FF because only a small amount of money was allocated.
40



I. MALAWI INSTITUTE OF MANAGEMENT (MIM)
MIM was initially allocated US$8.09 million to implement the objectives as set out in the DCA.
At Mid Term Review the figure was revised to US$7.5 million. One of the main objectives for
MIM was that it would be self-financing at the end of IDP2. MIM was required to progressively
cover its operational expenses from its own resources as follows:
1995/96      20%
1996/97       40%
1997/98      60%
1998/99      80%
1999/00      100%
Targets were met as follows:
1995/96      20%
1996/97      49%
1997/98      61%
1998/99      85%
1999/00      122%
The management Accounts for the six months to June, 2000 indicate a surplus of MK 15.6 million
indicating the institute is now self-financing..
Endowment Fund
To ensure that the self-financing goal is attained and safeguarded, the IDP2 covenants provided
for the establishment of an Endowment Fund (in real estates and Bank deposits) in 1994. Through
prudent investment policies embarked by MIM management, the endowment fund has grown
from MK9 million in 1994 to MK50.9 million by end of June, 2000.
Civil Works
MIM has successfully completed the construction of the Conference Centre and the installation of
a generator set at a total cost of approximately US$435,700. However, MIM has not implemented
the DCA objective of constructing five (5) staff houses at the campus. This was mainly as a result
of breakdown in communication on procurement between the Institute and the Bank. MIM was
requested to re-issue the tender for the buildings three months before the Project closed.
Implementation therefore, could not be carried out due to shortage of time.
J. PROGRESS ON CONTINUING ACTIVITIES
In May, 2000, the Bank gave a no objection for the partial extension of the Project to 30th June,
2001. The activities which were granted extension include the following:
Category l(b): Construction of MCA, Lilongwe campus (US$311,780.79) and Cafeteria at
Blantyre Campus (US$155,803.45).
Category 2(a): Supply of library books (US$205,648.43) and furnishing of MIM Conference
Centre (US$36,220.00).
41



Category 2(b): Installation of Integrated Financial Management Information System (IFMIS:
US$1.617 million) and Networking of Capital Hill (US$1 million).
Detailed below is the progress for continuing activities:
MCi - Civil Works
The Project office has disbursed a total of USD 441,000.00 for both the MCA - Lilongwe
Campus and the Blantyre Cafeteria. The MCA Lilongwe Campus was handed over in March-
2001, and has since been used for the intended purpose. However, there are some minor defects
which have developed which the client will be required to address.
Construction of MCA - Blantyre Cafeteria finished in April 2001. However, the building was just
infonnally handed over because the commissioning would only be possible if all the kitchen equipment
such as cooking pots, serving bench, counter for were installed and tested as working. Similarly, the
defects which have developed cannot be corrected under IDP2 funds and by same contractor.
However, there are some works still waiting in case of the Lilongwe Campus rain gutters are not yet
done and one classroom has not been fixed with whiteboards. Above all, the works have a lot of
defects which need to be corrected such as cracks which are found in almost all the rooms to the
buildings some nnning from floor to the upper layers of the walls. Similarly, the Blantyre Cafeteria,
there are a lot of defects such as cracks in the main cafeteria and the kitchen, tiles not well fitted (need
to be re-done), leakages in some pipes fixed in the walls, electrical works not yet finished.
However, both contractors are demanding more money citing exchange rate and interest rate
accnrals as reasons for the extra pay. But the project Office put its foot down on this as this does
not reflect the clauses in the contract.
MIA[ Library Books and Conference Centre
Conference Centre
As at 30th June, 2001, the MIM Component has disbursed a total of USD6.4 million. All the
outstanding activities of which the Project was extended for had been successfully executed,
namely the procurement of books and the refurbishing of the MIM Conference Centre.
IFMIS and Network Contracts
The Bank gave a no objection for the IFMIS project in September, 2000. The pilot phase of the
IFM:IS was expected to go live by 1st July, 2001, however, disagreement over approach with the
new donor and the client led to the delay of tackling the back log of the activities and lack of
capacity in the implementing Ministries. Due to these hiccups, the IFMIS Project is expected to
go live some time in October, 2001.
CONCLUSION
This Preliminary Project Completion Report has revealed that IDP2 managed to achieve most of
its objectives as set out in the DCA in September, 1994. Very few. objectives have not been met
largely due to frequent transfers of key staff in implementing Ministries/Departments; lack of
capacity; over ambitious procurement plans set out in the staff appraisal report, and breakdown of
communication between the Bank and Implementing Agencies..
42



|z@   |~~0 0d                Goef,Zdd4 c4 6 6 rid 6p Xo- O' s20 064   O' W-  d
.~~~~                                  1,
2    59. rt1 2 t3 g  g8g  Lr2 V88t8!    qg082               R
s82~~~~ ARE ea 99    980 gase4 Rs 9 cog Egg a 9s -21g8 48 a i  3t  3!i0 i
51             dig n  Xg8" e  no .qeo82g  g qo8 2 g  2- ggo 'i  _  q88.88  e.2CM  q
031~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
ts  zXliltigll wi&stZa3Xtia1't .910 eigllStt 'fi11 1$ i ia R 8 ! 



zdr
L:\Malawi_IDP2_ICR 03-14-02 w annex 8.doc
March 20,2002 9:57 AM
44



