Page  1
                                                          CONFORMED COPY
                                                   CREDIT NUMBER 2624 MAI
                       Development Credit Agreement
                (Second Institutional Development Project)
                                  between
                            REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
                                    and
                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                          Dated September 8, 1994
                                                   CREDIT NUMBER 2624 MAI
                       DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated September 8, 1994, between REPUBLIC OF MALAWI (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
      WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the financing of the
Project;
      (B)   the Association has received a letter dated May 3, 1994, from
the Borrower describing, inter alia, a program of actions, objectives and
policies designed to achieve civil service reform and institutional
strengthening (hereinafter called the Program) and declaring the Borrower's
commitment to the execution of the Program;
      (C)   Part E of the Project will be carried out by Malawi Institute
of Management (MIM) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such
assistance, the Borrower will make available to MIM a portion of the
proceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agreement; and
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even
Page  2
date herewith between the Association and MIM;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last
sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms
defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms
have the following meanings:
      (a)   "MOF" means the Borrower's Ministry of Finance;
      (b)   "OPC" means the Borrower's Office of the President and Cabinet;
      (c)   "DPMT" means the Department of Personnel Management and Training
within OPC;
      (d)   "DSB" means the Department of Statutory Bodies within OPC;
      (e)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation
advance granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange
of letters dated October 14, 1992, October 26, 1992, April 29, 1994 and
September 6, 1994 between the Borrower and the Association;
      (f)   "Special Account" means any of the accounts referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
      (g)   "MIM Act" means the Malawi Institute of Management Act, Cap
30:07 of the laws of Malawi;
      (h)   "MIM" means Malawi Institute of Management, established under
the MIM Act; and
      (i)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association
and Malawi Institute of Management (MIM), of even date herewith, as the same
may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and
agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement.
                                ARTICLE II
                                The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount
in various currencies equivalent to sixteen million Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 16,000,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to
be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, (i) for the purposes of Parts A, B, C and
D of the Project, open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account
(Special Account "A") and (ii) for the purposes of Part E of the Project,
open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account (Special Account "B")
in a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      (c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself
the amount required to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation
Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid
Page  3
charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the
Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2000, or such later
date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from
time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 of each
year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per
annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates
on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account
or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately
preceding the accrual date or at such other rates as may be set from time
to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June
30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date in that year
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind
imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency
specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time
to time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable
semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual
installments payable on each June 1 and December 1 commencing December 1,
2004 and ending June 1, 2034. Each installment to and including the
installment payable on June 1, 2014 shall be one percent (1%) of such
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%)
of such principal amount.
      (b)   Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita,
as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985
dollars for five consecutive years, and (ii) the Bank shall consider the
Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to
the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the
Association and after due consideration by them of the development of the
Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments under
paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of
each such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit
shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may
revise such modification to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase
in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment
of the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element
obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic
condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so
requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to conform
to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE III
Page  4
                         Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and,
to this end:
            (i)   shall carry out Parts A, B, C and D of the Project with
                  due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
                  appropriate administrative and financial practices and
                  shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
                  services and other resources required for such Parts of
                  the Project; and
            (ii)  without limitation or restriction upon any of its other
                  obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, the
                  Borrower shall cause MIM to perform all its obligations
                  set forth in the Project Agreement, shall take or cause
                  to be taken all action, including the provision of funds,
                  facilities, services and other resources, necessary or
                  appropriate to enable MIM to perform such obligations,
                  and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which
                  would prevent or interfere with such performance.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this
Section, and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall carry out Parts A,B,C and D of the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
      (c)   The Borrower shall make available as a grant a portion of the
proceeds of the Credit to MIM.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the works, goods and consultants' services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of
the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services,
plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition,
respectively) in respect of Part E of the Project shall be carried out by
MIM pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
      Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall conduct, not later than December
31, 1996, jointly with the Association, a mid-term review of the Project.
Without limitation upon the generality of the foregoing, the review shall,
inter alia, cover overall Project performance against established key
performance indicators, evaluation of Project achievements and problems, an
assessment of Project sustainability and evaluation of consultants'
performance.
      (b)   Not later than ninety (90) days prior to the mid-term review
referred to in (a) above, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, for
its comments, a report in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request, including an evaluation of the progress achieved in implementing
the Project.
      (c)   The Borrower shall, promptly thereafter, carry out the
recommendations stemming from the aforementioned review.
                                ARTICLE IV
                            Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect
of Parts A, B, C and D of the Project of the departments or agencies of the
Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
Page  5
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section including those for Special
                  Account "A" for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
                  with appropriate auditing principles consistently
                  applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
                  Association;
            (ii)  furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than nine months after the end of each
                  such year, a certified copy of the report of such audit
                  by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
                  Association shall have reasonably requested; and
            (iii) furnish to the Association such other information
                  concerning said records, accounts and the audit thereof
                  as the Association shall from time to time reasonably
                  request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the
Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the
Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
                  paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts
                  reflecting such expenditures;
            (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Association has
                  received the audit report for the fiscal year in which
                  the last withdrawal from the Credit Account or payment
                  out of the Special Account "A" was made, all records
                  (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
                  documents) evidencing such expenditures;
            (iii) enable the Association's representatives to examine such
                  records; and
            (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are included in the
                  annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section
                  and that the report of such audit contains a separate
                  opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together
                  with the procedures and internal controls involved in
                  their preparation, can be relied upon to support the
                  related withdrawals.
                                 ARTICLE V
                        Remedies of the Association
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   A situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the
Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
      (b)   MIM shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under
the Project Agreement.
      (c)   As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen
which shall make it improbable that MIM will be able to perform its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
      (d)   The MIM Act shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated,
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of
MIM to perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
      (e)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall
have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of MIM or for
the suspension of its operations.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
Page  6
      (a)   any event specified in paragraph (a) and (b) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after
notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower; and
      (b)   any event specified in paragraph (d) of Section 5.01 of this
Agreement shall occur.
                                ARTICLE VI
                        Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within
the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
      (a)   The Borrower has furnished to the Association evidence of
promulgation of the Public Service Act.
      (b)   The Borrower has appointed: (i) an independent auditor
satisfactory to the Association; (ii) the head, a chief technical officer
and an accountant for its Census Executing Unit; and (iii) Project
Coordinators for Parts B, C and D of the Project.
      (c)   The Borrower and MIM have furnished to the Association a model
Consultancy Contract and a sample letter of invitation, acceptable to the
Association.
      Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter,
within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be
included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association
namely, that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by
MIM, and is legally binding upon MIM in accordance with its terms.
      Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the
General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE VII
                Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the
General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes
of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministry of Finance
            P.O. Box 30049
            Lilongwe, 3
            Malawi
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  FINANCE                   44407
                  Lilongwe
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INDEVAS                   248423 (RCA)
                  Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                            197688 (TRT)
Page  7
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as
of the day and year first above written.
                        REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
                        By /s/ N. M. Mwaungulu
                        Authorized Representative
                        INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        By /s/ Edward V. K. Jaycox
                        Regional Vice President
                        Africa
                                SCHEDULE 1
                 Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit
to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be
financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated                % of
                              (Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                     SDR Equivalent)        to be Financed
(1)     Civil works for             430,000          90%
    Part E of the
    Project
(2)     Equipment,                                   100% of foreign
    vehicles, books                                  expenditures and
    and furniture:                                   90% of local
                                                     expenditures
    (a)  for Part E of               640,000
        the Project
    (b) for the other              2,550,000
        Parts of the
        Project
(3)     Consultants'                                 100%
    services:
    (a) for Part E of                725,000
        the Project
    (b) for the other              3,400,000
        Parts of the
        Project
(4)     Training:                                    100%
    (a) for Part B of                800,000
        the Project
Page  8
    (b) for Part E of              1,000,000
        the Project
    (c) for the other              2,410,000
        Parts of the
        Project
(5)     Incremental                                  100% of foreign
    operating costs:                                 expenditures and
                                                     70% of local
    (a) for Part E of                500,000         expenditures
        the Project
    (b) for the other              1,280,000
        Parts of the
        Project
(6)     Refunding of                 725,000        Amounts due
    Project                                         pursuant to
    Preparation                                     Section 2.02 (c)
    Advance                                         of this Agreement
(7)     Unallocated                1,540,000
                                   _________
        TOTAL                     16,000,000
                                  ==========
2.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services
supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
    (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the
Borrower; and
    (c)   The term "incremental operating costs" means incremental recurrent
expenditures incurred by (i) MIM for (A) office supplies and communication
services, (B) rent of staff houses and educational premises, (C) training
accommodation and per diem allowances, and (D) insurance fees (E) vehicle,
equipment and computer operating and maintenance costs, (G) equipment
rental, (H) publication and advertising costs, (I) postal charges, and (J)
heating, lighting and cleaning materials costs for building maintenance;
(ii) Project implementing units other than MIM for (A) vehicle, equipment
and computer operating and maintenance costs, (B) travel costs and
allowances, (C) production and printing costs, (D) office supplies and
communications services and (E) insurance fees; and (iii) PSMIU for salaries
of professional and support staff and rent of staff houses.
3.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals
shall be made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the
date of this Agreement; and (b) Category (4) (a) until (i) the Manpower
Planning and the Training divisions of DPMT have been merged into one
division, and (ii) the Borrower has established, on a pilot basis, human
resources management units in MOF and the Ministries of Agriculture,
Education, Works and Health; and (c) Categories (1), (2) (a), (3) (a), (4)
(b) and (5) (a) until MIM has appointed a duly qualified accountant who
shall be responsible for financial management in the implementation of Part
E of the Project.
4.  The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for (a) expenditures under
contracts for goods, works and consultants' services, provided by firms, not
exceeding $100,000 equivalent, and (b) expenditures under contracts for
consultants' services, provided by individuals, not exceeding $50,000
equivalent, under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify
by notice to the Borrower.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                        Description of the Project
Page  9
    The objectives of the Project are to: (i) address specific systemic
management issues that now constitute bottlenecks to improved efficiency and
effectiveness in the civil service; (ii) assist the Department of Statutory
Bodies to better manage the interface between the parastatal sector and the
ministries and departments; and (iii) strengthen the Malawi Institute of
Management.
    The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Civil Service Policy and Information Framework
1.  Reform of the policy and legislative framework of the civil service
including the enactment of Public Service legislation.
2.  Carrying out of a civil service census.
3.  Design and implementation of a computerized personnel information
system.
4.  Design, development and implementation of a computerization plan for
financial management.
5.  Provision of training, including fellowships, long and short-term
training, workshops and seminars in information management for officials
involved in the implementation of the above activities.
6.  Acquisition of computer hardware and software to support the above
activities.
Part B:   Strengthening the Department of Personal Management and Training
1.  Carrying out a review of the institutional arrangements for determining
remuneration.
2.  Re-designing the pay structure and rationalization of fringe benefits
and allowances linked to job evaluation.
3.  Preparation of procedure manuals covering functions undertaken by
personnel common services staff.
4.  Development and launching of an open performance appraisal system.
5.  Development and introduction of career paths.
6.  Establishment of a Personnel Policy Research Unit in DPMT to develop
capacity in personnel planning and in undertaking systematic reviews and
improvement of personnel policies.
7.  Acquisition of equipment and the provision of training to support above
activities.
Part C:   Strengthening the Ministry of Finance
1.  Installation and implementation of forward budgeting.
2.  Carrying out a strategic review of the budget and financial management
information needs of the Borrower, as well as a review of the program
budgeting experiences.
3.  Development of up-to-date recurrent cost coefficients.
4.  Strengthening MOF's tax policy analysis unit.
5.  Designing and implementation of a new public accounting system.
6.  Enhancement of skills in budgeting and accounting.
7.  Provision of training and acquisition of computer hardware and software
to support above activities.
Page  10
Part D:   Strengthening the Department of Statutory Bodies
1.  Clarification of DSB's task and functions and its relationship with
other supervisory agencies of the Borrower.
2.  Promotion of improved financial and economic performance of parastatal
organizations.
3.  Development of a policy for privatization.
4.  Enhancement of staff skills.
5.  Acquisition of vehicles and computers.
Part E:   Strengthening of the Malawi Institute of Management
1.  Strengthening MIM's capacity in training and consultancy.
2.  Provision of staff training including fellowships.
3.  Financing fellowships to MIM's courses.
4.  Acquisition of library books and audio-visual equipment for MIM Learning
Resources Center, and computers and ancillaries to support training
activities.
5.  Construction of five housing units for management staff.
6.  Acquisition of vehicles and equipment to support above activities.
                                 *   *   *
    The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1999.
                                SCHEDULE 3
                   Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.  Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those
set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
    (a)   For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid referred to in
paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract award is
delayed beyond the original bid validity period, the successful bidder's bid
price will be increased for each week of delay by two predisclosed
correction factors acceptable to the Association, one to be applied to all
foreign currency components and the other to the local currency component
of the bid price. Such an increase shall not be taken into account in the
bid evaluation.
    (b)   In the procurement of goods in accordance with this Part A, the
Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding documents issued by the
Bank, with such modifications thereto as the Association shall have agreed
to be necessary for the purposes of the Project. Where no relevant standard
bidding documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use
bidding documents based on other internationally recognized standard forms
agreed with the Association.
2.  To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped into bid
packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more.
3.  Goods to be procured through international competitive bidding shall be
exempted from pre-shipment price inspection by a third party.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
    In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described
Page  11
in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Malawi may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs
2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2
thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.  (a)   Civil works estimated to cost up to an aggregate amount equivalent
to $688,400, and (b) furniture estimated to cost the equivalent of $23,000
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding,
advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the
Association.
2.  Training manuals, journals and periodicals estimated to cost the
equivalent of $10,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount
equivalent to $347,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis
of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers
eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to
the Association.
3.  Vehicles estimated to cost up to an aggregate amount equivalent to
$282,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison
of price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers from at least
three different countries, eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part D:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.  Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
    (a)   With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of
$100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix
1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be
made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure
that the two conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to
the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the
Association prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special
Account in respect of such contract.
    (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to
the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made
out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that
the two conformed copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3
shall be furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
    (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply
to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Credit Account are to
be made on the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.  The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
1.  In order to assist the Borrower in the carrying out of the Project, the
Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such
consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures
satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use
of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).
For complex, time-based assignments, the Borrower shall employ such
consultants under contracts using the standard form of contract for
consultants' services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall
have been agreed by the Association. Where no relevant standard contract
documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use other
standard forms agreed with the Association.
2.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the
Page  12
provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association review
or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of
invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts shall not apply to:
(a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost less
than $100,000 equivalent each or (b) contracts for the employment of
individuals estimated to cost less than $50,000 each. However, this
exception to prior Association review shall not apply to: (a) the terms of
reference for such contracts; (b) single source selection of consulting
firms; (c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the
Association; (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting
firms raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above, or (e)
amendments to contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising
the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
                                SCHEDULE 4
                          Implementation Program
1.  The Borrower shall establish an Interministerial Committee on
Institutional Development (ICID) which shall be responsible for overall
Project coordination, direction and policy guidance and shall be chaired by
the Principal Secretary (Administration) in OPC and comprise representatives
of the ministries and agencies involved in the implementation of the
Project. ICID shall meet quarterly and present progress reports to SPC. The
Public Sector Management Improvement Unit (PSMIU) referred to in paragraph
2 below, shall act as the secretariat to ICID.
2.  The Borrower shall establish PSMIU in the Office of the President and
Cabinet (OPC) reporting to the Secretary to the President and Cabinet (SPC)
through the Principal Secretary (Administration). The PSMIU shall comprise:
(a) a Project Manager; (b) an Information Technology Coordinator who will
provide direction and coordination for the management information systems
development and related elements of the Project, (c) an accountant who shall
be responsible for all financial management and accounting activities, and
(d) a small number of support staff. The Borrower shall ensure that the
Project Manager and the Project accountant shall be maintained for the
duration of the Project and that their qualifications shall be satisfactory
to the Association.
3.  The main responsibilities of PSMIU shall be to (a) ensure the successful
and timely execution of Project components; (b) establish and administer
effective Project execution and management structures and processes; (c)
ensure the timely and appropriate procurement of all equipment, technical
assistance, training, and related services required for the successful
execution of the Project; (d) ensure the timely identification and
resolution of Project execution issues and the optimal application of
successful improvement measures; (e) evaluate the overall performance of the
Project, its individual components and Project elements, providing regular
reports to SPC and ICID on Project issues and progress; (f) keep and
maintain Project accounts for Parts A through D of the Project; and (g)
coordinate the preparation and submission of annual reports and workplans
to the Association for all Project components.
4.  PSMIU shall be assisted by Project Coordinators whose qualifications
shall be satisfactory to the Association, to be designated by MOF, DPMT and
DSB. The Coordinators shall work in close liaison with PSMIU and will have
primary responsibility for the implementation of their respective
components.
5.  PSMIU shall: (a) prepare and furnish to the Association, through MOF,
not later than ninety days after the end of each year, annual reports in
such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the progress
achieved in the implementation of the Project, and (b) jointly with the
Association, conduct an annual review of Project implementation, not later
than June 30 after the end of the year under review.
6.  The Borrower shall carry out a training program for the Project,
satisfactory to the Association.
                                SCHEDULE 5
                              Special Account
Page  13
1.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (2) (b), (3) (b),
(4) (a) and (c), and (5) (b) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement in respect of Special Account "A" and
Categories (1), (2) (a), (3) (a), (4) (b) and (5) (a), in the table in
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement in respect of Special Account
"B".
    (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of
the reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to
time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
    (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to
$200,000 in respect of Special Account "A" and $100,000 in respect of
Special Account "B" to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited
in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.  Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.  After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall
be made as follows:
    (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits
which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On
the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
    (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower
                shall furnish to the Association requests for deposits into
                the Special Account at such intervals as the Association
                shall specify.
          (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower
                shall furnish to the Association the documents and other
                evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule
                for the payment or payments in respect of which
                replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such
                request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the
                Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have
                requested and as shall have been shown by said documents
                and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special
                Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other
evidence.
4.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request,
furnish to the Association such documents and other evidence showing that
such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the
Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special
Account:
    (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
    (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the
Page  14
eligible Categories for Part(s) A, B, C and D of the Project, less the
amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to Parts A,
B, C and D of the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount
of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn
amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories for Part(s) A, B,
C and D of the Project shall follow such procedures as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made
only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied
that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the
date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.  (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in
an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) wasnot 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (A) provide such
additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B) deposit into the
Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the
Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit
or refund, as the case may be.
    (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover
further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly
upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding
amount.
    (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.
    (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b)
and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant
provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
