Page  1
                                                           CONFORMED COPY
                                                   CREDIT NUMBER 2624 MAI
                             Project Agreement
                (Second Institutional Development Project)
                                  between
                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                                    and
                      MALAWI INSTITUTE OF MANAGEMENT
                          Dated September 8, 1994
                                                   CREDIT NUMBER 2624 MAI
                             PROJECT AGREEMENT
    AGREEMENT, dated September 8, 1994, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association) and MALAWI INSTITUTE OF MANAGEMENT (MIM).
    WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith
between Republic of Malawi (the Borrower) and the Association, the
Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in
various currencies equivalent to sixteen million Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 16,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development
Credit Agreement, but only on condition that MIM agrees to undertake such
obligations toward the Association as are set forth in this Agreement;
    (B)   a portion of the proceeds of the credit provided for in the
Development Credit Agreement will be made available to MIM; and
    WHEREAS MIM, in consideration of the Association's entering into the
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
    NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
Page  2
                                Definitions
    Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms
defined in the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
                                ARTICLE II
                         Execution of the Project
    Section 2.01. MIM declares its commitment to the objectives of the
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and,
to this end, shall carry out Part E of the Project with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, and
human resources development practices, and shall provide, or cause to be
provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for Part E of the Project.
    Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required for Part
E of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall
be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit
Agreement.
    Section 2.03. MIM shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections
9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating
to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the
Project Agreement and Part E of the Project.
    Section 2.04. (a) MIM shall, at the request of the Association, exchange
views with the Association with regard to the progress of Part E of the
Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
    (b)   MIM shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of Part E of the
Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the
performance by MIM of its obligations under this Agreement.
    Section 2.05. MIM shall by December 31 of each year, prepare and furnish
to the Association a report on the progress made towards self-financing
through the Endowment Fund established in 1989 to enable MIM to finance its
operations with minimal external assistance.
    Section 2.06. MIM shall comply with the agreed targets for the
progressive phasing-out of fellowships to its courses.
                                ARTICLE III
                     Management and Operations of MIM
    Section 3.01. MIM shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs
in accordance with sound administrative, financial and human resources
development practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced
management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
    Section 3.02. MIM shall at all times operate and maintain its plant,
equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed,
make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with
sound financial and human resources development practices.
    Section 3.03. MIM shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers,
or make other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance
against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with
appropriate practice.
                                ARTICLE IV
                            Financial Covenants
    Section 4.01. (a) MIM shall maintain records and accounts adequate to
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and
financial condition.
Page  3
    (b)   MIM shall:
          (i)   have its records, accounts and financial statements
                (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
                related statements) for each fiscal year including Special
                Account "B" audited, in accordance with appropriate
                auditing principles consistently applied, by independent
                auditors acceptable to the Association;
          (ii)  furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any
                case not later than nine months after the end of each such
                year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements for
                such year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by
                said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
                Association shall have reasonably requested; and
          (iii) furnish to the Association such other information
                concerning said records, accounts and financial statements
                as well as the audit thereof, as the Association shall from
                time to time reasonably request.
                                 ARTICLE V
                       Effective Date; Termination;
                        Cancellation and Suspension
    Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the
date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
    Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association
and of MIM thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two
dates:
          (i)   the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
                terminate in accordance with its terms; or
         (ii)   the date ten years after the date of this Agreement.
    (b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with
its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section,
the Association shall promptly notify MIM of this event.
    Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in
full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under
the General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE VI
                         Miscellaneous Provisions
    Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given
or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties
contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request
shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered
by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to
which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such party's
address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party shall
have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such
request. The addresses so specified are:
    For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                 Telex:
                INDEVAS                    248423 (RCA)
                Washington, D.C.            82987 (FTCC)
                                            64145 (WUI) or
                                           197688 (TRT)
Page  4
    For MIM:
          Malawi Institute of Management
          P.O. Box 30801
          Lilongwe, 3
          Malawi
          Cable address:                 Telex:
                FINANCE                    44407
                Lilongwe
    Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
document required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on
behalf of MIM may be taken or executed by the Principal or such other person
or persons as the Principal shall designate in writing, and MIM shall
furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
    Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts,
each of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as
of the day and year first above written.
                INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                By /s/ Edward V. K. Jaycox
                                                  Regional Vice President
                                                                   Africa
                MALAWI INSTITUTE OF MANAGEMENT
                By /s/ N. M. Mwaungulu
                                                Authorized Representative
