Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15654
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
NEPAL
THIRD TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE (PANCHESWAR) PROJECT
(CREDIT 1902-NEP)
May 20, 1996
Energy and Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department II
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY AND EQUIVALENTS
I Nepalese Rupee (NR)     =      100 Nepalese Paise
Fiscal Year Averages:
US$ 1.00 (FY84)    =       15.6 NRs
US$ 1.00 (FY86)            19.9 NRs
US$ 1.00 (FY88)    =      22.8 NRs
US$ 1.00 (FY90)    =      28.4 NRs
US$ 1.00 (FY92)           40.2 NRs
US$ 1.00 (FY94)    =      47.9 NRs
MEASURES
I kilovolt (kV)           =      1,000 volts
I kilowatt (kW)           =      1,000 watts
I megawatt (MW)           =      1,000 kilowatts
I gigawatt-hour           =      1,000,000 kilowatt-hours
ABBREVIATIONS
ADB  -       Asian Development Bank
EdF   -      Electricite de France International
HEP  -       Hydroelectric Project
HMG  -       His Majesty's Government
KfW   -      Kreditanstalt fir Wiederaufbau
NEA  -       Nepal Electricity Authority
PA    -      Performance Agreement
PSEP  -      Power Sector Efficiency Project
TA    -      Technical Assistance
ToR   -      Terms of Reference
FISCAL YEAR
Ending July 15



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
NEPAL
THIRD TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE (PANCHESWAR) PROJECT
(CREDIT 1902-NEP)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Table of Contents
PREFACE
EVALUATION  SUMMARY ............................................1i
The Project and its Objectives ...............................1,.i
Project Outcome and Sustainability of Benefits .......................................,1,,,,.,,.,.,..i
Lessons ............................................... 11
Other Findings .                                                                                       ii
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION  ASSESSMENT ............................................1....I
A. Evaluation of Project Objectives                   .......................1,.,.,.l
Project Context ..............1.,.               .         ...                            .
Objectives and Content ............................2
B. Achievement of Objectives .........................3
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project .....................................5
Factors Generally not under Government Control ......................................,.,,,.,.,.5
Factors Generally under Government and/or Sector Control ,.,. ..5
D. Sustainability ............. . . . . ....6
E. IDA Performance ................ ...                                          ....6
F. Borrower Performance ..................          .       ...                       .        .       7
G. Assessment of Outcome ................... . 7
H. Lessons ........................... .7.......                 ,..........                           7
I Other Findings ............,..,,,,,,,,,,,,,,7
PART II. STATISTICAL TABLES
Table I: Summary of Assessments
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3: Project Timetable
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements; Cumulative (Estimated and Actual)
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PART II. STATISTICAL TABLES (cont'd)
Table 8A: Project Costs
Table 8B: Project Financing
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12: Bank Resources; Staff Inputs
Table 13: Bank Resources; Missions
Appendix A: Aide Memoire of the ICR Mission
Appendix B: Comments Provided by KfW
Appendix C: Summary of Results of the NEA-EdF Twinning Arrangement



NEPAL
THI[RD TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE (PANCHESWAR) PROJECT
(CREDIT 1902-NEP)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Third Technical Assistance
(Pancheswar) Project in Nepal for which Credit 1902-NEP in the amount of SDR 10.6 million
was approved on 04/26/88 and made effective on 01/26/89.
The credit was closed on 06/30/94 compared to the original closing date of 06/30/92. The
credit was fully disbursed and the final disbursement took place on 04/27/93. Co-financing was
provided by Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KfW) of the Federal Republic of Germany.
The ICR was prepared by Mr. R. A. Ribi (Consultant) and Mr. Argun Ceyhan (Task
Manager) of the Energy and Infrastructure Operations Division of Country Department II, South
Asia Regional Office (SA2EI). It was reviewed by Mr. Jean-Francois Bauer, Division Chief,
SA2EI and Mrs. Kazuko Uchimura, Project Adviser, SA2.
The present ICR is based on material in the project file, interviews with IDA personnel
involved in project implementation and the results of discussion with the Borrower and the
Beneficiary that took place during the 11/95 ICR mission to Nepal and are reflected in the aide-
mrmoire attached to the present ICR. (Appendix A). Comments received from KfW have been
incorporated in the ICR and are given in Appendix B.






NEPAL
THIRD TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
CREDIT 1902-NEP)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Evaluation Summary
The Project and its Objectives
i.    The first objective of the Third Technical Assistance Project (TA III) was to support
HMG in further developing one of Nepal's main resources, its large hydroelectric potential. To
this effect TA III included (i) the field investigations in Nepal for the Pancheswar development on
Nepal's western border with India, (ii) the detailed engineering (financed by the Federal Republic
of Germany) of the Arun III project and (iii) the study of the evacuation of the power from Arun
III inter alia to India. The project's second broad goal was the implementation of high priority
studies and other technical assistance (TA) measures in irrigation, agriculture, power (especially
for strengthening Nepal Electricity Authority (NEA) which had started operations in FY86) and
other infrastructure sectors. Accordingly, TA III included studies of (i) a ten-year transmission
and distribution plan, (ii) the long-run marginal cost of supply and NEA's tariffs, (iii) an
institutional development plan for NEA, and (iv) a rural electrification plan. The studies in other
sectors were to be specified in the course of implementation. However, ultimately all additional
studies were in, or closely related to, the power sector.
Project Outcome and Sustainability of Benefits
ii.    The TA III project by-and-large achieved its objectives. However, following IDA's withdrawal
from the Arun III project and the at times difficult relations between Nepal and India make the
sustainability of the benefits from the studies concerning Arun and Pancheswar uncertain, at least
for the short and medium term. In view of the January 1996 agreement between the two
countries for the multipurpose development of the Mahakali river, on which Pancheshwar would
be built, chances of realization of the latter have improved. It is therefore likely that in the longer
term a substantial part of the benefits will accrue. The sustainability of the benefits from the
studies and other TA measures concerning the power sector and aiming at strengthening the
sector's institutions, especially NEA, is uncertain too. Successful implementation would have
required further management consultants support under following projects. As the sustainability
of its benefits is uncertain, the Project's overall outcome is rated as unsatisfactory. However, it is
also noted that some of the original objectives were overtaken by events (e.g., IDA's above
mentioned withdrawal from the Arun III Hydroelectric Project).



- 11 -
Lessons
iii.   To assure optimum utilization of the results of the TA measures of the Project, further TA
(in the form of management consultants to implement the results) should be considered in the
follow up projects. This was partly done under IDA's Power Sector Efficiency Project (PSEP -
Credit 2347-NEP) and was planned to be done (still partly) under the Arun III project.
iv.   The Terms of Reference (TOR) for the NEA-Electricite de France International (EdF)
twinning arrangement were too ambitious and the Borrower, NEA, the financiers (IDA and ADB)
and the consultants did not have the same understanding of what NEA's institutional development
plan should include. In future, IDA should ensure that TOR for such a substantial institution
building effort are not beyond what the borrower and implementing agancy can accept; i.e., IDA
should ensure borrower and implementing agancy ownership of the proposed TA measure.
Other Findings
v.    Many of the institutional issues remain outstanding. HMG, IDA and other major potential
donors of the then proposed Arun III HEP did not agree with EdF recommendations that the next
step in institutional development of the Nepal power sector and NEA would be a performance
management contract with an outside contractor.  Instead they concentrated on strengthening
NEA's institutional capacity, without adequate technical support. HMG and IDA may have
missed an opportunity to take the first steps towards private sector involvement in NEA.
vi.   The Pancheswar multipurpose project as recommended as a result of the studies
conducted under the Project (installed capacity: 7,200 MW, dam height: 330 m; cost: over US$4
billion or US$555/kW at a rather low 20% plant factor) is very large, quite expensive and
therefore unlikely to attract financing in the short term. The above mentioned January 1996
agreement for the integrated multipurpose development of the Mahakali river, could improve the
chances of realization of the Pancheshwar development in the longer term.



NEPAL
THIRD TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE (PANCHESWAR) PROJECT
(CREDIT 1902-NEP)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PART I: Project Implementation Assessment
A. Evaluation of Project Objectives
Project Context
1.    The two principal sources of energy in Nepal are forests and river systems. The former
are already overused. In contrast, the development of the large hydropower potential is still at an
early stage, though, for a long time it has been one of the main objectives of His Majesty's
Government (HMG). In the short run, it was aimed at meeting internal demand, but, in time, it
was also seen as a basis for future large scale exports providing revenues in foreign currency. In
the long run it may also contribute to stop forest depletion. The Marsyangdi Hydroelectric
Project (Marsyangdi HEP) supported by Credit 1478-NEP of US$107 million equivalent,
approved in 1984 was aimed at meeting domestic demand. In the mid-1980s when the Third
Technical Assistance Project - TA III - (the Project) discussed here, was under preparation, the
400 MW Arun III project was already identified as the next facility in the country's least cost
generation development program. At that time, it was expected that the plant would allow Nepal
to (i) meet domestic demand until the year 2005 and (ii) start exporting substantial quantities of
energy to India (President's Report - para. 4). The two next candidates for providing large
quantities of energy for export - and at a much larger scale - were Chisapani on the Karnali River
(in excess of 10,000 MW) in Western Nepal for which IDA was helping finance the feasibility
study through Credit 1452-NEP of US$1 I million equivalent approved in 1984 and Pancheswar
(with, at the time, an envisaged capacity of 2,000 to 3,000 MW) at Nepal's western border with
India for which the studies were still at a preliminary level. In 1984, Nepal and India agreed that
each country would undertake field investigations for the Pancheswar project on its own side of
the border under the guidance of a Joint Group of Experts.
2.    Thus, in 1988, on the basis of a major diplomatic effort, inter alia of IDA's top
management, a general program for further development of Nepal's hydro power in the
framework of a bilateral approach emerged. The plan envisaged in a first phase the preparation
for implementation of Arun III, the finalization of the IDA supported Karnali feasibility study, and
the preliminary investigations for the Pancheswar development; a second phase was to cover (i)
the implementation of Arun III, (ii) detailed design, development of the organizational, legal, and
financial setup for the implementation of Karnali, and, (iii) the feasibility study for Pancheswar;
the third stage would then see the construction of Karnali started and the preparation of
Pancheswar finalized.



- 2 -
3.    After the start of the Marsyangdi HEP, IDA became quickly aware of the fact that the
institutional project component needed expansion and, in part, more specificity. In particular, (i)
the newly created NEA did not have the capability to develop as quickly as to be able to
implement the institutional measures included in that project and according to the corresponding
timetable, and (ii) some of the measures (e.g. training) had not been defined in sufficient detail to
lead quickly to action. E.g. the project called for the installation of training facilities which could
not be defined without a training plan, which itself depended on the availability of a manpower
development program; but at the time Marsyangdi was started, such a program did not exist.
These deficiencies contributed to induce the Asian Development Bank (ADB) and IDA to carry
out in 1987 the joint Power Subsector Review, which provided many of the bases for the Project.
4.    NEA followed up on the Review's recommendations by entering into a twinning
agreement with Electricite de France International (EdF), in October 1989. The services by EdF
were funded under the Project (Paras 9-1 1). The primary objective of the twinning arrangement
was to transfer the know-how needed for NEA to stand on its own. The arrangement called for
providing engineering, technical, financial and organizational assistance across the board, while
emphasizing improvements in NEA's management and corporate planning functions. The
assistance was provided through a team of on-site resident experts of EdF with support of another
team based in France. The EdF team followed the terms of reference (TOR) which included the
conduct of a diagnostic study of all the key NEA departments (i.e. finance, accounting, personnel,
generation, transmission, distribution, operations and maintenance), development of an action plan
designed to improve NEA's performance, agreement with NEA on a priority list of actions and
assistance in the implementation of the actions agreed with monitoring of the progress. During
implementation, the twinning team's activities were broadened to technical and other institutional
and organizational areas (Appendix C).
Objectives and Content
5.    The objectives of TA III (approved in 1988) were to assist HMG in (i) furthering the
development of Nepal's hydroelectric potential for meeting domestic and export demand and (ii)
carrying out high priority studies and other technical assistance (TA) measures in irrigation,
agriculture, power (especially for strengthening Nepal Electricity Authority - NEA - which had
started operations in FY86) and other infrastructure sectors.
6.    To pursue the first of the above objectives, TA III included (i) the field investigations in
Nepal for the Pancheswar development, (ii) the detailed engineering (financed by the Federal
Republic of Germany) of the Arun III project and (iii) the study of the evacuation of the power
from Arun III inter alia to India. The Project intended to help achieving the second set of
objectives through studies of (i) a ten-year transmission and distribution plan, (ii) the long-run
marginal cost of supply and NEA's tariffs, (iii) an institutional development plan for NEA, and (iv)
a rural electrification plan. The studies in other sectors were to be specified in the course of
implementation.
7.    The objectives of TA III were in line with IDA's general policies for the power sector and
its broad country objectives in effect in 1988, when the Project was approved. They also



- 3 -
complemented those pursued by the contemporaneous IDA projects in the sector (Seconrd
Technical Assistance, Karnali Preparation, and Marsyangdi; Table 2).
B. Achievement of Objectives
8.    TA III achieved the first objective (para. 5) with (i) the handing over to the authorities of
the report on the field investigations (including inter alia extensive drilling, exploratory
excavations and the preliminary environmental impact studies) for the Pancheswar development
on the Nepal side of the border in 03/91, i.e. about one year later than anticipated in the
President's Report, (ii) the completion of the engineering for Arun III in 1990, i.e. on schedule
(addenda covering mainly the environmental studies were submitted in 1992), and (iii) the
submission of the study of the evacuation of Arun III power in 08/90, i.e. about on schedule, too.
9.    NEA's twinning arrangement with EdF consolidated the studies and TA measures in
support of NEA' s institutional development, and provided for expertise in all aspects of power
utility practices with special emphasis on assisting NEA to develop a corporate plan and improve
operations management. After, ADB and IDA rejected a first version of the diagnostic study of
NEA's institutional development plan, they accepted a second proposal, but called for further
development of the overall implementation plan, which delayed the start of implementation by
about 18 months. Some findings and recommendations of the twinning, such as, the
establishment of Human Resources and Rural Electrification Directorates, each one headed by a
Director reporting directly to NEA's Managing Director, and appointment of accounting
consultants to separate NEA's rural electrification accounts, so that HMG would reimburse NEA
for annual losses incurred in rural electrification, were included under the subsequent Power
Sector Efficiency Project (PSEP - Table 2). NEA and EdF developed a performance
improvement plan which was incorporated into a Performance Agreement (PA) between the
Government and NEA, the first of which was signed in October 1992, as a condition of
effectiveness of PSEP. IDA was consulted along the process. The terms of the PA required
annual reviews. In addition, NEA developed a preliminary three-year rolling Corporate Plan.
10.   At the end of the twinning, EdF concluded that within the environment prevailing in 1992,
a twinning arrangement was not a form of intervention strong enough to be successful; its impact
would take too long to effectively address the serious short-term problems of the Nepal power
sector. EdF recommended that the next step in the institutional development of the Nepal power
sector and NEA would be a performance management contract to an outside contractor who
would be in charge of NEA's day-to-day operation. Its primary goals would be to take short-
term and mid-term actions to improve the personnel's productivity, lower the level of customer
accounts payable and better oversee working capital requirements. The performance management
contract would stipulate upfront the improvement objectives to be achieved. The contractor
would bring its own staff in key management positions and would have the required autonomy to
take the decisions needed. Its compensation would be tied to the performance obtained: it would
include a fixed payment and a variable remuneration based on actual performance.
11.   However, during the preparation/ appraisal/ negotiations of the then proposed Arun III
HEP, HMG and IDA did not agree with the last recommendation (which could have been seen as



a first step towards private sector involvement in NEA) and concentrated, in addition to above
mentioned Performance Agreement and updating of NEA's Corporate Plan, on strengthening
NEA' s institutional capability with actions and conditionality on the following: annual revisions
and reviews of the Performance Agreement, NEA Corporate Plan, Commercialization Plan,
Materials Management Plan, Accounting Action Plan, Receivable Action Plan, Insurance Action
Plan, Loss Reduction Program, three-year rolling Investment Plan and Annual Capital Investment
Program; plan of action for NEA's computerization of its consumer accounts, and actuarial
valuation of NEA's liabilities for staff pensions, and financing plan for these liabilities. In
retrospect, it is seen that the adequate management support to prepare and implement
satisfactorily in a sustainable way, all these actions were not considered in the Arun III project.
With IDA's withdrawal from the Arun III hydroelectric project, progress has been slow and many
of the institutional issues remain outstanding.
12.   The transmission and distribution plan as well as the tariff study were completed in the
second quarter of 1991, i.e. about one year late. Together with complements financed by ADB,
these studies were part of the basis for the PSEP project. The long-run marginal cost and tariff
study is still one of the main bases for NEA's planning. The rural electrification plan became
available in late 1990, i.e. at about the time foreseen at appraisal. It led to the inclusion under the
PSEP of the implementation of a test scheme in the Marsyangdi catchment. However, most of
these studies were hampered by the lack of pronipt response by NEA, which was manifest e.g. in
the late reactions to the draft studies.
13.   Project items not specified at the start of TA III came to include: (i) the design of the
upgrading of the Trisuli Devighat hydroplant (the study covering also the environmental impact
assessment and the bidding documents formed the basis for the implementation of the project
under the PSEP); (ii) complementary environmental investigations, as well as risk, procurement,
and transportation studies for Arun III, (iii) the funding of the Panel of Experts that accompanied
in particular the preparation of the Arun III project, and (iv) consultants' services for the
improvement of the Mungling-Marsyangdi road, which provides inter alia the access to the
Marsyangdi hydropower plant. /1
14.   The results of the Project were used in the definition of the 1992 PSEP, further
preparation of the Arun III project and the project definition study for Pancheswar2. The
strengthening of the sector and NEA was carried out in the context of the various reports
prepared under the twinning arrangements between NEA and EdF, but the consultant's principal
recommendation (performance management contract) was not pursued by the HMG and IDA.
/I     Funding for the physical work on the road came, in part, out of Credit 1478-NEP for the power plant
proper.
i2     Detailed engineering studies for the Pancheshwar project were carried out by consultants funded under
grants from the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA) and the Italian Trust Fund (ITF).
The World Bank was the executing agency for the ITF grant. Consultants final report is being reviewed
by the Government.



C. Major Factors Affecting the Project
Factors Generally not Under Government Control
15.   The studies concerning Pancheswar were heavily dependent upon a reasonably working
relationship between the two countries involved, in particular at the working level (i.e. essentially
the Joint Group of Experts). During the studies, the arrangement seems to have worked
reasonably well. However, since the completion of the investigations, the Pancheswar
development has not advanced much, in part, because of the persistently difficult relations
between Nepal and India. These also determined to an extent the fate of the Arun III project,
which, in the early 1990s, was transformed from a venture that would allow substantial power
exports to India into a project to meet practically only internal demand in Nepal. When, in
August 1995, IDA decided to withdraw from the Arun III project, the credit for TA III was
already closed. In January 1996, Nepal and India signed an agreement for the integrated
multipurpose development of the Mahakali river, on which the Pancheswar project would be
built3. In February 1996, they also signed an umbrella agreement to increase the power trade
between the two countries. On February 19, 1996, the 132 kV Duhabi (Nepal) - Kataiya (India)
transmission line was commissioned, thus permitting transfer of larger amounts of power between
the countries4. These developments within the last few months set the stage for larger scale
power imports from India in the short term and exports to that country in the longer term and,
improve the chances of realization of the Pancheswar multipurpose development.
16.   The TA for strengthening the sector suffered from the fact that ADB and IDA did not
have the same understanding as Electricite de France (EdF) of what NEA's institutional
development plan should include. Further, the sector had to carry out the institutional studies and
to implement their conclusions at the same time as it was constructing the largest hydro power
plant (i.e. Marsyangdi HEP) in the country, which clearly overtaxed management, leading to the
assignment by the Borrower of lower priority to the measures aiming at institutional
strengthening. Only a less ambitious overall development plan and/or an earlier implementation of
the twinning with a foreign utility could have improved and accelerated the impact of the
institutional component of TA III, provided the twinning could have been based from the start on
a full and detailed common understanding of the approach by all parties involved.
Factors Generally under Government and/or Sector Control
17.   Ownership by the Borrower of the measures included in TA III was uneven, definitely
weaker for those aiming at institutionally strengthening NEA and highest for the studies of future
investment, in particular in generation. Further, the lack of local funds (closely related to
inadequate cash generation in the sector), at times, slowed down implementation of the Project,
t3    IDA informed HMG: (i) that in case both Governments requested, the Bank would be ready to assist both
governments, with its technical input, in advancing their dialogue on the subject; and (ii) that for the
Bank to follow up the preparation of the project with further technical and financial assistance, the Bank
believed that the said dialogue should be advanced to a commercial commitment level.
4     In March 1996, NEA transferred 20 MW from Kataiya (Bihar, India) to its system.



-6 -
again, especially that of the Project's institution-building component. HMG opted at giving
priority on NEA's institutional development (without proper management constancy support)
rather than implementing the recommendation for a performance management contract with an
outside contractor.
D. Sustainability
18.   The sustainability of the benefits to be reaped from the studies that aimed at developing
large hydroplants mainly for power export to India hinges at the present stage on the relations
between the two countries both at the political and the technical level. In the past decade these
were at times quite difficult. Even if the future brings improvements (para 15), the above
sustainability must be qualified as uncertain. This also applies to the investigations on Arun III, as
the future of this project is unclear after its recent postponement.
19.   The sustainability of the benefits expected from the studies and other TA measures
concerning the power sector and aiming at strengthening the sector's institutions, especially NEA,
can again be qualified as uncertain. The sustainability would depend much on the adequacy and
realism of the measures proposed, i.e. whether the sector's capability will be adequate to carry
them out at the time their implementation becomes due. This degree of adequacy and realism has
undoubtedly improved from the Marsyangdi operation to the Project, as the TA III studies were
carried out on the basis of the lack of success of the measures considered earlier.
20.   It is difficult to provide an overall standard judgment on the sustainability of the benefits
of the TA III project, as the operation was made up of various components. The ICR considers
that, on balance, it is to be characterized as uncertain.
E. IDA Performance
21.   Although in hindsight (eight years after appraisal) it appears that IDA did not ensure
HMG and NEA's ownership of the institutional TA to NEA, in particular the twinning
arrangement, in view of successful delivery of the other products of the Project, IDA's
performance during identification/ preparation/ appraisal is rated satisfactory.
22.   However, as many of the institutional issues remain outstanding, IDA's performance in
supervising the technical assistance on institutional building cannot be rated satisfactory. IDA
could have intervened in amending the TOR for TA to NEA to make them less ambitious, more
realistic and more acceptable to HMG and NEA, thus ensuring better success of the TA services
provided. Because of the importance of the institutional strength of NEA, IDA's overall
performance in supervision is rated deficient.
23.   IDA also continued to lead the way in fostering co-operation between Nepal and India for
the further development of large hydropower plants which would generate energy largely for
export to India. In this aspect the interventions at top management level were particularly
laudable, though they ultimately did not have much lasting effect.



-7 -
F. Borrower Performance
24.   The Borrower's performance was, as could be expected, better in the context of the Arun
III and Pancheswar studies where ownership in the country was and is strong and less so in
connection with the TA aiming at improving sector performance which were less strongly owned
by HMG and the sector. Taking into account the sector's limited capability, the Borrower's
performance was, on balance, satisfactory.
25.   A weakness of the Project was the fact that it consisted of many different components, to
be carried out by different bodies (HMG for the Pancheswar component and various departments
of NEA for the other items). Initially, the implementation of the Project's components under
NEA's responsibility was by-and-large in the context of the twinning program between NEA and
EdF and allowed a relatively easy follow-up reflected in the numerous supervision reports (7 in 3
1/2 years). In the meantime, however, it has become difficult to trace some of the Project items
within NEA.
G. Assessment of Outcome
26.   The Project achieved most of its objectives (Section B). However, its outcome was
overall unsatisfactory, because probably benefits from institution building measures would not be
sustainable, and sustainability of benefits from power plant studies is uncertain.
H. Lessons
27.   To assure optimum utilization of the results of the TA measures of the Project, further TA
(in the form of management consultants to implement the results) should be considered in the
follow up projects. This was partly done under PSEP and was planned to be done (still partly)
under the Arun III project.
28.   The TOR for the NEA - EdF twinning arrangement were too ambitious and the Borrower,
NEA, the financiers (IDA and ADB) and the consultants did not have the same understanding of
what NEA's institutional development plan should include. In future, IDA should ensure that
TOR for such a substantial institution building effort are not beyond what the borrower and
implementing agency can accept; i.e., IDA should ensure borrower and implementing agency
ownership of the proposed TA measure.
1. Other Findings
29.   Many of the institutional issues remain outstanding. HMG, IDA and other major potential
donors of the then proposed Arun III HEP did not agree with EdF recommendations that the next
step in institutional development of the Nepal power sector and NEA would be a performance
management contract with an outside contractor.  Instead they concentrated on strengthening
NEA's institutional capacity, without adequate technical support. HMG and IDA may have
missed an opportunity to take the first steps towards private sector involvement in NEA.



- 8 -
30.   The Pancheswar multipurpose project as recommended as a result of the studies
conducted under the Project (installed capacity: 7,200 MW, dam height: 330 m; cost: over US$4
billion or US$555/kW at a rather low 20% plant factor) is very large, quite expensive and
therefore unlikely to attract financing in the short term. The above mentioned January 1996
agreement for the integrated multipurpose development of the Mahakali river, could improve the
chances of realization of the Pancheswar development in the longer term.



-9-
NEPAL
THIRD TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1902 -NEP)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION SUMMARY
PART H. Statistical Tables
Table I: Summary of Assessments
A.     Achievement of Objectives                   Substantial              Partial              Negligible             Not Applicable
Macroeconomic policies                       O                      E                       a
Sector policies                              O                      *                                                E l
Financial objectives                         C                      C                       C                        U
Physical objectives                          *                      C                      C                         C
Povertv reduction                            C                      °                       °                        U
Gender concerns                                                     E l                     O
Other social objectives                      a
Environmental objectives                     O                      O                       C                        U
Public sector management                     C                      *                       C                        C
Private sector management                    Q                                              C                        U
B.     Proiect sustainability                        Likely                           Unlikelv                            Uncertain
C                                  O                                        2
C.     Bank Performance                         Highly Satisfactory                 Satisfactorv                          Deficient
Identification                               °                                   *  3:                               °
Preparation assistance                       °                                      3i                               0 
Appraisal                                                                           3 i   1,                         C
Supervision                                  C                                   3                                   * 4/
D.     Borrower performance                     Highly Satisfactory                 Satisfactorl                          Deficient
Preparation                                  OC  °
Implementation                               C                                   U  51 
Covenant compliance                          C                                   U  5                                C
Operation (if applicable)                                                        El                                  Cl
D.     Assessment of Outcome                    Highly satisfactory      Satisfactory          Unsatisfactory        Highly unsatisfactory
C                                                                     C 6/ 
1/        Execution/completion of the various studies.
2/        Paras 18-20.
3/        Para 21
4/        Para 22
5/        Paras 24 and 25
6/        Para 26



- 10-
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/Credit Title and No.               Purpose               Year of          Status
Approval
Preceding Operations:
1. Cr. 600-NEP and 600-1-NEP:    Support of construction of next   1975      Completed in 1982;
Kulekhani Hvdroelectric      generation plant (60 MW) on least            audited by OED
cost sequence.
2. Cr. 1379-NEP:                Assistance to HMG in identifying    1983     Completed in 1990;
Technical Assistance II-'     and preparing high prioritv projects         PCR processed
suitable for IDA or other external
financing
3. Cr. 1452-NEP:                Feasibility studv of Karnali        1984     Completed in 1990:
Karnali Preparation           (Chisapani Multi-purpose Project             PCR processed
.with an ultimate capacity in excess
of 10,000 MW
4. Cr. 1478-NEP:                Construction of 69 MW hydroplant    1984     Completed, ICR
Marsyangdi Hydro             to meet domestic demand.                      completed in 1995
Following Operations
1. Cr. 2029-NEP:                Preparatory work for Arun III      1989      Canceled in 1995;
Arun III Access Road          hydro project                               ICR under
preparation
2. Cr. 2347-NEP:                Improving NEA's technical and       1992     Under
Power Sector Efficiency       operational efficiency, upgrading           implementation
existing generating capacity
"There was an earlier project called "Technical Assistance Project" and supported by Credit 659-NEP of
US$ equiv. 9.0 million approved in 1976, which ultimately did not include measures in the power sector.



- 11 -
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle           Date Planned                  Actual Date
Identification                                                   11/86
Preparation                                                    01/87-12/87
Appraisal                                                1/87 (no formal appraisal)
Negotiations                                                     02/88
Board presentation                   04/88                       04/88
Signing                             04/88                        11/88
Effectiveness                        08/8                        01/89
Project completion                   12/91                       09/94
Loan closing                        06/92                        06/94
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements; Cumulative (Estimated and Actual)
FY89       FY90       FY91       FY92        FY93
Estimate (million US$)      5.9        9.8        12.3       14.4        14.4
Actual (million US$)        1.5        5.9        9.8        12.5       14.3
Actual as % of Estimate    26%        60%        80%         87%        100%
Act.(million SDR)           1.1        4.5        7.4        9.3         10.5
Canceled (million SDR)                 0.1
Date of Final                       04/27193
Disbursement
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Not applicable: No indicators defined in President's Report



- 12 -
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Not applicable: Project covers only technical assistance
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Study               Purpose as Defined at          Status                  Impact
Appraisal/Redefined
1. Pancheswar: Report on     Create basis for               Completed         Input for next stage of
Field Investigations in    preparation of                                   project preparation'
Nepal                      feasibility study
2. Arun III: Detailed        Preparation of                 Completed         Input for project
Engineering               implementation                                   implementation
3. Arun III:                 Definition of the              Completed         Input for project
Transmission                facilities to evacuate                           preparation
Arun III energy to the
Nepal system and to
India
4. Transmission and           Contribution to a             Completed         Input for NEA's
Distribution Plan          reliable investment plan                         investment plan
5. Long-run Marginal         Create a basis for             Completed         Used as one basis for
Cost and Tariff Study      proper electricity                               NEA's planning and for
pricing                                         the Tariff Fixation
Commission in the
period 1992-94
6. Development Plan for       Create a basis for            Completed         Implementation of
NEA                        NEA's institutional                              recommendations
development                                     underway
7. Rural Electrification     Proper planning of RE          Completed
Plan                                                                       Implementation of a
pilot project under the
PSEP
I /    Detailed engineering studies for the Pancheshwar project were carried out by consultants funded under grants from
the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA) and the Italian Trust Fund (ITF). The World Bank was the
executing agency for the ITF grant. Consultants final report is being reviewed by the Government.



- 13 -
Table 8 A: Project Costs
Item                     Appraisal Estimate                 Actual/Latest Estimate
(Million USS)                       (Million US$)
Local      Foreign      Total       Local       Foreign      Total
Costs       Costs                   Costs        Costs
- Field Investigations       1.40        3.40        4.80         1.0         4.3         5.3
Pancheswar
- Engineering Arun III      0.95         3.55        4.50         1.2        17.9        19. 1(a)
- Arun III Transmission     0.10         0.40        0.50        0.1          0.4         0.5
- Transmission and          0.10         0.65        0.75        0.1          1.1         1.2
Distribution Plan
- Long-run Marginal Cost    0.07         0.33        0.40        0.1          1.0          1.1
and Tariff Study
- NEA Institutional         0.50         1.20        1.70        0.1          3.5         3.6
Development Plan
- Rural Electrification     0.10         0.45        0.55         ---         0.6         0.6
Plan
-Other Studies              0.75         4.25        5.00        0.3          1.3          1.6
Sub-Total                   3.97        14.23        18.20
Physical Conting.           0.40         1.42        1.82
Price Conting.              0.69         1.18        1.87
Total                       5.06        16.83        21.89        2.9        30.1        33.0
A) As it is impossible to separate which parts of Arun III engineering were considered in the appraisal
estimates for Cr. 1902-NEP, all of the engineering costs have been shown here.
Table 8B: Project Financing
Source                     Appraisal Estimate                      Actual
(Million US$)                     (Million US$)
Local     Foreign      Total      Local      Foreign      Total
Costs      Costs                  Costs       Costs
IBRD/IDA:                        1.68       12.71       14.39       0.5         13.9       14.4
Cofinancing institutions:
- Federal Republic of Germany    1.18       4.12        5.30         ---        16.2       16.2
Domestic contribution:
- HMG                            2.20        ---        2.20        2.4         ---        2.4
Total:                           5.06       16.83       21.89       2.9        30.1        33.0



- 14 -
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Technical Assistance Project: No economic return computed
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement  Section     Present      Original     Revised       Description of          Comments
Status    Fulfillment   Fulfillment     Covenant
Date         Date
DCA        3.08       Met          N.A.         N.A..     MWR to maintain   Project Chief employed
a Project Chief
DCA        3.09       Met         N.A..         N.A.      MoF to maintain a   Project Chief employed
Project Chief
DCA       4.01(b)    Not met      N.A..         N.A.      HMG to furnish     Project accounts became
audited project   available more than one
accounts less than   year after due date
12 months after
FY end
PA        3.02       Met          N.A..        N.A..     NEA to maintain a  Employed but often
Project Director for  changed
each main part of
the Project
PA        4.01      Not met                              NEA to maintain    Audited project accounts
proper accounts    for components executed by
and to submit     NEA not submitted, for
audited statements  Pancheswar (executed by
not later than 12    HMG) submitted in time.
months after FY   NEA's Audited accounts
cnd               with heavy qualifications
submitted about one year
late; improvements in
quality and timeliness in
the 1990s.



- 15 -
Table I1: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
No departure of substance from OMS statements.
Table 12: Bank Resources; Staff Inputs
Stage of                Planned                  Revised                   Actual
Proiect Cycle
Weeks      1000US$      Weeks       1000US$      Weeks       1000US$
Through appraisal                                                            1.8         4.7
Appraisal - Board                                                            13.7        36.5
Board - effectiveness                                                        -           -
Supervision                                                                 46.0        132.6
Completion                                                                   6.5         23.6
Total                                                                       68.0        197.4
" Included under supervisison



- 16 -
Table 13: Bank Resources; Missions
Stage of Project    Month/   Number    Days    Specialized      Performance Rating       Types of
Cvcle         Year       of        in      Staff Skills                             Problems
Persons    Field    Reoresented
Implementa   Development
-tion Status   Impact
Through
appraisal*
Appraisal through
Board approval**
Board approval
through effective-
ness
Supervision         08/89       1        8          SP             I
11/89      5       30***   SP,PE,EE.ES         1
03/90      4       22***   SP,PE,EE,ES         2
11/90      5       18***   SP,PE,EE,TS        2
03/91      3       27***        EE             2
11/91      3       13***     SP,FA,PE         2
SP,FA,PE
Completion          11/95       1      I1***        PE            --            --
Staff Skills:  SP: System Planner
PE: Power Engineer
EE: Energy Economist
ES: Environmental Specialist
TS: Training Specialist
FA: Financial Analyst
* Project preparation carried out in the context of other projects.
** No formal appraisal.
*** Missions also providing substantial contributions to other power projects in Nepal



- 17 -                           Appendix A
NEPAL
MARSYANGDI HYDROELECTRIC POWER PROJECT
(CREDIT 1478-NEP)
THIRD TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1902-NEP)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT MISSION
(NOVEMBER 1995)
AIDE-MEMOIRE
1.    Between November 8 and November 17, 1995, Mr. Rene A. Ribi, Consultant to the
Energy and Infrastructure Division of the World Bank's South Asia II Department, stayed in
Nepal to carry out the field work related to the preparation of IDA's ICRs for the two above
projects. The corresponding credits were closed in December 1994 and June 1994, respectively.
Mr. Ribi worked under the guidance of the Task Manager, Mr. Argun Ceyhan, who was in Nepal
on a different mission. Mr. Ribi would like to express his appreciation to the Electricity
Development Center (EDC) of the Ministry of Water Resources (MOWR) and Nepal Electricity
Authority (NEA) for their assistance and cooperation during the various discussions and the visit
to the Marsyangdi plant that took place during his stay in Nepal. IDA's final comments will be
sent by Management following its review of the present Aide-m6moire
2.    The objectives of the mission were:
-     to complement the data base for the report;
to discuss with NEA (a) the operation plan for Marsyangdi which NEA still has to provide
and (b) the measure to which the goals set in the projects were achieved, and
to provide advice and support to the entities of the Borrower in preparing their own
contribution to the ICR;
Data Base
3.    NEA has provided most of the data requested in IDA's letter of April 4, 1995. EDC and
the concerned departments of NEA have agreed to make available, by the end of November 1995,
the remaining information called for. /1
/I    On November 15, only (i) the breakdown of the Pancheswar component of the TA III project, (ii) the final
costs and financing of the various components of TA III for which NEA was responsible, and (iii) the
breakdown of NEA's operating costs for the past three fiscal years and a statement of the development of



- 18 -                          Appendix A
Operation Plan
NEA has submitted a draft operation plan which the mission discussed with the main author. It
was agreed that the final plan, which NEA is to provide by mid December 1995, would outline in
some more detail than the draft the sophisticated arrangements directing operation and
maintenance of the plant, as these arrangements should be a model for the management of other
facilities in the system.
Outcome of the Marsyangdi Project (Credit 1478)
4.    IDA's ICR for this project, which was co-financed by His Majesty's Government (HMG),
Kreditanstalt fuir Wiederaufbau (KfW), the Saudi Fund, the Kuwait Fund, and IDA, will
substantiate IDA's following main findings that crystallized before and during the mission:
NEA, with support from HMG achieved the physical objectives of the project with a high
degree of success: (i) though the plant and its associated facilities was completed seven
months late with respect to the schedule in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) their cost
was some 20% lower than set forth in the appraisal estimate. (ii) the plant's output grew
from 331 GWh in the first full year of operation (1990) to 438 GWh in 1994 which
corresponds to a high plant utilization of 72% and represents about half the total
generation in NEA's system. At the time of the mission's visit, the installation was running
at over 75 MW, the name plate capacity being 69 MW.
The implementation of the institutional measures included in the project was less
successful than that of the project's physical component: (i) NEA institutional
strengthening was slower than expected; (ii) the sector finances remained weak
throughout project implementation; however, in the context of follow-on projects
revenues dramatically increased, accounting and auditing improved both in quality and
timeliness, and accounts receivable from Government fell substantially; (iii) most of the
postponed maintenance which was planned to be carried out during project
implementation had to be delayed until after its completion; (iv) the loss reduction
program failed to achieve the targets agreed at appraisal and was taken up in follow-on
projects; and (v) training developed only slowly under the project; however, progress
improved substantially once the main disagreements between Nepal and IDA on the one
hand and the consultants on the other were eliminated, which occurred in later stages of
the Third Technical Assistance Project (Pancheswar) - TA III - . The subsequent Power
Sector Efficiency Project (PSEP) included further training in line with the previous
programs.
Government receivables were still outstanding. Part of this information is likely to become available
before Mr. Ribi's departure from Kathmandu.



- 19 -                          Appendix A
Major complementary work at Marsyangdi, mostly financed or expected to be financed by
KfW, includes: (i) the modifications needed at the manifold where hydraulic instability
occurs and creates unplanned fluctuations in the turbine output; this work is presently
under negotiations with a member of the consortium that supplied the manifold; the cost is
likely to be substantially higher than the DM I million still retained from the contractor;
completion is expected for the first semester of 1997; (ii) at the weir site, NEA is
constructing facilities that will house central control equipment for all the gates in the
weir/sedimentation pond/intake area and the laboratory for water and sediment analysis,
and (iii) as a glacier lake in the upper reaches of the Marsyangdi catchment is growing and
could become a threat to the plant, a study of the problem is planned for 1996.
Outcome of the TA HI Project (Credit 1902)
5.    The ICR for the TA III project co-financed by HMG, KfW, and IDA will discuss the
following main findings by IDA:
The first project objective was to assist HMG in further ascertaining the least cost way to
develop electricity supply to meet expected local and export demand. It was achieved
through the conclusion, about one year later than anticipated at project start, of the field
investigations (on the Nepalese side of the Nepal/India border) for the Pancheswar
development.
The second broad project goal was to advance the design of Arun III which was achieved
through the timely completion of the engineering for the facilities and of the power
evacuation study.
The technical assistance measures supporting the sector's institutional development were
consolidated in a package that was executed in the context of the twinning arrangement
between NEA and Electricite de France (EdF) concluded to follow up on
recommendations set forth in the 1987 Power Sector Review sponsored by ADB and
IDA. At first, progress was disappointing. Only after the TA III project was essentially
completed, did the measures started under the project have a measure of success in the
context of follow-on projects.
The 10-year transmission and distribution plan was successfully completed and fulfills the
purpose for which it was prepared. The same applies to the long-run marginal cost and
tariff study which is one of the main bases used by NEA for its planning. The rural
electrification plan, in turn, led to the inclusion of the implementation of a test scheme in
the Marsyangdi catchment under the PSEP; all these studies were somewhat hampered by
the limited response of NEA to their early results.
The design of the Trisuli-Devighat upgrading was the only item not specified at project
start. However, it fit the concept of the project and formed the basis for the
implementation of the improvements under the PSEP.



- 20 -                          Appendix A
Borrower's and Beneficiary's Own Assessments
6.    Section 3.03 of the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) for Credit 1478 requires NEA
to prepare its own assessment and analysis of the project's implementation and outcome. The
essential content of such a report was discussed with NEA's project manager and it was agreed
that NEA would complete its contribution to the ex-post evaluation of the Marsyangdi project by
mid December 1995.
7.    The DCA for Credit 1902 does not include the section on the preparation of an ICR, but
the mission considers that it would be valuable to prepare such an assessment, the more so as the
responsibility for the various project parts were widely disseminated within the sector and most of
the persons who, at the time, were responsible for the components are either in new positions or
have left the organization. Thus, the institutional memory for this project is vanishing fast.



- 21 -                         Appendix B
NEPAL
THIRD TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1902-NEP)
COMMENTS PROVIDED BY
KREDITANSTALT FUR WIEDERAUFBAU (KfW)
KfW's letter dated April 12. 1996. addressed to the World Bank
Subject      Financial Cooperation with Nepal
Third Technical Assistance Project (Cr. 1902-IN)
Implementation Completion Report
Dear Mr. Bauer:
Reference is made to your letter dated April 4, 1996, in which you have asked for
our comments to the above mentioned revised draft of the ICR. Please be informed that
we agree in principle to the ICR. However, regarding NEA' s capability we are of the
opinion that the report gives a rather negative assessment. In our Arun III appraisal report
we have also given a very critical assessment of NEA but finally we came to the
conclusion that the existing institutional weaknesses can be overcome by fulfilling the
conditions, inter alia the commercialization of NEA and several other reforms, mutually
agreed upon between the donors HMGN and NEA. This assessment is of course based on
the assumption of a rather continuous increase in the size of projects to be managed by
NEA. Therefore, we cannot share your opinion mentioned in the last sentence in para 26
of the ICR. Furthermore, we would like to state, that the T. A. program especially for
Marsyangdi yielded overall satisfactory results and contributed efficiently to capacity
building within NEA concerning O&M of middle sized hydro-electric power plants.
(Signed by Mr. Heidt and Dr. Freisens)



- 22 -                        Appendix C
NEPAL
THIRD TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1902-NEP)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SUMMARY OF RESULTS OF THE NEA - EdF TWINNING ARRANGEMENT
Institutional Assistance
* Assistance to NEA in drafting the Performance Agreement between HMG and NEA.
Assistance to NEA in determining the level of the debt due by NEA to HMG.
Organizational Assistance
Definition of a new "corporate mission" for NEA.
* Drafting of a corporate plan with the involvement of NEA's directors.
- Development of guidelines to decentralize operations.
C Creation of a Human Resource Department.
- Drafting of a Staff Redeployment Plan to deal with the high overstaffing level at NEA.
* Outline of a new project management approach to handle large projects.
Technical Assistance
EdF twinning team operated as an internal consultant and realized several engineering
studies at NEA's request, such as:
* Development of plans to reduce NEA's receivable accounts and losses.
* Execution of a load management study.
* Establishment of new standard operating procedures.
* Repairing of the Lainchaur substation.
* Feasibility study of upgrading the Trishuli Derighat plant.






IMAGING
Report No:      15654
Type: ICR



