Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 1902 NEP
         (Third Technical Assistance (Pancheswar) Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                                and
                   NEPAL ELECTRICITY AUTHORITY
                      Dated November 28, 1988
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 1902 NEP
                         PROJECT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated  November  28,  1988,  between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION  (the  Association)  and NEPAL ELECTRICITY
AUTHORITY (NEA).
     WHEREAS (A) by the Development  Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between  the  Kingdom  of  Nepal  (the  Borrower) and the
Association, the Association has  agreed  to make available to the
Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to ten million
six hundred thousand Special  Drawing  Rights (SDR 10,600,000), on
the terms  and  conditions  set  forth  in  the Development Credit
Agreement, but only on condition  that NEA agree to undertake such
obligations toward  the  Association  as  are  set  forth  in this
Agreement;
     (B)  the Borrower  will  make  available  to  NEA  out of the
proceeds  of  the  Credit  as  a  grant  an  amount  equivalent to
SDR 3,080,000; and
     WHEREAS NEA, in  consideration  of the Association's entering
Page  2
into the  Development  Credit  Agreement  with  the  Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
     Section 1.01.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms defined  in  the  Development  Credit Agreement, the
Preamble to this Agreement  and  in  the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 2.01. NEA declares  its  commitment to the objectives
of the Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule  2 to the Development
Credit Agreement, and, to this end,  shall carry out Parts B and C
of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative,  financial, engineering and power
utility practices, and  shall  provide,  or  cause to be provided,
promptly as  needed,  the  funds,  facilities,  services and other
resources required for the Project.
     Section  2.02.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the  goods,  works and consultants' services
required for Part C of the  Project  and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit shall be  governed by the provisions of the
Schedule to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. NEA shall  carry  out the obligations set forth
in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05,  9.06,  9.07 and 9.08 of the General
Conditions (relating  to  insurance,  use  of  goods and services,
plans and schedules,  records  and  reports,  maintenance and land
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement and
Parts B and C of the Project.
     Section  2.04.  (a)  NEA   shall,   at  the  request  of  the
Association, exchange views  with  the  Association with regard to
the progress of Parts B and  C  of the Project, the performance of
its obligations under this Agreement and other matters relating to
the purposes of the Credit.
     (b)  NEA  shall  promptly  inform   the  Association  of  any
condition which  interferes  or  threatens  to  interfere with the
progress of Parts B and  C  of  the Project, the accomplishment of
the purposes of  the  Credit,  or  the  performance  by NEA of its
obligations under this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                 Management and Operations of NEA
     Section 3.01. NEA shall  carry  on its operations and conduct
its affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial and
power utility practices  under  the  supervision  of qualified and
experienced management  assisted  by  competent  staff in adequate
numbers.
     Section 3.02. Without limitation  or  restriction upon any of
its obligation under this  Agreement,  NEA  shall, for purposes of
carrying out Parts B, C (i), C (ii),  C (iii), C (iv) and C (v) of
the Project:
     (a)  maintain the position of  Project Director for each such
Parts of the Project, each to  be  assigned at all times with such
power, functions  and  responsibilities  as  shall  be required to
enable each of them to  adequately  and efficiently carry out such
Parts of the Project; and
Page  3
     (b)  maintain in  such  position,  officers  whose qualifica-
tions, experience and terms of  reference shall be satisfactory to
the Association.
     Section 3.03. NEA shall at all times operate and maintain its
plant, machinery, equipment and  other  property, and from time to
time, promptly as needed, make  all necessary repairs and renewals
thereof, all in accordance  with  sound engineering, financial and
power utility practices.
     Section 3.04. NEA shall  take  out  and maintain with respon-
sible  insurers,  or  make  other  provision  satisfactory  to the
Association for, insurance against such  risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a)  NEA  shall  maintain  records and accounts
adequate to reflect in  accordance with sound accounting practices
its operations and financial condition.
     (b)  NEA shall:
          (i)  have its records, accounts and financial statements
               (balance sheets, statements  of income and expenses
               and  related  statements)   for  each  fiscal  year
               audited, in  accordance  with  appropriate auditing
               principles  consistently  applied,  by  independent
               auditors acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association  as  soon as available,
               but in any case not  later than twelve months after
               the end of each such  year: (A) certified copies of
               its  financial  statements  for  such  year  as  so
               audited, and (B) the  report  of such audit by said
               auditors, of such scope  and  in such detail as the
               Association shall have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning  said  records,  accounts  and financial
               statements as well  as  the  audit  thereof, as the
               Association  shall  from  time  to  time reasonably
               request.
                             ARTICLE V
                   Effective Date; Termination;
                    Cancellation and Suspension
     Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon  which  the  Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
     Section 5.02. (a) This  Agreement  and all obligations of the
Association and of NEA  thereunder  shall terminate on the earlier
of the following two dates:
          (i)  the date on which  the Development Credit Agreement
               shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
         (ii)  the date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
     (b)  If  the  Development   Credit  Agreement  terminates  in
accordance with its terms  before  the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this  Section,  the  Association shall promptly notify
NEA of this event.
     Section 5.03.  All  the  provisions  of  this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
Page  4
or suspension under the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
     Section 6.01. Any notice or  request required or permitted to
be given or made  under  this  Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by  this  Agreement  shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be  deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall  be  delivered  by  hand  or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the  party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or  made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or  at  such  other  address  as  such  party shall have
designated by notice to  the  party  giving  such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                    Telex:
                INDEVAS                       440098 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
                                               64145 (WUI)
     For NEA:
          Nepal Electricity Authority
          Durbur Marg
          Kathmandu, Nepal
          Cable address:                    Telex:
                BIDYUT                         2312 NP
                Kathmandu, Nepal
     Section 6.02. Any action  required  or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or  permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf  of  NEA,  may  be  taken  or  executed by the
Managing Director or such  other  person  or  persons as NEA shall
designate in writing,  and  NEA  shall  furnish to the Association
sufficient  evidence  of  the   authority  and  the  authenticated
specimen signature of each such person.
     Section 6.03.  This  Agreement  may  be  executed  in several
counterparts,  each  of  which  shall  be  an  original,  and  all
collectively but one instrument.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                    By /s/ Attila Karaosmanoglu
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                              Asia
Page  5
                    NEPAL ELECTRICITY AUTHORITY
                    By /s/ Mohan Man Sainju
                                        Authorized Representative
                             SCHEDULE
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:   Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   Procurement Procedures
     (a)  All vehicles, including  spare  parts therefor, shall be
procured under  contracts  awarded  on  the  basis  of competitive
bidding advertised locally,  in  accordance  with local procedures
satisfactory to the Association.
     (b)  Materials, equipment (except  vehicles)  and spare parts
therefor shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
comparison of price quotations solicited  from  a list of at least
three  qualified  suppliers  eligible  under  the  "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank  Loans  and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in  May  1985  (hereinafter  called  the Guidelines) and,
where appropriate, from at least three different countries.
Part B:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect to  each  contract  for  goods estimated to
cost the equivalent of $100,000  or more, the procedures set forth
in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be  modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract  required  to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the  making  of  the first payment out of
the Special Account in respect of such contract.
     (b)  With respect to each  contract  not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth  in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to  the  Guidelines  shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to  be  made  out  of  the Special Account, such
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies  of  the  contract  together  with  the  other  information
required to  be  furnished  to  the  Association  pursuant to said
paragraph 3 shall be furnished  to  the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to  paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to
the Development Credit Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b)  shall  not  apply  to  contracts  on  account  of  which  the
Association has authorized withdrawals  from the Credit Account on
the basis of statements  of  expenditure.  Such contracts shall be
retained  in  accordance  with  Section   4.01  (c)  (ii)  of  the
Development Credit Agreement.
2.   The figure of 15% is  hereby  specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II:  Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist NEA in carrying out:
     (a)  Part  B  of  the  Project,  NEA  shall  furnish  to  the
Association a proposed short list of consultants and a draft terms
of reference  for  the  Association's  comments,  and, thereafter,
taking into account  the  Association's  comments,  if any, employ
Page  6
consultants with  suitable  qualifications,  experience, and terms
and conditions of employment; and
     (b)  Part C  of  the  Project,  NEA  shall employ consultants
whose  qualifications,  experience  and  terms  and  conditions of
employment  shall  be   satisfactory   to  the  Association.  Such
consultants shall be  selected  in  accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to  the  Association  on  the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and
by the World Bank as  Executing  Agency"  published by the Bank in
August 1981.
