Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 1902 NEP
         (Third Technical Assistance (Pancheswar) Project)
                              between
                         KINGDOM OF NEPAL
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                      Dated November 28, 1988
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 1902 NEP
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated November  28,  1988,  between THE KINGDOM OF
NEPAL (the  Borrower)  and  INTERNATIONAL  DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(the Association).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower,  having  satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has  requested  the  Association  to assist in the
financing of the Project;
     (B)  on December 10, 1977, the  Borrower and India reached an
understanding to analyze  the  Pancheswar Multipurpose Project and
conduct  the  required  field  investigation  on  their respective
territories;
     (C)  on July  20,  1987,  the  Borrower  has  entered into an
agreement  with  the  Federal  Republic  of  Germany  (hereinafter
called  the  Financial  Cooperation  Agreement)  for  purposes  of
contracting a grant  in  an  amount  of Deutsche Marks twenty-five
Page  2
million (DM 25,000,000)  to  assist  in  the  financing of various
development projects in Nepal,  and  pursuant to the provisions of
the  Financial  Cooperation  Agreement  the  Borrower  intends  to
enter  into  an  agreement  with  Kreditanstalt  før  Wiederaufbau
(hereinafter called the  KfW  Grant  Agreement)  for contracting a
grant in an amount  up  to  Deutsche  Marks nineteen million three
hundred thousand (DM  19,300,000)  to  assist  in the financing of
Part B of the Project, on the terms and conditions to be set forth
in the KfW Grant Agreement; and
     WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend  the  Credit  to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the  last  sentence  of  Section  3.02  deleted  (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth:
     (a)  "Project  Agreement"  means  the  agreement  between the
Association and Nepal Electricity Authority of even date herewith,
as the same  may  be  amended  from  time  to  time, and such term
includes all schedules and  agreements supplemental to the Project
Agreement;
     (b)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
     (c)  "Joint Group of Experts" and  the acronym "JGE" mean the
committee established on December 1977,  by the Borrower and India
to  determine,  inter  alia,  the  technical  feasibility  of  the
Pancheswar Multipurpose Project;
     (d)  "Pancheswar Multipurpose Project"  means  the Project to
be  located  at  the  Mahakali  river  whose  future  execution is
expected to be carried out  on  the  basis of the: (i) results and
recommendations of the studies  under  Part  A of the Project; and
(ii) agreement(s) to be reached  by  the Borrower and India on the
implementation of such project,  including feasibility, design and
detailed engineering studies;
     (e)  "Arun-3 Hydroelectric Power  Project"  means the project
to be located in the Arun river whose future execution is expected
to be carried out on the  basis of the results and recommendations
of the studies under Parts B and C (i) of the Project;
     (f)  "Nepal Rastra Bank"  means  the Borrower's central bank,
established and operating pursuant  to the Borrower's Nepal Rastra
Bank Act, 2012 (1955), as amended to the date of this Agreement;
     (g)  "Nepal  Electricity  Authority"  and  the  acronym "NEA"
mean an  autonomous  corporation  wholly  owned  by  the Borrower,
established  and  operating  since   August  17,  1985  under  the
Borrower's Nepal Electricity Authority Act 2041 (1984); and
     (h)  "Sub-project"  means  a  particular  study  or technical
assistance project of high  priority,  inter alia, in the agricul-
ture, irrigation, power  and  other  infrastructure subsectors, to
meet  the  economic  and  social  development  objectives  of  the
Borrower, and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
Page  3
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
     Section 2.O1. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms  and  conditions  set  forth  or  referred  to in the
Development Credit  Agreement,  an  amount  in  various currencies
equivalent to ten  million  six  hundred  thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 10,600,000).
     Section 2.O2. (a) The amount  of  the Credit may be withdrawn
from the  Credit  Account  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made (or, if the
Association  shall  so  agree,  to  be  made)  in  respect  of the
reasonable cost of  goods  and  services  required for the Project
described in Schedule 2 to  this  Agreement and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special account in the Nepal Rastra
Bank on  terms  and  conditions  satisfactory  to the Association.
Deposits into, and payments out  of,  the Special Account shall be
made in accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Schedule  4 to this
Agreement.
     Section 2.O3. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1992 or such
later date as  the  Association  shall  establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. (a)  The  Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge  on  the  principal  amount  of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
     (b)  The commitment charge  shall  accrue  from  a date sixty
days after the date of  this  Agreement to the respective dates on
which amounts shall be withdrawn  by  the Borrower from the Credit
Account or cancelled at the  rates  set from time to time pursuant
to paragraph (a) above.  The rate  set  as of June 30 in each year
shall be  applied  as  of  the  next  payment  date  in  that year
specified in Section 2.06 of  this Agreement, except that the rate
set as of June 30, 1988 shall be applied as of July 1, 1988.
     (c)  The commitment charge shall be  paid: (i) at such places
as  the  Association   shall   reasonably  request;  (ii)  without
restrictions of any kind imposed  by,  or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in  the  currency  specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section  4.02  of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency  or  currencies  as  may from time to
time be designated or selected  pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
     Section 2.O5. The  Borrower  shall  pay  to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal  amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
     Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. (a) Subject  to  paragraphs  (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay  the  principal  amount  of the Credit in
semi-annual installments payable on  each  May  15 and November 15
commencing  May  15,  1998  and  ending  November  15,  2027. Each
installment  to   and   including   the   installment  payable  on
November 15, 2007  shall  be  one  percent  (1%) of such principal
amount, and each installment thereafter  shall be two percent (2%)
of such principal amount.
     (b)  Whenever: (i) the Borrower's  gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
Page  4
in constant 1985 dollars for  five consecutive years, and (ii) the
Bank shall consider  the  Borrower  creditworthy for Bank lending,
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof
by the  Executive  Directors  of  the  Association  and  after due
consideration  by  them  of  the  development  of  the  Borrower's
economy, modify  the  terms  of  repayment  of  installments under
paragraph (a)  above  by  requiring  the  Borrower  to repay twice
the  amount  of  each  such  installment  not  yet  due  until the
principal amount of  the  Credit  shall  have  been  repaid. If so
requested  by  the  Borrower,  the  Association  may  revise  such
modification to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in
the amounts of such  installments,  the  payment of interest at an
annual rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of
the Credit withdrawn and  outstanding  from time to time, provided
that, in the judgment of  the Association, such revision shall not
change  the  grant  element  obtained  under  the  above-mentioned
repayment modification.
     (c)  If, at any time  after  a modification of terms pursuant
to  paragraph  (b)  above,  the  Association  determines  that the
Borrower's economic condition  has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so  requested  by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to  conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
     Section 2.O8. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes  of  Section 4.O2 of the General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.O1. The  Borrower  declares  its  commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end,  shall, through its Ministry of Water
Resources, carry out Part A of the Project, through NEA, carry out
Parts B and C of the Project, and through its Ministry of Finance,
Part D of the Project,  all  with due diligence and efficiency and
in conformity  with  appropriate  engineering,  agriculture, irri-
gation,  power  and   other   infrastructure,  administrative  and
financial practices, and  shall  provide,  promptly as needed, the
funds,  facilities,  services  and  other  resources  required for
the  Project,  including,   without  limitation,  the  facilities,
resources and counterpart  staff  required  for  the studies under
the Project.
     Section 3.02. Without any  limitation or restriction upon any
of its other obligations  under  the Development Credit Agreement,
the Borrower shall cause  NEA  to  perform  in accordance with the
provisions of the  Project  Agreement  all  the obligations of NEA
therein set forth, shall  take  or  cause  to be taken all action,
including the provision of  funds,  facilities, services and other
resources, necessary or appropriate to  enable NEA to perform such
obligations and shall not take  or  permit  to be taken any action
which could prevent or interfere with such performance.
     Section  3.O3.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the  goods,  works and consultants' services
required for Parts A and D  of  the Project and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit  shall be governed by the provisions
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
     Section 3.04. The Borrower shall,  out of the proceeds of the
Credit, make available to NEA  as  a grant an amount equivalent to
SDR 3,080,000.
     Section 3.05.  The  Borrower  shall  keep  the  JGE regularly
informed on the progress of Part  A of the Project, inter alia, to
ensure that the studies under such Part of the Project are carried
out consistent in nature and scope with those already been done by
India for the Pancheswar Multipurpose Project.
Page  5
     Section 3.06. The Borrower  undertakes  that each of the Sub-
projects to be carried out  under  Part  D of the Project shall be
selected in accordance with the following criteria:
     (a)  be of  high  priority  for  implementing  the Borrower's
overall development strategy; and
     (b)  be  found  acceptable  by   the  Association.  For  such
purposes, the Borrower shall, by  December  31, 1989 or such later
date as the  Borrower  and  the  Association  may otherwise agree,
furnish  to  the  Association,  for  its  approval,  each proposed
Sub-project  together  with  the  information  and  data  that the
Association may reasonably require.
     Section 3.07. The Association  and  the Borrower hereby agree
that the obligations set forth  in Section 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06,
9.07 and 9.08 of  the  General  Conditions (relating to insurance,
use of  goods  and  services,  plans  and  schedules,  records and
reports,  maintenance  and   land  acquisition,  respectively)  in
respect of Parts B and C  of  the  Project shall be carried out by
NEA pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
     Section 3.08. The Borrower shall:
     (a)  within its  Ministry  of  Water  Resources, maintain the
position  of  Project  Chief   with  such  powers,  functions  and
responsibilities as shall be required  to enable the said Chief to
administer and coordinate the  various  activities under Part A of
the Project; and
     (b)  maintain   in   such    position,   an   officer   whose
qualifications,  experience  and  terms   of  reference  shall  be
satisfactory to the Association, and  who shall report directly to
the Secretary of the Borrower's Ministry of Water Resources.
     Section 3.09. The Borrower shall:
     (a)  within  its  Ministry   of   Finance,  or  its  relevant
Ministries, maintain  the  position  of  Project  Chief  with such
powers, functions and  responsibilities  as  shall  be required to
enable the said Chief(s) to  administer and coordinate the various
activities under Part D of the Project; and
     (b)  maintain  in   such   position,   an   officer(s)  whose
qualifications,  experience  and  terms   of  reference  shall  be
satisfactory to the Association, and  who shall report directly to
the Secretary of the Borrower's Ministry of Finance.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.O1. (a) The Borrower  shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts  adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound  accounting  practices  the  operations,  resources and
expenditures in respect of Parts  A  and  D  of the Project of the
departments or agencies of  the  Borrower responsible for carrying
out such Parts of the Project or any part thereof.
     (b)   The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have  the  records  and  accounts  referred  to  in
               paragraph (a) of  this  Section including those for
               the Special Account  for  each fiscal year audited,
               in accordance with  appropriate auditing principles
               consistently  applied,   by   independent  auditors
               acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association,  as soon as available,
               but in any case not  later than twelve months after
               the end of each such  year, a certified copy of the
Page  6
               report of  such  audit  by  said  auditors, of such
               scope and in such  detail  as the Association shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning said  records,  accounts  and  the audit
               thereof as the Association  shall from time to time
               reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were  made  on  the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be maintained, in accordance
               with paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section, records and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least  one year after the Associa-
               tion has received the audit  for the fiscal year in
               which the last  withdrawal  from the Credit Account
               was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
               bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine
               such records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section  and  that  the  report  of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal  year,  together with the proce-
               dures  and  internal  controls  involved  in  their
               preparation, can  be  relied  upon  to  support the
               related withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section 5.01. The  following  events  are  specified as addi-
tional conditions to the  effectiveness  of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of  Section  12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
     (a)  that the consultants for  carrying  out  Parts B, C (i),
(C) (ii) and (C) (iii) of the Project, have been employed pursuant
to the provisions of  Section  II  of  the Schedule to the Project
Agreement; and
     (b)  that all conditions  of  effectiveness  of the KfW Grant
Agreement, other than the effectiveness of this Agreement, if that
be the case, have been met.
     Section 5.02. The  following  is  specified  as an additional
matter within the  meaning  of  Section  12.02  (c) of the General
Condition, to  be  included  in  the  opinion  or  opinions  to be
furnished to the Association,  namely,  that the Project Agreement
has been duly authorized or ratified by NEA and is legally binding
upon NEA in accordance with its terms.
     Section 5.03. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this Agreement is  hereby  specified  for  the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 6.01.  The  Secretary,  Ministry  of  Finance  of the
Borrower is designated as  representative  of the Borrower for the
Page  7
purposes of Section 11.O3 of the General Conditions.
     Section 6.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministry of Finance
          His Majesty's Government
          Kathmandu
          Nepal
          Cable address:                      Telex:
                ARTMA                            2249-NP
                Kathmandu, Nepal
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 2O433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
                INDEVAS                          44OO98 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                          KINGDOM OF NEPAL
                          By /s/ Mohan Man Sainju
                                         Authorized Representative
                          INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                          By /s/ Attila Karaosmanoglu
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                              Asia
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of  the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the  Credit  to  each  Category  and  the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated            % of
                           (Expressed in          Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)  Works under                 1,100,000       81%
Page  8
     Part A of
     the Project
(2)  Equipment,                                  100% of foreign
     vehicles and                                expenditures;
     materials:                                  100% of local
                                                 expenditures
     (a)  under Part A           1,390,000       (ex-factory
          of the Project                         cost); and 65%
                                                 of local expend-
     (b)  under Part C             150,000       itures for other
          of the Project                         items procured
                                                 locally
(3)  Consultants'                                100%
     services:
     (a)  under Part A             770,000
          of the Project
     (b)  under Part C           2,930,000
          of the Project
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated            % of
                           (Expressed in          Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(4)  Sub-projects                3,660,000       100%
     under Part D
     of the Project
(5)  Unallocated                   600,000
                                __________
         TOTAL                  10,600,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "foreign  expenditures"  means expenditures in
the currency of any country  other  than  that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
     (b)  the term "local expenditures"  means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower  or  for  goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraph  1  above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
     (a)  payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement; and
     (b)  expenditures under Category 4  of the table in paragraph
1 of this  Schedule  with  regard  to  each  Sub-project until the
Borrower has complied with the  provisions of Section 3.06 of this
Agreement in respect of each such Sub-project.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project  are  to assist the Borrower in
implementing its policies  on  securing  the  least-cost supply of
electricity for  domestic  use  and  exports;  and  to support its
economic and social development through high priority studies.
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
Page  9
modifications thereof  as  the  Borrower  and  the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
     The carrying out within Nepal of field investigations for the
Pancheswar Multipurpose Project, including  aspects related to the
engineering, socio-economic, environmental impact and resettlement
and rehabilitation of people.
Part B:
     The carrying  out  of  detailed  engineering  studies for the
Arun-3  Hydroelectric  Power  Project,  including  the  headworks,
waterways and powerhouse.
Part C:
     The carrying out of the following studies:
      (i)   evacuation of bulk power from the Arun-3 Hydroelectric
            Power Project into: (1) the Nepal interconnected power
            system, and  (2)  external  power grids interconnected
            with Nepal's power grid,  including the preparation of
            detailed  engineering   studies   for   the  resulting
            facilities;
     (ii)   a 10-year  master  plan  for  transmission and distri-
            bution of electricity in Nepal;
    (iii)   a long-run marginal cost study of electricity tariffs,
            including  a  plan  to  gradually  adjust  electricity
            tariffs to reflect the  economic  cost of supply, meet
            the social objectives of  the Borrower and satisfy the
            financial  requirements   of   the   Borrower's  Nepal
            Electricity Authority;
     (iv)   a  plan   for   strengthening   the  Borrower's  Nepal
            Electricity Authority; and
      (v)   a 10-year strategy  plan  for rural electrification in
            Nepal.
Part D:
     The carrying out of Sub-projects.
                           *     *     *
     The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1991.
                            SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   Procurement Procedures
     (a)  All civil  works  and  vehicles,  including  spare parts
therefor, shall be procured  under  contracts awarded on the basis
of competitive  bidding  advertised  locally,  in  accordance with
local procedures satisfactory to the Association.
     (b)  Materials, equipment (except  vehicles)  and spare parts
therefor shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
comparison of price quotations solicited  from  a list of at least
three  qualified  suppliers  eligible  under  the  "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank  Loans  and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in  May  1985  (hereinafter  called  the Guidelines) and,
Page  10
where appropriate, from at least three different countries.
Part B:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.  Review of invitations to  bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect to  each  contract  for  goods estimated to
cost the equivalent of $100,000  or  more and with respect to each
contract for  civil  works  estimated  to  cost  the equivalent of
$200,000 or more, the procedures  set  forth in paragraphs 2 and 4
of Appendix 1 to  the  Guidelines  shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to  be  made  out  of  the Special Account, such
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Association
pursuant to  said  paragraph  2  (d)  shall  be  furnished  to the
Association prior to the making  of  the  first payment out of the
Special Account in respect of such contract.
     (b)  With respect to each  contract  not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth  in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to  the  Guidelines  shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to  be  made  out  of  the Special Account, such
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies  of  the  contract  together  with  the  other  information
required to  be  furnished  to  the  Association  pursuant to said
paragraph 3 shall be furnished  to  the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to  paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.
     (c)  The  provisions  of   the  preceding  subparagraphs  (a)
and (b) shall  not  apply  to  contracts  on  account of which the
Association has  authorized  withdrawals  from  the Credit Account
on the basis of  statements  of  expenditure. Such contracts shall
be retained in  accordance  with  Section  4.01  (c)  (ii) of this
Agreement.
3.   The figure of 15% is  hereby  specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.   Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Parts A and D
of  the  Project,  the  Borrower  shall  employ  consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms  and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to  the  Association. Such consultants shall
be  selected  in   accordance   with   principles  and  procedures
satisfactory to the Association  on  the  basis of the "Guidelines
for the Use of  Consultants  by  World  Bank  Borrowers and by the
World Bank as Executing  Agency"  published  by the Bank in August
1981.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories"  means the Categories set
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed  out  of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated  from  time  to  time  to  the  eligible  Categories  in
accordance with the provisions  of  Schedule  1 to this Agreement;
and
     (c)  the  term  "Authorized   Allocation"   means  an  amount
equivalent to  SDR  1,000,000  to  be  withdrawn  from  the Credit
Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph
3 (a) of this Schedule.
Page  11
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out
of the Special  Account  shall  be  made  exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association  has  received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account  has  been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and  subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account may be made as follows:
     (a)  On the basis of  a  request  or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which  add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from  the  Credit  Account  and  deposit in the
Special Account such amount or  amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
     (b)  The Borrower shall  furnish  to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special  Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify.  On  the  basis  of  such requests, the
Association shall withdraw  from  the  Credit  Account and deposit
into the Special  Account  such  amounts  as  shall be required to
replenish the  Special  Account  with  amounts  not  exceeding the
amount of payments made  out  of  the Special Account for eligible
expenditures.  All  such  deposits   shall  be  withdrawn  by  the
Association from the Credit  Account under the respective eligible
Categories, and in  the  respective  equivalent  amounts, as shall
have been justified  by  the  evidence  supporting the request for
such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account for which the  Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of  this  Schedule,  the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to  or  at  the  time of such request, such
documents and other evidence  as  the Association shall reasonably
request, showing that such  payment  was  made for eligible expen-
ditures.
5.   (a)  Notwithstanding the provisions  of  paragraph  3 of this
Schedule, no further  deposit  into  the  Special Account shall be
made by the Association  when  either  of the following situations
first arises:
          (i)  the  Association  shall  have  determined  that all
               further withdrawals should be  made by the Borrower
               directly from the Credit Account in accordance with
               the  provisions  of   Article   V  of  the  General
               Conditions and  paragraph  (a)  of  Section 2.02 of
               this Agreement; or
         (ii)  the  total   unwithdrawn   amount   of  the  Credit
               allocated to  the  eligible  Categories,  minus the
               amount  of   any   outstanding  special  commitment
               entered into by the Association pursuant to Section
               5.02 of the General  Conditions with respect to the
               Project, shall be equal  to the equivalent of twice
               the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
     (b)  Thereafter, withdrawal from  the  Credit  Account of the
remaining  unwithdrawn  amount  of  the  Credit  allocated  to the
eligible  Categories   shall   follow   such   procedures  as  the
Association shall specify by notice  to the Borrower. Such further
withdrawals shall be made only  after  and  to the extent that the
Association  shall  have  been  satisfied  that  all  such amounts
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such
notice  will  be   utilized   in   making  payments  for  eligible
expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any payment out of the  Special  Account (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount  not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this  Schedule,  or  (ii)  was  not  justified  by the evidence
Page  12
furnished pursuant to paragraph  4  of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from  the Association deposit into the
Special Account (or, if  the  Association shall so request, refund
to the Association) an amount equal  to the amount of such payment
or the portion thereof  not  so  eligible or justified. No further
deposit by the Association into  the Special Account shall be made
until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
     (b)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any amount outstanding  in  the  Special  Account will not be
required to cover further  payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon  notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such  outstanding  amount  for crediting to the
Credit Account.
