Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATASHEET 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
 
I.  Basic Information
 
Date prepared/updated:  05/07/2008 
Report No.:  AC3639
1. Basic Project Data  
 
Country:  Eritrea 
Project ID:  P034154 
Project Name:  ER-Ports Rehab SIL (FY98) 
Task Team Leader:  Josphat O. Sasia 
Estimated Appraisal Date: March 27, 1996 
Estimated Board Date: November 18, 1997 
Managing Unit:  AFTTR 
Lending Instrument:  Specific Investment 
Loan 
Sector:  Ports, waterways and shipping (97%);Solid waste management (2%);Central 
government administration (1%) 
Theme:  Infrastructure services for private sector development (P);Pollution management 
and environmental health (S) 
IBRD Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
IDA Amount (US$m.): 
30.30 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 
ITALY, Govt. of (Except for Dev. Coop. Dept. - MOFA) 
21.00 
 Financing 
Gap 
-14.70
6.30 
Environmental Category: A - Full Assessment 
Simplified Processing 
Simple [] 
Repeater [] 
Is this project processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency Recovery) 
or OP 8.00 (Rapid Response to Crises and Emergencies) 
Yes [ ] 
No [ ] 
2. Project Objectives 
Original Project Objectives:  
 
The original project objectives of the Project are to (a) address the urgent port capacity 
requirement of the Borrower up to the year 2005; (b) optimize the use of existing 
facilities by rehabilitating and upgrading the two ports of Massawa and Assab; and (c) 
increase substantially the productivity and capacity of the two ports to international 
standards.  
 
Revised Project Objectives:  
 
The development objective of the restructured project is: to increase the productivity 
and capacity of Port Massawa.   
 
3. Project Description 
The project involves investments in infrastructure and provision of the capacity necessary 
to meet the forecast traffic demands through port rehabilitation, acquisition of equipment, 
environmental protection, training and technical assistance. The proposed new oil jetty 
Page  2
(to replace the existing one) is part of the Port and is not a significant modification of the 
project design or implementation arrangements.   
 
4. Project Location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard 
analysis 
The oil jetty terminal is located in Hirgigo Bay (close to Massawa Port) with a 
sandy/muddy bottom and a mangrove zone along portions of the shoreline; on occasion it 
is used by some local fisherman. No habitat is considered rare or endangered. Being 
isolated, the terminal is not expected to have any adverse impacts upon local people and 
their livelihoods. The existing terminal has not generated significant oil spills having 
successfully deployed mitigation and safety measures during its lifetime.   
 
5. Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists 
Mr Colin P. Rees (AFTTR) 
 
6. Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
X
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
 X 
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X 
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
 X 
Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11) 
 X 
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10) 
 X 
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
 X 
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
 X 
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
 X 
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X 
II.  Key Safeguard Policy Issues and Their Management 
A. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues 
1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. 
Identify and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts: 
An Environmental Impact Assessment and Master Plan was done for the entire Port in 
1996 and recommendations were taken into account in the civil works contract. All these 
works have been completed. For, the proposed new oil jetty, a separate Environmental 
and Social; Impact Assessment (ESIA) is on-going and will be completed by the end of 
February 2008. The ESIA will be reviewed and cleared by the Bank. It has been agreed 
with the Borrower that civil works contract associated with the new oil jetty will not be 
awarded before ESIA is completed, submitted to the Infoshop, disclosed in-country and 
the recommendations taken into account in the detailed designs.  
 
Likely impacts include minor pollution, seabed disturbance and dredge disposal. These 
are readily mitigable by known methods e.g. fines screening, and are judged to be 
temporary. Specific contract clauses will guide construction methods and the disposal of 
dredged materials, the latter not being considered to hold toxics. Local people will not be 
adversely affected nor will cultural properties be impacted.   
Page  3
2. Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future 
activities in the project area: 
No long term impacts are anticipated but will be verified by the ESIA.   
 
3. Describe any project alternatives (if relevant) considered to help avoid or minimize 
adverse impacts. 
Alternative alignments are to be assessed and evaluated in the ESIA, including mitigation 
measures and their costs.   
 
4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard policy issues. Provide 
an assessment of borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described. 
These will be detailed in the ESIA. The contractor and consultants will implement ESIA 
recommendations and they will be monitored by the Ministry of Environment and 
Department of Fisheries. An oil spill emergency response plan will be included in the 
ESIA and implementation arrangements are to be coordinated with the Massawa Port 
Authority who have there own plan and response arrangements developed under the 
Bank-funded ports project.  
 
The interim report has been submitted and the final ESIA report is expected by end 
February, 2008.  It has been agreed with the Borrower that the recommendations of the 
ESIA will be taken into account in the detailed designs and that the construction work on 
the new oil jetty will not commence until the ESIA has been completed, cleared by the 
Bank, and disclosed in-
country and at the Bank’s InfoShop.   
 
5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and 
disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people. 
Stakeholders (local communities, the Environment Ministry and Department of Fisheries) 
have been identified and will be consulted during the preparation of the ESIA. Local 
people will not be adversely affected nor will cultural properties be impacted. The interim 
report has been submitted and the final ESIA report is expected by end February, 2008 
and will be cleared by the Bank, prior to disclosure in-country and at the Bank’s 
InfoShop.   
 
B. Disclosure Requirements Date
 
Environmental Assessment/Audit/Management Plan/Other: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 N/A 
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
04/24/2008 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
04/18/2008 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
04/24/2008 
 
For category A projects, date of distributing the Executive 
Summary of the EA to the Executive Directors 
 
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework/Policy Process: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 
Page  4
Date of receipt by the Bank 
 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
 
 
Indigenous Peoples Plan/Planning Framework: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
 
 
Pest Management Plan: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
 
 
*
If the project triggers the Pest Management and/or Physical Cultural Resources, 
the respective issues are to be addressed and disclosed as part of the Environmental 
Assessment/Audit/or EMP. 
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please 
explain why: 
C. Compliance Monitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level (to be filled in when the 
ISDS is finalized by the project decision meeting) 
 
OP/BP/GP 4.01 - Environment Assessment 
 
Does the project require a stand-alone EA (including EMP) report? 
Yes 
If yes, then did the Regional Environment Unit or Sector Manager (SM) 
review and approve the EA report? 
No 
Are the cost and the accountabilities for the EMP incorporated in the 
credit/loan? 
Yes 
The World Bank Policy on Disclosure of Information 
 
Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the World Bank's 
Infoshop? 
No 
Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public place in a 
form and language that are understandable and accessible to project-affected 
groups and local NGOs? 
No 
All Safeguard Policies 
 
Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional responsibilities 
been prepared for the implementation of measures related to safeguard 
policies? 
No 
Have costs related to safeguard policy measures been included in the project 
cost? 
Yes 
Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project include the 
monitoring of safeguard impacts and measures related to safeguard policies? 
Yes 
Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed with the 
borrower and the same been adequately reflected in the project legal 
Yes 
Page  5
documents? 
D. Approvals 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
Name 
Date 
Task Team Leader: 
Mr Josphat O. Sasia 
12/20/2007 
Environmental Specialist: 
Mr Colin P. Rees 
12/20/2007 
Social Development Specialist 
 
 
Additional Environmental and/or 
Social Development Specialist(s): 
 
Approved by: 
 
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: 
Mr Warren Waters 
12/20/2007 
Comments:   
Sector Manager: 
Mr C. Sanjivi Rajasingham 
12/20/2007 
Comments:   
