                                            E150 v.2
                                           Petroleum Jetty ESIA
                                        Executive Summary


                                                     9A000027.01
                                                   March 25, 2008




             Massawa Port Authority
                   State of Eritrea

               Petroleum Jetty ESIA

Independent Category A Environmental and Social Impact
Assessment and Management Plan Study: Construction of
      Petroleum Jetty at Hirgigo Bay - Massawa

           Contact:




           Dr. Robert Zwahlen
           Environment and Social Development Specialist
           Pöyry Energy Ltd.
           Hardturmstrasse 161, P.O. Box
           CH-8037 Zurich/Switzerland
           Tel.          +41 44 355 55 54
           Mobile        +41 76 356 21 13
           Fax           +41 44 355 55 56
           e-mail        robert.zwahlen@poyry.com
           http://www.poyry.com




Copyright © Pöyry Energy AG

           All rights are reserved. This document or any part thereof may not be copied or
           reproduced without permission in writing from Pöyry Energy AG

Massawa Port Authority                                                                               PÖYRY ENERGY LTD.
Petroleum Jetty ESIA                                                                                 Date March 25, 2008
Executive Summary                                                                                    Page i


Contents


LIST OF ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS .......................................................................... II


EXECUTIVE SUMMARY.................................................................................................................. 1

Environmental and Social Impact Assessment ...................................................................................... 1
Oil Spill Risk Assessment and Contingency Plan.................................................................................. 6
Fire Risk Assessment and Fire Training Plan ........................................................................................ 7
Environmental Management Plan .......................................................................................................... 9

Massawa Port Authority                                          PÖYRY ENERGY LTD.
Petroleum Jetty ESIA                                            Date March 25, 2008
Executive Summary                                               Page ii




LIST OF ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS


AIDS              Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome

BA                Breathing Apparatus

CD                Chart Datum

DOE               Department of Environment

DWT               Deadweight tonnage

EMP               Environmental Management Plan

ESA               Environmentally Sensitive Areas

ESIA              Environmental and Social Impact Assessment

FEED              Front End Engineering Design

FRA               Fire Risk Assessment

HIV               Human Immunodeficiency Virus

LHI               Lanka Hydraulic Institute

LPG               Liquefied Petroleum Gas

m asl             meters above sea level

MOF               Ministry of Fisheries

MPA               Massawa Port Authority

MSDS              Material Safety Data Sheets

OSRA              Oil Spill Risk Assessment

PoE               Panel of Experts

RH                Royal Haskoning (the Design Consultant)

STD               Sexually Transmitted Diseases

TBC               Tuberculosis

TOR               Terms of References

WB                World Bank

Massawa Port Authority                                                            PÖYRY ENERGY LTD.
Petroleum Jetty ESIA                                                              Date March 25, 2008
Executive Summary                                                                 Page 1




EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

              An Independent Category A Environmental and Social Impact Assessment and
              Management Plan Study was carried out for the Project of a new Petroleum Jetty at
              Hirgigo Bay - Massawa, Eritrea. The results of this study are described in the four
              volumes making up the entire report as follows:

                  · Vol. 1: Environmental and Social Impact Assessment (ESIA)

                  · Vol. 2: Oil Spill Risk Assessment and Contingency Plan (OSRA)

                  · Vol. 3: Fire Risk Assessment and Fire Training Plan (FRA)

                  · Vol. 4: Environmental Management Plan (EMP).

              This Executive Summary recollects the summaries of the individual volumes in order to
              provide a fast overview of the main results of the study


Environmental and Social Impact Assessment

              The ESIA was done according to the TOR given to the Consultant, the Technical
              Proposal prepared by the Consultant and the Contract signed by the Client and the
              Consultant, dated October 17, 2007. The aim of the study was the preparation of an
              independent Environmental and Social Impact Assessment Study (ESIA) for the project
              of a new Petroleum Jetty in Hirgigo Bay, Massawa, Eritrea, which shall replace the
              existing jetty; the latter is not considered to be safe for use any longer. The Project is
              classified as a Category A Project according to World Bank OP 4.01 as well as
              according to Eritrean EIA Guidelines, meaning that a full impact assessment study
              needs to be carried out.

              The Study (Volume 1 of the Study Reports) had to be made according to Eritrean as
              well as World Bank standards. Chapter 2 describes the institutional and legal framework
              for the present study. The most relevant legal document is the Eritrean document
              entitled National Environmental Assessment Procedures and Guidelines, enacted in
              1999, which describes the procedures to be followed for such studies. No major
              inconsistencies have been found between this document and the relevant WB standard
              defining EIA procedures (WB OP 4.01).

              The Project is described shortly in Chapter, 3 as well as the project area; project
              description is based on the technical documents, mainly the Feasibility Study and
              Preliminary Design Report (RH 2006). Project location is Hirgigo Bay, south of the
              town of Massawa, the most important harbour of the country. The project consists in a
              new jetty which will replace the existing one, built in the 1930ies by the Italians. This
              structure is now in a very bad state (see Photos in Annex 17 of the Report), and presents
              an increasing risk of a major accident to happen. The possibility of rehabilitating this
              existing structure in a way that would allow its continued use was ruled out in the
              feasibility study, and alternatives were developed and compared to replace it. The
              feasibility study identified first three locations for the new jetty (north and south of the
              existing jetty, and on Taulud Island). This last option was ruled out in an early stage and

Massawa Port Authority                                                                         PÖYRY ENERGY LTD.
Petroleum Jetty ESIA                                                                           Date March 25, 2008
Executive Summary                                                                              Page 2


                 is not investigated any further in the present Report. Initially, the feasibility study
                 identified 6 alternatives at the two remaining locations. Later on, a seventh alternative
                 was added, with an intermediate location (south of the existing Jetty, but closer to it).
                 The main characteristics of the 7 alternatives are shown in Table 1.



Table 1:         Alternatives for the new jetty

No.    Loc.       Total       Rock          Trestle         On land   Cost   Observations
                length        bund         length m         pipeline  M USD
                   m        length m                           m

1      N          1500          875            625            300      25.2  Concrete trestle; marine loading arms; some
                                                                             dredging required; mooring: dolphins;

2      N          1500          875            625            300      26.5  Like Alt. 1, but steel trestle; marine loading
                                                                             arms; some dredging required; mooring:
                                                                             dolphins;

3      S          1125          625            500            850      23.1  Concrete trestle; marine loading arms; no
                                                                             dredging; mooring dolphins; technically and
                                                                             economically preferred option

4      N          1500          875            625            300      23.5  Like Alt. 1, but with offloading hoses instead
                                                                             of loading arms; some dredging required

5      S          1900         1200            700                     30.9  100 m submarine pipeline and hoses; no
                                                                             dredging (?); Conventional Buoy Mooring
                                                                             (CBM)

6      S                       n.a.*           n.a.                    21.5  Submarine pipeline and hoses; no dredging;
                                                                             CBM; most modern version; same location
                                                                             as Alternative 3.

7      S**        1220         1150            70                      18.8  ** south of the existing jetty, but north of the
                                                                             Alternatives 3 and 6. Loading hoses;
                                                                             dredging probably required; mooring
                                                                             dolphins
Source: Feasibility Study, Final Report, July 2006
* n.a. = not applicable, since there is no jetty in this alternative




                 Alternative 7 was first selected as the most favourable one on economic grounds, but
                 was later on abandoned due to a risk of interference with the cooling water intake
                 structure of the existing Hirgigo Power Plant. Finally, Alternative 3 was selected as the
                 most favourable alternative technically and economically. This alternative was
                 developed further by the Design Consultant in parallel to the ESIA study.

                 As a first step of the ESIA, a comparative environmental analysis of the 7 alternatives
                 had to be done; this is described in Chapter 4. For a number of environmental
                 indicators, impact values were attributed to the various alternatives, on a range of -3
                 (very strong negative impact) over 0 (no or negligible effect) to +3 (very strong positive
                 effect). From these evaluations, a first ranking of the alternatives was made. Alternative
                 3 (the preferred alternative technically and economically) resulted as the preferred
                 option from this evaluation.

                 Since most differences of impacts between the alternatives are small, and since the
                 impacts as such were mostly classified as small, it was somewhat questionable whether
                 this result was very reliable. For this reason, for a number of indicators a ranking was
                 made, of the type "although impacts are small, Alternative x is still somewhat better

Massawa Port Authority                                                                    PÖYRY ENERGY LTD.
Petroleum Jetty ESIA                                                                      Date March 25, 2008
Executive Summary                                                                         Page 3


                 than Alternative y, because...". This led again to an overall rank of the 7 alternatives. In
                 addition, a sensitivity analysis was carried out by attributing different weights to
                 different indicators.

                 In this analysis, Alternative 3 consistently ranked first, while the others, to some extent,
                 changed position depending on the weights attributed to different indicators. The main
                 arguments against the other alternatives were:

                      · Longer jetty, and especially longer rock bund, leading to more impact on sea bed
                         habitats (Alternatives 1, 2, 4, 5 and 7).

                      · Dredging required, and through this again risk of a negative impact on sea bed
                         habitats, mainly on coral reefs, through mobilisation of sediments (Alternatives
                         1, 2, 4, 5 and 7).

                      · Interference with cooling water intake of Hirgigo Power Plant (Alternative 7).

                      · Higher risk of pipeline leakages remaining undetected for prolonged periods,
                         and potentially much larger amount of oil spilled in case of a pipeline rupture,
                         due to entirely submarine pipelines (Alternative 6).

                 The conclusion of this analysis was that Alternative 3 is indeed the preferable one. This
                 alternative, the only one which is analysed further, is described in some detail in
                 Chapter 5, again based on the technical documents and information received from the
                 Design Consultant. The main features of this option are summarised in Table 2.



Table 2:         Main characteristics of Alternative 3

Item                              Dimension                                            Observations

Rock bund        length           625 m                                                from shore to -5 m below CD
                 crown width      10.75 m

Trestle          length           500 m                                                concrete trestle
                 width            10.75 m

Product pipelines                 16" for fuel oil                                     space for adding 2 additional
                                  16" for white products (gasoil, gasoline, kerosene)  pipelines for white products
                                  8" for LPG

Fire fighting pipelines           12" salt water for fire fighting
                                  6" spray and personnel protection

Access road                       5 m wide                                             on jetty

Offloading                        3 arms                                               marine offloading arms

Pipeline length on land           850 m



                 One of the Tasks for this study was stakeholder involvement. A number of stakeholders
                 were listed as such in the TOR, additional ones have been identified by the Consultant
                 during the study. All of these stakeholders were contacted at least once during the study
                 period, some of them several times, in order to inform them about the Project and to
                 obtain comments and input data. Towards the end of the study period, two stakeholder
                 workshops were held, one in Asmara and one in Massawa, where the results of the
                 study were presented and discussed (Chapter 6).

Massawa Port Authority                                                           PÖYRY ENERGY LTD.
Petroleum Jetty ESIA                                                             Date March 25, 2008
Executive Summary                                                                Page 4


              The following Chapters are devoted to the impact assessment of this preferred
              alternative. The results can be summarised as follows:

              Land use: no impacts will be noted in this respect, since there is no alternative land use
              there now, nor is there any real possibility for using this land alternatively. It is a
              designated industrial area, of no tourist or cultural and historical interest whatsoever
              (Chapter 7).

              Air Quality and noise: impacts will occur due to the construction activities, the most
              important of which will be due to transport of material through residential areas of
              Massawa town. However, given the volume and duration of these activities, effects will
              still be within accepted air quality and noise standards. Nevertheless, it is recommended
              to do the necessary for keeping the impact as low as possible. This can best be done by
              a good maintenance of the vehicles (mainly to prevent unnecessary air pollution) and a
              careful planning of transports (to prevent unnecessary driving of lorries and heavy
              equipment) (Chapter 7).

              Water quality: as mentioned above, the main risk in this respect stems from the oil
              spill risk, which is considerably larger now as it is expected to be with the new jetty.
              The second most important source is the flushing of pipelines, which will remain the
              same as it is now unless dedicated pipelines are installed. In addition to this, there will
              be some, albeit limited, impacts on water quality due to construction activities. These
              should be minimised in the extent possible. The main mitigation measures here are to
              carry out maintenance and repair work on vehicles and machines in dedicated areas with
              sealed surfaces and water treatment facilities, and to store fuels, lubricants and
              chemicals in safe places away from water (Chapter 7).

              Waste: the most noticeable amount of waste will be generated by the removal of the
              existing jetty. This material will have to be brought to a suitable dumping site. Most of
              the material will be suitable for being reused (the pipelines as piping for different
              purposes or as scrap steel, like the iron reinforcement of the jetty structure, and the
              concrete material and bricks form the jetty itself as filling material in road construction
              or similar). It is recommended to use this material in this way, if the jetty is demolished.
              The other relevant amount of waste is water contaminated with oil products, stemming
              from flushing the pipeline used for white products. This effect will persist with the new
              jetty, it could however be eliminated by having dedicated pipelines for the white
              products (Chapter 8).

              Coast and sea bed dynamics: The situation at the project site is described. Due to its
              location in the bay, which is in addition shielded by a number of islands, wind and wave
              action are generally very weak. The currents are weak as well, sediment transport,
              erosion and accumulation processes are minimal. Given this situation, the project will
              not have any noticeable effect on wave action, currents and sediment transport. Changes
              in sedimentation and erosion will be very small and very localised, if any at all. Specific
              mitigation measures in this respect are not required (Chapter 9).

              Oil spill and fire risks: an Oil Spill Risk Assessment and Contingency Plan and a Fire
              Risk Assessment and Fire Training Plan had to be prepared as part of the assignment.
              These aspects are dealt with in this Report only very briefly (Chapters 10 and 11); the
              plans are provided as separate documents (Vol. 2 and Vol. 3) of the ESIA Study.

Massawa Port Authority                                                          PÖYRY ENERGY LTD.
Petroleum Jetty ESIA                                                            Date March 25, 2008
Executive Summary                                                               Page 5


              Health: health risks will arise, in the amount to be expected at construction sites of this
              size, due to risks of accidents and the risk of transmitting of communicable diseases in
              the work force. The contractor will have to take the usual precaution measures (safety
              equipment, training of workers, health checks, information and health services) in order
              to minimise risks and to deal with accidents and illnesses that might occur. The one
              overall public health risk presented by the project is the one which might be caused by a
              major oil spill. The risk of this happening will be greatly reduced by the new jetty
              (Chapter 12).

              Biodiversity: the impacts on biodiversity (mangroves, sea grasses and sea weeds, coral
              reefs, marine fauna and birds) are caused mainly (i) by building the rock bund for the
              new jetty (permanent destruction of habitat, temporary impact on surrounding habitats
              through mobilised sediments), (ii) by general construction activities (presence of work
              force; noise; risk for water contamination; fishing), and (iii) by all activities related to
              demolishing the old jetty (construction and removal of platform, removal of jetty as
              such). The latter impact is likely to be more important than the one caused by the new
              jetty. Although overall determined as rather small impacts, and some of them (like
              sediment mobilisation) of a temporary nature, mitigation measures are recommended
              for minimising the impacts to the strict minimum (Chapter 13).

              Socio-economy: the project effects, overall, are positive. Given the site and its
              characteristics, the project does not cause any resettlement, there is no need for
              expropriation, and no limitation of access to resources. The effect on local fisheries will
              be negligible, if any (small indirect impact possible through impacting fish populations
              due to sediment mobilisation, but reduction in risk of much larger impact that would be
              caused by a major oil spill). On the other hand, there is some potential for jobs being
              created on the construction site (although on a temporary basis), and it is expected that
              the regional economy as a whole will benefit from the project (Chapter 14).

              Given its potential impacts, the entire Chapter 15 is dedicated to the question of removal
              of the existing jetty. According to the feasibility report, demolishing the old jetty will
              require the construction of a "platform" (similar to the rock bund for the new jetty)
              along the old one over its entire length of about 760 m, and a crown width of about 10
              m, to allow the use of cranes and other heavy machines for the work. After the removal
              of the old jetty, this platform will in turn also have to be removed again. This procedure
              will have a considerably larger negative effect on sea bed habitats than the construction
              of the new jetty, by directly destroying a seabed surface similar to the one needed for
              the new jetty, destroying the habitat which has formed, over the 70 years of its
              existence, on the submerged parts of the jetty and the rubble mound supporting it, and
              by damaging additional habitat through sediment mobilisation by building the platform,
              demolishing the jetty and then removing the platform again. Since there is no need,
              whether from environmental, aesthetic, land use or economic reason, for actually
              removing the existing jetty, it is recommended to remove the pipelines (including the
              submarine parts) and the dolphin, possibly remove the part of the jetty close to and
              accessible from land in order to make it less accessible for unauthorised persons, but to
              leave the remainder of it untouched. This would not only save costs, it would also
              reduce the impact on the marine environment.

              Finally, Chapter 16 provides a synopsis of the main impacts and the recommended
              mitigation measures. The main conclusions are the following:

Massawa Port Authority                                                           PÖYRY ENERGY LTD.
Petroleum Jetty ESIA                                                             Date March 25, 2008
Executive Summary                                                                Page 6


                  · The overall major environmental benefit of the project consists in the fact that
                      the environmental risk presented by the danger of a major oil spill caused by the
                      decaying structure of the existing jetty will be, not completely eliminated, but
                      reduced to acceptable standards.

                  · The construction of the selected alternative of the new jetty at the chosen site
                      will cause some impacts, all of which, however, are small and of no further
                      relevance. Furthermore, some of them can be reduced by applying suitable
                      mitigation measures. Overall, the advantage resulting from abandoning the
                      exiting jetty prevails.

                  · The demolition of the existing jetty causes impacts which are at least of the same
                      magnitude, but probably considerably larger, than those caused by the new jetty.
                      Given this, and in the absence of a stringent reason for removing this structure, it
                      is recommended not to demolish it.

              The recommended mitigation measures are described to some more detail in the EMP
              (Vol. 4 of the ESIA Study).


Oil Spill Risk Assessment and Contingency Plan

              An Oil Spill Risk Assessment and Contingency Plan has been prepared for the Front
              End Engineering Design (FEED) Phase of the new jetty project for Massawa, Eritrea
              (Volume 2 of the Study Report). This document will then have to be updated during the
              system definition phase of the project.

              Central to the Oil Spill Risk Assessment and Contingency Plan are the identification of
              release locations along the new jetty and the release types that can occur due to the
              products being offloaded at Massawa.

              This oil spill risk assessment is based upon the release locations provided in the original
              base data and the fact that LPG and a range of white products and black products are to
              be offloaded.

              Statistical release sizes during product offloading operations have been obtained from
              international data based upon vessel sizes which will offload at Massawa. This data may
              be seen in Appendix A.

              The physical properties of the products to be offloaded (in particular the toxicity data
              and recommended clean-up methods for small, large and huge releases) at Massawa
              have been obtained from representative Material Safety Data Sheets (MSDS), which are
              given in Appendix B.

              The causes, consequences and a coarse risk assessment for these release types, sizes and
              locations has been documented in the Hazard Register given in Appendix G. Also on
              this register is documented the design and operational safeguards that have been
              detailed in the FEED documents. The impact of the safeguards on the raw risk levels is
              seen by the resulting level of residual risk. The recommended actions for the Massawa
              Oil Spill Response Team to respond to the spills are then documented. This semi-
              quantitative risk assessment has been the result of table top exercises at EPConsult's

Massawa Port Authority                                                         PÖYRY ENERGY LTD.
Petroleum Jetty ESIA                                                           Date March 25, 2008
Executive Summary                                                              Page 7


              London offices, and it is recommended that operations personnel become familiar with
              the register and participate in keeping the document up to date so as to become familiar
              with the process of control of major accident hazards to the environment.

              Huge spills are associated with product storage on the vessel entering the harbour and
              not jetty operations per se. A matrix is produced in the document, which give for spills
              at the locations identified for the harbour and jetty, the relevant oil spill response
              approach, equipment, skimmers and sorbent media.

              Thus the resulting FEED level oil spill contingency plan is seen to be hazard based and
              proportionate. This document also details typical training needs, manning requirements,
              job descriptions for key positions in the emergency response structure, and emergency
              response plans. The regulatory framework is also discussed.

              This FEED level oil spill risk assessment and contingency plan raises the following
              design issues, which may be in consideration:

                  · Windsocks are provided for the new jetty for LPG releases.

                  · Leak detection devices are considered for offloading product.

                  · Water sprays, including for personnel protection should be considered for
                      confirmed gas release.

                  · Clearly flanges should be minimized along the jetty and bunding should be kept
                      clear.

                  · Oil spill response equipment should be placed in fire proof cabinets on the Jetty,
                      and the work boat should be tethered and provided with a purpose built landing
                      with life saving equipment.

                  · A small laboratory should be provided for sample analysis and monitoring of
                      harbour waters, sediments and groundwater.

                  · A freezer should be provided for preserving any wildlife or plants impacted by a
                      spill for further analysis.

              It is recognized that many of these measures cannot be considered without cost benefit
              analyses, and thus it is recommended that this document is revised in the next
              engineering phase so as to provide the basis for doing this.

              This document should be read in conjunction with the companion Fire Risk Assessment
              and Fire Training Plan.


Fire Risk Assessment and Fire Training Plan

              A Fire Risk Assessment and Training Plan has been prepared for the Front End
              Engineering Design (FEED) Phase of the new jetty project for Massawa, Eritrea
              (Volume 3 of the Study Report). This document will then have to be updated during the
              system definition phase of the project.

Massawa Port Authority                                                          PÖYRY ENERGY LTD.
Petroleum Jetty ESIA                                                            Date March 25, 2008
Executive Summary                                                               Page 8


              Central to the Fire Risk Assessment and Fire Training Plan are the identification of fire
              locations along the new jetty and the fire types that can occur due to the products being
              offloaded at Massawa.

              This fire risk assessment is based upon the fire locations provided in the original base
              data and the fact that LPG and a range of white products and black products are to be
              offloaded.

              Statistical release sizes during product offloading operations have been obtained from
              international data based upon vessel sizes which will offload at Massawa. This data may
              be seen in Appendix A.

              The physical properties of the products to be offloaded (in particular the flammability
              data and recommended firefighting methods for small, large and huge fires) at Massawa
              have been obtained from representative Material Safety Data Sheets (MSDS), which are
              given in Appendix B.

              The causes, consequences and a coarse risk assessment for these fire types, sizes and
              locations has been documented in the Hazard Register given in Appendix D. Also on
              this register is documented the design and operational safeguards that have been
              detailed in the FEED documents. The impact of the safeguards on the raw risk levels is
              seen by the resulting level of residual risk. The recommended actions for the Massawa
              Jetty Fire Team to tackle the fires are then documented. This semi-quantitative risk
              assessment has been the result of table top exercises at EPConsult's London offices, and
              it is recommended that operations personnel become familiar with the register and
              participate in keeping the document up to date so as to become familiar with the process
              of control of major accident hazards.

              Given that huge fires are associated with product storage and not jetty operations per se,
              two matrices are produced in the document, which give for small and large fires at the
              locations identified for the jetty, the relevant firefighting approach, equipment, media
              and personal protective equipment.

              Thus the resulting FEED level firefighting training plan is seen to be hazard based and
              proportionate. It is then a short step to design the training segments and refreshers and
              the manning requirements of the fire team for the new jetty.

              This FEED level fire risk assessment and fire training plan raises the following design
              issues, which may be in consideration:

                  · Windsocks are provided for the new jetty for LPG releases.

                  · Leak detection devices are considered for offloading product.

                  · The possibility of providing passive fire protection for the slops tank should be
                      considered if this does not constitute corrosion under insulation risk.

                  · Passive fire protection should be considered for critical shutdown valves and
                      ESD initiation stations.

                  · Strict no smoking and speed restrictions should be in force on the jetty.

Massawa Port Authority                                                         PÖYRY ENERGY LTD.
Petroleum Jetty ESIA                                                           Date March 25, 2008
Executive Summary                                                              Page 9


                  · All work on the jetty should be subject to the appropriate permit to work,
                      including electrical.

                  · Water sprays, including for personnel protection should be considered for
                      confirmed gas release.

                  · A fixed inert gas / fresh water spray system should be considered for the
                      electrical switchgear room and the firewater pump house due to gas oil fuel and
                      electrical supply the fire pumps.

                  · Passive fire protection is considered for the roadside and piperack-side walls of
                      the firewater pumphouse, with a fire rated wall between the switchgear room
                      and the firewater pump house. Consideration should be given to providing
                      passive fire protection to the roof of this building.

                  · Consideration should be given to locating each fire water pump in a separate
                      pump house on the jetty.

                  · Clearly flanges should be minimized in this area.

                  · Consideration should be given to the option of providing foam induction at
                      hydrants, with drums of foam stationed along the jetty.

                  · Hose reel cabinets to be provided with the necessary lengths of hose, couplings
                      and nozzles.

                  · Spare firefighting BA to be provided on the jetty.

                  · Careful design, construction and siting of the operator huts.

              It is recognized that many of these measures cannot be considered without cost benefit
              analyses, and thus it is recommended that this document is revised in the next
              engineering phase so as to provide the basis for doing this.

              This document should be read in conjunction with the companion Oil Spill Risk and
              Contingency Plan.


Environmental Management Plan

              The EMP, Volume 4 of the ESIA Study for the Project of a new petroleum jetty at
              Hirgigo Bay - Massawa, describes in detail the important environmental mitigation
              measures identified during the impact assessment study (See Vol. 1).

              In a first part, the Project as such is being described shortly. The description of the
              preferred Alternative (which was originally Alternative 3) is given in Table 2 above.

              Chapter 2 provides a summary of impacts and mitigation measures as described in
              Volume 1 (ESIA Report).

Massawa Port Authority                                                           PÖYRY ENERGY LTD.
Petroleum Jetty ESIA                                                             Date March 25, 2008
Executive Summary                                                                Page 10


              Chapter 3 is the main part of the EMP and provides the information on the measures
              themselves and on institutional requirements. The following are the identified impacts
              requiring specific mitigation measures:

                  1. Air pollution

                  2. Noise

                  3. Pollution of coastal waters

                  4. Waste (domestic, solid, liquid, and hazardous)

                  5. Debris from existing jetty falling to sea bed

                  6. Work accidents, occupational health

                  7. Communicable diseases

                  8. Loss of marine habitat

                  9. Sediment mobilisation

              These measures are described shortly in a summarising Table; a second Table, similarly
              structured, describes the required monitoring activities. More details on each of the
              measures are provided in the Mitigation Measures Data Sheets in Annex 1. These sheets
              describe the impact and its importance, the required measures (including monitoring),
              the expected effect of the measure, and the responsibilities (for detailed planning,
              implementation of the measures, and monitoring).

              As far as possible, costs of the measures are identified. However, most measures have
              either to be integrated in the design of the Project or in the overall work plan of the
              contractor, and therefore in many cases it is not possible to actually identify costs
              specific to one measure.

              Most of the mitigation measures can be characterised as normal procedure and "good
              housekeeping practice" as required on any larger construction site. Some, however,
              especially those related to the protection of marine habitats, are project specific.

              The most important institutional requirements for implementation of mitigation
              measures and for monitoring are the following:

                  · The Contractor will have to include all these measures in his proposal and in his
                      cost estimate.

                  · The Contractor will need to hire one person whose main responsibility will be
                      the supervision (implementation and internal monitoring) of the specific
                      environmental measures.

                  · Two other specialised personnel of the Contractor, the responsible person for
                      safety and security, and the responsible for health services and first aid, will

Massawa Port Authority                                                           PÖYRY ENERGY LTD.
Petroleum Jetty ESIA                                                             Date March 25, 2008
Executive Summary                                                                Page 11


                      have to assume some responsibilities especially in relation to measures aiming at
                      accident prevention and public health.

                  · These three specialists will, as part of their duty, carry out the internal
                      monitoring and prepare the required reports (proposed are monthly progress and
                      quarterly summarising reports).

                  · MPA as the project owner will need to have an environmental specialist for
                      supervising the progress of the work and monitoring compliance with the
                      conditions defined in this EMP.

                  · For some of the measures, periodic checking by the competent authority (DOE)
                      will be required. This will be done based on the (quarterly) monitoring reports
                      and on regular checks on site.

                  · It will be the decision of the burrower (the World Bank) whether an external
                      independent monitoring (by means of hiring a recognised external expert, as
                      routinely done in the form of a Panel of Experts in large WB projects) will be
                      required. A short description of the duties of such a PoE is provided. Given the
                      size of the Project, and especially the absence of socio-economic impacts, it is
                      suggested that in this case one environmental expert should be sufficient for
                      carrying out this work.

              Since all of these measures will have to be taken during - and most of them are
              restricted to - the construction period, and will therefore have to be implemented by the
              Contractor, it is important that the measures formulated in this EMP will be included as
              conditions in the tender documents. This can be done by including the Mitigation
              Measures Data Sheets in the tender documents. In addition to that, it would also be
              possible to include general environmental conditions in the respective contracts. Such
              conditions are listed - although not necessarily as an exhaustive list - in Annex 2.

              The implementation of the mitigation measures and the monitoring has to be integrated
              in the overall construction schedule as shown in Chapter 5.

