                                                                                       45565

                                          PROJECT PAPER

                                            DATASHEET

Date: September 16,2008                            Task Team Leader: Josphat 0.Sasia
Country: Eritrea                                   Sector Manager: C. SanjiviRajasingham
Project Name: Ports Rehabilitation Project         Acting CountryDirector: Michel Wormser

Borrower: State of Eritrea
Responsible Agency: Ministry of Transport and Communication through the Department of Maritime




Current closing date: September30,2008
0

Does the restructuredproject require any exceptionsto IDA policies?            o Yes    X No
Have these been approvedby IDA management?                                     o Yes     o No
Is approval for any policy exception sought fiom the Board?                    o Yes    X No
Revised project developmentobjective/outcomes.
"To increase the productivity and capacity of Port Massawa."
Does the restructured project trigger any new safeguard policies? No.

Revised FinancingPlan (US$m.)
Source                                           I Local         I Foreign
                                                                        -       I Total
Recipient                                          3.3             0.0            3.3
IBRDIIDA                                           3.6             32.4           36.0
Total                                              6.9             32.4          39.3


A.      Introduction

1.      This Project Paper seeks the approval of the ExecutiveDirectors to introducechanges
in the Eritrean Ports RehabilitationProject (theProject) (Credit No. 3005-ER) for the Stateof
Eritrea and the accompanyingamendmentsto the Project's legal documents.

2.      The proposed changes are as follows: (i) modifying the PDO and its associated
outcomelintermediateindicators, by dropping activities pertaining to the rehabilitation and
upgrading of Port Assab due to the effects of the 1999-2001 war between Ethiopia and the
Recipient during which time no Project activity could be undertaken on the Port; (ii)
introducing new Project activities on constructinga new oil jetty and undertaking emergency
repairs on the existing aged oiljetty, both at Port Massawa; (iii) reallocating funds among the
disbursement categories; and (iv) extending the current closing date of the project from
September30,2008 to December 31,2011.

3.      The proposed changes will advance the attainment of the Project objectives by
increasing the Recipient's Port productivity and capacityneeds as well as addressing possible
disruption of oil supply to the Recipient and averting the potential environmental hazard
posed if the existing oil jetty collapses. In addition, the changes support the Bank's Interim
StrategyNote recommendations of focusing on improvingthe implementationof the existing
interventions through restructuring rather than financing new operations which are currently
limited to humanitarian and socialvulnerability support in the Recipient's rural areas.

4.      The proposed changes are a response to the effects of the intermittent war between
Ethiopia and the Recipient during 1999-2001 period and continued border tension between
the two countries. This situation has necessitated the change in the PDO and project design,
including dropping some project activities and introducing new ones, some of which have
their preparation, implementation, and completion dates extending beyond the current Credit
closing date.

5.      All the project activities including those introduced at Mid-Term Review (MTR)
have been successfully completed and have resulted in the increased productivity and
expansion of Port Massawa through the extension of the container terminal and berths,
improvement of Massawa causeways, and acquisition of new port equipment and spare parts.
The only ongoing project activities are the emergency repairs on the existing aged oil jetty
and constructionof a new one.

6.      Partnership Arrangements. The European Commission (EC) is co-financing the
project with the recent Grant of 13.2 million (US$20 million equivalent)to finance the new
project activities, notably the emergency repairs on the existingjetty and the construction of
a new one. Italy also provided a Grant (US$21.0 million) that co-financedthe original project
activities which have all been completed. The Recipient has undertaken to meet any
financing shortfallin casebid prices received for the construction of a new oil Jetty are much
higher than the available funds. On the basis of the latest cost estimate (June 2008) of the
construction of a new oiljetty, there is no financing gap.

B.      Background and Reasons for Restructuring

7.      Massawa and Assab were the two major ports until the period 1999-2001 when the
border war between Ethiopia and the Recipient broke out and operations at Port Assab were
completely scaled down due to the effects of the war. For centuries, Massawa has been the
center of trade between Africa and the Middle East. The port of Massawa suffered greatly as
a result of damage incurred during the Liberation War, and both Massawa and Assab
suffered from lack of maintenance during this period. The strategic location of the Port of
Massawa readily renders it as the major port for import/export of Eritrean cargo, as well as
traffic for northern Ethiopia (Tigray). At the time of independence, Port Massawa was
suffering fkom relatively slow cargo handling rates (especiallyfor containers), and long dwell
times. It was also hampered by the collapse in 1978 of about 40 meters of the block work
quay wall at the junction of berths 5 and 6. The level of traffic volumes handled through
Massawa and Assab was rising soon after independence but the condition of idi-astructure
and superstructurein the two ports, poised severe capacityconstraints. Furthermore, the ports
did not have the right type of facilities for the traffic handled; container traffic was growing
rapidly and the facilitiesin place were inadequatefor such traffic.

8.      Original Project Objective. The Project was approved by the Board on November 18,
1997, and became effective on March 2, 1998. The original PDO were to: (i) address the
urgent port capacityrequirement of the Recipient up to the year 2005; (ii) optimize the use of
existing facilities by rehabilitating and upgrading the two ports of Massawa and Assab; and
(iii) increase substantially the productivity and capacity of the two ports to international
standards. This would be achieved by providing the financial and technical assistance
required to rehabilitate and upgrade the two ports, optimizing the use of existing facilities
and raise the quality and level of services to international standards.The PDO as stated in the
Development Credit Agreement @CA) is formulated slightly differently and will be
amended to be consistent with the revised PDO. The project original design and scope has
five components, namely: (i) civil works (US$22.4 million); (ii) equipment (US$29.1
million); (iii) training (US$0.5 million); (iv) consultancy services (US$5.5 million); and (v)
operatingcosts (US$O.1million).

9.      Revised Project Objective,The PDO is revised slightly to respond to the effects of the
war between Ethiopia and the Recipient during the period 1999-2001- and the continued
border tension between them. This necessitated the revision in project design which includes
introduction of new project activities and dropping others at the MTR of the project in 2000.
The respective project financing agreements (DCA and Italian Grant Agreement) were
amended accordingly. The revised PDO is to increase the productivity and capacity of Port
Massawa.

10.     Project Performance. Execution of the project experienced serious challenges in the
past which slowed down implementation progress emanating mainly fkom the effects of the
war and continued border tensions between Ethiopia and the Recipient. However, significant
progress has been made since 2006 with the successfbl completion of all except the new
additional project activities related to the oil jetties at Massawa. This has resulted in
increased productivity and expansion of Port Massawa through the extension of the container
terminal and berths, improvement of Massawa causeways, and acquisition of new port
equipment and spare parts. This notwithstanding, the Italian Grant (US$21 million) closed in

January 2007 having achieved 99.1 percent disbursement. Thus the project implementation
performance to date is satisfactory. The PDO has largely been met with the expansion of
facilities and increase in productivity of Port Massawa (refer paragraph 12). The Credit
disbursement stands at about 76 percent (as of August 15,2008). The uncommitted funds of
SDR5.3 million (currentlyUS$8.6 million equivalent) under the Credit is to be reallocated to
finance the constructionof the new jetty at Hirgigo Bay, Massawa. The details on the project
performance, mainly as relates to increased capacity and productivity of Port Massawa is
illustrated below:

        i. Acquisition of port cargo handling equipment and spare parts - port equipment
             and spare parts procured and delivered. This has resulted in the increase in the
             availability rate of cargo handling equipment in working condition. Accordingly,
            Port Massawa productivity levels have increased above those at project appraisal.
            For instance, bulk cargo has increased from the base figure (1997) of 850 tons per
             ship per day to the current 2,720 tons (or 220 percent) compared to 1,100 end of
            project target; for break bulk increase fiom 230 tons per ship per day to 500 tons
            (or 117 percent) against end of project target of 260 tons; and for containers from
             3 Twenty-Foot Equivalent Unit (TEU)/hr to 8 against end of project target of 12
            TEU/hr. The details are provided in Table 1.

        ii. Expansion of the Container terminal and extension of berth 3 and 4 - Port
             Massawa container terminal has been expanded and berth capacity increased.
             However, the berth occupancy has declined mainly due to the marginal increase
             in the level of port traffic arising from the overall decline in the economic
             performance of Eritrea and loss of Ethiopian transit traffic due to the war with
             Ethiopia and also as a result of the increase in the capacity of the port. The details
             are provided in Table 1.

        iii. Rehabilitation of the Massawa Causeways and Port Massawa - At MTR of the
             project, significant changes were introduced. Project activities associated with the
             development of Port Assab were dropped and new activities introduced
             concentrating mainly on the further development of Port Massawa. The new
             project activities introduced included improvement of Massawa causeways at
             Sigalet and Dahlak, expansion of the container terminal and purchase of
             additional port equipment. The construction of the two new additional lanes and
            rehabilitation of the existing two lanes at Sigalet causeway and the reconstruction
             of the existing causeway at Dahlak has significantly eased congestion, reduced
            travel time and improved the flow of traffic to and from Port Massawa and its
            hinterland.

        iv. Port management of solid waste - Environment management equipment has been
             acquired and Port Massawa has embraced satisfactory waste collection and
            disposal managementpractices.

        v. Studies and Consultants' services - Most of the consultants' services have been
            rendered and the recommendations of some of the studies carried out have
            contributed to defining further the investment needs at Port Massawa to enhance

                 its performance, notably the construction of a new oil jetty and measures for
                 protecting the environment.

     11.     The proposed new oiljetty is part of the Port Massawa activities and will support the
     attainment of the project objective by increasing the Recipient's Port capacity requirements
     and productivity. The existing aged oil jetty at Massawa is in a deplorable condition yet it is
     the main oil import handling facility of the Recipient and requires urgent replacement given
     the potential environmental hazard it poses and possible disruption of oil supply to Eritrea if
     it collapses. The emergency repair on the existing aged oil jetty is substantially completed.
     This is to hold the existingjetty in place until the new one is constructed.

     12.     Performance Indicators. Port Massawa performance indicators are provided in
     Annex 1. As of end December 2007, the performance results reflect an overall increase in
     productivity for every categoryof Port Massawa activity compared to the base case (1997) as
     detailed in Table 1. The table shows that two out of the five productivity figures for 2007,
     that is bulk cargo and bagged cargo tons per ship day at berth, surpass the end of project
     targets while the rest exceed the base values. Traffic level handled at Port Massawa has also
     increased over this period but marginally fiom 610,000 tons in 1996to 680,000 tons in 2007
     [refer Table 1(b)].


                     Table 1: Project Performance Indicators, Through December 2007
      (a) Massawa Port Productivity (Measured in tons of cargo loaded or unloaded/ship/day, except for
                                             containers as TEUIhour)

Productivity  1997     End of                                               Actual
Indicators    Base     Project
                                 1998    1999     2000      2001       2002       2003      2004  2005  2006  2007

Bulk Cargo      850     1,100    1,173    847       937     1,427      1,484      1,583     1,185 1,525 2,152 2,723    ~
Bagged          900     1200      828     903       713       777        733       738       835  877   983   1,173
------------
Cargo

Break Bulk      170      260      299     492       436      524        430        350       447  467   533   500

Containers         3     12       6       1 1        6          7         6          8       9     8     8     8
TEUhour                  4

Berth            70      67       67      58        76       78          68        71        58   55     35   29
Occupancy*


             Berth occupancies in2000and 2001 are adjusted for the effective loss of berth 6.
             Source of Data- Massawa Port Authority.

     @) Massawa Port Traffic: Cargo('000 tons)




Total            610       794      1,097       732     1,050       1,172       989       1,352    1,171  1,073   637    680
TEUs***         9,165   10,114     13,161     13,121   15,983     24,280     19,407     21,164    24,390 20,495 16,104 13,537


     Notes:  ***      All transit traffic sincethe border disputerelates solely to traffic with Sudan.
                      Intra-Eritreatraffic refers to Massawa.Assabtraffic
             ***     Number of TEUs shown includes importsand exports, including empty containers.


     13.     Reasons for Restructuring. The restructuring of the Project, as requested by the
     Recipient, has been necessitated by the effects of the war between Ethiopia and the Recipient
     (1999-2001) and the continued border tension between the two countries. This has in turn
     resulted in the modification of the PDO and project design and involves:

             i. dropping project activities associated with Port Assab from the Project and
                  concentrating the project assistanceon the development of Port Massawa;
             ii. introduction of new project activities that would support the advancement of
                  attaining the project objective, such as improvement of Massawa causeways,
                  purchase of additional port equipment, emergency repairs of the existing old oil
                 jetty, and construction of a new oil jetty at Massawa; and
             iii. safeguardingRecipient's oil supplies and averting potential environmental hazard
                  posed by the current poor state of the existing aged oil jetty in the event it
                  collapses causing oil spillage.

     14.     Dropping of someproject activitiesfrom theproject. The port of Assab was the main
     transit port for Ethiopian trade and it handled very little of the Recipient's dry cargo. The
     port handled 85 percent of Ethiopia's external trade and was therefore a revenue and
     employment generating enterprise for the Eritrean economy. Port Assab is located close to
     the Ethiopian border. It was difficult for any project activity to be undertaken during the time
     of border conflict between 1999 and 2001. Subsequently, at MTR in 2000, it was
     recommended that the scope of the project objectives be revised to focus on the new
     developments at the Massawa Port. The available finds were reallocated to concentrate on
     developing Port Massawa and limiting further investmentsat Port Assab.

     15.     Introduction of new project activities. At MTR, it was also agreed that in order to
     attain the objective of the project, there was need to introduce new project activities. The role
     of Port Massawa in the Recipient's economy became critical. Hence, the following new
     activities were introduced:

         i. Rehabilitation of the Massawa Causeways and improvement of port Massawa
             facilities. The new additional project activitiesthat were introduced (referred to Phase
             2 rehabilitation works) were mainly to develop and expand the capacity of Port

        Massawa as the main port of Eritrea (refer paragraph 10). Accordingly, the DCA and
        the Italian Grant Agreement were amended to accommodatethese new developments.
        The closing dates for both instruments were extended to September 30,2006 and later
        to January 31, 2007 and for the DCA thereafter to September 30, 2008 through three
        temporary extensions pending a restructuring.

    ii. Emergency repairs on the old aged oil jetty and construction of a new oil jetty
        both at Massawa. Assab oil refinery and oil jetties were partly destroyed during the
        war and the oil refinery has since been closed down. The oil supply needs for Eritrea
        are now handled at Port Massawa. The existing oil jetty built in the early 1930s is in
        very poor condition and faces imminent collapse. Its collapse would not only disrupt
        oil imports into Eritrea but could also cause significant deleterious environmental
        damage due to the possible oil spillage. The port master plan study financed under
        the Project provided insights in defining the investment needs at Port Massawa,
         including recommending that a new oil jetty be constructed urgently to replace the
        existing one.

    iii. Safeguarding oil supply to Eritrea and averting potential environmental hazard.
        The construction of a new oil jetty will support the achievement of the PDO by
        improving the facilities at Port Massawa and enhancing their productivity and also
        addressing the potential environmental disaster. Due to the urgent need for a new oil
        jetty, the European Commission has provided a Grant (13.2 million) to co-finance
        the constructionof a new oiljetty to replace the existing one and carry out emergency
        repairs on the existing one on the understanding that IDA would co-finance this
        project activity.

16.     Rationalefor Restructuring.The proposed restructuringof the project is primarily to
formally revise the PDO and project design, including allowing for the reallocation of the
uncommitted hnds (SDR5.3 million) under the Credit to co-finance these new project
activities discussed and agreed during the MTR in 2000 when revisions to project design
were made. Significant progress has been made in the implementation of the outstanding
project activities.

17.     The need to complete these new project activities is strong, failure of which will not
only put at risk the ability of the Recipient to import oil products for the economy but also
exposes it to environmental disaster posed by the poor state of the existing aged oil jetty in
case it collapses. Furthermore, without restructuring, the Grant hnds from EC will not be
utilized as the financing plan would be inadequate to complete the planned activities thereby
limiting the achievement of the project objective of developing Port Massawa as the
Recipient's main port by increasing it capacity and productivity.

18.      The construction of a new oil jetty is a top priority of the Recipient. The latest cost
estimate is US$26 million for the construction of a new oil jetty. At this cost, there is no
financing gap. However, the Recipient has demonstrated commitment to this project activity
by undertaking to meet any financing gap in case the bid prices come in much higher than
this latest cost estimate. This undertaking has been formally communicated to IDA.

19.     Besides the proposed restructuring supports the Bank's Interim Strategy Note
recommendations of focusing on improving the implementation of the existing projects
through restructuring rather than financing new operations which is currently limited to
humanitarian and social vulnerabilityinterventionsin the rural areas.

20.     Environmental Issues. An Environmental Irnpact Assessment and Master Plan was
done for the entire Port in 1996 and recommendations were taken into account in the civil
works contract. All these works have been successfully completed. As for the proposed new
oil jetty, a separate Environmental and Social Impact Assessment (ESIA) has been carried
out in accordance with the requirements of OP 4.01. The ESIA has been reviewed, cleared
and disclosed both in-country on April 18, 2008 and at the Bank's InfoShop on April 24,
2008. Annex 3 contains the executive summary of the ESIA. The recommendations of the
ESIA are being incorporated in the final detailed design of the preferred option for
environmental protection, including oil spill prevention and fire control. No long term
impacts are anticipated by the ESIA. In addition, the alternative alignments were assessed
and evaluated in the ESIA, including mitigation measures and their costs. These are detailed
in the ESIA, the Environmental Management Plan (EMP), oil spill prevention plan and fire
control plan. The Executive Summary Report on the ESIA is attached in Annex 3.
Stakeholders were identified and consulted during the preparation of the ESIA. Local people
will not be adversely affected.

21.     Project Jnancing. The original Project cost was estimated at US$57.6 million
comprising of IDA Credit (US$30.3 million), Italian Grant (US$21.0 million) and the
balance from the Recipient about (US$6.3 million). With the recent EC Grant of 13.2
million (US$20million equivalent)to finance the new project activities, the total project cost
increases to US$77.6 million. The IDA credit of US$30.3 million has proved to be effective
in leveraging an additional US$41 million from other development partners (Italian Grant
and EC).

C.      ProposedChanges

22.     The proposed changes will modify slightly the PDO and the scope of the Project
which includes:

(i)     Modifying the PDO and its associated outcome indicators, to reflect the dropping of
        activities pertaining to the rehabilitation and upgrading of Port Assab and deletingthe
        reference to the cut-off year of 2005. Accordingly, the proposed revised PDO is now
        "to increase the productivityand capacity of Port Massawa";
(ii)    introducing a new project activity on constructing a new oil jetty and undertaking
        emergency repairs on the existing old one, both at Massawa;
(iii)   reallocating funds among different disbursement categories to reflect the revisedl
        increased Project scope and costs; and
(iv)    extending the ClosingDate of the Project from September 30, 2008 to December 31,
        2011 in order to have sufficienttime to implement the construction of a new oiljetty.

23.     No modifications to the institutionaland implementationarrangements are required.

24.     Revised Financing Plan for the New Additional Activities. The emergency repairs
on the old jetty is estimated at US$170,000, construction of the new jetty is estimated to cost
about US$26 million, and the associated consulting services US$1.6 million. This will be
financed through the following sources: the European Commission is providing a Grant of
13.2 million (US$20 million equivalent) administered by the Bank, IDA credit of SDR5.3
million (US$&1 million equivalent) will be provided fi-om the uncommitted hnds under the
Credit (the subject of this request) and the Recipient will meet the balance, to be determined
once the bids for the construction of a new oil jetty are received. Otherwise, based on the
latest cost estimates (June 2008), there is no financing gap.

25.      The uncommitted funds under the Credit arise fiom: (i) the decision by the Recipient
to finance the construction of an equipment shed, rehabilitation of the equipment repair
Workshop and the Management Information System (MIS) for Massawa Port Authority; (ii)
the financing of additional Project activities in Port Massawa under the Italian Grant,
previously to be financed under the IDA Credit; and (iii) appreciation of SDR against US$.
Both the installation of an MIS system, construction of an equipment shed, and the
rehabilitation of the equipment repair workshop are substantially completed. Therefore,
adequate financing will be available once this request is approved.

26.     Procurement. The prior review thresholds for Works will be changed to US$200,000
and US$150,000 for Goods, in line with the new IDA prior review thresholds agreed between
IDA and the Recipient on April 19,2004. DCA is amended accordingly.

27.     Implementation Schedule. Except for new project activities, which is, emergency
repairs on the old jetty, construction of a new oil jetty and associated consulting services, all
the others (refer paragraphs 5 and 10) have been successfully completed. The works on the
emergency repairs have started and are scheduled for completion by the end of August 2008
while commencement of construction of the new oil jetty is planned for mid 2009. The
Procurement Plan and the Implementation Schedule is attached hereto as Annex 2.

28.     Extension of the ClosingDate: The original Credit closing date was June 30, 2002.
However, it has been extended six times, three of which were on a regular basis and three
times on an interim basis. The first regular extension was from June 30, 2002 to June 30,
2003 and entailed introduction of new activities notably Massawa causeways. The second
was from June 30, 2003 to June 30, 2005 which was due to the failure to implement project
activities as a result of war between Ethiopia and the Recipient between 1999 and 2001. The
third extension was fi-om June 30, 2005 to June 30, 2007, and was granted to complete the
outstanding project activities. At that point, the Bank was scheduled to complete all
outstanding project activities during the third formal extension and the construction of the
new oiljetty and emergency repairs on the existing one were not among the project activities.

29.     The first interim extension of the Credit closing was granted from June 30, 2007 to
December 31, 2007 to allow the task team sufficient time to complete and submit the
restructuring package to RVP for approval. However, the team prepared a new ESIA for ths
new project activity, construction of a new oil jetty at Hirgigo Bay, Massawa. A second six
month interim extension of the Credit closing date was granted fiom December 31, 2007 to
June 30, 2008 to complete the ESIA and an additional third three month extension to
September 30,2008. These extensions were necessitated because of unanticipated, protracted

delays related to exhaustive consultations with stakeholders. The ESIA was completed and
the report was reviewed, cleared and disclosed in-country and at the InfoShop on April 24,
2008.

30.     Given the time needed to finalize the detailed designs, procure the contractor and
complete the construction works for the construction of the new oil jetty, it is proposed to
extend the Credit closing date from September 30, 2008 to December 31, 2011. The request
for extension of the Closing Date complies with the requirementsof OPBP 13.30 on closing
dates since:


        (i)    the project developmentobjectives continueto be achievable;
        (ii)   the performance of the Recipient is satisfactorywith disbursement amounting
               to about 76 percent as of August 15,2008; and
        (iii)  the Recipient has prepared a specific action plan indicating the procurement
               and implementationschedules(Annex 2) satisfactoryto the Association which
               indicates that part of the uncommitted funds of SDR5.3 million under the
               Credit will be reallocated to financethe activities associated with the proposed
               new oiljetty.

31.     Reallocation of Funds: Most of the Project activities have been completed. The
Recipient has requested a reallocation of funds from Category l(a) (Port administration
building) in Schedule 1 of the DCA to activities associated with the construction of the new
oil jetty at Massawa, as indicated in paragraphs 5 and 10. The proposed reallocation is
detailed in the Table 2 and also Schedule 1 of the DCA has been revised and amended
accordingly.

 Table 2: Disbursements and Proposed Reallocation
                                               DCA             Disbursed       IProposed    I  Revised
                                             Allocation                           New         Allocation
 Category                                      SDR         SDR     I US$ Equiv  Activities $    SDR
 I. Civil Works for
  (a) Port Administration Building             3,000,000                                           453,000
  (b) Massawa Causeways                                - 3,265,125    5,292,377
  (c) Massawa Port Berths 3 & 4           -1,018,544
                                               3,810,000              1,650,937  6,209,591       3,831,000
                                                                               pp
  (d) Hirgigo Bay Oil Jetty
     (i) New Jetty                                                               8,268,448       5,101,209
     (ii) Emergency Repairs (EC Financing)
                   Sub total (I)               6,810,000 4,283,669    6,943,314 14,478,039       9,385,209 1
)2.Equipment
 (a) Port Equipment                                      10,178,740                             10,178,740
 (b)Additional Port Equipment Spares                       201,817                 327,121         201,817
 (c) Additional Enviroment Equipment                    ----113,587                307,6 17        189,784

 (d) Additional Ofice Equipment                                486                      788            486

                   Sub total (2)             13,500,000  10,494,630  17,010,527    635,526      10,570,827
 3.Consulting Services and Studies
  (a) Massawa Port Rehab I1 Supervision                    456,000                                 456,000

 (b)Massawa Port TA (P-2) (MPA financing)
 (c) Massawa Port Workshop Dsgn+Spn                        284,000                                 284,000

 (d) Master Plan Assab (Dropped)
 (e) Causeway Design+Spn                                   340,145                                 340,145
 (4Oil Jetty (i) F/S & Pre. Design and                     477,133
    DD/Prep.Bid. DocISoil Investigation                                                            599,084
    (iii) Escalation for F/S & D/D (New)                    81,461                                 163,735

 (h) Environment TA                                         32,000                                  32,000




   D.         Analysis

   32.      .The proposed changes will affect the economic and financial aspects of the Project as
   appraised. Closure and dropping of Port Assab fiom the Project and the loss of Ethiopian
   external trade traffic to port of Djibouti will affect the economic rate of return (ERR) for the
   Project. However, the ERR for Port Massawa will increase partly because of the benefits
   expected to accrue fiom the new oiljetty (ERR is 17.9percent with NPV US$6 million at 12

percent discount rate which is reasonable for similar infrastructure projects).              The
institutional arrangements will essentially remain the same, i.e. Department of Maritime
Transport will continue to be the agency responsible for the implementation of this new
project activity.

33.     The proposed changes do not change the overall environmental category of the
Project rated Category A or trigger new safeguard policies. The potential environmental
impact of constructing the oil jetty has been appropriately rated as a category A activity.
Environmental assessments have been carried out in accordancewith the requirements of OP
4.01 on Environmental Assessment. The Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet has been updated
accordingly and will be re-disclosed once this request is approved.

E.      Expected Outcomes

34.     The expected outcomes from the restructured project including expansion of the
container terminal, extension of the berth, improvementof Massawa causeways, procurement
of port and environment equipment and construction of a new oil jetty will enhance the
attainment of the original project objective which are to address the port capacity and
productivity issues facing the Recipient (refer paragraphs 8 and 9). The use of the existing
and upgraded port facilities at Port of Massawa will be optimized so that it can perform
according to the requirements of the Recipient's economy and at international standards. The
construction of the new oil jetty will assist in enhancing the attainment of the objective and
will assist in avoiding the potential environmental disaster and disruption of oil imports to the
Recipient's economy. Where applicable, the intermediate outcomes, outputs and results have
been refined in the Results Framework (Annex 1).

F.       Benefits and Risks

35.      The proposed restructuring is expected to allow the Recipient to safeguard oil
supplies to the economy at comparatively lower cost. The new oil jetty will be much bigger
to permit bigger tankers to call at the port and therefore reduce the shipping costs per ton
because of economies of scale. Also, the potential environmental disaster in the event of an
oil spillage at the existing oiljetty would be averted.

36.     The main potential risk is the threat to peace in the region and continued border
tension between Ethiopia and the Recipient which continue to adversely affect the
performance of the economy. This could slow down implementation, reduce availability of
adequate manpower from the Recipient and thereby delay the construction and completion of
the new oil jetty. It may also contribute to the limited interest expressed by international
contractors for works in the Recipient's territory which, compounded by the continued rise in
the cost of construction materials, is likely to increase the cost of constructing a new oiljetty.
The potential collapse of the existingjetty poses an environmental risk in the event of an oil
spillage, disruption of oil supplies and thermal power generation. This risk is being mitigated
in the short term through emergency repairs on the existing oil jetty to hold it until the new
one is built.


                                                            Annex 1: Results Framework


                              Revised Key Performance Indicators

Revised Project Development Objective: To increase productivity and capacity of Port
Massawa.

Outcome/Indicator
Improved cargo handling rates (measured in tons of cargo loaded or unloadedlship day)

Productivity
(i)   Bulk Cargo increased from 850 to 1,100;
(ii) Bagged Cargo increased from 900 to 1,200;
(iii) Break Bulk increased from 170to 260;
(iv) ContainersTEU/hr* increased from 3 to 12.

Capacity
(v)   Berth Occupancy (%) improved from 70% to 67%

Intermediate Results: Civil Works

(i)   Expand Containerterminal;
(ii) Extend berths 3 and 4;
(iii) Improve Massawacauseways;
(iv) Construct a new oiljetty;** and
(v)   Repair old oiljetty.**

Intermediate Results: Equipment/EnvironmentlTraining


(i)   Procure new cargo handling and environment equipment;
(ii) Improve staff skills in environmentaloperatingpractices and cargo handling; and
(iii) Port Massawa meets international environmental management standards.


Note:
     *Measuredas TwentyFoot Equivalent Unit (TEU)/hr
     **New addition


                                                                           Annex 2: Procurement Plan




                        ProcurementPlan for OutstandingProject Activities

                                     1                      1                              1               I
                                      Cost US$     Procure    Review     Start Date         Completion
                                     1             -ment      Prior,   ( ActuaVEstimate*    Date
                                                  1Method    1Post                         !
11. Civil Works                                             I
                                                                                                             I
((a) Emergency repairs - Old oil     1169,000    1 NCB        Prior     1Mar. 30,2008       End Aug. 2008    1
1jetty                                                       I
 (b) Constructionof new oiljetty - 26,000,000 ICB
                                     1                       1Prior     1Jan. 30,2009      IEnd Dec. 2011
1                          -
                                ~



 Hirgigo Bay
1 2. Consultants                                  I
                Services
I(a) Constructionsupervision-         980,000      QCBS       Prior      Jan. 30,2009       End Dec. 2011
 ~ k oiljetty
       w                                                    I                                                I

 (b) Other- AuditlTraining                         SSS       IPrior      Continuous        ITo start FY2009 1


   Note:             Signing of Contract
                    ** Completionof the task,


                                            Petroleum Jetty ESlA
                                         Executive Summary


                                                           9A000027.01
                                                        March 25: 2005




              Massawa Port Authority
                   State of Eritrea

               Petroleum Jetty ESlA

lndependent Category A Environmental and Social Impact
Assessment and Managenlent Plan Study: Construction of
       Petroleum Jetty at Hirgigo Bay - Massawa




                                                ESTAN
                                                Esttfanos Zerwi Cor:s!.ik~~:rt


Massawa Port Authority                                                                               PdYRY ENERGY LTD             .
Petroleum Jetty ESlA                                                                                 Date March 25. 2008
ExecutiveSummary                                                                                     Page i


Contents


LIST OF ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS                            ........................................................................I1

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY          ..............................................................................................................1
Environmental and Social Impact Assessment....................................................................................         1
Oil Spill Risk Assessment and Contingency Plan ...............................................................................         6
Fire Risk Assessment and Fire Training Plan .....................................................................................      7
Environmental Management Plan.......................................................................................................   9

  Massawa Port Authoritv                                           POYRY ENERGY LTD.
  Petroleum Jetty ESlA                                             DateMarch 25, 2008
  ExecutiveSummary                                                 Page ii




  LIST OF ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
1
  AIDS               Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome
                    1
                     Breathing Apparatus
                   I
                     Chart Datum

  DOE               1Department of Environment
  -

  DWT                Deadweight tonnage

  EMP                Environmental Management Plan

  ESA                Environmentally Sensitive Areas

  ESIA             1 Environmental and Social Impact Assessment

/IFEED             1 Front End Engineering Design
                   1
  FRA                Fire Risk Assessment

1                  I
  HIV              1 Human Immunodeficiency Virus

  LHI              I Lanka Hydraulic Institute

  LPG                Liquefied Petroleum Gas

  m as1              meters above sea level

  MOF                Ministry of Fisheries
1                  1                                                                     1
  MPA                Massawa Port Authority

1 MSDS             1 Material Safety Data Sheets

  OSRA               Oil Spill Risk Assessment
                                                                                   7
  PoE                Panel of Experts

                     Royal Haskoning (the Design Consultant)

                     Sexually Transmitted Diseases

                     Tuberculosis
                  1
                     Terms of ~ e f e r e n l
                   1 World Bank

Massawa Port Authority                                                            PoYRY ENERGY LTD.
Petroleum Jetty ESlA                                                              Date March 25, 2008
Executive Summary                                                                 Page 1




EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

              An Independent Category A Environmental and Social Impact Assessment and
              Management Plan Study was carried out for the Project of a new Petroleum Jetty at
              Hirgigo Bay - Massawa, Eritrea. The results of this study are described in the four
              volumes making up .theentire report as follows:

                      Vol. 1: Environmentaland Social Impact Assessment (ESIA)

                      Vol. 2: Oil Spill Risk Assessment and Contingency Plan (OSRA)

                      Vol. 3: Fire Risk Assessment and Fire Training Plan (FRA)

                      Vol. 4: Environmental Management Plan (EMP).

              This Executive Summary recollects the summaries of the individual volumes in order to
              provide a fast overview of the main results of the study


Environmental and Social Impact Assessment

              The ESIA was done according to the TOR given to the Consultant, the Technical
              Proposal prepared by the Consultant and the Contract signed by the Client and the
              Consultant, dated October 17, 2007. The aim of the study was the preparation of an
              independent Environmentaland Social Impact Assessment Study (ESIA) for the project
              of a new Petroleum Jetty in Hirgigo Bay, Massawa, Eritrea, which shall replace the
              existing jetty; the latter is not considered to be safe for use any longer. The Project is
              classified as a Category A Project according to World Bank OP 4.01 as well as
              according to Eritrean EIA Guidelines, meaning that a full impact assessment study
              needs to be carried out.

              The Study (Volume 1 of the Study Reports) had to be made according to Eritrean as
              well as World Bank standards. Chapter 2 describes the institutional and legal framework
              for the present study. The most relevant legal document is the Eritrean document
              entitled National Environmental Assessment Procedures and Guidelines, enacted in
              1999, which describes the procedures to be followed for such studies. No major
              inconsistencies have been found between this document and the relevant WB standard
              defining EIA procedures(WB OP 4.01).

              The Project is described shortly in Chapter, 3 as well as the project area; project
              description is based on the technical documents, mainly the Feasibility Study and
              Preliminary Design Report (RH 2006). Project location is Hirgigo Bay, south of the
              town of Massawa, the most important harbour of the country. The project consists in a
              new jetty which will replace the existing one, built in the 1930ies by the Italians. This
              structure is now in a very bad state (see Photos in Annex 17of the Report), and presents
              an increasing risk of a major accident to happen. The possibility of rehabilitating this
              existing structure in a way that would allow its continued use was ruled out in the
              feasibility study, and alternatives were developed and compared to replace it. The
              feasibility study identified first three locations for the new jetty (north and south of the
              existingjetty, and on Taulud Island).This last option was ruled out in an early stage and

 Massawa Port Authority                                                                               POYRY ENERGY LTD.
 Petroleum Jetty ESlA                                                                                 Date March 25,2008
 ExecutiveSummary                                                                                      Page2


                   is not investigated any further in the present Report. Initially, the feasibility study
                   identified 6 alternatives at the two remaining locations. Later on, a seventh alternative
                  was added, with an intermediate location (south of the existing Jetty, but closer to it).
                  The main characteristics of the 7 alternatives are shown in Table 1.



 Table 1:         Alternatives for the new jetty
8                                         1               1
 No.    Loc.       Total        Rock
                  length        bund         length rn       pip:ine      M USD
               I    rn      1 length rn
                                                          I              1          I
1     I N          1500          875            625                                  Concrete trestle; marine loadingarms; some

I                                         I                     300        25.2      dredging required; mooring: dolphins;
                                                                                    ILikeAlt. 1, but steel trestle; marineloading
                                                                                     arms; some dredging required; mooring:
                                                                300     I1 26,5      dolphins;
                                                                                    1
                                                                850        23.1      Concrete trestle; marine loadingarms; no
                                                                                     dredging; mooring dolphins; technically and
                                                                                     economically preferred option

                                                                300        23.5      Like Alt. 1, but with offloading hoses instead
                                                                                     of loading arms; some dredging required
                                                                        1  30.9     1100 m submarine pipeline and hoses; no          1
                                                                        I            dredging (?); ~onve'ntionalBuoy ~ o o r i n ~
                                                                                     LCBM)
                                                                        I        I   Submarine pipeline and hoses; no dredging;
                                                                                     CBM; most modern version; same location
                                                                           j 1 5     as Alternative 3.
                                                                                                  - --                           -

                                                                                     "southoftheexistingjetty,butnorthofthe
                                                                                     Alternatives 3 and 6. Loading hoses;

                                                                                    1dredging probably required; mooring
                                                                                     dol~hins
 -                                                                                   -
      I        I            I             I                              I               ~                                           I
 Source: Feasibility Study, Final Report, July 2006
 * n.a. = not applicable, since there is no jetty in this alternative




                  Alternative 7 was first selected as the most favourable one on economic grounds, but
                  was later on abandoned due to a risk of interference with the cooling water intake
                  structure of the existing Hirgigo Power Plant. Finally, Alternative 3 was selected as the
                  most favourable alternative technically and economically. This alternative was
                  developed further by the Design Consultant in parallel to the ESIA study.

                  As a first step of the ESIA, a comparative environmental analysis of the 7 alternatives
                  had to be done; this is described in Chapter 4. For a number of environmental
                  indicators, impact values were attributed to the various alternatives, on a range of -3
                  (very strong negative impact) over 0 (no or negligible effect) to +3 (very strong positive
                  effect). From these evaluations, a first ranking of the alternatives was made. Alternative
                  3 (the preferred alternative technically and economically) resulted as the preferred
                  option from this evaluation.

                  Since most differences of impacts between the alternatives are small, and since the
                  impacts as such were mostly classified as small, it was somewhat questionable whether
                  this result was very reliable. For this reason, for a number of indicators a ranking was
                  made, of the type "although impacts are small, Alternative x is still somewhat better

 Massawa Port Authority                                                                   P ~ Y R YENERGY LTD.
 Petroleum Jetty ESlA                                                                     Date March 25, 2008
 Executive Summary                                                                         Page 3


                  than Alternative y, because.. .".This led again to an overall rank of the 7 alternatives. In
                  addition, a sensitivity analysis was carried out by attributing different weights to
                  different indicators.

                  In this analysis, Alternative 3 consistently ranked first, while the others, to some extent,
                  changed position depending on the weights attributed to different indicators. The main
                  arguments against the other alternatives were:

                          Longerjetty, and especially longerrock bund, leadingto more impact on sea bed
                          habitats (Alternatives 1, 2,4, 5 and 7).

                          Dredging required, and through this again risk of a negative impact on sea bed
                          habitats, mainly on coral reefs, through mobilisation of sediments (Alternatives
                          1,2,4, 5 and 7).

                          Interference with cooling water intake of Hirgigo Power Plant (Alternative 7).

                          Higher risk of pipeline leakages remaining undetected for prolonged periods,
                          and potentially much larger amount of oil spilled in case of a pipeline rupture,
                          due to entirely submarinepipelines (Alternative 6).

                  The conclusion of this analysis was that Alternative 3 is indeed the preferable one. This
                  alternative, the only one which is analysed further, is described in some detail in
                  Chapter 5, again based on the technical documents and information received from the
                  Design Consultant. The main features of this option are summarised in Table 2.



 Table 2:         Main characteristics of Alternative 3

 Item                              Dimension                                            Observations

 Rock bund        length           625 m                                                from shore to -5 m below CD      1
                  crown width

                  length           500 m                                                concretetrestle
I                 width           110.75 m
1Product pipelines                 1 6 for fuel oil                                     space for adding 2 additional
                                   16"for white products (gasoil,gasoline,kerosene)     pipelines for white products
                                   8" for LPG

 Fire fighting pipelines         1 12" salt water for fire fighting
                                   6" spray and personnel protection

 Access road                       5 m wide                                             on jetty

 Offloading                        3 arms                                               marine offloading arms
1Pipeline length on land         1 850 m                                               1                              I

                  One of the Tasks for this study was stakeholder involvement. A number of stakeholders
                  were listed as such in the TOR, additional ones have been identified by the Consultant
                  during the study. All of these stakeholders were contacted at least once during the study
                  period, some of them several times, in order to inform them about the Project and to
                  obtain comments and input data. Towards the end of the study period, two stakeholder
                  workshops were held, one in Asmara and one in Massawa, where the results of the
                  study were presented and discussed (Chapter 6).

Massawa Port Authority                                                          P ~ Y R YENERGY LTD.
PetroleumJetty ESlA                                                             Date March 25, 2008
Executive Summary                                                               Page 4


             The following Chapters are devoted to the impact assessment of this preferred
             alternative. The results can be summarised as follows:

             Land use: no impacts will be noted in this respect, since there is no alternative land use
             there now, nor is there any real possibility for using this land alternatively. It is a
             designated industrial area, of no tourist or cultural and historical interest whatsoever
             (Chapter 7).

             Air Quality and noise: impacts will occur due to the construction activities, the most
             important of which will be due to transport of material through residential areas of
             Massawa town. However, given the volume and duration of these activities, effects will
             still be within accepted air quality and noise standards. Nevertheless, it is recommended
             to do the necessary for keeping the impact as low as possible. This can best be done by
             a good maintenance of the vehicles (mainly to prevent unnecessary air pollution) and a
             careful planning of transports (to prevent unnecessary driving of lorries and heavy
             equipment) (Chapter 7).

             Water quality: as mentioned above, the main risk in this respect stems from the oil
             spill risk, which is considerably larger now as it is expected to be with the new jetty.
             The second most important source is the flushing of pipelines, which will remain the
             same as it is now unless dedicated pipelines are installed. In addition to this, there will
             be some, albeit limited, impacts on water quality due to construction activities. These
             should be minimised in the extent possible. The main mitigation measures here are to
             carry out maintenance and repair work on vehicles and machines in dedicated areas with
             sealed surfaces and water treatment facilities, and to store fuels, lubricants and
             chemicals in safe places away from water (Chapter 7).

             Waste: the most noticeable amount of waste will be generated by the removal of the
             existing jetty. This material will have to be brought to a suitable dumping site. Most of
             the material will be suitable for being reused (the pipelines as piping for different
             purposes or as scrap steel, like the iron reinforcement of the jetty structure, and the
             concrete material and bricks form the jetty itself as filling material in road construction
             or similar). It is recommended to use this material in this way, if the jetty is demolished.
             The other relevant amount of waste is water contaminated with oil products, stemming
             from flushing the pipeline used for white products. This effect will persist with the new
             jetty, it could however be eliminated by having dedicated pipelines for the white
             products (Chapter 8).

             Coast and sea bed dynamics: The situation at the project site is described. Due to its
             location in the bay, which is in addition shielded by a number of islands, wind and wave
             action are generally very weak. The currents are weak as well, sediment transport,
             erosion and accumulation processes are minimal. Given this situation, the project will
             not have any noticeable effect on wave action, currents and sediment transport. Changes
             in sedimentation and erosion will be very small and very localised, if any at all. Specific
             mitigation measures in this respect are not required (Chapter 9).

             Oil spill and fire risks: an Oil Spill Risk Assessment and Contingency Plan and a Fire
             Risk Assessment and Fire Training Plan had to be prepared as part of the assignment.
             These aspects are dealt with in this Report only very briefly (Chapters 10 and 11); the
             plans are provided as separate documents (Vol. 2 and Vol. 3) of the ESIA Study.

Massawa Port Authority                                                         P ~ Y R YENERGY CTD.
PetroleumJetty ESlA                                                            Date March 25,2008
Executive Summary                                                              Page 5


             Health: health risks will arise, in the amount to be expected at construction sites of this
             size, due to risks of accidents and the risk of transmitting of communicablediseases in
             the work force. The contractor will have to take the usual precaution measures (safety
             equipment, training of workers, health checks, information and health services) in order
             to minimise risks and to deal with accidents and illnesses that might occur. The one
             overall public health risk presented by the project is the one which might be caused by a
             major oil spill. The risk of this happening will be greatly reduced by the new jetty
             (Chapter 12).

             Biodiversity: the impacts on biodiversity (mangroves, sea grasses and sea weeds, coral
             reefs, marine fauna and birds) are caused mainly (i) by building the rock bund for the
             new jetty (permanent destruction of habitat, temporary impact on surrounding habitats
             through mobilised sediments), (ii) by general construction activities (presence of work
             force; noise; risk for water contamination; fishing), and (iii) by all activities related to
             demolishing the old jetty (construction and removal of platform, removal of jetty as
             such). The latter impact is likely to be more important than the one caused by the new
             jetty. Although overall determined as rather small impacts, and some of them (like
             sediment mobilisation) of a temporary nature, mitigation measures are recommended
             for minimising the impacts to the strict minimum (Chapter 13).

             Socio-economy: the project effects, overall, are positive. Given the site and its
             characteristics, the project does not cause any resettlement, there is no need for
             expropriation, and no limitation of access to resources. The effect on local fisheries will
             be negligible, if any (small indirect impact possible through impacting fish populations
             due to sediment mobilisation, but reduction in risk of much larger impact that would be
             caused by a major oil spill). On the other hand, there is some potential for jobs being
             created on the construction site (although on a temporary basis), and it is expected that
             the regional economy as a whole will benefit from the project (Chapter 14).

             Given its potential impacts, the entire Chapter 15 is dedicated to the question of removal
             of the existingjetty. According to the feasibility report, demolishing the old jetty will
             require the construction of a "platform" (similar to the rock bund for the new jetty)
             along the old one over its entire length of about 760 m, and a crown width of about 10
             m, to allow the use of cranes and other heavy machines for the work. After the removal
             of the oldjetty, this platform will in turn also have to be removed again. This procedure
             will have a considerably larger negative effect on sea bed habitats than the construction
             of the new jetty, by directly destroying a seabed surface similar to the one needed for
             the new jetty, destroying the habitat which has formed, over the 70 years of its
             existence, on the submerged parts of the jetty and the rubble mound supporting it, and
             by damaging additional habitat through sediment mobilisation by building the platform,
             demolishing the jetty and then removing the platform again. Since there is no need,
             whether from environmental, aesthetic, land use or economic reason, for actually
             removing the existing jetty, it is recommended to remove the pipelines (including the
             submarine parts) and the dolphin, possibly remove the part of the jetty close'to and
             accessible from land in order to make it less accessible for unauthorised persons, but to
             leave the remainder of it untouched. This would not only save costs, it would also
             reduce the impact on the marine environment.

             Finally, Chapter 16 provides a synopsis of the main impacts and the recommended
             mitigation measures. The main conclusions are the following:

Massawa Port Authority                                                           P ~ Y R YENERGY LTD.
Petroleum Jetty ESlA                                                             Date March 25, 2008
Executive Summary                                                                Page 6


                      The overall major environmental benefit of the project consists in the fact that
                      the environmental risk presented by the danger of a major oil spill caused by the
                      decaying structure of the existing jetty will be, not completely eliminated, but
                      reduced to acceptable standards.

                      The construction of the selected alternative of the new jetty at the chosen site
                      will cause some impacts, all of which, however, are small and of no further
                      relevance. Furthermore, some of them can be reduced by applying suitable
                      mitigation measures. Overall, the advantage resulting fiom abandoning the
                      exitingjetty prevails.

                      The demolition of the existingjetty causes impacts which are at least of the same
                      magnitude, but probably considerably larger, than those caused by the new jetty.
                      Given this, and in the absence of a stringent reason for removing this structure, it
                      is recommended not to demolish it.

              The recommended mitigation measures are described to some more detail in the EMP
              (Vol. 4 of the ESIA Study).


Oil Spill Risk Assessment and Contingency Plan

              An Oil Spill Risk Assessment and Contingency Plan has been prepared for the Front
              End Engineering Design (FEED) Phase of the new jetty project for Massawa, Eritrea
              (Volume 2 of the Study Report). This document will then have to be updated duringthe
              system definition phase of the project.

              Central to the Oil Spill Risk Assessment and Contingency Plan are the identification of
              release locations along the new jetty and the release types that can occur due to the
              products being offloaded at Massawa.

              This oil spill risk assessment is based upon the release locations provided in the original
              base data and the fact that LPG and a range of white products and black products are to
              be offloaded.

              Statistical release sizes during product offloading operations have been obtained from
              international data based upon vessel sizes which will offload at Massawa. This dab may
              be seen in Appendix A.

              The physical properties of the products to be offloaded (in particular the toxicity data
              and recommended clean-up methods for small, large and huge releases) at Massawa
              have been obtained from representativeMaterial Safety Data Sheets (MSDS), which are
              given in Appendix B.

              The causes, consequencesand a coarse risk assessment for these release types, sizes and
              locations has been documented in the Hazard Register given in Appendix G. Also on
              this register is documented the design and operational safeguards that have been
              detailed in the FEED documents. The impact of the safeguards on the raw risk levels is
              seen by the resulting level of residual risk. The recommended actions for the Massawa
              Oil Spill Response Team to respond to the spills are then documented. This semi-
              quantitative risk assessment has been the result of table top exercises at EPConsult's

Massawa Port Authority                                                        POYRY ENERGY LTD.
PetroleumJetty ESlA                                                           Date March 25, 2008
ExecutiveSummary                                                              Page 7


             London offices, and it is recommended that operations personnel become familiar with
             the register and participate in keeping the document up to date so as to become familiar
             with the process of control of major accident hazards to the environment.

             Huge spills are associated with product storage on the vessel entering the harbour and
             not jetty operations per se. A matrix is produced in the document, which give for spills
             at the locations identified for the harbour and jetty, the relevant oil spill response
             approach, equipment, skimmersand sorbent media.

             Thus the resulting FEED level oil spill contingency plan is seen to be hazard based and
             proportionate. This document also details typical training needs, manning requirements,
             job descriptions for key positions in the emergency response structure, and emergency
             response plans. The regulatory framework is also discussed.

             This FEED level oil spill risk assessment and contingency plan raises the following
             design issues, which may be in consideration:

                     Windsocks are provided for the newjetty for LPG releases.

                     Leak detection devicesare considered for offloading product.

                     Water sprays, including for personnel protection should be considered for
                     confirmed gas release.

                     Clearly flanges should be minimized along the jetty and bunding should be kept
                     clear.

                     Oil spill response equipment should be placed in fire proof cabinets on the Jetty,
                     and the work boat should be tethered and provided with a purpose built landing
                     with life saving equipment.

                     A small laboratory should be provided for sample analysis and monitoring of
                     harbour waters, sedimentsand groundwater.

                     A freezer should be provided for preserving any wildlife or plants impacted by a
                     spill for further analysis.

             It is recognized that many of these measures cannot be considered without cost benefit
             analyses, and thus it is recommended that this document is revised in the next
             engineering phase so as to provide the basis for doing this.

             This document should be read in conjunction with the companion Fire Risk Assessment
             and Fire Training Plan.


Fire Risk Assessment and Fire Training Plan

             A Fire Risk Assessment and Training Plan has been prepared for the Front End
             Engineering Design (FEED) Phase of the new jetty project for Massawa, Eritrea
             (Volume 3 of the Study Report). This document will then have to be updated duringthe
             system definition phase of the project.

Massawa Port Authority                                                          POYRY ENERGY LTD.
Petroleum Jetty ESlA                                                            Date March 25,2008
ExecutiveSummary                                                                Page 8


              Central to the Fire Risk Assessment and Fire Training Plan are the identification of fire
              locations along the new jetty and the fire types that can occur due to the products being
              offloaded at Massawa.

              This fire risk assessment is based upon the fire locations provided in the original base
              data and the fact that LPG and a range of white products and black products are to be
              offloaded.

              Statistical release sizes during product ofloading operations have been obtained from
              international data based upon vessel sizes which will offload at Massawa. This data may
              be seen in Appendix A.

              The physical properties of the products to be ofloaded (in particular the flammability
              data and recommended firefighting methods for small, large and huge fires) at Massawa
              have been obtained from representative Material Safety Data Sheets (MSDS), which are
              given in Appendix B.

              The causes, consequences and a coarse risk assessment for these fire types, sizes and
              locations has been documented in the Hazard Register given in Appendix D. Also on
              this register is documented the design and operational safeguards that have been
              detailed in the FEED documents. The impact of the safeguards on the raw risk levels is
              seen by the resulting level of residual risk. The recommended actions for the Massawa
              Jetty Fire Team to tackle the fires are then documented. This semi-quantitative risk
              assessment has been the result of table top exercises at EPConsultYsLondon offices, and
              it is recommended that operations personnel become familiar with the register and
              participate in keeping the document up to date so as to become familiar with the process
              of control of major accident hazards.

              Given that huge fires are associated with product storage and not jetty operations per se,
              two matrices are produced in the document, which give for small and large fires at the
              locations identified for the jetty, the relevant firefighting approach, equipment, media
              and personal protective equipment.

              Thus the resulting FEED level firefighting training plan is seen to be hazard based and
              proportionate. It is then a short step to design the training segments and refreshers and
              the manning requirements of the fire team for the new jetty.

              This FEED level fire risk assessment and fire training plan raises the following design
              issues, which may be in consideration:

                      Windsocks are provided for the new jetty for LPG releases.

                      Leak detection devices are considered for offloading product.

                      The possibility of providing passive fire protection for the slops tank should be
                      considered if this does not constitute corrosion under insulation risk.

                      Passive fire protection should be considered for critical shutdown valves and
                      ESD initiation stations.

                      Strict no smoking and speed restrictions should be in force on the jetty.

Massawa Port Authority                                                         P ~ Y R YENERGY LTD.
PetroleumJetty ESlA                                                            Date March 25, 2008
Executive Summary                                                              Page 9


                     All work on the jetty should be subject to the appropriate permit to work,
                     including electrical.

                     Water sprays, including for personnel protection should be considered for
                     confirmed gas release.

                     A fixed inert gas 1 fresh water spray system should be considered for the
                     electrical switchgear room and the firewater pump house due to gas oil fuel and
                     electrical supply the fire pumps.

                     Passive fire protection is considered for the roadside and piperack-side walls of
                     the firewater pumphouse, with a fire rated wall between the switchgear room
                     and the firewater pump house. Consideration should be given to providing
                     passive fire protection to the roof of this building.

                     Consideration should be given to locating each fire water pump in a separate
                     pump house on thejetty.

                     Clearly flanges should be minimized in this area.

                     Consideration should be given to the option of providing foam induction at
                     hydrants, with drums of foam stationed along thejetty.

                     Hose reel cabinets to be provided with the necessary lengths of hose, couplings
                     and nozzles.

                     Spare firefighting BA to be provided on thejetty.

                     Careful design, construction and siting of the operator huts.

             It is recognized that many of these measures cannot be considered without cost benefit
             analyses, and thus it is recommended that this document is revised in the next
             engineering phase so as to provide the basis for doing this.

             This document should be read in conjunction with the companion Oil Spill Risk and
             Contingency Plan.


Environmental Management Plan

             The EMP, Volume 4 of the ESIA Study for the Project of a new petroleum jetty at
             Hirgigo Bay    - Massawa, describes in detail the important environmental mitigation
             measures identified during the impact assessment study (See Vol. 1).

             In a first part, the Project as such is being described shortly. The description of the
             preferred Alternative (which was originally Alternative 3) is given in Table 2 above.

             Chapter 2 provides a summary of impacts and mitigation measures as described in
             Volume 1 (ESIA Report).

Massawa Port Authority                                                          P ~ Y R Y
                                                                                        ENERGY LTD.
PetroleumJetty ESIA                                                              Date March 25, 2008
Executive Summary                                                               Page 10                   4




             Chapter 3 is the main part of the EMP and provides the information on the measures
             themselves and on institutional requirements. The following are the identified impacts
             requiring specific mitigation measures:

                 1.  Air pollution

                 2. Noise

                 3. Pollution of coastal waters

                 4. Waste (domestic,solid, liquid, and hazardous)

                 5. Debris from existingjetty falling to sea bed

                 6. Work accidents, occupational health

                 7. Communicablediseases

                 8. Loss of marine habitat

                 9. Sedimentmobilisation

             These measures are described shortly in a summarisingTable; a second Table, similarly
             structured, describes the required monitoring activities. More details on each of the
             measures are provided in the Mitigation Measures Data Sheets in Annex 1. These sheets
             describe the impact and its importance, the required measures (including monitoring),
             the expected effect of the measure, and the responsibilities (for detailed planning,
             implementation of the measures, and monitoring).

             As far as possible, costs of the measures are identified. However, most measures have
             either to be integrated in the design of the Project or in the overall work plan of the
             contractor, and therefore in many cases it is not possible to actually identify costs
             specific to one measure.

             Most of the mitigation measures can be characterised as normal procedure and "good
             housekeeping practice" as required on any larger construction site. Some, however,
             especially those related to the protection of marine habitats, are project specific.

             The most important institutional requirements for implementation of mitigation
             measuresand for monitoring are the following:

                     The Contractor will have to include all these measures in his proposal and in his
                     cost estimate.

                     The Contractor will need to hire one person whose main responsibility will be
                     the supervision (implementation and internal monitoring) of the specific
                     environmentalmeasures.

                     Two other specialised personnel of the Contractor, the responsible person for
                     safety and security, and the responsible for health services and first aid, will

Massawa Port Authority                                                          PdYRY ENERGY LTD.
Petroleum Jetty ESlA                                                            Date March 25, 2008
Executive Summary                                                               Page 11


                      have to assume some responsibilitiesespecially in relation to measures aimingat
                      accident prevention and public health.

                      These three specialists will, as part of their duty, carry out the internal
                      monitoring and prepare the required reports (proposed are monthly progress and
                      quarterlysummarisingreports).

                      MPA as the project ownkr will need to have an environmental specialist for
                      supervising the progress of the work and monitoring compliance with the
                      conditions defined in this EMP.

                      For some of the measures, periodic checking by the competent authority (DOE)
                      will be required. This will be done based on the (quarterly) monitoring reports
                      and on regular checkson site.

                      It will be the decision of the burrower (the World Bank) whether an external
                      independent monitoring (by means of hiring a recognised external expert, as
                      routinely done in the form of a Panel of Experts in large WB projects) will be
                      required. A short description of the duties of such a PoE is provided. Given the
                      size of the Project, and especially the absence of socio-economic impacts, it is
                      suggested that in this case one environmental expert should be sufficient for
                      carrying out this work.
                    ,




              Since all of these measures will have to be taken during         - and most of them are
              restricted to - the construction period, and will therefore have to be implementedby the
              Contractor, it is important that the measures formulated in this EMP will be included as
              conditions in the tender documents. This can be done by including the Mitigation
              Measures Data Sheets in the tender documents. In addition to that, it would also be
              possible to include general environmental conditions in the respective contracts. Such
              conditions are listed - although not necessarilyas an exhaustive list in Annex 2.
                                                                                   -

              The implementation of the mitigation measures and the monitoring has to be integrated
              in the overall constructionschedule as shown in Chapter 5.


