Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATASHEET 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
 
I.  Basic Information
 
Date prepared/updated:  10/14/2008 
Report No.:46155  
1. Basic Project Data  
 
Country:  Eritrea 
Project ID:  P034154 
Project Name:  ER-Ports Rehab SIL (FY98) 
Task Team Leader:  Josphat O. Sasia 
Estimated Appraisal Date: March 27, 1996 
Estimated Board Date: November 18, 1997 
Managing Unit:  AFTTR 
Lending Instrument:  Specific Investment 
Loan 
Sector:  Ports, waterways and shipping (97%);Solid waste management (2%);Central 
government administration (1%) 
Theme:  Infrastructure services for private sector development (P);Pollution management 
and environmental health (S) 
IBRD Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
IDA Amount (US$m.): 
30.30 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 
ITALY, Govt. of (Except for Dev. Coop. Dept. - MOFA) 
21.00 
 Financing 
Gap 
-14.70
6.30 
Environmental Category: A - Full Assessment 
Simplified Processing 
Simple [] 
Repeater [] 
Is this project processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency Recovery) 
or OP 8.00 (Rapid Response to Crises and Emergencies) 
Yes [ ] 
No [X] 
2. Project Objectives 
Original Project Objectives:  
 
The original project objectives of the Project are to (a) address the urgent port capacity 
requirement of the Borrower up to the year 2005; (b) optimize the use of existing 
facilities by rehabilitating and upgrading the two ports of Massawa and Assab; and (c) 
increase substantially the productivity and capacity of the two ports to international 
standards.  
 
Revised Project Objectives:  
 
The development objective of the restructured project is: to increase the productivity 
and capacity of Port Massawa.   
 
3. Project Description 
The Project was originally designed to assist the two ports at Massawa and Assab to 
address urgent capacity requirements up to the year 2005. It would (i) optimize the use of 
existing facilities; (ii) substantially increase their productivity and capacity; and (iii) raise 
Page  2
their level of services to international standards. Most of the project components have 
been successfully completed. The only outstanding project activity is the construction of 
a
new oil jetty, at Hirgigo Bay, Massawa. The project has five primary components:  
 
A. Civil Works at Massawa. This component comprised of (i) repairs, rehabilitation and 
extension of berths 5 and 6, (ii) dredging in front of the new berth 6 to 12 m depth, (iii) 
reclamation of land behind berth 6, (iv) heavy duty pavement for the new container 
stacking yard, (v) clearing of the apron and storage areas adjacent to berths 5 and 6, (vi) 
storm drainage system, and (vii) an administrative building for the customs authorities;  
 
B. Cargo Handling Equipment. This component comprised of the acquisition of the port 
equipment for Port Massawa: (i) a mobile ship-to-shore crane; (ii) a mobile crane; (iii) 
reach stackers for full and empty containers, (iv) tug masters and trailers, (v) fork lift 
trucks for stripping and stuffing of containers, (vi) repair of shore cranes and fork lift 
trucks, and (vii) spare parts; and for Assab, (viii) 2 mobile cranes to carry out ship-to-
shore handling of containers, (ix) heavy duty lift trucks for full and empty containers at 
the stacking yard, (x) tug masters and trailers, (xi) small fork lift trucks for stripping and 
stuffing containers and for operating in the ship's hold, and (xii) a replacement tugboat;  
 
C. Environment. This component included: (i) facilities and equipment to improve 
operating practices at the two ports regarding control of discharge of bilge water and 
solid waste from ships, and (ii) oil spill combat equipment, including support in 
institutional building and training, to comply with the National Oil Spill Contingency 
Plan presently under preparation;  
 
D. Training programs. Training was in the fields of port operations and equipment 
maintenance, including provision of overseas training at recognized international 
institutes and/or overseas ports, as well as short term technical assistance; and  
 
E. Consultancy services. This comprises of (i) supervision of the civil works, (ii) short 
term experts to assist in drafting technical specifications and bidding documents for 
equipment procurement, (iii) specific studies in the field of MIS, cost accounting, tariff 
analysis and commercialization of port activities, (iv) technical assistance and training, 
and (v) a study of the long term development of the port sector (Phases II and III).  
 
Project Restructuring. With restructuring of the project, activities associated with the 
development of Port Assab have been dropped while new project activities have been 
introduced mainly concentrating on the development of Port Massawa including (i) 
improvement works on Massawa causeways at Sigalet and Dahlak; (ii) emergency repairs 
on the existing aged old oil jetty and construction of a new oil jetty both at Hirgigo Bay, 
Massawa.   
 
4. Project Location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard 
analysis 
The original project location was at both Port Assab and Massawa. The expansion of 
berths and the container terminal had some negative environmental and social impacts 
Page  3
mainly associated with construction works but were not irreversible. The ports of Assab 
and Massawa had very limited facilities and guidelines for handling and storage of 
hazardous and noxious cargo and for collection, storage and treatment of ships' waste.  
Environmental equipment has been procured and waste management facilities established 
together with the development and enhancement of procedures for handling and storage 
of dangerous cargo/materials as well as establishment of emergency plans in case of 
accidents in accordance with International Maritime Organization (IMO) procedures. 
Furthermore, a National Oil Spill Response Plan for the State of Eritrea has been 
developed.  
 
Restructuring of the project entails new additional project activities mainly 
concentrating on developments at Port Massawa notably construction of a new oil jetty. 
The proposed new oil jetty will be located at Hirgigo Bay, Massawa. This location (close 
to Massawa Port) is characterized by a sandy/muddy bottom and a mangrove zone along 
portions of the shoreline; on occasion it is used by some local fisherman. No habitat is 
considered rare or endangered. Being isolated, the terminal is not expected to have any 
adverse impacts upon local people and their livelihoods. The existing terminal has not 
generated significant oil spills having successfully deployed mitigation and safety 
measures during its lifetime.   
 
5. Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists 
Mr Colin P. Rees (AFTTR) 
 
6. Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
X
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
 X 
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X 
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
 X 
Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11) 
 X 
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10) 
 X 
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
 X 
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
 X 
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
 X 
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X 
II.  Key Safeguard Policy Issues and Their Management 
A. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues 
1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. 
Identify and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts: 
The safeguard policy issues are detailed in the ESIA, the EMP, oil spill prevention plan 
and fire control plan. The main issues and measures taken and or planned to be taken 
include:  
 
Page  4
(i) 
Air Quality and noise: impacts will occur due to the construction activities 
however, given the volume and duration of these activities, effects will still be within 
accepted air quality and noise standards;  
 
(ii) 
Water quality: the main risk in this respect stems from the oil spill risk and 
flushing of pipelines. These will be minimized as provided in various mitigation 
measures e.g. oil spill contingency plan;  
 
(iii) 
Waste: most of the waste will be generated by the removal of the pipes of the 
existing old oil jetty, though the material will be suitable for being reused (the pipelines 
as piping for different purposes or as scrap steel, and like the iron reinforcement of the 
jetty structure);  
 
(iv) 
Coast and sea bed dynamics: Due to its location in the bay, which is in addition 
shielded by a number of islands, wind and wave action are generally very weak. The 
currents are weak as well, sediment transport, erosion and accumulation processes are 
minimal. Given this situation, the project will not have any noticeable effect on wave 
action, currents and sediment transport;  
 
(v) 
Oil spill and fire risks: an Oil Spill Risk Assessment and Contingency Plan and a 
Fire Risk Assessment and Fire Training Plan had to be prepared as part of the assignment 
are prepared and will be implemented during and after construction;  
 
(vi) 
Biodiversity: the significant impacts on biodiversity i.e. mangroves, sea grasses 
and sea weeds, coral reefs, marine fauna and birds, are those activities related to 
demolishing the old jetty (construction and removal of platform, removal of jetty as 
such). These impacts will be minimized by leaving the old jetty intact except for the 
pipes;  
 
(vii) 
Socio-economy: the project effects, overall, are positive. Given the site and its 
characteristics, the project does not cause any resettlement and there is no need for 
expropriation, and no limitation of access to resources. The effect on local fisheries will 
be negligible. On the other hand, there is some potential for jobs being created on the 
construction site (although on a temporary basis), and it is expected that the regional 
economy as a whole will benefit from this project activity; and  
 
(viii)  Physical cultural resources: The land within which the new oil jetty will be 
constructed is not used for any other purpose than for the existing old oil jetty and 
Hirgigo power plant. The soil is sandy, with very sparse vegetation. There are no 
inhabitants, whether authorized or illegal. The value of this land as a habitat for any 
species is very limited. The distance from the site to any sensitive areas is large. There is 
no type of use of this land for residential and agricultural purposes and therefore no 
impact on such uses. The area is of no tourist interest, it is too far away from the tourist 
areas and therefore the construction of the new oil jetty will not have any negative effect 
on tourism. There is no indication of any physical cultural property in this area. The 
important cultural site in the region is the old Massawa town, on the Massawa island over 
3
km
away from the proposed site of the new oil jetty (Hirgigo Bay) and is not affected 
by it. Therefore on the basis of the ESIA carried out, there is no impact of the 
construction of the new oil jetty on the cultural heritage.   
 
2. Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future 
activities in the project area: 
No long term impacts are anticipated by the ESIA.   
Page  5
3. Describe any project alternatives (if relevant) considered to help avoid or minimize 
adverse impacts. 
Alternative alignments were assessed and evaluated in the ESIA, including mitigation 
measures and their costs. In particular, the feasibility study identified 7 alternatives 
(details in Table 1). A comparative environmental analysis and evaluations of the 7 
alternatives was done and ranking of the alternatives was made. The preferred alternative 
technically and economically (alternative 3) also resulted as the preferred option from 
this evaluation.  
 
Table 1: 
Alternatives for the new oil jetty  
 
Alternative No. 1, Total length is 1500m of which 875m is rock bund and 625m is 
trestle. In addition, on land pipeline is 300m. The main features of this alternative 
include:- Concrete trestle; marine loading arms; some dredging required; mooring: 
dolphins;  
 
Alternative No. 2, Total length is 1500m of which 875m is rock bund and 625m is 
trestle.  In addition, on land pipeline is 300m. The main features of this alternative are 
like Alt. 1, but steel trestle; marine loading arms; some dredging required; mooring: 
dolphins;  
 
Alternative No. 3, Total length is 1125m of which 625m is rock bund and 500m is 
trestle.  In addition, on land pipeline is 850. The main features of this alternative include:- 
Concrete trestle; marine loading arms; no dredging; mooring dolphins; technically and 
economically preferred option  
 
Alternative No. 4, Total length is 1500m of which 875m is rock bund and 700m is 
trestle.  In addition, on land pipeline is 300m. The main features of this alternative are 
like Alt. 1, but with offloading hoses instead of loading arms; some dredging required  
 
Alternative No. 5, Total length is 1900m of which 1200m is rock bund and 625m is 
trestle. The main features of this alternative are like: - 100 m submarine pipeline and 
hoses; no dredging; Conventional Buoy Mooring (CBM)  
 
Alternative No. 6 is a Submarine pipeline and hoses; no dredging; CBM; most modern 
version; same location as Alternative 3  
 
Alternative No. 7, Total length is 1120m of which 1150m is rock bund and 70m is 
trestle.  The main features of this alternative include:-** south of the existing jetty, but 
north of the Alternatives 3 and 6. Loading hoses; dredging probably required; mooring 
dolphins  
 
The preferable alternative (Alternative 3) was the only one which is analysed further on 
the basis of the technical documents and information received from the Design 
Consultant.   
Page  6
4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard policy issues. Provide 
an assessment of borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described. 
An Environmental Impact Assessment and Master Plan was done for the entire Port in 
1996 and recommendations were taken into account in the civil works contract. All these 
works have been successfully completed. For, the proposed new oil jetty, a separate 
Environmental and Social Impact Assessment (ESIA) has been carried out in accordance 
with the requirements of OP 4.01, The ESIA has been reviewed, cleared and disclosed 
both in-country on April 18, 2008 and at the Bank's InfoShop on April 24, 2008. The 
recommendations of the ESIA are being incorporated in the final detailed design of the 
preferred option for environmental protection, including oil spill prevention and fire 
control.  
 
Massawa Port Authority (MPA), as the owner of the facilities has identified staffing 
requirements and training needs to ensure the implementation of the Environmental 
Mitigation Plan (EMP) and environmental protection. MPA has assigned its staff to the 
project and part of their duty will be to carry out the internal monitoring and prepare the 
required reports (proposed are monthly progress and quarterly summarising reports). The 
staff will supervise the progress of the work and monitoring compliance with the 
conditions defined in this EMP. For some of the measures, periodic checking by the 
competent authority (Department of Environment) will be required. This will be done 
based on the (quarterly) monitoring reports and on regular checks on site.   
 
5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and 
disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people. 
One of the Tasks for the ESIA study was stakeholder involvement. A number of 
stakeholders were listed in the Terms of Reference for the ESIA study, additional ones 
were identified by the Consultant during the study. All of these stakeholders were 
contacted at least once during the study period, some of them several times, in order to 
inform them about the Project and to obtain comments and input data. Towards the end of 
the study period, two stakeholder workshops were held, one in Asmara and one in 
Massawa, where the results of the study were presented and discussed. The stakeholders 
involved in the process included: MPA; Department of Environment within the Ministry 
of Land, Water and Environment (MOLWE); Ministry of Public Works (MOPW); 
Petroleum Corporation of Eritrea; Tamoil; Ministry of Energy and Mines; Ministry of 
Fisheries; Northern Red Sea Zone; Municipality of Massawa City; ECMIB; Manzanar 
Project (NGO); ï
 
Hirgigo Power Plant; Hirgigo Village; Ministry of Tourism (Asmara 
and Massawa Office); Eritrea Free Zone Authority (EFZA), Massawa; Eritrean Electric 
Corporation; and Civil Aviation.  
 
There are no communities residing at the proposed site of the new oil jetty. Furthermore, 
there is no alternative land use for this site, or is there any real possibility for using this 
land alternatively. It is a designated industrial area, of no tourist or cultural and historical 
interest.   
 
Page  7
B. Disclosure Requirements Date
 
Environmental Assessment/Audit/Management Plan/Other: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 N/A 
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
04/16/2008 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
04/18/2008 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
04/24/2008 
 
For category A projects, date of distributing the Executive 
Summary of the EA to the Executive Directors 
09/17/2008  
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework/Policy Process: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
 
 
Indigenous Peoples Plan/Planning Framework: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
 
 
Pest Management Plan: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
 
 
*
If the project triggers the Pest Management and/or Physical Cultural Resources, 
the respective issues are to be addressed and disclosed as part of the Environmental 
Assessment/Audit/or EMP. 
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please 
explain why: 
C. Compliance Monitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level (to be filled in when the 
ISDS is finalized by the project decision meeting) 
 
OP/BP/GP 4.01 - Environment Assessment 
 
Does the project require a stand-alone EA (including EMP) report? 
Yes 
If yes, then did the Regional Environment Unit or Sector Manager (SM) 
review and approve the EA report? 
Yes 
Are the cost and the accountabilities for the EMP incorporated in the 
credit/loan? 
Yes 
The World Bank Policy on Disclosure of Information 
 
Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the World Bank's 
Infoshop? 
Yes 
Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public place in a 
form and language that are understandable and accessible to project-affected 
Yes 
Page  8
groups and local NGOs? 
All Safeguard Policies 
 
Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional responsibilities 
been prepared for the implementation of measures related to safeguard 
policies? 
Yes 
Have costs related to safeguard policy measures been included in the project 
cost? 
Yes 
Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project include the 
monitoring of safeguard impacts and measures related to safeguard policies? 
Yes 
Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed with the 
borrower and the same been adequately reflected in the project legal 
documents? 
Yes 
D. Approvals 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
Name 
Date 
Task Team Leader: 
Mr Josphat O. Sasia 
10/08/2008 
Environmental Specialist: 
Mr Colin P. Rees 
10/08/2008 
Social Development Specialist 
 
 
Additional Environmental and/or 
Social Development Specialist(s): 
 
Approved by: 
 
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: 
Mr Warren Waters 
10/09/2008 
Comments:   
Sector Manager: 
Mr C. Sanjivi Rajasingham 
10/08/2008 
Comments:   
