RESTRICTED
FILE     COPY                    Report No. P - 6 5.5
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
HIDRONOR S. A.
HIDROELECTRICA NORPATAGONICA SOCIEDAD ANONIMA
IN THE
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
December 5, 1968



REPORT AND RECON1ENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
LOAlN TO HIDRONOR S.A. HIDROEIECTRICA
NORPATAGONICA SOCIEDAD AiqONIMA IN
THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan in an amount in various currencies equivalent to US$82 million to
Hidronor S.A. Hidroelectrica Norpatagonica Sociedad Anonima for the
El Chocvin hydroelectric project.
PART I. HISTORICAL
2.        Possibilities for hydroelectric development on the tributa-
ries of the Rio lIegro in Northern Patagonia have been investigated for
many years and since the early 1960's the Argentine Government has
commissioned several studies by international consultants.  First
enquiries concerning financial assistance by the Bank for El Chocon
were made in 1965. As the Bank had also been kept informed about
another large hydroelectric development, the Salto Grande project on
the Uruguay River which forms the boundary between Argentina and
Uruguay, it advised the Argentine Government to undertake studies to
determine priorities in the power sector. After the present Government
took office in the middle of 1966, it decided in favor of El Chocon.
The Bank subsequently agreed to assist in organizing and carrying out
a study designed to ascertain whether El Chocon wras the most economic
solution for meeting the power requirements of Greater Buenos Aires.
These studies were made in the course of 1967. Discussions about
possible Bank financing followed in early 1968. An appraisal mission
visited Argentina. in August and negotiations took place in Washington
in the second half of November 1968. Hidronor was represented by the
President of its Executive Committee, Ing. Raul A. Ondarts, and two
of its Directors, Dr. Julio C. Gonzalez del Solar and Dr. Enrique J.L.
Ruiz Guinazu; Dr. Daniel Fernandez, Financial Minister at the Argentine
Embassy in Washington, represented the Government.



REPORT AND RECOMNENDATION OF THE FRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
LOAN TO HIDRONOR S.A. HIDROELECTRICA
NORPATAGONICA SOCIEDAD AiqONIIMA IN
THE ARGEIEINE REPUBLIC
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan in an amount in various currencies equivalent to US$82 million to
Hidronor S.A. Hidroelectrica Norpatagonica Sociedad Anonima for the
El Chocten hydroelectric project.
PART I. HISTORICAL
2.        Possibilities for hydroelectric development on the tributa-
ries of the Rio Negro in Northern Patagonia have been investigated for
many years and since the early 1960's the Argentine Government has
commissioned several studies by international consultants. First
enquiries concerning financial assistance by the Bank for El Chocon
were made in 1965. As the Bank had also been kept informed about
another large hydroelectric development, the Salto Grande project on
the Uruguay River which forms the boundary betwjeen Argentina and
Uruguay, it advised the Argentine Government to undertake studies to
determine priorities in the power sector. After the present Government
took office in the middle of 1966, it decided in favor of El Chocon.
The Bank subsequently agreed to assist in organizing and carrying out
a study designed to ascertain whether El Chocon iws the most economic
solution for meeting the power requirements of Greater Buenos Aires.
These studies were made in the course of 1967. Discussions about
possible Bank financing followed in early 1968. An appraisal mission
visited Argentina in August and negotiations took place in Washington
in the second half of November 1968.  Hidronor was represented by the
President of its Executive Committee, Ing. Raul A. Ondarts, and two
of its Directors, Dr. Julio C. Gonzalez del Solar and Dr. Enrique J.L.
Ruiz Guinazu; Dr. Daniel Fernandez, Financial Minister at the Argentine
Embassy in Washington, represented the Government.



- 2 -
3.        The following is a summary statement of the previous Bank
loans to Argentina. as of October 31, 1968:
Loan                                                  Amount Undisbursed
Number Year                 Borrower         Purpose      (US$Mfiilion)
288    1961   The Argentine Republic       Roads      31.0     2.1
308    1962   Servicios Electricos del Gran
Buenos Aires S.A.(SEGBA)     Power      93.3      -
505    1967   The Argentine Republic        Livestock 15.3    15.2
525    1968   Servicios Electricos del Gran
Buenos Aires S.A. (SEGBA)    Power      55.0    h7.9
Total (less cancellations)             19h.6
of which has been repaid
to Bank and others                     16.8
Total now outstanding                  177.8
Amount sold                   4.7
of which has been repaid      .9         3.8
Total now held by Bank                 174.0
Total undisbursed                               65.2
No IDA credits have been made to Argentina.. IFC presently holds about
$4.9 million of loans to three Argentine industrial companies.
4.        Construction work on the road project financed by the 1961
loan has been completed and most of the undisbursed balance is expected
to be dramwn down to pay for maintenance equipment before the closing
of the loan account on December 31, 1968. After a period of prepara-
tion and organiza.tion, the credit program supported by the Bank's
loan for livestock development was launched at the end of August 1968
and disbursements are now expected to gather momentum.
5.        At the request of the Government, the Bank has recently
appraised a second road project for financing. This would call for
a loan of about $20 million. SEGBA has indicated that it would
approa.ch the Bank at the beginning of 1969 about a third loan, in the



amount of about $40 million, to help finance further expansion of its
transmission and distribution system. IFC has at present under consi-
deration a $3 million standby commitment to Dalmine Siderca, a producer
of seamless tubes and steel.
II. DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED PROJECT
6.        BORRGWER:            HIDRONOR S.A. Hidroelectrica Norpa-
tagonica Sociedad Anonima
GUARANTOR:           The Argentine Republic
AMOUNT:              In various currencies equivalent to
US$82 million.
PURPOSE:             To help finance El Chocon hydroelectric
project.
AMORTIZATION:        In 25 years including a 6-year period of
grace, through semi-annual installments
beginning March 15, 1975 and ending
March 15, 199h.
INTEREST RATE:       6 1/2% per annum
COMMITMENT CHARGE:   3/4 of 1% per annum
III.  THE PROJECT
7.        A report entitled "Appraisal of the El Chocon Project, Hidro-
electrica Norpatagonica S.A." (PU-la) is attached.
8.        Practically all power generated at El Chocon nould be used
by consumers in Greater Buenos Aires, which presently absorbs about
60 percent of total public supply of electricity in Argentina. A
small quantity may be sold to consumers in Northern Patagonia. SEGBA,
a large Bank borrower providing most of Buenos Aires power require-
ments, would buy the power from El Chocon under a contract to be
negotiated with Hidronor before the project comes into operation.
Arrangements satisfactory to the Bank in respect of such purchase will
be made by Hidronor and SEGBA before the proposed loan becomes effective.



- 4 -
9.        Hidronor iwas established as a stock corporation in October
1967 by the Argentine Government and Agua y Energia Electrica (AyEE),
the government-owned wqater and power entity.  The legal basis was a law
of June 1967 authorizing establishment of corporate enterprisesin which
the State, the provinces or the municipalities would at all times hold
at least 51 percent of the share capital but wthich would be managed
following private business principles and practice. Present shareholders
are Direccion Nacional de Energia. y Combustibles, a. government agency,
AyEE and, with a. small participation, SEGBA. Hidronor has started with
a competent and experienced management. A draft concession grants
Hidronor the right to build the El Chocon-Cerros Colorados complex,
provides it with resources to finance the local cost of the wiorks, and
assures it of a reasonable return on the investment. Signing of the
concession will be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan.
10.       The El Chocon hydroelectric project on the Limay River in
Northern Patagonia consists of a dam, a power house with three 200 WJ
generating units,and tiwo 700 mile long transmission lines to Buenos
Aires, Its cost is estimated at $325 million, including interest
during construction.  Work on the dam will start in early 1969 and the
three generating units should be in commercial operation by the end of
1973. Together with the Portezuelo Grande flood control works on the
Neuquen River, estimated to cost about $32 million, the project wxill
make up the first stage of the El Chocon-Cerros Colorados complex.
The second stage, to be executed bettween 1972 and 1978 at an estimated
cost of about $187 million, w.Tould consist of the installation of three
more 200 X-1 units in the El Chocon powier house, and the construction of
an intake and a hydroelectric plant with three 150 14A units at Planicie
Banderita on the Neuquen River. However, if the search for natural
gas noTr going on in the area is successful, the Gbvernment may, a few
years from now, consider substituting a thermal plant for Planicie
Banderita.
11.       The major part of the cost of El Chocon will be met by
domestic taxation, namely, the proceeds of 5 percent surcharges on
sales of electricity and refining of crude oil, which are expected
to cover the local costs.
12.       The proposed Bank loan would finance the estimated foreign
exchange cost of the main civil works contract, about to be placed
iath Impregilo of Italy after international competitive bidding;
the cost of ga.tes and penstocks to be procured in international com-
petition with Argentine suppliers being allowed a preferential margin



- 5 -
of 15 percent; foreign exchange payments to engineering consultants;
and interest during construction on the Bank loan. Assuming that
the orders for gates and penstocks wrere placed domestically, local
expenditures would not exceed $7 million and are justified under
paragraphs 27 b and d of the paper of July 30, 1968 "Foreign Exchange
Loans for Local Currency Expenditures". Argentina's development
program calls for substantial gross capital inflows in the years ahead,
largely because external debt service draws heavily upon domestic
savings and foreign exchange resources. As indicated in the recent
economic report on Argentina (vH-182a, paragraph 132), the financial
requirements of the investment program cannot be met by financing only
the foreign exchange costs of high priority projects.
13.       Other foreign exchange expenditures on El Chocon would be met
from bilateral buyer's credits arranged in Western Europe and North
America by Hidronor and estimated at around $60 million. These would
cover electrical and mechanical equipment for the power house and
transmission equipment purchased after competitive bidding restricted
to suppliers from countries which have offered buyer's credits. To
date, governments and banks in nine countries, Belgium, Canada, France,
Germany, Italy, Sweden, Switzerland, the United Kingdom and the United
States, have made such offers quoting favorable terms, namely 20 years
life, amortization beginning after January 1, 1974 and interest com-
parable to the Bank's interest rate.
14.       Hidronor should have no difficulty in servicing the proposed
loan. Its concession provides for rates to produce revenues sufficient
to cover operating expenses, including adequate maintenance and depre-
ciation, and to yield an 8 percent return on the investment.
15.       Power from the El Chocon-Cerros Colorados complex will be
needed in Buenos Aires as soon as it becomes available in 1973. The
El Chocon project has been found to be the lowest cost solution to
meet Buenos Aires power requirements so long as the cost of capital
is less than 7.5%.  The estimate of Hidronor's consultants is that
the project is the lowest cost solution with capital costing not
more than 10%. The quantifiable flood control benefits of the complex
are modest and the irrigation benefits small, because new storage
capacity for irrigation in the Rio Negro Valley would not be needed
for another 25 years.
16.       Execution of the project should also result in substantial
non-quantifiable benefits outside the power sector. The developmental
impact of a big productive scheme in a distant underpopulated and un-
exploited part of the country may prove significant psychologically.
With flood danger removed once the complex has been completed, the
pace of agricultural settlement and development may accelerate and
the area under irrigation expand more rapidly. 1 regard El Chocon
a suitable project for Bank lending.



- 6 -
PART IV, LEGAL INSTRUIMENTS AND AUTHORITY
17.       Drafts are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately of: (i) the Loan Agreement between the Bank and Hidronor
S.A. Hidroelectrica. Norpatagonica Sociedad knonima and (ii) the
Guarantee Agreement betwieen the Argentine Republic and the Bank.
18.       The report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank is also
being distributed separately.
19.       The following features of the Loan and Guarantee Agreements
are of particular interest.
(a) Section 5.05 of the Loan Agreement and Section 3.07 of the
Guarantee Agreement provide that coordination must be
achieved with all the suppliers of electricity in the
Greater Buenos Aires area, including Hidronor, in order
to prevent waste of energy, duplication of facilities and
unnecessary investment.
(b) Section 5.11 of the Loan Agreement provides that during the
construction of the El Chocon-Cerros Colorados complex,
Hidronor must not undertake any expansion which would
jeopardize the carrying out of the complex or impair
Hidronorts financial condition.
(c) Section 5.14 provides, among other things, for a. two
to one debt equity ratio.
(d) Section 5.16 forbids pre-payment of long-term debt
without the Bank's consent.
(e) Section 5.17 and Section 6.02 (c) require Hidronor to
make its best efforts to obtain buyer's credits for
financing goods not financed under the Bank's loan,
and any repayment required by reason of default under
any of the buyer's credits may be held to be an event
of default under the loan.
(f) In Section 6.02, changes in Hidronor's Charter and
Concession without the Bank's consent may be considered
events of default.
(g) Section 7.01 provides that the Concession must become
effective and arrangements with SEGBA have to be made for
the sale of Hidronor's power before the loan becomes
effective.



- 7 -
PART V. TIE ECONOMY
20.       The report on 'Tqhe Economic Position and Prospects of
Argentina" (WHII-182a), distributed to the Executive Directors on
July 22, 1968, concluded that the Government had been singularly
successful in carrying out the far-reaching. fiscal, monetary, incomes
and foreign exchange policies aiich formed the core of its 1967 sta-
bilization program. The budgetary deficit wras sharply cut, there iwas
an even greater than planned increase in public savings, Treasury
borrowving from the Central Bank was kept well below the ceiling fixed
in the monetary program agreed with II;D, and the Government's incomes
policy proved effective in freezing wages. The program adopted for
1908, w7hile continuing the main lines of the stabilization policy,
reflected a distinct shift in emphasis toward growsth objectives.
Assuming that the corner had been turned in the fig}ht against inflation,
the Government decided that demand could be stimulated and that, vith
the private sector still maintaining a "wait-and-see" attitude, this
would have to be done mainly through a large increase in public invest-
ment. 'Thile planned primarily in the context of the Government's desire
to reactivate the economy, the increase in public investment also
responds to the need to begin to make up for the long neglect of some
of the country's basic economic infrastructure.
21.       Developments so far this year have confirmed the realism of
the Government's approach; inflation has been greatly reduced while
economic activity andl employment have turned up. The cost of living
index (seasonally adjusted) rose only 8 percent in the first 10 months
of this year, compared writh the 25 percent increase in the like 1967
period. Preliminary official estimates indicate that consumption and
investment were each up about 3 percent in the first half of this year;
the Government believes that GDP will gro; by some 4 percent over 1968
as a whole. Industry shows clear signs of recovering from the recession
which began in 1966 and corstruction activity has been booming; agricul-
tural production is, however, down quite sharply this year, mainly as a
result of a poor corn crop. The ma or departure from the Governrnent's
domestic program has been a substantial shortfall in tax revenues. The
authorities are fully aware of the importance of the revenue problem and
are planning a major tax reform aimed at bringing in substantial addi-
tional revenues in 1969, as well as irnproving the tax structure.
22.      This year's export performance has been disappointing as a
result of the poor corn crop and of wheat and beef marketing difficuLties.
During January-September, exports winere some ti75 million low,er than in



-8-
the corresponding 1967 period. Ho-vever, better harvests are in prospect
for 1969, judging from early indicators, and the export tax reductions
recently announced by the Government should do much to improve exporters'
incentives. Despite this year's export lag, the reserve position has
improved o-'iing to a continuing substantial inflow of capital. An
important factor has been the Government's success in floating three
$25 million bond issues in the United States and European markets.
Near the end of November, the monetary authorities' net foreign exchange
reserves stood at $413 milaion, up $34 million over the year.
Argentina is carrying a heavy load of external debt contracted on unfavor-
able terms; scheduled service payments idll absorb upwards of 30 percent
of estimated current account earnings this year. However, projected
service on the existing debt declines sharply over the next few years
and Argentina should be able to undertake the substantial volume of
ne-T borroring required for its development efforts ihile reducing its annual
debt service burden.
PART VI. CO1iIANCE WITH ARTICLES OF AGRJ'ICAT
23.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would cornply twith the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PLAT VII. RflCOfNEIfATION
24.       I recommend that the Executive Directors adopt the follow-ring
resolution:
rESOLUTION NO.
Approval of Loon to Hidronor S.A. Hidroelectrica
ilorpatagonica Sociedad Anonima in an anount equivalent
to U.S.$82,000,000 to be guaranteed by the Argentine
Republic.
RESOLVED:
THAT the Bank shall grant a loan to Hidronor S.A. Hidroelec-
trica Norpatagonica Sociedad Anonima to be guaranteed by the Argentine
Republic, in an amount in various currencies equivalent to eighty-two



- 9 -
million United States dollars (U.S.$82,000,000), to mature on and
prior to Hbrch 15, 1994, to bear interest at the rate of six and
one-half percent (6 1/2%) per annum, and to be upon such other terms
and conditions as shall be substantially in accordance with the terms
and conditions set forth in the form of Loan Agreement (El Chocon
Power Project) between the Bank and Hidronor S.A. Hidroelectrica
Norpatagonica Sociedad Anrnima, and the form of Guarantee Agreement
(El Chocon Power Project) betimen the Argentine Republic and the
Bank,which have been presented to this meeting."
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments.
Washington, D.C.
December 5, 1968



