Page  1
 
 
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB376 
Project Name 
Pension and Social Assistance Project 
Region 
EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA 
Sector 
Other social services (70%);Central government administration 
(30%) 
Project ID 
P049892 
Borrower(s) 
GOVT. OF AZERBAIJAN 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Labor and Social Protection of Population 
House of Government 
Baku 370016, Azerbaijan Republic 
Contact Person:  
 
Dr. Azad Tagizade, Head of Department 
International Cooperation Department 
Tel.:  (+994-12) 931203; 939472 
Fax.:  (+994-12) 939472 
Mobile:  (+994-12) 3005305 
Email: tagizade@azerin.com 
 
State Social Protection Fund of Azerbaijan Republic 
80 Zardabi Street 
Baku, Azerbaijan Republic AZ1122 
Contact Person: 
Dr. Oktay Ibrahimov, Ph.D 
Tel.:  (+994-12) 346590; 343862 
Fax:  (+994-12) 343862 
Mobile:  (+994-50) 388-6376 
Email:  ioktay.it.sspf@azerline.net 
 
Environment Category 
[ ] A   [ ] B   [X] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Safeguard Classification 
[ ] S
1
   [] S
2
  [ X] S
3
   [ ] S
F
   [ ] TBD (to be determined)
 
Date PID Prepared 
April 5, 2004, 2004 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
March 29, 2004 
Date of Board Approval 
May 27, 2004 
 
1.  Country and Sector Background 
 
Since the beginning of the 1990s, Azerbaijan has implemented a number of structural and 
institutional reforms.  As a result, macroeconomic stability has been achieved and economic 
growth has resumed.  Significant advances in structural policies and public management of 
resources have taken place, especially during the last four years.  Yet, poverty remains the 
overriding development issue in Azerbaijan, where some 50 percent of the population were 
found to be poor in 2001, and some 17 percent were classified as extremely poor. 
Page  2
 
 
 
In order to promote economic and social development and reduce poverty, the Government 
together with civil society partners adopted in 2003 the State Program for Poverty Reduction and 
Economic Development (SPPRED).  The SPPRED is a comprehensive reform program, which 
recognizes that while diversified economic growth and the pursuit of reforms that will increase 
employment and raise productivity and incomes remain key to sustainable reductions in poverty, 
an adequate social protection system that provides meaningful protection to the poor and most 
vulnerable in Azeri society will also be needed. 
 
The social protection system in Azerbaijan comprises a range of benefits delivered to various 
groups of the population within the social insurance and social assistance systems.  Annual 
public spending on those benefits averages 5-6 percent of GDP.  The SPPRED, as well as a 
number of Bank’s and other donors’ reports have identified issues that have hindered efficient 
and effective use of these resources in protecting the poor and vulnerable.  In the area of social 
insurance, including public pensions, the key issues include: (i) low benefits, due to lax 
eligibility criteria and low coverage, i.e. a low number of contributors to the system; (ii) a 
complex benefits system that is difficult to administer; (iii) a benefits system that is not linked to 
contributions; (iv) unsophisticated and weak record keeping capacity in particular with respect to 
employers, contributors and beneficiaries; (v) undeveloped and often opaque financial 
management systems; and (v) involvement of enterprises in benefits administration, which 
makes monitoring of benefit award and payment difficult.  As far as social assistance, the key 
issues include: (i) poor targeting of benefits; (ii) fragmentation of benefits; (iii) low benefit levels 
due to insufficient resources; (iv) weak capacity to analyze, monitor and evaluate policies; and 
(v) weak administrative capacity to efficiently administer benefits. 
 
The Government recognizes the need to protect poor and vulnerable population groups.  Its 
poverty reduction strategy envisages a comprehensive reform of the social protection system.  
Recently, a Presidential Decree, separating social insurance and social assistance benefits 
administration was issued.  Based on the SPPRED, the Government is planning to undertake a 
range of actions aimed at increasing efficiency, effectiveness and sustainability of social 
protection programs.  In the area of 
social insurance,
 the actions include modernization of the 
public pensions administration, modernization and strengthening of the financial management of 
the State Social Protection Fund (SSPF); moving the administration of all social insurance 
benefits from enterprises to the SSPF and a public pension system reform that would introduce 
parametric changes into the pension system and closer links between contributions and benefits.  
With regards to 
social assistance
, the Government’s program includes: (i) targeting of social 
assistance benefits based on eligibility assessment taking into account the economic and social 
situation of the applicants; (ii) consolidating various benefits into a single targeted family 
poverty benefit in cash as of 2006 and a significant increase of resources allocated to its 
financing; (iii) modernizing the capacity of the Ministry of Labor and Social Protection of the 
Population (MLSPP) to administer social assistance benefits using a computerized management 
information system (MIS). 
 
2. Objectives 
 
Page  3
 
 
The project development objective is to significantly improve the effectiveness and transparency 
in the provision of public pensions and social assistance to eligible beneficiaries. 
 
Key indicators
 
 
Progress towards achieving project outcomes will be determined by the following 
(these will be 
further reviewed during appraisal
): 
 
• 
Evidence of improved financial viability of the social insurance system; 
• 
Evidence of significant increases in the number of participating contributors to the pension 
system; 
• 
Evidence that eligible beneficiaries for pensions and social assistance are receiving proper 
payments in a timely manner; and 
• 
Evidence of improved user satisfaction regarding service delivery. 
Page  4
 
 
 
Output indicators will include the following 
(to be further reviewed during appraisal):
 
 
• 
MLSPP
:  
• 
Comprehensive record-keeping of eligible households and payments; 
• 
Improved targeting efficiency in the provision of social assistance benefits; 
• 
Local social welfare offices have increased responsibility in determining 
eligibility and monitoring targeting efficiency; 
• 
Information sharing between agencies and offices occurs to promote better 
targeting; and 
• 
Policy analysis capacity is used for policy formulation and evaluation functions 
and better management of resources. 
 
• 
SSPF
: 
• 
Comprehensive record-keeping of system participants and flow of funds; 
• 
Internal administrative processes are functioning as intended; and 
• 
Policy analysis capacity is used for policy formulation and evaluation functions 
and better management of resources. 
 
SPPRED
: One of the “six key strategic aims” defined by the poverty reduction strategy is: 
“reform of the existing system of social protection to give more effective protection to the 
vulnerable”.  In the area of social insurance, the SPPRED defines the following objectives: (i) 
reliable provision of pensions; (ii) increased role of pensions in welfare of the population; (iii) 
full collection and meaningful use of contributions; (iv) increased efficiency of pensions 
provision by improving its administration, and (v) linking pensions to social insurance 
contributions.  The following actions are envisaged: (i) design of a new social insurance system; 
(ii) establishment of an effective administrative structure for an efficient management and 
delivery of pensions; and (iii) development of an automated social insurance and pension system 
based on individual records.  The proposed project will support the Government in implementing 
actions (ii) and (iii). 
 
Concerning the social assistance, the SPPRED defines the following reform objectives: (i) 
improved benefits’ targeting and more efficient and effective policies; (ii) adjusting the system 
of social assistance to the developing market conditions, and (iii) increasing the efficiency of 
social assistance provision through improving the management and administration of the social 
assistance system.  The actions to be implemented are: (i) establishment of an effective 
administrative structure; (ii) development of the legal framework for targeted social assistance 
policies; (iii) development of the Social Assistance Strategy; (iv) development of the social 
assistance targeting mechanism; (v) creation of a system of adequate compensation for the 
poorest against the impact of new public utility policies; and (vi) creation of a monitoring and 
evaluation system.  The proposed project will support the Government in implementing actions 
(i), (iv), (v) and (vi). 
 
CAS
:  The proposed project is expected to contribute to one of the four interrelated strategic 
goals defined by the CAS: “improve access to services by reversing the decline in social services 
and infrastructure”, as well as to achieving its social agenda which among its priorities includes 
Page  5
 
 
“an improvement in social protection of vulnerable groups: children, pensioners and unemployed 
persons”. 
 
3.  Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
The proposed Pension and Social Assistance Project will assist the Government to better 
administer social protection programs, make the pension system more sustainable and build 
capacity to better target social assistance benefits to the most vulnerable groups.  In addition to 
the planned project, the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) in social protection consists of: (a) 
reviewing with the government the possible mechanisms for targeting, and especially proxy 
means-testing work; (b) supervising the social protection and labor market components in the 
IBTA I and IBTA II projects; (c) assisting the work on designing a social safety net to protect the 
poor from the effects of energy sector and associated utility reforms; (d) continued strengthening 
of the State Statistical Agency; (e) monitoring the implementation of the relevant social 
protection actions in the SAC II (Structural Adjustment Credit II); and (f) undertaking a labor 
market study. 
 
The proposed project is a continuation of analytical work on pension and social assistance 
reforms that IDA has already engaged in with the Government for some time now.  That work 
has served to underpin the Government’s strategic thinking on social protection as reflected in its 
poverty reduction strategy, and the stage has now been reached, where the Government can 
begin to implement the strategy.  Here, IDA is best placed to support the Government: 
intellectually, drawing on its extensive international experience in supporting implementation of 
social protection reforms, as well as in light of its in-depth involvement in Azerbaijan, and 
financially, through the availability of IDA resources, which will enhance the likelihood that 
investment resources are put to their best use.  In addition, the Government has specifically 
requested an IDA Credit for this purpose. 
 
4. Description 
 
The proposed project would have three components: (i) strengthening the social assistance 
administration; (ii) strengthening the social insurance administration; and (iii) project 
management, monitoring and evaluation. 
 
Component 1: Strengthening the Social Assistance Administration (US$ 5.09 million) 
 
The implementation of this component will have provided the MLSPP with a good targeting 
mechanism with which to provide social assistance benefits to eligible families; MLSPP staff 
would have the requisite skills to use the targeting mechanism; and MLSPP would have the 
capacity to undertake knowledge-based policy formulation.  The component would include civil 
works and the provision of equipment, materials, technical assistance and training to MLSPP 
staff in order to enable better targeting of social assistance beneficiaries and creation of a related 
policy planning capability in the Ministry.  The following activities are envisaged: 
 
(a) 
Implementation of a Management Information System (MIS) to support means and 
asset testing of potential beneficiaries of social welfare programs: 
(i) Refurbishment 
Page  6
 
 
of MLSPP offices to accommodate the MIS in local social welfare offices; (ii) 
Installation of MIS-related hardware and voice and data communications at headquarters 
and in local offices; (iii) MIS-related software development and implementation at 
headquarters and in local offices; and (iv) Training of headquarters and local office staff 
in the use of the MIS system.
 
 
(b) 
Implementation of Targeted Social Welfare Programs: 
(i) Implementation of pilot 
programs for the application of a targeted child allowance and later a targeted family 
poverty benefit in cash (to be introduced in 2006); (ii) Staff training in applying the 
targeting mechanism; (iii) Development of a monitoring and evaluation function in the 
MLSPP for targeted benefit programs; and (iv) Development and implementation of 
appropriate public information programs related to the introduction of targeted benefits. 
 
(c) 
Enhancing Policy Analysis Capacity in the MLSPP for Social Protection. 
 
 
Component 2: Strengthening the Social Insurance Administration (US$ 5.63 million) 
 
The implementation of this component will have provided the SSPF with an efficient and 
transparent pension administration, where the SSPF manages and administers its revenues and 
expenditures efficiently and effectively; and undertakes knowledge-based pension policy 
planning.  The component would include civil works and the provision of equipment, materials, 
technical assistance and training for the following activities: 
 
(a)  
Implementation of a Management Information System (MIS) to support a client 
data base of individual records, including provision of hardware and voice and data 
communications, as well as applications software development
: (i) Rehabilitation of 
SSPF offices to accommodate the MIS at central and local office levels; (ii) Installation 
of MIS-related hardware and voice and data communications at central and local levels; 
(iii) MIS-related software development and implementation at the center and in local 
offices; (iv) Training in use of the MIS system at central and local office levels; and (v) 
Establishment of an IT department (building capacity to operate and maintain the MIS). 
 
(b)  
Strengthening of Critical Processes in SSPF
: (i) Identification and registration of 
system participants; (ii) Contributions collections, including revenue monitoring; (iii) 
Maintenance of earnings and contributions histories; (iv) Establishment of entitlements, 
payment procedures, post adjustments; and (v) Asset management, involving systems to 
ensure integrity in cash management, standardized financial management procedures, and 
timely and accurate management information. 
 
(c)  
Institutional Development of SSPF
: (i) Development of an actuarial capacity; (ii) 
Development of an analysis and forecasting capacity; and (iii) Development of a public 
information function. 
Page  7
 
 
 
 
Component 3: Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation (US$ 0.89 million) 
 
This component will have ensured professional implementation of the project by using 
appropriate mechanisms of project management, and proper tools of project monitoring and 
evaluation. 
 
The project management structure would consist of an inter-ministerial Steering Committee
1
 and 
two Project Implementation Units (PIU) - one in the MLSPP and one in the SSPF.  Each PIU 
would include a coordinator and technical specialists drawn from departments and units that are 
directly concerned by the project.  They would be reinforced by a Procurement Specialist and a 
Financial Management Specialist.  Following effectiveness of the IDA Credit, an Architect 
would be added to each PIU.  The PIUs would also receive periodic technical assistance as 
needed.   
 
Since the MLSPP PIU currently lacks adequate procurement and financial management 
capabilities, these functions would initially be concentrated in the PIU for the SSPF, which has 
these skills.  Once capacity has been built up in the MLSPP, they would take over full 
responsibility for all aspects of implementation of the MLSPP component. 
 
The main functions of the PIUs are to: (i) ensure implementation of the project components in 
their respective agency; (ii) prepare technical specifications and terms of reference for 
procurement of goods and services; (iii) evaluate bids; and (iv) plan project implementation 
schedules, review plans and issue progress reports.  The PIUs would also ensure that the 
fiduciary requirements of the IDA are met (i.e. procurement and financial management 
procedures), and they would centralize information that will allow monitoring of progress on the 
project and disbursement of IDA funds. 
 
Major sector issues addressed 
 
The social insurance and social assistance components have been designed to address major 
issues in two critical areas – implementation of reforms in the principal public protection 
schemes; and policy analysis and strategic decision making in the two responsible agencies. 
 
\01fi
Changes in the social insurance administration are expected to benefit program participants: 
workers through a better recognition of the linkage between contributions and benefits, 
and pensioners through regular payment of pensions.  At the institutional level, the 
overall operational efficiency of the State Social Protection Fund (SSPF) would be 
strengthened, and its institutional capacity to perform key policy formulation and 
evaluation functions would be enhanced.  Both should allow SSPF to manage resources 
better. 
 
                                                
 
1
 The inter-ministerial Steering Committee would consist of the Minister of Labor and Social Protection of the 
Population, the Chairman of the SSPF, and representatives of the Prime Minister’s Office and the Ministries of 
Finance and Economic Development. 
Page  8
 
 
\01fi
Changes in the social assistance administration would benefit eligible poor and vulnerable 
households through increased targeting efficiency; and enhance policy formulation in the 
Ministry of Labor and Social Protection of the Population (MLSPP). 
 
5. Financing 
Source: ($ 
million) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 3 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
10 
 Total 
13 
 
6. Implementation 
 
While partnership arrangements have been sought, there are none envisaged under the project. 
 
See Section B.3., Component 3 above. 
 
7. Sustainability 
 
The Government is well aware of the importance of a well-functioning pension system and a 
social safety net that is able to reach out to the poorest and most vulnerable families, and it is 
fully committed to address these challenges in a sustainable manner.  As noted in Section A
 
above, the Government has spelled out a set of critical policy aims in its Poverty Reduction 
Strategy that closely conform with the objectives and components of this project, and it has 
moved to enact legislation and regulatory changes that underpin and support the aims of the 
project. 
 
8.  Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector 
 
While this is the first IDA-supported project in the social protection sector, it draws on 
experience gained in related projects, namely the IBTA I and II projects, as well as directly 
building on analytical work that the Government has undertaken with IDA and other donor 
support in order to reform social protection.  In addition, project design draws on IDA 
experience and lessons learned in developing social insurance and assistance administrations in 
other parts of the world. 
 
The following considerations have been particularly important in designing the project: 
Government ownership and active involvement by Government ministries and agencies in 
project implementation is crucial for project success and sustainability.  Strong commitment and 
ownership needs to include both the technical and middle level management and staff.  
Government ownership over the project is reflected in the commitment of the MLSPP and SSPF 
in the design and preparation of their respective components. 
 
For complex programs, such as public pensions and social assistance, it is important to build 
abroad consensus for change.  Experience from other countries underline the critical importance 
of public information and education campaigns in building support.  An important element of the 
project is aimed at creating public awareness of benefits. 
Page  9
 
 
Implementation timetables need to be realistic and flexible to allow for limited agency 
experience in project implementation. Timetables will be reviewed carefully during appraisal, 
and the pace of implementation will be monitored during implementation.Monitoring and 
evaluation is a key to project success; therefore, the project places great emphasis on 
strengthening the MLSPP and SSPF policy analysis and data gathering capacity. 
 
9.  Safeguard Policies (including public consultation) 
 
Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project
 
Yes
 
No
 
Environmental Assessment
 (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
 4.01) 
[ ] 
[x ] 
Natural Habitats (
OP
/
BP
 4.04)
 
[ ] 
[x ] 
Pest Management (
OP 4.09
)
 
[ ] 
[x ] 
Cultural Property (
OPN 11.03
, being revised as OP 4.11)
 
[ ] 
[x ] 
Involuntary Resettlement (
OP
/
BP
 4.12)
 
[ ] 
[x ] 
Indigenous Peoples (
OD 4.20
, being revised as OP 4.10)
 
[ ] 
[x ] 
Forests (
OP
/
BP
 4.36)
 
[ ] 
[x ] 
Safety of Dams (
OP
/
BP
 4.37)
 
[ ] 
[x ] 
Projects in Disputed Areas (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
 7.60)
*
 
[ ] 
[x ] 
Projects on International Waterways (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
 7.50)
 
[ ] 
[x ] 
 
10. Environmental Assessment Category
[w6]
:  
  
[ ] A   [ ] B   [X] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD  
 
The project is expected to include refurbishment of buildings.  During preparation, the adequacy 
of treatment of eventual hazardous materials will be examined and provisions will be included in 
contracts for contractors with regard to compliance.  Compliance would be monitored by the 
project implementing agencies and by the Bank during supervision.  The Project Implementation 
Plan (PIP) would also include a monitoring plan. 
 
11. Safeguard Policies Classification [w2) 
 
[ ] S
1
   [X] S
2
  [x] S
3
   [ ] S
F
   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
 
12. List of Factual Technical Documents 
 
Beneficiary Assessment 
SSPF – Detailed Description of the MIS 
MLSP – Detailed Description of the MIS 
Engineering Designs for Social Welfare Offices (partial) 
Engineering Designs for Pension Offices (partial) 
Institutional Assessment of the SSPF 
                                                
 
*
 
By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims on the
 
disputed areas.
 
Page  10
 
 
 
13. Contact point 
Contact: Aleksandra Posarac 
Title: Sr Economist 
Tel: (202) 458-5950 
Fax:  
Email: aposarac@worldbank.org 
 
14. For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-5454 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
 
WBG User 
P:\AZERBAIJ\HD\Pension\2LENA\Decision Meeting\Decision Review\PID\Project Information Document - Appraisal Stage.doc 
March 9, 2004 5:45 PM
 
