                                               Document of
                                           The WorldBank

                                   FOROFFICIAL USEONLY

                                                                                  Report No: 28776-AZ




                               PROJECTAPPRAISALDOCUMENT

                                                   ONA

                                         PROPOSEDCREDIT

                              INTHEAMOUNT OFSDR 6.8 MILLION
                                 (US$ 10MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                                TO THE

                                      AZERBAIJANREPUBLIC

                                                 FORA

                        PENSIONAND SOCIALASSISTANCEPROJECT


                                              May 14,2004




HumanDevelopment Sector Unit
South Caucasus Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region


This document has a restricted distribution and may be usedby recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                  CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                (Exchange Rate EffectiveMarch 7,2004)


                   Currency Unit = Azerbaijan Manat
                      AZM4932          = US$1
                           US$1.4      = SDR 1

                              FISCAL YEAR
                      January 1         - December31

              ABBREVIATIONSAND ACRONYMS

BA                   BeneficiaryAssessment
CAS                  CountryAssistance Strategy
CFAA                 Country FinancialAccountabilityAssessment
CPPR                 CountryPortfolio PerformanceReview
FM                   FinancialManagement
FMR                  FinancialManagementReview
FMS                  FinancialManagementSpecialist
FSU                  Former Soviet Union
GDP                  GrossDomesticProduct
HR                   Human Resource
IBTA                 Institution Building TechnicalAssistance
IDA                  IntemationalDevelopment Association
IDP                  Intemally DisplacedPersons
IFC                  IntemationalFinanceCorporation
IMF                  IntemationalMonetaryFund
ISDS                 IntegratedSafeguards DataSheet
IT                   InformationTechnology
MDPFC                MainDepartmentofPublicFinanceControl
MOF                  Ministry of Finance
MIS                  ManagementInformationSystem
MLSPP                Ministry of Labor andSocialProtectionof the Population
PCN                  ProjectConcept Note
PCU                  ProjectCoordinationUnit
PDO                  ProjectDevelopment Objective
PID                  ProjectInformationDocument
PIP                  ProjectImplementationPlan
PIU                  ProjectImplementationUnit
POM                  ProjectOperationalManual
SAC                  StructuralAdjustmentCredit
SDR                  Special DrawingRights
SIL                  Specific InvestmentLoan
SOE                  Statementof Expenditures
SPPRED               State Programfor PovertyReductionandEconomicDevelopment
SSPF                 State SocialProtectionFund
UNDP                 UnitedNationsDevelopment Program

                  Vice President:           Shigeo Katsu
        Country Managermirector:            DonnaDowsett-Coirolo
                 Sector Manager:            Hermann von Gersdorff
              Task Team Leader:             Aleksandra Posarac

                                                         AZERBAIJAN FOROFFICIAL USEONLY
                                     Pensionand Social Assistance Project

                                                           CONTENTS

                                                                                                                                                  Page

  A .  STRATEGIC CONTEXT AND RATIONALE                                           .................................................................  1
     1. Country andsector issues....................................................................................................                1
    2.  Rationale for Bank involvement .........................................................................................                    2
    3 . Higher level objectives to which the project contributes....................................................                                2

  B .  PROJECT DESCRIPTION                      .................................................................................................   3
     1. Lending instrument.............................................................................................................             3
    2. Project development objective andkey indicators..............................................................                                3
    3.  Project components.............................................................................................................             4
    4. Lessons learned and reflected inthe project design............................................................                               6
     5. Alternatives consideredand reasons for rejection ..............................................................                             7

   C.  IMPLEMENTATION                 ..........................................................................................................    7
     1. Partnershiparrangements....................................................................................................                 7
     2. Institutional andimplementation arrangements..................................................................                               7
     3. Monitoringandevaluation of outcomeshesults..................................................................                                 7
    4. Sustainability.......................................................................................................................
              . . .                                                                                                                                  8
     6. Credit conditions andcovenants.........................................................................................                      8

   D APPRAISAL SUMMARY
    .                                         ...................................................................................................    9
     1. Economic andfinancial analysis.........................................................................................                      9
     2. Technical analysis.............................................................................................................             10
     3. Fiduciary ........................................................................................................................... 10
     4. Social................................................................................................................................. 11
     5. Environment......................................................................................................................           11
     6. Safeguardpolicies .............................................................................................................             11
     7. Environmental Assessment Category: ..............................................................................                           12
     8. SafeguardPolicies Classification......................................................................................
                          . .                                                                                                                       12
     9. Policy Exceptions and Readiness.,....................................................................................                       12
Thisdocument has a restricted distributionand may be used by recipients only in
the performanceof their official duties Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without World Bank authorization                        .       .

Annex 1: Country and Sector or Program Background                               .........................................................       13

Annex 2: Major RelatedProjects Financed by the Bank and/or other Agencies                                                      .................16
Annex 3: Results Framework andMonitoring                        ........................................................................        17

Annex 4: Detailed Project Description            ......................................................................................        20

Annex 5: Project Costs...............................................................................................................           24

Annex 6: Implementation Arrangements                  .................................................................................         25

Annex 8: Procurement  ................................................................................................................          32

Annex 9: Economic and Financial Analysis                   .............................................................................        45

Annex 10: Safeguard Policy Issues         ............................................................................................          47

Annex 11: Project Preparation and Supervision                       .....................................................................       48

Annex 12: Documents in the Project File                .................................................................................        49

Annex 13: Statement of Loans and Credits                  ..............................................................................        50

Annex 14: Country at a Glance        .................................................................................................          52




Map: IBRD27426

                                      AZERBAIJAN

                     PENSIONAND SOCIAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT

                           PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                              EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA

                                         ECSHD

Date: May 14,2004                            TeamLeader: Aleksandra Posarac
Country Director: D-MDowsett-Coirolo         Sectors: Other social services (70%);Central
Sector MangedDirector: HermannA. von         government administration (30%)
Gersdorff                                    Themes: Other public sector governance
                                             (P);Social risk coping (P);Social risk
                                             mitigation (P)
Project ID: PO49892                          Environmental screeningcategory: Not
                                             Required
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan Safeguard screening category: C

[ 3 Loan   [XI Credit   [ ]Grant   [ ]Guarantee   [ 3 Other:

For Loans/Credits/Others:
Total Bank financing (US$m.): US$lO.OO million




Borrower:

AZERBAIJAN REPUBLIC

Responsible Agencies:
MinistryofLabor andSocial ProtectionofPopulation
House of Government
Baku 370016, Azerbaijan Republic
Contact Person:
Dr.AzadTagizade, HeadofDepartment
International Cooperation Department
Tel.: (+994-12) 931203; 939472
Fax.: (+994-12) 939472
Mobile: (+994-12) 3005305


                                            1

Email: tagizade@azerin.com

State Social Protection Fundo fAzerbaijan Republic
SO Zardabi Street
Baku, Azerbaijan Republic AZ1122
Contact Person:
Dr. Oktay Ibrahimov, Ph.D
Tel.: (+994-12) 346590; 343862
Fax: (+994-12) 343862
Mobile: (+994-50) 388-6376
Email: ioktay.it.sspf@azerline.net




Innual           2.0c      5.0C     2.0c       1.oc     0.oc      0.oc      0.oq     0.oc    0.0
hmulative        2.0c      7.0C     9.0C     1o.oc      0.oc      0.oc      0.04     0.oc    0.0




The project development objective i s to significantly improve the effectiveness andtransparency
inthe provisionofpublicpensions andsocial assistanceto eligible beneficiaries.

Project description [one-sentence summary of each component] Re$ PAD B.3.a, Technical
Annex 4

The proposed project would have three components: (i)strengthening the social assistance
administration; (ii)strengthening the social insurance administration; and (iii)project
management, monitoring and evaluation.

Component1: Strengtheningthe SocialAssistanceAdministration(US$7.35 million)

The implementation of this component will have provided the MLSPP with the capacity to
effectively deliver targeted social assistance benefits to eligible families; MLSPP staff would



                                                 11
                                                 ..

have the requisite skills to use the targeting mechanism; and MLSPP would have the capacity to
undertakeknowledge-based policy formulation. The component would include civil works and
the provision of equipment, materials, technical assistance and training to MLSPP staff in order
to enable better targeting of social assistance beneficiaries and creation of a related policy
planningcapability inthe Ministry.

Component2: Strengtheningthe SocialInsuranceAdministration(US$7.58 million)

The implementation of this component will have provided the SSPF with an efficient and
transparent pension administration, where the SSPF manages and administers its revenues and
expenditures efficiently and effectively; and undertakes knowledge-based pension policy
planning. The component would include civil works and the provision of equipment, materials,
technical assistanceandtraining.

Component3: ProjectManagement,Monitoringand Evaluation(US$1.02 million)

This component will have ensured professional implementation of the project by using
appropriate mechanisms of project management, and proper tools of project monitoring and
evaluation.

Which safeguardpolicies are triggered, ifany? Ref: PAD 0.6, TechnicalAnnex10
None

Significant, non-standard conditions, if any, for:
Ref: PAD C.7; None
Boardpresentation:

None.

Credit effectiveness:

a. The Borrower has opened the MLSPP and SSPF Project Accounts in a bank on terms and
    conditions acceptableto IDAwith aninitial deposit inManat equivalent to $50,000 each.;
b. The MLSPP Operational Manual and the SSPF Operational Manual, acceptable to the
    Association, have been submitted to the Association;
c. Financial management systems for MLSPP PIU and SSPF PIU have been upgraded in
    accordancewith guidelinesacceptable to the Association.

Covenants applicable to project implementation:

a. The PIUs will be maintained with an appropriate number o f staff, adequate facilities, and
    authority satisfactory to IDA.
b. An architect and an information managementhformation technology specialist, acceptable
    to the Association, will be recruited by each PIUby October 1,2004.
c. Policies and procedures, adequate for monitoring and evaluating the project on an ongoing
    basis and in accordance with indicators acceptable to IDA will be maintained and semi-



                                                 iii

   annual progress reports will be submitted for review to IDA, with the first expected by
   September 30,2006.
d. The PIUs will maintain financial management systems acceptable to IDA. The project
   financial statements, Statement of Expenditures (SOEs) and Special Accounts will be audited
   by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank and on terms o f reference acceptable to the
   Bank. The annual auditedstatements andaudit report will be providedto the Bankwithin six
   months o f the end of each fiscal year.
e. An auditor for the project, acceptable to the Association, shall be selected by December 31,
   2004.




                                               iv

A. STRATEGICCONTEXTAND RATIONALE

1. Countryand sector issues

Since the beginning of the 1990s, Azerbaijan has implemented structural and institutional
reforms that have resulted in macroeconomic stability and resumption of economic growth.
Significant advances instructural policies and public managemento f resourceshave taken place.
Yet, poverty remains the overriding development issue inAzerbaijan, where some 50 percent of
people were found to be poor in2001,and some 17 percentwere classified as extremely poor.

In order to promote economic and social development and reduce poverty, the Government
together with civil society partners adopted in2003 the State Program for Poverty Reduction and
Economic Development (SPPRED). The SPPRED is a comprehensive reform program that
recognizes that while diversified economic growth and a pursuit o f reforms that will increase
employment and raise productivity and incomes remain key to sustainable reductions inpoverty,
an adequate social protection system that provides meaningful protection to the poor and most
vulnerable inAzeri society will also be needed.

The social protection system in Azerbaijan comprises a range of benefits within the social
insurance and social assistance systems. Annual public spendingon those benefits averages 5-6
percent of GDP. The SPPRED, as well as Bank and other donor reports have identified issues
that hinder efficient and effective use ofthese resourcesinprotecting the poor andvulnerable. In
social insurance, the key issues include: (i)low benefits, due to lax eligibility criteria and low
coverage; (ii) a complex benefits systemthat is difficult to administer; (iii)benefits systemthat
                                                                              a
i s not linkedto contributions; (iv) unsophisticatedand weak record keeping capacity with respect
to employers, contributors and beneficiaries; (v) undeveloped and often opaque financial
management systems; and (vi) involvement of enterprises in benefits administration, which
makes monitoring of benefit award and payment difficult. In social assistance, key issues
include: (i) targeting o f benefits; (ii)
             poor                           fragmentation of benefits; (iii) benefit levels due
                                                                             low
to insufficient resources; (iv) weak capacity to analyze, monitor and evaluate policies; and (v)
weak administrative capacity to efficiently administer benefits.

The Government recognizes the need to protect poor and vulnerable population groups. Its
poverty reduction strategy envisages a comprehensive reform o f the social protection system.
Recently, a Presidential Decree, separating social insurance and social assistance benefits
administration, was issued. Based on the SPPRED, the Government i s planning to undertake a
range of actions aimed at increasing efficiency, effectiveness and sustainability of social
protection programs. In the area of social insurance, the actions include modernization of the
public pensions administration, modernization and strengtheningo f the financial management of
the State Social Protection Fund (SSPF); moving the administration of all social insurance
benefits from enterprises to the SSPF and a public pension system reform that would introduce
parametric changes into the system and closer links between contributions and benefits. In
social assistance, the Government's program includes: (i)     targeting of social assistance benefits
based on eligibility assessment taking into account the economic and social situation of the
applicants; (ii)consolidating various benefits into a single targeted family poverty benefit incash
as of 2006 and a significant increase of resources allocated to its financing; (iii)modernizing the



                                                  1

capacity of the Ministry of Labor and Social Protection of the Population (MLSPP) to administer
social assistancebenefits usinga computerized managementinformationsystem (MIS).

2. Rationale for Bankinvolvement

The proposed Pension and Social Assistance Project will assist the Government to better
administer social protection programs, make the pension system more sustainable and build
capacity to better target social assistance benefits to the most vulnerable groups. Inaddition to
the planned project, the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) in social protection consists of: (a)
reviewing with the government the possible mechanisms for targeting, and especially proxy
means-testing; (b) supervising the social protection and labor market components inthe IBTA I
and IBTA I1projects; (c) assisting in designing a social safety net to protect the poor from the
effects of energy sector and associated utility reforms; (d) continued strengthening of the State
Statistical Agency; (e) monitoringthe implementation o f the relevant social protection actions in
the SAC I1(Structural Adjustment Credit 11); and (f) undertaking a labor market study.

The proposed project is a continuation of analytical work on pension and social assistance
reforms that IDA has already engaged in with the Government for some time now. That work
has served to underpinthe Government's strategic thinking on social protectionas reflected inits
poverty reduction strategy, andthe stage has now been reached where the Government canbegin
to implement the strategy. Here, IDA is best placed to support the Government: intellectually,
drawing on its extensive international experience in supporting implementation of social
protection reforms, and in light of its in-depth involvement in Azerbaijan, and financially,
through the availability of IDA resources, which will enhance the likelihood that investment
resources are put to their best use. In addition, the Government has specifically requested an
IDA Credit for this purpose.

3. Higher level objectives to which the project contributes

SPPRED: One of the "six key strategic aims" defined by the poverty reduction strategy is:
"reform of the existing system of social protection to give more effective protection to the
vulnerable".   In social insurance, the SPPRED defines the following objectives: (i)        reliable
provision of pensions; (ii)  increased role of pensions in welfare o f the population; (iii)    full
collection and meaningfuluse o f contributions; (iv) increased efficiency o f pension provisionby
improving its administration, and (v) linkingpensions to social insurance contributions. Actions
envisaged are: (i)  design o f a new social insurance system; (ii)   establishment of an effective
administration for efficient management and delivery o f pensions; and (iii)     development of an
automated social insurance and pension system based on individual records. The proposed
project will support the Government inimplementingactions (ii)     and (iii).

Insocial assistance, the SPPRED defines the following reform objectives: (i)     improvedtargeting
of benefits and more efficient and effective policies; (ii)adjusting social assistance to developing
market conditions, and (iii)  increasing efficiency of social assistance provision through better
management and administration o f the social assistance system. The actions to be implemented
are: (i)establishment of an effective administration; (ii) development o f the legal framework for
targeted social assistance policies; (iii)development o f a Social Assistance Strategy; (iv)



                                                 2

development o f a social assistance targeting mechanism; (v) creation o f a system o f adequate
compensation for the poorest against the impact o f new public utility policies; and (vi) creation
o f a monitoring and evaluation system. The proposed project will support the Government in
implementing actions (i), (v) and (vi).
                           (iv),

CAS: The proposed project is expected to contribute to one o f the four interrelated strategic
goals defined by the CAS: "improve access to services by reversing the decline insocial services
and infrastructure", as well as to achieving its social agenda which among its priorities includes
"an improvement insocial protection o fvulnerable groups: children, pensioners and unemployed
persons".


B. PROJECTDESCRIPTION

1. Lendinginstrument

The proposed project would be financed through a Specific Investment Loan (SIL) A SIL was
chosen, as the project focuses on the implementation of reforms inthe public pension and social
assistance systems. Total project cost i s estimated at US$15.95 million, o f which IDA would
finance US$lO.OO million.

2. Projectdevelopmentobjectiveandkey indicators

The project development objective is to significantly improve the effectiveness and transparency
inthe provisionofpublic pensions and social assistanceto eligible beneficiaries.

Key indicators

Progress towards achieving project outcomes will be determinedby the following:
0   Evidence o f improved financial viability o f the social insurance system, as indicated by a
    significant increase incollections under the general public pension scheme;
0   Evidence o f significant increases in the number o f contributors to the pension system, as
    evidenced by a compliance rate o f 90 percent of working age participants in the general
    public pension scheme;
0   Evidence that eligible beneficiaries for pensions and social assistance are receiving proper
    payments ina timely manner, as indicated by the absence o f arrears; and
0   Evidence o f improved user satisfaction regarding service delivery, as determined by means
    o f beneficiary surveys.

Output indicatorswill include the following:

    MLSPP:
    0   Comprehensive computerizedrecord-keeping on eligible households and payments;
    0   Improved targeting efficiency in the provision o f social assistance benefits, as indicated
        bytargeting errors below 40 percent in2008;



                                                 3

    0  Local social welfare offices have responsibility in testing eligibility and monitoring
       targeting efficiency, as evidenced by relevant social welfare office management
       instructions andmonitoringoftheir application;
    0  Information sharing between agencies and offices occurs to promote better targeting, as
       evidenced inthe testing o f eligibility; and
.   0  Policy analysis capacity i s used for policy formulation and evaluation functions and
       better managementof resources.

   SSPF
    0  Comprehensive computerized record-keeping of system participants and flow of funds
       through a central register;
    0  Internal administrative processes are functioning as intended as evidenced by the
       application of newmanagement and organizational guidelines;
    0  Actuarial analysis capacity is usedfor longterm forecasting;
    0  A functioning public information systemis inplace; and
    0  A coherent humanresourcespolicy is inplace and beingapplied.

3. Projectcomponents

The proposed project would have three components: (i)strengthening the social assistance
administration; (ii)strengthening the social insurance administration; and (iii)project
management, monitoring and evaluation.

Component 1: Strengtheningthe SocialAssistance Administration(US$7.35 million)

The implementation of this component will have provided the MLSPP with the capacity to
effectively deliver targeted social assistance benefits to eligible families; MLSPP staff would
have the requisite skills to use the targeting mechanism; and MLSPP would have the capacity to
undertakeknowledge-based policy formulation. The component would include civil works and
the provision of equipment, materials, technical assistance and training to MLSPP staff in order
to enable better targeting of social assistance beneficiaries and creation of a related policy
planning capability inthe Ministry. The following activities are envisaged:

(a)    Implementationof a ManagementInformationSystem (MIS) to support means and
       asset testing for eligibility for social welfare programs: (i)  Refurbishmentof MLSPP
       offices to accommodate the MIS in local social welfare offices; (ii)   Installation of MIS-
       related hardware and voice and data communications at headquarters and inlocal offices;
       (iii)MIS-related software development and implementation at headquarters and in local
       offices; and (iv) Training o f headquarters and local office staff in the use of the MIS
       system.

(b)    Implementationof TargetedSocialWelfare Programs: (i)           Nationwide implementation
       of a targeted child benefit and later a targeted family poverty benefit in cash (to be
       introduced in 2006); (ii)Staff training in applying the targeting mechanism; (iii)
       Development of a monitoring and evaluation function inthe MLSPP for targeted benefit



                                                  4

       programs; and (iv) Development and implementation of appropriate public information
       programs relatedto the introduction of targetedbenefits.

(c)    EnhancingPolicyAnalysis Capacity in the MLSPP for SocialProtection:Strengthen
       capacity to analyze the welfare impact of programs and program changes, and formulate
       policy inconsequenceof such analysis.

Component2: Strengtheningthe SocialInsuranceAdministration(US$7.58 million)

The implementation of this component will have provided the SSPF with an efficient and
transparent pension administration, where the SSPF manages and administers its revenues and
expenditures efficiently and effectively; and undertakes knowledge-based pension policy
planning. The component would include civil works and the provision of equipment, materials,
technical assistance andtraining for the following activities:

(a)    Implementation of a Management Information System (MIS) to support the
       establishment of a client data base of individual records (a central register),
       containing pertinent information on all insurance system clients, including provision of
       hardware and voice and data communications, as well as applications software
       development: (i)  Rehabilitation o f SSPF offices to accommodate the MIS at central and
       local office levels; (ii)Installation of MIS-related hardware and voice and data
       communications at central and local levels; (iii)   MIS-related software development and
       implementation at the center and inlocal offices; (iv) Training inuse of the MIS system
       at central and local office levels; and (v) Establishment of an IT department (building
       capacity to operate andmaintain the MIS).

(b)    Operational improvementsin key business processes related to the use of the central
       register   - contributions      collections,  revenue    and    expenditure monitoring,
       audithnspection, pension management, client services; and institutionalstrengthening,
       including governance arrangements, general and financial management, human resource
       management, actuarial forecasting andpolicy analysis, andpublic information.

Component3: ProjectManagement,MonitoringandEvaluation(US$1.02 million)

This component will have ensured professional implementation of the project by using
appropriate mechanisms o f project management, and proper tools o f project monitoring and
evaluation.

The project management structure would consist o f two Project Implementation Units (PIU) -
one in the MLSPP and one in the SSPF. Each PIU would include a Project Director,
Procurement Specialist and a Financial Management Specialist and be reinforced by short-term
outside expertise in procurement and financial management over an initial period following
project effectiveness.   The PIUs would also include an architectlengineer to supervise
implementation of civil works, as well as an information managementhnformation technology
specialist to support implementation of the MIS. Technical specialists would be drawn from
departments and units that are directly concemed by the project. Periodic technical assistance in



                                                 5

other areas would be provided as needed, including information technology and beneficiary
impact monitoring andevaluation.

The main functions of the PIUs are to: (i)    ensure implementation of the project components in
their respective agency; (ii)prepare technical specifications and terms of reference for
procurement of goods and services; (iii)     evaluate bids; and (iv) plan project implementation
schedules, review plans and issue progress reports. The PIUs would also ensure that the
fiduciary requirements of the IDA are met (Le. procurement and financial management
procedures), and they would centralize informationthat will allow monitoring of progress on the
project and disbursement of IDA funds.

A high-level Advisory Group will be establishedwithinthe Government to provide guidanceand
oversee project implementation. The Group will be chaired by a Deputy Prime Ministerandwill
include the Minister of MLSPP and the Chairman of the SSPF, as well as representatives of the
MinistryofFinance andMinistry ofEconomic Development.

Major sector issues addressed

The social insurance and social assistance components have been designed to address major
issues in two critical areas - implementation of reforms in the principal public protection
schemes; and policy analysis and strategic decision makinginthe two responsible agencies.

a. Changes inthe social insurance administration are expected to benefit programparticipants:
    workers through a better recognition of the linkage between contributions and benefits, and
    pensioners through regular payment of pensions. At the institutional level, the overall
    operational efficiency o f the State Social ProtectionFund(SSPF) would be strengthened, and
    its institutional capacity to perform key policy formulation and evaluation functions would be
    enhanced. Both should allow SSPF to manageresources better.

b. Changes in the social assistance administration would benefit eligible poor and vulnerable
    households through increased targeting efficiency; and enhance policy formulation in the
    MinistryofLabor andSocialProtection ofthe Population(MLSPP).

4. Lessons learned and reflected inthe project design

While this is the first IDA-supported project in the social protection sector, it draws on
experience gained in related projects, namely the IBTA Iand I1projects, as well as directly
building on analytical work that the Government has undertaken with IDA and other donor
support in order to reform social protection.         In addition, project design draws on IDA
experience and lessons learned in developing social insurance and assistance administrations in
other parts ofthe world.

The following considerations have beenparticularlyimportant indesigning the project:

0   Government ownership and active involvement by ministries and agencies in project
   implementation is crucial for project success and sustainability.     Strong commitment and



                                                  6

   ownership needs to include both the technical and middle level management and staff.
   Government ownership over the project is reflected in the commitment of the MLSPP and
   SSPF inthe design andpreparation oftheir respective components.

0   For complex programs, such as public pensions and social assistance, it i s important to build
   a broad consensus for change.        Experience from other countries underline the critical
   importance o f public informationand education campaigns inbuildingsupport. An important
   element o f the project is aimedat creating public awarenessofbenefits.


0   Implementation timetables need to be realistic and flexible to allow for limited agency
   experience in project implementation. Timetables were reviewed carefully during appraisal
   and found acceptable, and the pace of implementation will be monitored during
   implementation.

0   Monitoring and evaluation i s a key to project success; therefore, the project places great
   emphasison strengthening the MLSPP and SSPF policy analysis and data gathering capacity.

5. Alternativesconsideredand reasonsfor rejection

Since the project aims at enabling the implementation of policy, legislative and regulatory
changes, an investment project with these components was considered most suitable for the
purpose.


C. IMPLEMENTATION

1. Partnershiparrangements

The project is an integral part of broad-basedinternational collaboration to strengthen the social
protection system in Azerbaijan. This collaboration involves the EU as well as UNDP and the
ILO, who are providing extensive technical assistance and advice to the MLSPP and SSPF,
including in the areas of social insurance and assistance, where their activities directly support
and complement interventions intendedby this project.

2. Institutionalandimplementationarrangements

See Section B.3. Component 3 above.

3. Monitoringandevaluationof outcomes/results

Monitoring and evaluation o f outcomeshesults will draw on data generated by qualitative
surveys undertaken by the MLSPP and SSPF on the impact o f project intervention on the
beneficiary population, and information gathered by local pension and welfare offices for
introduction into the management information system. Staff at headquarters and in local offices
will be trained under the project inthe application of monitoring and evaluation techniques, and
inthe adaptationofpolicy andprogramstrategiesto their findings.



                                                7

4. Sustainability

The Government is well aware of the importance of a well-functioning pension system and a
social safety net that is able to reach out to the poorest and most vulnerable families, and it i s
fully committed to address these challenges in a sustainable manner. As noted in Section A
above, the Government has spelled out a set of critical policy aims in its Poverty Reduction
Strategy that closely conform with the objectives and components of this project, and it has
moved to enact legislation and regulatory changes that underpin and support the aims o f the
project.

5. Critical risks and possible controversial aspects

                Risk                         RiskRating              RiskMitigationMeasure
 Limitedimplementation capacity                   M                PIUs are integrated with
 may lead to delays in project                                     implementingagencies, and
 implementation                                                    they areprovidedwith
                                                                   resources for short-term
                                                                   technical assistanceto address
                                                                   any constraints that might arise
 Reluctance to use adequately                     H                Externaltechnical assistance
 external technical assistance for                                 targeted at areas critical for
 capacity building                                                 project success, andwhere
                                                                   local capacity i s weak
 PIUs not able to retain key                      M                Remunerationset at
 technical staff                                                   competitive rates according to
                                                                   the UNDPscale
 The Government may not pursue                    M                The ongoing policy dialogue
 reforms inthe social protection                                   and sector work inthe social
 area as diligently as i s currently                               area, including poverty
 the case                                                          analysis should continue to
                                                                   promote Government interest
                                                                   inreformingits social
                                                                   Drotection svstem

6. Credit conditions and covenants

Conditionsfor Effectiveness

a. The Borrower has opened the MLSPP and SSPF Project Accounts in a bank on terms and
    conditions acceptable to IDA with an initial deposit inManat equivalentto $50,000 each.
b. The MLSPP Operational Manual and the SSPF Operational Manual, acceptable to the
    Association, have been submittedto the Association.
c. Financial management systems for MLSPP PIU and SSPF PIU have been upgraded in
    accordance with guidelines acceptableto the Association.




                                                 8

Covenants

a.      The PIUs will be maintainedwith an appropriate number of staff, adequate facilities, and
        authority satisfactory to IDA.
b.      An architect and an information managementhnfonnation technology specialist,
        acceptable to the Association, will be recruited by eachPIUby October 1,2004.
c.      Policies and procedures, adequate for monitoring and evaluating the project on an
        ongoing basis and in accordance with indicators acceptable to IDA will be maintained
        and semi-annual progress reports will be submitted for review to IDA, with the first
        expectedby September30,2006.
d.      The PIUs will maintain financial management systems acceptable to IDA. The project
        financial statements, Statement of Expenditures (SOEs) and Special Accounts will be
        audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank and on terms of reference
        acceptable to the Bank. The annual audited statements and audit report will be provided
        to the Bank within six months o fthe end of eachfiscal year.
e.      An auditor for the project, acceptable to the Association, shall be selected by December
        31,2004.

Mid-termreview date: September2006.


D. APPRAISAL SUMMARY

1. Economicandfinancialanalysis

Project economic benefits are based on the introduction of cost-effective processes for the
administration of the public social insurance and assistance systems.

Pensions. The introduction o f better collections and reporting processes for social insurance,
based on individual monthly reporting, should result in an increase in collections and help
stabilize the flow of funds. This should be reflected inincreasedrevenues, elimination of arrears
and reduced dependence by the SSPF on budget support. In particular, it i s expected that
collection of social insurance contributions will increaseby some 80 percent by 2009 through (i)
more accurate wage reporting and registration of the employed; (ii)     transparent calculation of
pensions; and (iii)improved expenditures management due to accurate, regularly updated
records and elimination o f enterprises from the social insurance benefits administration. Inturn,
this is expected to result inhigher pensions, lower contributionrates and decreasedfinancing of
pensions from the state budget (except for benefits not related to contributions and specifically
givenbythe state).

Social assistance. A better capacity to target poor households, and increased capacity for policy
analysis will allow continued monitoring and evaluation of the effectiveness of spending
programs, and increase the efficiency and effectiveness of such programs. The Government i s
spending about 0.7 percent o f GDP on child benefits, which are thinly spread, with no real
impact on poverty and a significant error of inclusion (based on the TACIS pilot results, the



                                                 9

targeting error i s about 50 percent). The project implementation is expected to decrease the
leakage o f funds to non-eligible recipients, which in turn would allow almost doubling of the
childbenefit with significantly improvedpoverty alleviation impact.

Finally, new administrative and analytical capacity in SSPF and MLSPP should be significantly
more flexible in adapting to any future changes in the pension system or the safety net in cost-
effective ways.

2. Technicalanalysis

The project i s technically sound. The administrative changes that are being introduced draw on
best practice and experience with similar initiatives in other transition countries, adapted to the
Azerbaijan situation.     The computer solutions chosen represent a good balance between
functionality and cost. It uses a combination of object-oriented and traditional approaches to
data-base management.         All software will be fully tested in pilot operations before
implementationnation-wide.

3. Fiduciary

Procurement: A country procurement review (CPAR) was completed in 2003. It concludes
that there are several significant areas where the provisions o fthe Azeri Public ProcurementLaw
(PPL) vary from the Bank's Guidelines, causing problems in Bank-financed operations. There
are four issues that have been identified which appear to create problems for IDA-financed
procurement: taxation and customs procedures; interference of the SPA in the procurement
process, problems with the issue and effecting of performance and bid securities and knowledge
of international contracting concepts. These issues are being addressed in a comprehensive
capacity building program for the PIUs. An action plan has been agreed to strengthen the
procurement capacity, including training, and the Operational Manuals will include guidance and
details of contract approval and supervision procedures.

Financialmanagement: The project will be implementedby two separate PIUs within SSPF
and MLSPP, each implementing their own component. The financial management assessment
was carried out during project appraisal to confirm adequacy of financial management
arrangements for the project. Both PIUs are operational with key staff inplace and installation
of accounting and financial reporting sofhvare packages underway, including documentation of
policies and procedures in the Operational Manuals.           Additional technical specialists, as
required, will berecruited before start ofproject implementation.

The Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) diagnostic work carried out in 2002
recommended accounting and auditing regulatory and institutional reforms to increase
accountability and good governance in the country. In particular, the enactment of the new
Accounting Law, Audit Services Law and related secondary regulation will assure greater
transparency and accountability o f public funds and financial reporting. The Country Portfolio
Performance Review (CPPR), also carried out in 2002, identified some generic issues affecting
Bank-financed projects in the country. Most of the recommendations have been implemented
and addressedinthe design ofthe project's financial management arrangements.



                                                 10

To facilitate Credit disbursements, two Special Accounts, one for each PIU, will be opened in
one o f the local commercial banks that have been assessed by IDA as acceptable for these
purposes. Counterpart funds would be advanced to separate Project Accounts held inthe same
commercial bank as the Special Accounts. The World Bank new audit policy will be applicable
to this new project. The audit will be carried out by independent auditors in accordance to
standards and terms o f reference acceptable to IDA. The scope for the audit will be determined
bythe Borrower inagreement with IDA, adapted to project risks.

4. Social

A beneficiary assessment (BA) was undertaken to determine how stakeholders assesstheir needs
and ensure that project design and strategy are appropriate.                      The main findings o f the BA
indicate that, while small, both pensions and social assistance benefits are perceived as important
benefits that recipients are reluctant to forego. Demand for the social assistance benefit i s high,
and application procedures are viewed as straightforward and not unduly burdensome. At the
same time, interviewees noted that understaffed and manually operating social welfare offices in
many instances were unable to accurately determine eligibility or serve clients well. Pensions,
which come in the form of social pensions and labor pensions, often with various social
assistance-type supplements, while important, are perceived as inadequate, often inequitable, and
the determination o f labor pensions i s opaque. Many interviewees expressed concern that any
pension reform would require higher social contributions to be paid from already meager wages
and salaries. There was a felt need among beneficiaries to better understand how benefits and
benefit levels are determined, as well as a desire for better information in general about social
protection programs. The provision o f pension and welfare benefits through the bankingsystem,
instead o f the postal system, were uniformly welcomed by interviewees.

5. Environment

Civil works (beyond minor refurbishment o f facilities) or landacquisition is not envisaged under
the project.


6. Safeguard policies

  Safeguard PoliciesTriggered by the Project                                            Yes                     No
  Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)                                              [XI                     [x 1
                                                                                                                [I
  Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                                          [I
  PestManagement(OP 4.09)                                                                                       [x 1
  Cultural Property (OPN 11.03, being revised as OP 4.11)                                E11l                   [x 1
  Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                                                  [I                     [x 1
  IndigenousPeoples(OD 4.20, beingrevised as OP 4.10)                                    [I                     Ex 1
  Forests(OP/BP 4.36)                                                                    11                     [x 1
  Safety of Dams (OPBP 4.37)                                                             11                     [x 1
  ProjectsinDisputedAreas (OP/BP/GP 7.60)'                                               [I                     [x 1
  Projectson International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)                                     [I                     [x 1


* By supporting theproposedproject,the Bank does not intend toprejudice thefinal determination ofthe parties' claims on the
disputedareas.


                                                            11

7. Environmental AssessmentCategory:
[] A [] B [XI C [] FI [] TBD (to bedetermined)

The project is expected to include refurbishment of buildings. Duringpreparation, the adequacy
of treatment o f eventual hazardous materials were examined, and provisions will be included in
contracts for contractors with regard to compliance.     Compliance will be monitored during
supervision by the project implementing agencies and by IDA. The Project ImplementationPlan
(PIP) would also include a monitoring plan.

8. Safeguard Policies Classification

[ ] SI [] SZ [x] S3 [] SF [] TBD (to be determined)

9. Policy Exceptions and Readiness

There are no exceptions to IDA policy inthe Project.




                                               12

                     Annex 1:CountryandSector or ProgramBackground
                     AZERBAIJAN: PensionandSocialAssistance Project


Azerbaijan inherited from the former Soviet Union a social protection system comprising (i)
mandatory social insurance (providing old-age, disability, and survivor pensions, social pensions,
as well as a range of sickness, maternity, and child care benefits, financed from social insurance
contributions on a pay-as-you-go basis); (ii) categorically targeted, mostly merit basedprivileges
and subsidies (free or heavily discounted transportation and utility services, financed through
quasi-fiscal deficit); and (iii)various child allowances financed from the budget. Over the
1990s, severe fiscal constraints eroded the level of benefits to the point that many of them
became insignificant, insufficient social insurance revenues were supplemented by the budget
resources, so that financing o f benefits became blurred, new benefits were added on an ad hoc
basis, some targeting was introduced (for child allowances) and some o f the privileges were
abolished and instead a compensatory payment in cash was introduced for certain categories of
the population.

As a result, 5-6 percent of GDP that is annually spent on social protection is thinly spread over
too many recipients, who often find it difficult to understand what type of benefits they are
entitledto. The poverty impact is foundnot to beparticularly significant.

Untilrecently, all the social protection benefits were awardedandrecordskeptbythe Ministry of
Labor and Social Protection of the Population (MLSPP), with the State Social Protection Fund
(SSPF) collecting social insurance contributions and acting as a payment agency for all the social
transfers. As of August 2003, social insurance and social assistance benefits administration was
separated, with the SSPF entrusted the social insurance portfolio. Both agencies have low
capacity to efficiently administer benefits: poor record keeping practices, inadequately trained
staff, insufficientnumber of staff, and lack of modern equipment all hinder substantially efficient
handlingof clients ina transparentmanner.

SocialInsurance

In2002, there were in Azerbaijan 1.15 million people receiving pensions (15.5 percent of the
total population).   O f these, 737,000 were old-age, 183,000 disability, and 77,000 survivors
pensioners. For a young population such as Azeri, there are too many pensioners, reflecting lax
criteria for retirement. Similarly, the share of disability pensioners is high, indicating easy to
meet eligibility requirements.     Pensions are supposed to be financed by social insurance
contributions. However, the revenues are not sufficient to provide for decent pension. The
solution has been found in the introduction of various additions to labor pension to various
categories o f pensioners financed by the state budget. As a result, 40 percent of expenditures on
pensions are financed by the state budget. Overall, Azerbaijan is among very few FSUcountries
that have not done much to reform its public pensions system (except for an increase in
retirement age).




                                                  13

The major issues facing the social insurancesystem inAzerbaijan are as follows:

       Easy to meet eligibility requirements. The parameters are lax, allowing for many
       people to retire too early.
       Distorted and inequitable benefits. Benefits that have no link to contributions, are low
       and provide no incentives for participants to contribute. A practice of having different
       benefit formulae for otherwise equal contributors except for the sector of employment
       (for civil servants, for instance) makes the system inequitable. Discretionary introduced
       additions to pensionsonly further distort the system.
       Non-transparent procedures for benefits calculation.                The rules for benefits
       calculations are so complex that even the administrators have difficulties to understand
       them. This is evenmore so for the pensioners who inmost ofthe cases do not knowhow
       their benefit was calculated. Complex rules create anenvironment for rent seeking.
       Financially unviable system. The benefits financing depends crucially on the transfers
       from the state budget. Revenues from contributions are low because: (a) the number of
       contributors i s low (because of the declined formal sector employment); (b) wages are
       low; (c) contributions payment practice that makes auditing very difficult (contributions
       are paid as a lump sum per employer without any information on individual contributors
       -seebelow); and(d)involvementofenterprisesinbenefitsadministration.
       Involvement of enterprises in benefits administration. Similar to the pre-transition
       situation, employers still play a major role inthe administration of social insurance: they
       are responsible for record-keeping on social insurance contributors, accurate payment of
       contributions and calculation and payment of short-term social insurance benefits (sick-
       leave, maternity leave, etc.). Consequently, there i s little incentive for employers to fully
       comply with the contributions payment and evasion is believed to be very high.
       Enforcement i s another major issue, because o f the reporting practice: enterprises report
       only on the total amount of wages paid and social insurance contributions due and paid
       without any obligations to provide informationon eachemployee for whom contributions
       were paid. This opens a wide space for tax evasion. The fact that enterprises administer
       some of the benefits (they automatically reimburse themselves from the social insurance
       contributions due to the SSPF and only the balance i s transferred to the Fund) further
       diminishesany chance for areasonablecontrol ofthe contributions payment compliance.
       Weak administrative capacity. Capacity to efficiently administer benefits i s very low:
       there is no central register on either pensioners, contributors or employers, all the
       processes are performed manually, staff is inadequately trained and there is insufficient
       number of staff, modernequipment is lacking, internal organization is inefficient, internal
       auditing is weak, financial management practice i s outdated, accounting is old soviet
       style one, actuarial skills are non-existent, as well as policy analysis, development and
       planning.

The Government recognizes the need to modernize its social insurance administration including
introduction of individual records, and to reform the public pension system by changing its
parameters and linking benefits to contributions more closely. Adequate actions are envisagedin
the poverty reduction strategy adoptedin2003.




                                                14

SocialAssistance

As far as social assistance, the key issues include: (i)poor targeting of benefits; (ii)
fragmentation o fbenefits; (iii) benefitlevels dueto insufficient resources; (iv) weak capacity
                              low
to analyze, monitor and evaluate policies; and (v) weak administrative capacity to efficiently
administer benefits. Azerbaijan needs to increase its capacity to provide protectionfor the poor
and the vulnerable, and to cushion the impact of the forthcoming utilities tariff increaseswithout
prolongingundue distortions inthe factor andproduct markets.

The Government is aware that it needs to modernize its social assistance administration,
including adequately training staff and providing modern equipment, as well as to consolidate
fragmented benefits into a single targeted benefit in cash. The latter is particularly important to
cushion the impact of the planned increase in utility tariffs. The poverty reduction program
contains adequate actions whose implementation would ensure more efficient and effective
protection of the poor andvulnerable.




                                               15

       Annex 2: Major RelatedProjectsFinancedby the Bankand/or other Agencies
                   AZERBAIJAN: PensionandSocial Assistance Project


SAC 11. SAC-I1 (Second Structural Adjustment Credit) aimed to bolster crucial components of
Azerbaijan's structural reform program that would enhance public sector efficiency and
accelerate non-oil sector growth. Inparticular, SAC-I1 supported: (a) public sector reforms to
strengthen policies and institutions for public expenditure management, poverty monitoring,
social services and safety nets through better targeting and special initiatives for refugees and
internally displaced people (IDPs); and (b) acceleratedand more broad-baseddevelopmentof the
non-oil sector through continuous diagnosis and improvement o f the business environment, as
well as improved financial discipline and service delivery in the utility sectors.          Besides
eliminating a major source o f soft-budget constraints and facilitating private participation, utility
sector reforms aimed at reducing the health risks associated with unsafe water, as well as the
social, economic and environmental consequences of unreliable electricity and gas supply.

IBTA 11. IBTA I1(Second InstitutionBuilding and Technical Assistance Project) is intendedto
provide technical assistance to support the policy measures to be implemented under the Second
Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC-11). In line with the objectives in SAC-11, the proposed
Credit i s preparedwith the twin goals of providing assistance inthe design and implementation
of the Government's reform program, and of helping to build up the institutional capacity and
skills to carry out these programs.       The proposed Credit i s divided into the following
components: (i)to enhance accountability in public financial management; (ii)to strengthen
public expenditure management capacities, including the implementation of a fully functional,
automated Treasury system; (iii)  to reform social expenditures; and (iv) to promote privatization
and private sector development.        The activities under these components will help the
Government to improve the delivery of public services through reforming institutional
arrangements that they provide better incentives for service providers to perform efficiently and
effectively. These activities will also improve the budget management process and hence the
efficiency of budgetary resources, and will increase accountability in the public sector through
better monitoringand analysis of informationfrom beneficiaries.




                                                16

                              Annex 3: ResultsFrameworkand Monitoring
                           AZERBAIJAN: PensionandSocialAssistanceProject

                                              ResultsFramework

              PDO                                                                  UseofResultsInformation

  Improved effectiveness and   Evidence of:                                          DGauge efficiency o f
  transparency inthe              improved financial viability o f the social         business processes in
  provision o f public pension    insurance system (increased collections)            SSPF
  and social assistanceto         significant increases inthe number o f             DDetermine efficiency o f
  eligible beneficiaries          participating systemcontributors (compliance        targeting mechanism
                                  rate o f 90 percent)
                                  eligible beneficiaries for pensions and social
                                  insurance receive proper payments ina timely
                                  manner (absence o f arrears)
                                  improved user satisfaction (through beneficiary

  IntermediateResults                                                                    Use of Outcome
~                                                                                           Monitoring
  ComponentOne:                   Computerized record-keeping inall social            Determine effectiveness
  MLSPP has a good                welfare offices                                     o ftargeting and needfor
  targeting mechanism; staff      Targeting errors at no more than40 percent          adjustments
  have the skills to use it;      MIS usedto test eligibility and monitor targeting
 'MLSPP has capacity to           efficiency
  undertake knowledge-based       MIS used to share information between agencies
  policy formulation              and offices to test eligibility
                                  MLSPP uses monitoring and evaluation results
                                  for knowledge-based policy formulation

                                  A central register provides comprehensive            Rate o f development o f
  SSPF has an efficient and       computerizedrecord-keeping o fparticipants and       central register to
  transparent administration      flow o f funds                                       identify bottlenecks in
                                  Intemal administrative processesare functioning      processes, procedures,
                                  according to guidelines                              training
                                  Actuarial analysis used for long-term forecasting  0 Participant awarenessto
 I                                Functioning public informationsystem inplace         indicate transparency o f
                                  Coherent humanresources strategy applied             SSPF operations

   ComponentThree:                Project implementation according to schedule         Determine bottlenecks in
   Project management ensures     Fiduciary obligations fulfilled                      project implementation
  professionalimplementation




                                                           17

                c)
                E,  Y
                    E,
                v)
                ?:
              .-Mc8 .-.-
                    %on
                    E


               .e
               5e 54
                c)  se
                    L




+         00
          P
          E     00
               .e
                e
          0    5
          t 3   6




I;    I         (k
                0

B
c
s
.I




cp




      IC;,       *   a

E
I




I




t
/E


       x




I




      e  .  .

                             Annex 4: DetailedProjectDescription
                    AZERBAIJAN: PensionandSocialAssistanceProject


The proposedproject would consist of three components: strengtheningthe social assistance and
social insurance administrations, and a project management, monitoring and evaluation
component. Total project cost is estimated at $15.95 million, of which Bank financing is $10.0
million. The proposed components are as follows:

Component1: Strengtheningthe SocialAssistance Administration(US$7.35 million)

The project would provide civil works, equipment, materials, technical assistanceandtraining to
help the Ministry of Labor and Social Protection of the Population (MLSPP) effectively deliver
targeted social welfare programs and enhanceits capacity to develop social welfare policy.

The component would havethe following sub-components:

       Sub-component1.a.: Developmentof a ManagementInformation System

The project would facilitate the development of an integrated social insurance information
system (MIS)to support a process of means and asset testing of potential beneficiaries of social
welfare programs, including the provision of hardware and voice and data communications, as
well as applications software development.

The development ofthe MISwould includethe following activities under the project:

(a)    Minor civil works to refurbishand upgrade 89 local MLSPP offices to accommodate the
       computer equipment being provided under the project; and installation o f MIS-related
       hardware andvoice and data communications at central and local levels;

(b)    MIS-related software development and implementation at the central office and in the
       local offices; and

(c)    Training inuse o fthe MIS system at central and local office levels.

       Sub-component1.b: Improving Targetingof Social WewarePrograms

The component would support the MLSPP's ongoing program to improve its methodology for
determining benefit eligibility for social welfare programs under its management.          The
componentwould include the following activities:

(a)    Nationwide implementation of a targeted child allowance and later a targeted family
       poverty benefit incash;

(b)    Staff training inapplying the targeting mechanism;



                                               20

(c)     Development of a monitoring and evaluation fimction inthe MLSPP for targeted benefit
        programs; and

(d)     Development and implementation of appropriate public information programs related to
        the introductionoftargeted benefits.

        Sub-Component 1.c: Enhancing Policy Development Capacity in the MLSPP for
        SocialProtection

This sub-componentwill helpthe MLSPP inthe following:

(a)     Develop indicators of poverty and social need;

(b)     Ex ante assessment of the poverty, income distribution and social policy implications of
        government decisions;

(c)     Ongoing monitoring of Government and development partner programs;

(d)     Ex post evaluation o f such programs; and

(e)     Development ofpolicies and strategies for poverty reduction and alleviation.

Component2: Improvingthe SocialInsuranceAdministration (US$7.58 million)

This component would support the State Social Protection Fund (SSPF), an autonomous public
agency charged with the management and administration of social insurance benefits. The
project would provide civil works, equipment, materials, technical assistance and training to
support (i)the development of a management information system (MIS) to support the
establishment o f a client data base o f individual records (a central register) containing pertinent
information on all insurance system clients; and (ii)   operational improvements in key business
processes related to the central register (contributions            collections and compliance,
revenue/expenditure monitoring, audithnspection, pensions management, customer services),
and institutional strengthening, involving governance arrangements, general and financial
management, humanresource management, actuarial forecasting and policy analysis and public
information.

        Sub-component 2.a.: Developmentof a Management Information System

The project would facilitate the developmentof an integrated social insurance management
information system (MIS) to support the establishment of a client data base of individual
records, or a central register, containing pertinent information on all social insurance system
clients. The register would form the basis for the calculation o f benefit entitlements, and it
would better allow SSPF to assess andmonitor key processes relatingto pension administration.




                                                 21

The development ofthe MISwould include the following activities underthe project:

(a)     Minor civil works to refurbishand upgrade 89 regional and local SSPF offices inorder to
        accommodate the computer equipmentbeing providedunderthe project;

(b)     Installation of MIS-related hardware and voice and data communications at SSPF's
        headquarters in Baku and its 89 regional and local offices. The system architecture will
        enable the maintenance of regional and local data base subsets necessary for performance
        of routine functions such as data collection, compliance checks and customer service. It
        will also allow for the regular transfer of data to SSPF headquarters, where the entire
        central register will be maintained and specialized applications will be used for national
        program monitoring. The proposed architecture will be flexible and expandable and able
        to accommodate information for any additional social insurance schemes.

(c)     Development and implementation o f functional software applications that will allow for
        use of the central register and other pertinent information to support operational
        improvements in the areas of contributions collections, audit, pension management and
        customer service. Development of such processes would be closely coordinated with,
        and complement, the desigdimplementation of strategic and operational improvements in
        SSPF business procedures (described below);

(d)     Training o f SSPF staff inthe use of the MIS system; and

(e)     Establishment o f an IT department at SSPF headquarters to allow in-house capacity to
        operate, maintainand further develop the MIS system.

        Sub-component 2.b.: Operational Improvements in Business Processes and
        Institutional Strengthening of SSPF

Operational improvements in business processes that directly draw on the information
provided through the central register would be redesigned. Such processes include contributions
collections, revenue/expenditure monitoring, compliance, audithnspection and client services;
related software would be customized. Project-financed foreign and local experts would work
with SSPF staff to develop practical procedures, guidelines, handbooks and other materials so
that the processes can be implemented in a predictable, monitorable and reasonably uniform
manner. The redesign o f business processes would be iterative with the establishment o f the
MIS, given the strong interdependencebetweenthe expected changes inbusiness processesand
theuse of informationandtelecommunications technologies to implementthem.

Strengtheninginstitutionalcapacity. As the economy moves towards a more flexible labor
market with increasing private-sector employment, the social insurance system will need an
expanded and modernized capacity to analyze program performance, initiate and institute
changes in policy, and publicize program initiatives. It will also need to establish a human
resource department for SSPF to increase the effectiveness o f the staff, through improvements in
staff selection, incentives, andtraining and career development. Consequently, the project would
support the creation of institutional capacity in SSPF to conduct actuarial forecasting, program


                                                 22

evaluation and policy development, public informationandeducation about SSPF programs, and
humanresourcedevelopment (personnelmanagement), includingstaffdevelopment. Itwill also
aim at strengthening the governance structure of SSPF - its responsibilities, accountability and
reporting arrangementsinthe public administration; redefininginternal processes procedures and
rules for increased coherence inthe management structure; and improved financial management,
involving systems to ensure integrity in cash management, and standardized financial
managementprocedures.

Component3: ProjectManagement,MonitoringandEvaluation(US$1.02 million)

The project management structure would consist of two Project Implementation Units - one in
the MLSPP andone inthe SSPF.

Each PIU would consist of a Project Director, Procurement Specialist and a Financial
Management Specialist and be reinforced by short-term outside expertise in procurement and
financial management over an initial period following project effectiveness. The PIUs would
also include an architecdengineer to supervise implementation of civil works, as well as an
information managementhnformation technology specialist to assist inthe implementation of the
MIS. Technical specialists would be drawn from departments and units that are directly
concerned by the project. Periodic technical assistance in other areas would be provided as
needed, includinginformationtechnology and beneficiary impact monitoring and evaluation.

The main functions of the PIUs would be to: (i)ensure implementation of the project
components in their respective agency; (ii)prepare technical specifications and terms of
reference for procurement of goods and services; (iii)evaluate bids; (iv) plan project
implementation schedules, review plans and issue progress reports; and (v) centralize
information that will allow monitoring of progress on the project and disbursement of IDA
funds. They would also ensurethat the fiduciary requirementsof IDA are met.

This component would also ensure effective monitoring and evaluation of project activities,
outputs and outcomes duringproject implementation.

A high-level Advisory Group will be establishedwithinthe Government to provide guidance and
oversee project implementation. The Group will be chaired by a Deputy Prime Minister and will
include the Minister of MLSPP and the Chairman of the SSPF, as well as representatives of the
Ministry of Finance and Ministryo f Economic Development.




                                              23

            Annex 5: ProjectCosts
AZERBAIJAN: PensionandSocial Assistance Project




    Total Financing Required                       15.95




                      24

                           Annex 6: ImplementationArrangements
                    AZERBAIJAN: Pensionand Social AssistanceProject


The proposed implementation arrangements draw on existing capabilities inthe MLSPP and the
SSPF, appropriately strengthened through training and supported by external technical
assistance.

Projectmanagementarrangements. Therewould betwo implementing agencies, one for each
of the two major components - the MLSPP for the social assistance component, and the SSPF
for the social insurance component. A Project Implementation Unit (PIU) has been established
in each agency.      The PIUs report to the Minister of MLSPP and the Chairman of SSPF,
respectively.

Specific activities and responsibilities of the PIUs would include: (i)       day-to-day project
implementation as specified in the Project Operational Manual (POM); (ii)       preparation of all
necessary project implementation documents to ensure effective programming and
implementation of project activities, as well as determination o f goods and services to be
procured; (iii) undertaking procurement; (iv) ensuring effective monitoring and evaluation of
project outcomes; (v) centralizing information that will allow monitoring of progress on the
project and disbursement o f IDA funds; (vi) preparing progress reports in accordance with the
provisions of the Credit Agreement; and (vii) coordinating with relevant agencies and
beneficiaries involvedinproject implementation.

A high-level Advisory Group will be establishedwithinthe Government to provide guidance and
oversee project implementation. The Group will be chaired by a Deputy Prime Minister and
will include the Minister of MLSPP, the Chairman of the SSPF, as well as representativesofthe
MinistryofFinanceandMinistryofEconomic Development.

Procurement and financialmanagementarrangements. Each PIU will have the capabilities
to meet IDA fiduciary requirements. To ensure that the necessary procurement and financial
management skills are in place, procurement staff will receive training in IDA procurement
procedures prior to project effectiveness, and technical assistance in procurement according to
terms of reference and with qualifications acceptable to IDA will be recruited. Likewise, to
ensure that IDA financial management requirements are met, the PIUs have installed a
customized financial managementsoftware package that will provide the informationrequired to
record, process and monitor financial transactions, and have hired the necessary financial
management skills.     IDA will support required training to assure adequacy of financial
management and Credit disbursements.

Disbursement. Two separate Special Accounts will be opened in one of the local commercial
banks that have been assessed by IDA as acceptable for these purposes. Counterpart funds
would be advanced to separate Project Accounts held in the same commercial bank as the
Special Accounts. It i s anticipated that there will also be a small petty cash provision operated
by the PIUs for small sundry expenses.



                                                25

              Annex 7: FinancialManagementand DisbursementArrangements
                    AZERBAIJAN: Pensionand SocialAssistance Project


FinancialManagementArrangements

Country Issues. The Country Financial Management Assessment Report dated January 2003,
identifieda number of public financial management issues that require strengthening: including
public sector budgeting, public sector intemal and external auditing, and private sector
accounting and auditing. The Structural Adjustment Credit, approved inMarch 2002 and closed
in June 2003 facilitated the policy dialogue in improving transparency and accountability in
public financial management, reducing conflicts of interest and corruption in the business
environment, and strengtheningthe banking sector. Strengtheningof banking sector supervision,
raised capital adequacy, improved prudential norms, and licensing rules for credit cooperatives.

The InstitutionBuilding Technical Assistance I1(IBTA-11) Credit is financing activities leading
to strengthening public financial accountability in the country, including establishing the
Chamber of Accounts, the country's supreme audit institution. The Bank carried out a Country
Portfolio Performance Review (CPPR) of all projects in the portfolio in January 2002, and
identified common financial management issues affecting implementation of Bank-financed
projects in the country (counterpart funding arrears, taxation and customs duties). Most of the
actions agreed upon to remedy identified weaknesses have been implemented, including
establishing of a Working Group to review and make recommendations on issues affecting
implementation of Bank-financed projects.       The proposed PRSCs contain accounting and
auditing policy reform frameworks for greater transparency, governance and accountability in
financial reporting inbothpublic and private sectors.

Risk Analysis. Significant project risks are addressed in Section C5 of the PAD. Based on
financial management questionnaire available in project files, inherent risk associated with
factors arising from the country's rules and regulations based on the CFAA diagnostic work is
considered high for Azerbaijan. The control risk that the project's accounting and intemal
control frameworks are capable o f ensuring project funds are used efficiently and for purposes
intendedis consideredto bemoderate.


              RiskArea                                          RiskAssessment
            I Inherent Risk                                     High
              Control Environment                              iMiderate
              EntitiesLevelRiskAssessment                       Moderate
              Control Activities                                Moderate
              Informationand Communication                      Moderate
              Monitoring                                        Moderate
              Overall FMRisk Assessment                         Moderate




                                               26

Strengths and Weaknesses

The MLSPP and SSPF PIUs are fully operational with adequate key staff experienced in
implementing donor-funded projects. Further capacity building, especially inprocurement, will
be provided prior to effectiveness. Moreover, short-term external expertise in procurement and
financial management will be provided to the PIUs during the start-up period of project
implementation.

ImplementingEntity

The fiduciary functions of project implementation will be coordinated by the PIUs inthe MLSPP
and SSPF. The PIUs report directly to the Minister of the MLSPP and the Chairman of the
SSPF, respectively. The PIUs will be responsible for overall financial management, Credit
disbursements including administration of the Special Accounts, auditing arrangements,
procurement, monitoring and supervision. Fully operational PIUs with adequate staff, financial
management systems and Operational Manual documenting policies and procedures that
facilitate timely and reliable financial reporting that meet Bank requirements is a condition to
Credit effectiveness.

 Flow of Funds.

The IDA Credit of US$lO.O million (US$5.0 million for MLSPP and US$5.0 million for SSPF)
will be disbursed on the basis o f traditional disbursement procedures by submitting Withdrawal
Applications for payment through: (i)   two Special Accounts, one for the MLSPP and another for
the SSPF; (ii) disbursements on the basis of SOEs; (iii) payments to third parties; and (iv)
                                                         direct
special commitments. The Government contribution via the budget o f the MLSPP andthe SSPF
will be disbursedthrough separate Project Accounts.

Staffing

The key staff of each of the two PIUs include the director, procurement specialist and financial
management officer.     Additional technical experts will be recruited before start of project
implementation. Local and international training will be made available for the staff of the PIUs
to increase capacity infinancial management and disbursements.

Accounting Policies and Procedures

The PIUs will institute appropriate accounting procedures and internal controls, including
authorization and segregation o f duties that will be defined and documented in the Project
Operational Manual for each project component. Project Jinancial management, financial
reporting and auditing arrangements were confirmed at negotiations to assure overall project
implementation.




                                                 27

Internal Audit

The country intemal audit function was identifiedas weak by the recent CFAA. Strengthening
of the Chamber of Accounts and enacting amendments to Law and Charter on Chamber of
Accounts establishing the Chamber as the supreme audit institution of the Republic i s being
addressed through ongoing technical assistance to the Chamber. There are no intemal audit
departmentswithinthe MLSPP andthe SSPF.

External Audit

The project's Financial Statements, Statements of Expenditures and Special Accounts will be
audited each fiscal year by independent auditors under terms of reference and standards
acceptable to IDA. The audit report will be submitted to IDA within six months of the fiscal
year end. The audit will be financed from the IDA Credit, with consultants' services selected
basedon Least Cost Selection Method.

Reporting and Monitoring

The project will be required to produce and submit to IDA quarterly project management-
oriented Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs) for project monitoring and supervision. The
formats o fthe FMRs will include:
0       Project Sources andUses of Funds
0       Uses of Fundsby Project Activity
0       Project Balance Sheet
0       Output Monitoring Report
0       Procurement Monitoring Reports

I nformation Systems

A klly automated financial reporting system (1C accounting software package) has been
installed inthe PIUs.  Administrative, accounting and procurement proceduresand controls will
be documentedinthe Operational Manuals that are beingpreparedby the PIUs.

Impact of ProcurementArrangements

The PIUs will be staffed with procurement specialists trained in IDA procedures and
requirements. The POMs would establish the links between procurement and financial
management/disbursements procedures.      A procurement assessment of the Project was
performed by a Bank Procurement Specialist and procurement under this project has beenput
in the high-risk category due mainly to the general low procurement capacity within the
country and the fact that implementation will be managed ina distributedfashion. Therefore,
successful procurement will be dependent of a high level o f coordination between the PIUs.




                                               28

Action Plan

The critical actions requiredto enhance the capacity o f the PIUs for project implementationwere
discussed and agreed at negotiations. These activities that are well under way and would be
completed before the Credit Effectiveness include: (i)   establishment o f fully operational MLSPP
PIU (key staff already recruited); (ii)installationo f accounting and financial reporting systems in
both the PIUs; and (iii) drafting o f Operational Manuals. Selection of independent auditors for
the project would be undertaken before end-December, 2004.

SupervisionPlan

During project implementation, IDA will supervise the project's financial management
arrangements in two main ways: (i)    review the project's quarterly financial management reports
as well as the project's annual audited financial statements and auditor's management letter; and
(ii)during IDA supervision missions, review the project's financial management and
disbursement arrangements to ensure compliance with IDA'Srequirements.             As required, an
IDA-accredited Financial Management Specialist will assist inthe supervision process.

Conditions

Dated covenant for selection o f independent auditors for the Project.

Financial covenants. The PIUs will be required to submit to IDA quarterly FMRs 45 days after
the end o f each quarter. The Project Financial Statements, the SOEs and the Special Accounts
will be audited by independent auditors under terms o freference acceptable to IDA, and a report
submitted to IDAwithin six months after the end o f each year audited.

DisbursementArrangements

The proceeds o f the Credit would be disbursed using traditional disbursements procedures, either
through Special Accounts, direct payment, reimbursement and replenishment with full
documentation or use o f Statements o f Expenditures (SOEs). The project has been designed to
be carried out over a period o f approximately four years and the project i s expected to be
completed by August 31, 2008.         A period o f six months would be allowed to complete
disbursements, with the Credit Closing Date o f February 28, 2009. Disbursement categories,
amounts and percentages to be financed under each category are presented in Table A, as
follows.




                                                  29

                                Table A: Allocation of CreditProceeds

       Expenditure Category              Amount in US$                 FinancingPercentage
 Works
     (a) for PartA                          1,592,000                         80%
     (b) forPartB                             884,000                         80%
 Goods
     (a) for Parts A and C.1.               2,030,000                         55%
     (b) for Parts B and C.2.               2,738,000                         76%

 Consultant Services and audits
     (a) for PartsA and C.1.                  651,000                         75%
     (b) for Parts B and C.2.                 565,000                         75%
 Training
     (a) for Part A and C.1.                  174,000                         50%
     (b) for PartB andC.2.                    236,000                         80%
 Unallocated                                1,130,000
 Total                                     10,000,000

Use o f statementsof expenditure (SOE):

The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit to be made on the basis of statements
of expenditure (SOE) for expenditures under contracts for: (a) works costing less than $100,000
equivalent per contract; (b) goods costing less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, except for
all contracts procured under direct contracting; (c) for services o f individual consultants costing
less than $25,000 equivalent per contract; (d) for services of consulting firms under contracts
costing less than $50,000 equivalent per contract; and (e) training, all under such terms and
conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.

The requiredsupporting documentation would be retained by the PIUs for at least one year after
receipt by IDA o f the audit report for the year in which the last disbursement was made. This
documentation would be made available for review by the auditors and by visiting IDA staff
uponrequest.

SpecialAccount

To facilitate timely project implementation, the PIUs would establish, maintain and operate a
Special Account each, in US dollars in a commercial bank under conditions acceptable to IDA.
The Authorized Allocation to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the
Special Account A for Parts A and C.l of the Project (MLSPP component) will be US$300,000
equivalent, and an amount of US$300,000 equivalent for Special Account B for Parts B and C.2
of the Project (SSPF component). During the early stages o f project implementation, this
Authorized Allocation would be limited to US$150,000 for Special Account A for Parts A and
C.1 and an amount of US$150,000 for Special Account B for Parts B andC.2, untilthe aggregate
amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account allocated to Categories 1(a), 2(a), 3(a), 4(a) and
5(a) plus the total amount o f all outstanding special commitments will equal to or exceed the
equivalent of SDRl.5 million inrespect o f Special Account A for Parts A and C.1 of the project,
and the aggregateamount of withdrawals from the Credit Account allocated to Categories (l(b),


                                                  30

2(b), 3(b), 4(b) and 5(b) plusthe total amount of all outstanding special commitments inrespect
o f Special Account B for Parts B and C.2 of the project would be equal to or exceed the
equivalent o f SDRl.5 million. Replenishment applications would be submitted at least every
three months, and include reconciled bank statements as well as other appropriate supporting
documents.




                                               31

                                      Annex 8: Procurement
                    AZERBAIJAN: Pensionand SocialAssistance Project

A. General

Procurement for the proposed project would be carried out inaccordance with the World Bank's
"Guidelines: Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" dated May 2004; and
"Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" dated May
2004, and the provisions stipulated in the Legal Agreement. The various items under different
expenditure categories are described in general below. For each contract to be financed by the
Credit, the different procurement methods or consultant selection methods, the need for pre-
qualification, estimated costs, prior review requirements, and time frame are agreed betweenthe
Borrower and the IDA inthe Procurement Plan. The Procurement Plan will be updated at least
annually or as required to reflect the actual project implementation needs and improvements in
institutional capacity.

A General Procurement Notice (GPN) will be published in the July 2004 issue of the
Development Business announcing goods and consulting services to be procured and inviting
interested eligible suppliers and consultants to express interest and to request any complementary
information from the Borrower. Specific Procurement Notices (SPN) will be published in the
on-line edition of the Development Business for all ICB contracts, and in the printededition at
the option of the Borrower.       For goods to be procured through ICB, individual bidding
opportunities would also be advertised in a major local newspaper on the same (or within 5)
day(s) of the on-line publication. The local advertisements will be inthe English language and,
at the option of the Borrower, will also be in the local language. For consultants' contracts
above US$200,000, SPN/Request for Expression of Interest will be advertised inon-line edition
of the Development Business and inat least one major national newspaperof wide circulation (in
the national and English languages). Civil servants can be hired as individual consultants or as
members of a team with financing under the Credit provided they are on leave of absence
without pay and they have not been working for any o f the Beneficiary Agencies immediately
prior to taking leave of absence.

Procurement of Works:        Works procured under this project would include: small interior
rehabilitation works of local offices (both for the MLSPP and SSPF). For SSPF this may include
interior completion works for new constructions completed under SSPF funding. The conditions
for eligibility of the rehabilitation works will be outlined in the Project Operational Manual
(POM). Incases where, the value o f any Contract exceeds $50,000 equivalent, the procurement
will be carried out using the Bank's Standard Bidding Documents (SBD) for all ICB and
National SBD agreed with or satisfactory to the IDA. However, it i s estimated that the value of
all the works will be less than $50,000 equivalent and therefore will be procured under Shopping
procedures.

Procurement of Goods: Goods procured under this project would include office and computer
equipment and associated peripherals, software, the IT systems for both Beneficiary Agencies,
training and printing materials and publications will be grouped to the extent possible and
considering project objectives in package sizes that will encourage competitive bidding. The


                                                 32

procurement will be done using the Bank's SBD for all ICB and National SBD agreed with or
satisfactory to the Bank. The following methodsofprocurement will be followed.

       International Competitive Bidding (ICB). Computer equipment and software under
        Components 1 and 2 of the Project for contracts above US$lOO,OOO equivalent per
       contract will be procured using ICB procedures in accordance with the Bank's
       Procurement Guidelines.

       Shopping(SH) procedurewill be usedfor readily available off-the-shelf goods, including
       office and computer equipment for the SSPF and MLSPP, for minor computer equipment
       for the PCU, and for vehicles. All items would have standardspecifications, estimatedto
       cost less US$100,000 equivalent per contract. This procedure will be basedon obtaining
       and comparing price offers from at least three suppliers from at least two different
       countries inaccordancewith paragraph3.5 of Procurement Guidelines.

       National Competitive Bidding (NCB). Goods and small works estimated to cost less
       than $100,000 equivalent per contract will be procured according to NCB procedures in
       accordance with paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Bank's Procurement Guidelines.
       However, it i s expected that most of the required rehabilitations (both for MLSPP and
        SSPF) will be procured under Shopping procedure as they are estimated to cost less than
       $50,000 equivalent per Contract.

       Direct Contracting. Where certain goods are available only from a particular supplier or
       incases where compatibility with existing equipment so requires goods may beprocured
       under Direct Contracting (Single Source) have obtained prior approval from IDA (in
       accordancewith paragraph 3.6 of the Procuerment Guidelines)

Procurement of non-consulting services: At this stage it is not foreseen to procure any non-
consulting services.

Selection of Consultants:     Contracts for Consulting Services will be packaged to combine
related skills and services in order to make them attractive for competition and reduce the
number of contracts to be administered taking into consideration a size andphysical distribution
of the PIUs and their limited capacity to administer a large number o f contracts. To the extent
practicable, training activities would be incorporated with consulting services contracts.
Consultant services consist o f short-and long-term assignments to be contracted to firms and/or
individuals (national and/or foreign or jointly) depending on the nature and duration of the
assignments. Selection procedures will generally be managed through competition among
qualified short listed consultants. The short lists for consultant services contracts with firms
shall comprise six firms with a wide geographical spread, and with no more than two firms from
any one eligible country. The procurement of consultant services contracts financed under the
Credit will be in accordance with the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines. For consulting
assignments exceeding US$200,000 equivalent per contract, expressions of interest will be
obtained by advertisement in the Development Business (on-line), supplemented with notices
issued inthe national press.




                                                33

Short lists of consultants for services estimated to cost less than US$lOO,OOO equivalent per
contract may be composed entirely of national consultants in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 2.7 o f the Consultant Guidelines.

The following procurement procedureswill be usedfor selection of consultant services:

        Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS) procedures, as described in Section 11,
        paragraphs 2.1 to 2.31 of the Consultant Guidelines will be used if necessary for
        assignment under all Componentsofthe Project.

       Selection under a Fixed Budget (FBS) procedure will be used for the selection of a firm
        for conducting the Public Informationwork under Component 1.

       Least Cost Selection (LCS) procedure would be usedfor selection of an auditor to carry
       out audit of the Financial Statements of the Project.

       Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications (CQ) will be used for contracting firms
        for certain assignments under all three components of the project for which the value of
       the assignments is estimatedto cost less thanUS$lOO,OOO equivalent per contract.

       Individual Consultants (IC). Many specialized activities where specific skills are
       needed for short period o f time at scatteredintervals and which would not be practical to
       package with the assignments for consulting firms described above, would be best served
       through the recruitment of individual consultants (both foreign and national) to (i)assist
       the MLSPP in improving the targeting and policy development function (Component 1);
        (ii) SSPFindevelopmentofthelegislativeframework (Component2); (iii)
            assist                                                                          tasks
       related to the development of business processes and institutional procedures
        (Component 2); (iv) Strengthening o f Social Protection (Component 2); and (v) assist the
       PIUs in various technical tasks (Component 3). Selection of individual consultants will
       be carried out in accordance with Section V of the Consultant Guidelines. Individuals
       will be selected on the basis of their qualifications for the assignment by comparing the
        CVs obtained in response to an advertisement in the national press or Development
       Business. The PIU staff would be selected as individualconsultants.

       Sole Source (SS). The method will be usedfor certain of the PIU staffincluding: inboth
       the SSPF and MLSPP PIU(s), the PIU Director, Procurement Specialist, Financial
       Management Specialist who currently hold individual consultant contracts and would
       continue their services under the Pensions and Social Assistance Project. All the above
       individual specialists were originally selected among qualified candidates based on
       comparison of qualifications.     Other Consultants may be hired under sole source
       contracts with the prior approval o f the Association inaccordance with paragraphs 3.9 to
       3.13 of the Consultants Guidelines;

Training Activities: Training is an integral element of the project's capacity building objective.
The Credit will finance training programs, including training workshops, study tours and local
training. Such training programs would be included in larger TA contracts with firms to reduce
administrative burden on the PIU(s). The PIU(s) would be responsible for administration of a


                                                34

small number o f local workshops (including project launch, mid term and completion
workshops) and limited number of study tours for the beneficiary Agencies (SSPF and MLSPP)
andPIUspecialists. Expenditures related to suchtraining activities include: (a) for local training
and workshops - per diems of participants to cover transportation, lodging and subsistence;
minor organizational expenses (stationery, handouts, training materials, coffee breaks); (b) for
international study tours -international travel andvisa costs, per diems (lodging and subsistence)
and course-related expenses (fixed tuition or participation fee). Design of the training courses
and study tours will be done by the specialists contractedas short term consultants underrelevant
QCBS, CQ andor IC proceduresdependingon the value of the assignment as describedabove in
this Annex.

The PIU would be expected to prepare and agree on a training plan with IDA every year.
Estimated budget, list of participants and draft agenda for each training event will be subject to
IDA prior review. Expenditure items for training activities, including study tours, would be
reported under SOEs. The status of the training plan would be included as part of the quarterly
progress reports, and would be updated and/or modified as may be mutually agreed betweenthe
coordination units and IDA.

Others: No Special Arrangements.

The procurement procedures and SBDs to be used for each procurement method, as well as
model contracts for works andgoods procured, are presentedinthe Project Operational Manual.

B. Assessment of the agency's capacity to implementprocurement

Country Issues

A country procurement review (CPAR) for the Republic ofAzerbaijan was carried out in2002
and finalized in2003. A summary o fthe key findings of the CPAR for Azerbaijan i s presented
below:

A country procurement review (CPAR) for the Republic of Azerbaijan was carried out in2002
and finalized in2003. The CPAR concludes that although certain progress has been made and
procurement reform has been highlighted as a priority in Azerbaijan in the last two or three
years, there i s still significant progress that can be made. Azerbaijan has recently adopted a
Public Procurement Law (PPL), passed by parliament and signed by the president in December
2001 which clarified and consolidated two previously existing but contradictory pieces of
legislation and is based extensively on the UNCITRAL model. 'However, there are several
significant areas where the provisions o f the PPL do actually vary from the Bank's Guidelines
and recent findings have shown that differences have caused problems in Bank-financed
operations mainly due to the State Procurement Agency insisting that National procedures are
followed. Inparticular, this appears to be caused by the fact that the PPL i s silent concerning
contracts financed by donor funds despite the fact that in cases where there may be conflicts
between donor Guidelines and the PPL, these should, in accordance with the Constitution
(Article 15l), subject to the rules of the donor agencies rather thanlocal procurement rules.
               be




                                                  35

Subsequent to the passing of the PPL in 2001, there has been a Presidential Decree signed in
January 2002 comprising implementing mechanisms, nevertheless, it is still common to observe
misapplication o f the provisions o f this Law and this leads to dubious practices and results in
excessive political interference incontract award decisions inAzerbaijan. This has had a knock-
on effect on Bank-financed procurement where some PIUdirectors (andprocurement staff) were
unable to act effectively or make timely decisions due to constraints applied by the State
Procurement Agency. The CPAR concludes that Azerbaijan should be rated as a hiah risk
country inrespect o fthe public procurement system.

Duringthe period 2000-2001,there were three declared misprocurements relatedto IDA-funded
work, however, subsequent to this worrisome performance, the quality o f procurement has
improved. Nevertheless, an Independent Procurement Audit (conducted in 2002) identified the
following common issues conceming IDA-funded procurement, which should be addressed
through the implementation arrangements:

e      Lack o f continual procurement planning, that is, Procurement Plans were not regularly
       updated. This has been indicated as leading to ad hoc procurements, non-competitive
       methods and insome cases higherprices;

e      Lack o f procurement expertise in PIUs. In particular this has had a negative effect on
       N C B and I C B procurements. There is also a tendency to break down procurements using
       Shopping methods to avoid the use o fthe more complex procedures;

e      Insufficient attention paid to Contract administration (in particular, related to works
       contracts) this leading to poor and sub-standard implementation andresults;

e      Poor or non-existent records management;

There are four issues that have been identifiedwhichappear to create problems for IDA-financed
procurement:

a)     taxation and customs procedures - despite there being a clear policy on taxation and
       customs duties for IDA-financed projects, this process is not always clear to the customs
       andtax officers, andthere are no clear procedures as to how apply this policy.
b)     interference o fthe SPA inthe procurement process -this has been described above.
c)     problems with the issue and effecting o f performance and bid securities, inthat many of
       the local banks are not familiar with the issuing o f Bid securities and often try to edit the
       standardIDA forms, which may leadto rejection o fotherwise adequate bids.
d)     inadequate knowledge o f international contracting concepts such as those governing Joint
       Ventures on the part o fthe PIU, or o f managing Civil Works contracts.

These issues will all be addressed ina comprehensive capacity buildingprogramme for the PIUs.

Strengths and Weaknesses

The strengths that provide a basis o f reliance on the project procurement management system
include: (i)Project procurement independence through the establishment o f dedicated PIUs with


                                                36

a suitable staffing structure and appropriate training; and (ii) is a general perception that
                                                                there
IDA-financedprojects are fair intheir handlingofprocurement.

The main significant weaknesses of the project procurement arrangements is the relative
inexperience o f procurement staff in the PIUs. This will be addressed through appropriate
training, as well as short-term outside technical assistance during the early period of project
implementation.

Procurement activities will be carried out by the two Project Implementation Units (PIU) located
at the Ministry o f Labor and Social Protection ofthe Population (MLSPP) and at the State Social
Protection Fund of Azerbaijan (SSPF). Both PIUs have a full time procurement specialist in
place. The specialist at SSPF has limited experience with World Bank procurement, however,
has carried out procurement under UNDP funded projects. The specialist at MLSPP has very
little experience with international donor-funded procurement. It i s considered prudent to hire
additional procurement staff (1 person) to support procurement activities for MLSPP. The staff
are currently receiving training specifically related to World Bank fundedprojects. The existing
capacity can, therefore, be considered to be marginally satisfactory and, clearly, there is room for
significant improvement in a number o f areas. In particular, the procurement capacity of the
PIUsneeds to be strengthenedinthe following area: procurement of IT equipment inanticipation
of   ICB tenders      for   computer    equipment and software.           Here,    an information
managemendinformation technology specialist will be hired to support this activity. For IT
related procurement, a specialized course on procurement of Information Systems at ILO center
will also be considered. Inadditionto the procurement staff, eachPIUhas a nominated director,
a financial management specialist and several technical staff who would support the activities of
the Project. Due to the large volume o f rehabilitation works, both PIUs will hire an architect to
support and supervisethe rehabilitation works.

A series of workshops, initiated by the Project Launch workshop scheduled around September
2004, would be the initial vehicle for informal training of staff at both SSPF and MLSPP, who
will be chargedwiththe preparation of all Technical Specifications for the project.

In anticipation of the start of the project implementation, the PIUs are working to finalize the
POMs, which will include a detailed description o f procurement methods and procedures to be
used by the Project. The POMs will be reviewed and approved by IDA as a condition of
effectiveness of the Credit, and will be adopted prior to the start of any procurement activities.
Any changes in the procedures set forth in the POMs will be subject to IDA approval, prior to
being implemented.

An assessment of the capacity of the ImplementingAgency to implementprocurement actions
for the project has been carried out by Procurement Accredited Specialist (PAS) assigned to the
project during appraisal in March 2004. The assessment reviewed the organizational structure
for implementing the project and the interaction between the project's staff responsible for
procurement andthe Ministry's relevant central unitfor administration and finance.

The key issues and risks concerning procurement for implementation of the project have been
identified and include the lack of experience of the procurement specialists with IDA-financed



                                                 37

procurement. The corrective measures which have been agreed include attendanceat a Regional
Procurement Workshop prior to the start of the Project, training at ILO, Turin, and maintaining
low review thresholds for the first year of the Project untilsome capacity has been developed.

The overall project risk for procurement is High.

C. Procurement Plan

The Procurement Plan contains all the relevant procurement information, including prior review
thresholds for IDA-financedcontracts. For procurement under the Credit, the Borrower will use
the Bank's latest Standard Bidding Documents (SBD), Standard Form of Consulting Contracts
and Request for Proposals (RFP), and Standard Bid Evaluation Report Forms. The Standard
Bidding Documents for procurement of Information Systems would be usedfor procurementsof
all IT equipment estimated to cost over US$lOO,OOO per contract. These will comprise Supply
and Installation of Information Systems - Single Stage Bidding or Supply and Installation of
InformationSystems      - Two  Stage Bidding (both version March 2003 or more recent). Also, the
sample procurement documents and forms developed in the ECA Region for small value
procurement would be adaptedto suit the Project needs for procurement as outlined inthe POM.

The Borrower, at appraisal, developed a procurement plan for project implementation which
provides the basis for the procurement methods. This plan has been agreed between the
Borrower and the Project Team during negotiations andi s available at the offices of MLSPP and
SSPF. It will also be available inthe project's database and inthe Bank's external website. The
ProcurementPlan will be updated inagreement with the Project Team annually or as requiredto
reflect the actual project implementation needs and improvements ininstitutional capacity.

D. Frequency ofProcurement Supervision

In addition to the prior review supervision to be carried out from Bank offices, the capacity
assessment of the Implementing Agency has recommendedtwo supervision missions per year to
visit the field to carry out post reviewof procurement actions. It i s envisaged that 2 out of every
5 procurementswill be reviewed ex-post.

E. Details of the Procurement Arrangements InvolvingInternationalCompetition

1. Goods, Works, andNonConsultingServices

(a)     List of contract packages to be procured following ICB and direct contracting: See
        ProcurementPlan (below).
(b)     ICB contracts estimated to cost above $100,000 equivalent per contract and all direct
        contracting will be subject to prior review by the Bank.




                                                 38

2. Consulting Services

(a)   List o f consulting assignments with short-list of international firms: See Procurement
      Plan(below).
(b)   Consultancy services estimated to cost above $25,000 per contract and single source
      selection o f consultants (firms) for assignments estimated to cost above $50,000 will be
      subject to prior review by the Bank.
(c)   Short lists composed entirely of national consultants: Short lists of consultants for
      services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may be composed
      entirely of national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph2.7 of the
      Consultant Guidelines.




                                                39

                                         Procurement Plan

I.GENERAL

1.      Agreed Date of the procurement Plan
        Original: April 16 2004

2.      Date o f General Procurement Notice: estimatedJuly 2004

11.Goods andWorks andnon consulting: services.

1.      Prior Review Threshold: Procurement Decisions subject to Prior Reviewby IDA as
        stated inAppendix 1to the Guidelinesfor Procurement :




         * allContracts subject tojustification


2.      Pre-qualification. Bidders shall be pre-qualified in accordance with the provisions of
        paragraphs2.9 and 2.10 ofthe Guidelines (No pre-qualification is envisaged).

3.      CDD Procurement Manual: Project components to be carried out by community
        participation in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.17 include: No CDD is
        envisaged

4.     Any Other Special Procurement Arrangements: None

5.      Procurement Items with Methods and Time Schedule: See table below

111. Selection of Consultants

1.      Prior Review Threshold: Selection Decisions subject to Prior Review by Bank as stated
        inAppendix 1to the Guidelines Selection andEmployment ofConsultants:




                                                40

     * all Contracts subject to justification

2.  Short list comprising entirely of national consultants: Short list o f consultants for
    services, estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise
    entirely o f national consultants in accordance with the provisions o f paragraph 2.7 of the
    Consultant Guidelines.

3.  Any Other Special Selection Arrangements: None

4.  Consultancy Assignments with Selection Methods and Time Schedule: See below



1.  Ex-Post Review: All other contracts below IDA's prior review threshold are subject to
    IDA's selective ex-post review. Periodic ex-post review by IDA will be undertaken
    during regular supervision missions. Procurement documents,              such as bidding
    documents, bids, bid evaluation reports and correspondence related to bids and contracts
    will be kept readily available for IDA's ex-post review during supervision missions or at
    any other points intime.

2.  Record Keeping: The PIUs will maintain complete procurement files which will be
    reviewed by IDA supervision missions. All procurement related documentation that
    requires IDA prior review will be cleared by Procurement Accredited Staff (PAS) and
    relevant technical staff. N o packages above mandatory review thresholds by RPA are
    anticipated. Procurement information will be recorded by the PIUs and submitted to IDA
    as part of the quarterly (FMRs) and annual progress reports. A simple management
    information system with a procurement module would be established to assist the PIU
    procurement specialists to monitor all procurement information.




                                              41

f:>    1



     I1Pi

                                 h r r
                                 0 0 0
                                 7.m m
                                 h l v i
                                 r r N




                                 $St                       1 B S E
                                 k!ik                      1 0 0 0
                                                          iiiii
                                            ,.. .. . .   .
                                                       _1




                                   n
                                   X
                                   I
                       W   i       E
                                   E




. . ..... . .." .. ... . ....I.- ..     ~ .. " .."".. ..." .".


                            Annex 9: Economicand FinancialAnalysis
                      AZERBAIJAN: Pensionand SocialAssistance Project


While the Government o f Azerbaijan has implemented important structural and institutional
reforms over the past decade, which have resulted in a resumption o f economic .growth, poverty
remains the overriding development issue in the country, and an efficient and effective public
social protection system a key element o f economic risk management for poor and vulnerable
households. Hence, the Government's poverty reductionprogram (the State Program for Poverty
Reduction and Economic Development (SPPRED) aims squarely at introducing a social
protection system that provides meaningful protection to the poorest and most vulnerable in
Azeri society.

The activities being financed under this project are directly in line with this aim. They are
intended to improve efficiency in the management and administering the main public social
protection programs in Azerbaijan and improve the effectiveness o f those programs in helping
target households and individuals manage economic risk. This transition to a more efficient
expenditure path requires investments innew and enhanced business processes, as well as inthe
training o f staff in applying new tools and procedures. The purpose o f the Credit is to finance
the related expenditures. The criteria being used to design interventions and select investments
seek to increase the effectiveness o f public expenditures on the pension system and social
assistance and contain real resource use inthe sector.

Improvements in the social insurance administration are expected to result in significantly
improved revenue and expenditure management, including: (i)         improved collection o f social
insurance contributions by at least 80 percent in 2009 (other things unchanged) through more
accurate wage reporting and registration o f the employed; (ii)transparent calculation o f
pensions; (iii) improved expenditures management due to accurate, regularly updated records
and elimination o f enterprises from the social insurance benefits administration; (iii)    higher
pensions; (iv) lower contribution rates and decreased financing o f pensions from the state budget
(except for benefits not related to contributions and specifically given by the state). Also, good
record keeping capacity is an essential precondition for any pension reform option Azerbaijan
may choose to follow.

In2003, the SSPF collected AZM 1.114trillion insocial insurance contributions from 1,339,000
contributors (including 51,000 self-employed) on reported wage fund o f AZM 3.6 trillion (11
percent o f GDP). Hence, the average reported monthly wage by employers was AZM 224,000
or 58.5 percent o f the official average wage in 2003 o f AZM 383,000. Assuming that in 2003
the number o f employees covered by state social insurance was 2,000,000 (excluding the police,
the army, foreign employees, etc.), that the average monthly wage was AZM 383,000 and that
the collection rate was 90 percent, the SSPF, potential income from social insurance
contributions was AZM 2.4 trillion. Hence, with the new record-keeping system in place, the
revenues o f the SSPF could be more than doubled (other thing unchanged). The Project aims at
80 percent increase incontributions collection in2009.




                                                45

 percent o f its revenues from the state budget for social
 pensions and some other non-contribution related pension




Strengtheningthe socialassistance administrationwill create a better capacity to target social
assistance benefits at poor households, increasing the impact that such benefits have in
alleviating poverty. The Government is spending about 0.7 percent of GDP on child benefits,
which are thinly spread, with no real impact on poverty and a significant error of inclusion
(based on the TACIS pilot results, the targeting error i s about 50 percent).      The project
implementation is expected to decrease the leakage of funds to non-eligible recipients, which in
turn would allow almost doubling of the child benefit with significantly improved poverty
alleviation impact.




                                                   46

                      Annex 10: SafeguardPolicyIssues
                AZERBAIJAN: PensionandSocial Assistance Project


Not applicable.




                                    47

                         Annex 11:ProjectPreparationand Supervision
                     AZERBAIJAN: Pension andSocialAssistanceProject


                                                    Planned              Actual
PCN review                                                               10/16/03
Initial PIDto PIC                                                        10130103
Initial ISDS to PIC                                                      10130103
Appraisal                                                                03/29/04
Negotiations                                                             04119/04
Board/RVP approval                                  06/10/04
Planned date of effectiveness                       09111/04
Planned date o f mid-termreview                     09/00/06
Planned closing date                                02/28/09

Key institutions responsible for preparation ofthe project:

Ministry of Labor and Social Protection of the Population
State Social Protection Fund

Bank staff and consultants who worked on the project included:

Name                                              Title                   Unit
Aleksandra Posarac               Task Team LeadedSenior Economist        ECSHD
ANO Kuddo                         Senior Labor Economist                 ECSHD
Hjalte Sederlof                   Social Protection Spec., Consultant    ECSHD
Seyoum Solomon                    Senior Operations Officer, Health      ECSHD
Rasul Bagirov                    Operations Officer                      ECSHD
Helen Shahriari                   Social Scientist                       ECSHD
Carmen Laurente                   Senior ProgramAssistant                ECSHD
Hermannvon Gersdorff              Social Protection Sector Manager       ECSHD
IdaNjeriMuhoho                   Financial Management Specialist         ECSPS
Anna Wielogorska                  Senior Procurement Specialist          ECSPS
Hannah Koilpillai                Finance Officer                         LOAG1
Junko Funahashi                   Senior Counsel                         LEGEC
Gonul Degirmendereli             IT Specialist, Consultant               ECSHD



Bank funds expendedto date onproject preparation:
     1. Bank resources:US$220,000
     2. Trust funds: US$ 0
     3. Total: US$ 220,000

EstimatedApproval and Supervision costs:
     1, Remaining costs to approval: US$ 10,000
     2. Estimated annual supervision cost: US$ 90,000

                           Annex 12: Documents inthe ProjectFile
                   AZERBAIJAN: PensionandSocialAssistanceProject


Beneficiary Assessment

SSPF -Detailed Description o fthe MIS

MLSP -Detailed Description o f the MIS

EngineeringDesigns for Social Welfare Offices (partial)

Engineering Designs for Pension Offices (partial)

Institutional Assessment o f the SSPF




                                              49

                                  Annex 13: Statementof Loansand Credits
                           AZERBAIJAN: Pension and SocialAssistance Project

                                                                                                      Difference between
                                                                                                      expectedandactual
                                                   Original Amount inUS$ Millions                       disbursements

Project ID FY   Purpose                          IBRD       IDA      SF        GEF   Cancel. Undisb. Orig.     Frm. Rev'd
PO70989    2003 ED SECT DEV (APL#1)                0.00      18.00    0.00      0.00   0.00   19.39   0.00         0.00
PO08286    2003 IRRIGDIST SYS & MGMT IMPROVMT      0.00     35.00     0.00      0.00   0.00   37.91    0.00        0.00
PO66100    2002 IBTA2                              0.00      9.45     0.00      0.00   0.00    9.93    0.11        0.00
PO40716    2001 HIGHWAY                            0.00     40.00     0.00      0.00   0.00   42.89   -2.84        0.00
PO69293    2001 HEALTHREF LIL                      0.00      5.00     0.00      0.00   0.00    2.79   -2.84        0.00
PO70973    2001 FINSCT TA                          0.00      5.40     0.00      0.00   0.00    4.13   -1.99        0.00
PO08284    2000 IRRIG/DRAINAGE REHAB               0.00     42.00     0.00      0.00   0.00   32.45   13.33        0.00
PO58969    1999 CULT HERITAGE PRSV                 0.00      7.50     0.00      0.00   0.00    3.49    3.12       -0.95
PO57959    1999 EDUC REF LIL                       0.00      5.00     0.00      0.00   0.00    0.30    0.31        0.30
PO35770    1999 PILOT RECON                        0.00     20.00     0.00      0.00   0.00   11.54    0.14        0.13
PO35813    1999 AGRIC DEVT & CREDIT                0.00     30.00     0.00      0.00   0.00   15.40   14.44        0.00
PO55155    1998 URGENV MVST                        0.00     20.00     0.00      0.00   0.00    8.34    7.28        3.88
PO08288    1995 BAKU WS                            0.00     61.00     0.00      0.00   0.00   14.80    8.94        8.92
                                          Total:   0.00   298.35      0.00      0.00   0.00  203.36   40.00       12.28




                                                        50

                                                   AZERBAIJAN
                                              STATEMENT OF IFC's
                                            HeldandDisbursedPortfolio
                                              InMillionsofUS Dollars


                                                       Committed                          Disbursed
                                                      IFC                               IFC
FY Approval Company                       Loan      Equity     Quasi   Partic. Loan     Equity      Quasi  Partic.
1999        Amoco Caspian                 21.87        0.00     0.00    0.00    21.87    0.00        0.00   0.00
1998        Azerb. JV Bank                0.00         1.oo     0.00    0.00     0.00    1.00        0.00   0.00
0/03        Azerigazbank                  1.20         0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00        0.00   0.00
1997f98     Baku CocaCola                 2.33         0.00     0.00    0.00     2.33    0.00        0.00   0.00
1999        Baku Hotel                    10.21        0.00     0.00    0.00    10.21    0.00        0.00   0.00
1999        Early Oil Fin                 10.29        0.00     0.00    0.00    10.29    0.00        0.00   0.00
2002        MFB Azerbaijan                0.00         1.75     0.00    0.00     0.00    1.75        0.00   0.00
0/03        Rabitabank                    1.20         0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00        0.00   0.00
1999        Turkish Petrol                8.68         0.00     0.00    0.00     8.68    0.00        0.00   0.00
1999        UnocalChirag                  12.93        0.00     0.00    0.00    12.93    0.00        0.00   0.00
                        Total portfolio:   68.71       2.75     0.00    0.00    66.31    2.75        0.00   0.00




                                                                  ApprovalsPendingCommitment
             FY Approval     Company                          Loan      Equity    Quasi      Partic.
             2001            Azer JV Increase               0.00        0.00       0.00       0.00
                                   Total pendingcommitment:    0.00     0.00       0.00       0.00




                                                           51

                                                 Annex 14: Countryat a Glance
                                 AZERBAIJAN: PensionandSocial AssistanceProject
                                                                  Europe B
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                                 Central    Low-
                                                  Azerbaijan         Asia   income      Development diamond.
2002
Population. mid-year(millions)                                8.2      478     2,495                Lifeexpectancy
GNIpercapita (Atlas method, US$)                             7x)      2,BO      430
GNI(Atlas method, US%billions)                                5.8     1,030    1,072
Average annual growth, 1996-02                                                                             T
Population (%)                                                0.9       0.1       1.9
Laborforce (%)                                                 1.8      0.4      2.3    GNI                              Gross

M o s t recent estimate (latest year available, 1996-02)                                per                             primary
                                                                                        capita                       enrollment
Poverty (%ofpopulationbelownationalpo vertyline)
Urban population (%of totalpopulation)                        52        83       30
Lifeexpectancyat birth(pats)                                  65        69       59
infant mortality (per I000livebirths)                         74        25        61
Chiidmalnutrition (%ofchildren under5)                         l7                            Access to improvedwatersource
Access to an improvedwater source (%ofpopulation)             78        91       78
illiteracy(%o fpopulation age 759                                         3      37
Gross primaryenrollment (%of school-age population)           98        a 2      95           -Azerbaijan
   Male                                                       97        x)3      103           ..   Lowncomegroup
   Female                                                     99        x)1      87

KEY ECONOMIC RATiOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
                                                                                                                                 I
                                                1982        1992      2001    2002
                                                                                        Economic ratios.
GDP (US$ billions)                                 ..        0.44       5.7      6.1
Gross domestic invastmentlGDP                      ..        -0.7      20.7     32.8
Exportsof goods andserviceslGDP                    ..        86.2      415     43.8
Gross domestic savings/GDP                                             24.9     25.3
Gross national savingslGDP                                             20.4     20.2
Current account baiance/GDP                                            -0.9    -12.6
interestpayments/GDP                                                    0.4      0.3
Total debtlG0P                                                         22.2     23.6
Total debt service/exports                                              5.3      8.5
                                                                                                                                 I
Presentvalue of debt/GDP                                               17.4
Presentvalueof debt/exports                                            39.5                            indebtedness
                                     1982-92 1992-02        2001     2002 2002.06
(avenge annualgrorulh)
GDP                                               12          9.9      D.6                     -Azerbaijan

GOP percapita                                     0.1         8.9       9.6


STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY                                                                                                         II
                                               1982         1992      2001    2002      Growth of investment and GDP      ( O h )
(%ofGOP)
Agriculture                                                  29.0      15.9      15.2   150T

industry                                                     40.0      47.2     49.5    100

  Manufacturing                                              23.9       7.1      8.7     50

Services                                           ........  31.0      36.9     35.3      0
                                                                                        -50
Privateconsumption                                 ..        514       615       61.9  -1001
Generalgovernment consumption                                17.7      0.6       12.8
imports of goods and services                      ....      54.6      37.3      51.2             -GDi           -GDP


                                            1982-92 1992-02           2001    2002      Growth of exports and Imports (Oh)
(avenge annualgmrulh)
Agriculture                                                   0.8       111      7.5    40
industry                                           ....      -2.2       7.3      8.5
  Manufacturing                                              -8.6      -3.7      40     20

Services                                           ..         113       12.1      4.1    0

Privateconsumption                                            9.2      t3.9      5.2   -20
Generalgovemment consumption                                  6.8      -9.5      5.5
Gross domestic investment                          ..        17.2     -44.4      81.0
imports of goods and sewices                                  5.3      -2.4     20.7




                                                                         52

                                                                                                       Azerbaijan

PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                         1982  1992   2001    2002      Inflation (%)
Domestic prices
(%change)                                                               30

Consumer prices                                          15      2.7    20
ImplicitGDP deflator                                     2.5     0.7     10

Government finance                                                        0
(%of GDP,includes cufrent grants)                                     -10
Currentrevenue                                          21.5   28.0   .20
Currentbudgetbalance                                     4.7     5.4
Overallsurplusldeficit                                   0.9   -0.5             -GDPdeflator        -CPI


TRADE
                                         1982  1892   2001    2002       Export and import levels (US$ mill.)
(US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                                   2,046    1,969  2,500
 n.a.
 ma.
 Manufactures                                           205     226
Total imports (cif)                             786    1,465   2 3 6
 Food
 Fuel andenergy                                                                                                     I
 Capitalgoods                                            06     732

Ekportprice index(S95=WO)                               262     259             96  97    98  99      00   01    02

import price index(895=X)O)                              98      96                   Exports        mlmports
Terms of trade (895=xlO)                                268     264


BALANCE o f PAYMENTS
                                         1982  1992   2001    2002       Current account balance to GDP (%)
(US$ miliions)
Exportsof goods and services                          2,369   2,667
Imports of goods and services                          2,no    3.121
Resourcebalance                                         239    -454

Net income                                             -367    -365
Net currenttransfers                                      77     70

Currentaccount balance                                   -52   -768

Financingitems (net)                                     377    965
Changesinnet reserves                                  -266     -87

Memo:
Reserves includinggold (US$ millions)                   725      721
Conversionrale (DEC,/ocaVUS$)                   54.2 4,656.7 4,860.7


EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
                                         1982  1992   2001    2002
(US$ millions)                                                          1 Composition    of 2002 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstanding anddisbursed                    1,266   1,438
  IBRD                                                     0       0    i                G 82
  IDA                                                   235      314

Total debt service                                       t32     8 7
  IBRD                                                     0       0
  IDA                                                      2       2

Composition of net resource flows
  Official grants                                         45
  Officialcreditors                                       86     l79
  Privatacreditors                                        36     -79
  Foreigndirect investment                              227
  Portfolio equity                                         0                                   0:120
WorldBank program
  Commitments                                             50      82      A IBRD     -                  E-Bilateral
                                                                             ~


  Disbursements                                           26      57      B -IDA   D Other multilateral F- Private
  Principal repayments                                     0       0    1 C-IMF                         G- Short-term




                                                           53


