Azerbaijan: Providing Adequate and Prompt Pension and Social Insurance Payments                          90401
 




    Improving the Effectiveness and Transparency of Azerbaijan’s Social
    Programs


Synopsis
For the first time in the post-Soviet era, Azerbaijan introduced a new Targeted Social
Assistance (TSA) program which, as of February 2011, provided 9.3 percent of households
(173,206 families with 791,029 members) with TSA. The program has substantially reduced
poverty: for each percent of GDP spent on TSA, poverty incidence declines by 2.8 percent. In
addition, as a result of the project, pensioners now receive their pensions in full and on time,
compared to the preproject level of 50 percent, and the number of those contributing to the
social security system increased by 40 percent between 2003 and 2011 from 1.3 million to 1.87
million people.




Challenge                                               MULTIMEDIA
Prior to the project, Azerbaijan’s social protection
system was convoluted and spread thinly among
many recipients. During the 1990s, severe fiscal
constraints eroded the amount of the benefits to
the extent that many became insignificant. Over
this same period, other budget resources were
used to supplement insufficient social insurance
revenues, blurring the financing of benefits.
Moreover, benefits were provided on an ad hoc
basis and primarily to select population groups
entitled to certain privileges, rendering social
benefits nontransparent, poorly targeted, and           Slideshow:  Technology Improves Azerbaijani
inefficiently managed. Many recipients struggled        Social Safety 
to understand which programs applied to them.
In addition, social insurance and social
assistance programs were managed by separate agencies—
both with a low capacity for administering benefits. Poor             More Results
recordkeeping practices, inadequately trained and insufficient
staff, and the lack of modern equipment also hindered
transparency and efficiency.

Approach                                                              9.3%
                                                                      of all households in the country
The Azerbaijan Government’s recognition of the need to                were covered by the targeted
protect its poor and vulnerable populations was reflected in          social assistance program as of
                                                                      February 2011
the design of the project, which aimed to help the
Government improve its administration of social protection
programs, make its pension system more sustainable, and

                                                                 40%
build its capacity to target social assistance benefits to the
most vulnerable groups. The project was a logical
continuation of earlier International Development Association
(IDA) support under the Institutional Building Technical         the number of contributors into
                                                                 the social security system
Assistance I and II projects and the Structural Adjustment       increased by 40 percent from 1.3
Credit, which built the foundation for the social protection     million in 2003 to 1.87 million in
                                                                 2011
reforms and capacity building efforts further supported by the
project.

                                                                 MORE INFORMATION
Results
                                                                  Azerbaijan Pension and Social
The following results were achieved under the Pension and         Assistance Project (June 10,
Social Assistance Project:                                        2004 – February 28, 2011).

      Pensions and social assistance benefits are now paid
      on time and without arrears, with the majority of
      beneficiaries able to access payments through debit
      and ATM cards.

      Under the Pension Component, the number of contributors to the State Social Protection
      Fund (SSPF) increased by 40 percent (from 1.30 million in 2003 to 1.87 million in
      January 2011).

      Social insurance contributions increased from 59 percent (2003) to 63 percent (2010) of
      the SSPF’s total revenues, while the share of transfers from the state budget to the
      SSPF decreased from 41 percent (2003) to 37 percent (2010).

      A comprehensive, computerized registry of participants of the social insurance system
      was developed, and by the end of 2010, personal records for almost 1.9 million
      contributors and over 1.3 million pensioners were entered into the SSPF databases.

      Under the Social Protection Development Component, a TSA program was introduced,
      covering 9.3 percent of all households in the country (173,206 families with 791,029
      members) as of February 2011.

      A centralized database of all applicants and recipients of the TSA program was
      established.

      The average annual TSA benefit payment increased from manat 44 in 2006 to manat
      100 in 2011.



Bank Contribution
The total project costs were US$13 million, of which $10 million was funded by IDA and $3
million by the Government of Azerbaijan.

Partners
The activities financed under the Pension and Social Assistance Project were coordinated with
the efforts of the joint United Nations Development Programme (UNDP)/SSPF project,
“Capacity Building of the State Social Protection Fund.” The total amount of that project is
roughly US$12 million, of which $2 million is from a UNDP grant and $10 million from
government sources. Through this collaboration, the SSPF was able to develop useful software
for its management information system, which helped to establish an electronic network among
SSPF offices. In addition, a number of SSPF offices have been refurbished, furnished, and
equipped with a Local Area Network (LAN).

Moving Forward
The Government of Azerbaijan has continued the reforms initiated under the project. For
example, the TSA is regularly financed and has expanded its coverage of the poor. The SSPF
has improved its client-oriented technology, allowing pensioners to withdraw benefit payments
from ATMs and to verify the amount they are due through an online pension calculator. State
budget transfers to the SSPF have been steadily declining, due to improved collection from
contributors. Some of the reforms are supported by the ongoing, World Bank-financed Social
Protection Development Project (P105116), which aims to improve the delivery of labor market
and social protection interventions through strengthened institutions, enhanced institutional and
human resources capacity, and improved targeting of social safety net programs.

Beneficiaries
Renovated offices, modern equipment, and sophisticated software have improved business
processes at the SSPF, and this is being noticed by clients. Bayram Babayev is visiting the
Narimanov district office and finds services much better than in the past. “ There are not any
problems here, they serve on time. Transfer of pensions to card accounts is much better for
us, when you want you can take out your money.”
Salim Muslimov, chairman of the SSPF, smiles as he remembers preproject days. “ Everything
was manual, paper-based and, as pensions were transferred to enterprises themselves to be
distributed to employees, there was much opportunity for corruption. ” Now, 97 percent of
pensioners receive their money directly through their debit cards.
