                                                                                                                96382
                                                                                                            April 9, 2012




Technology Improves Azerbaijani Social Safety
Zaur Rzayev, Communications Associate in the World Bank
Office in Azerbaijan, offers this story.
                                                                 Photo Gallery
Makufa Asadova is 72 years old and has no experience with
technology. She admits being uneasy the first few times she
withdrew her pension from an ATM machine.

"It was a little bit unusual in the beginning, but I quickly
realized its advantages. There is no need to wait in
overcrowded post offices. Sometimes, I needed to visit the
post office several times before getting my money. Now I can
check my account by a simple text message to my cellphone,"
says Asadova.                                                    Related Links

Asadova is one of 1.3 million pensioners in Azerbaijan who is    The World Bank in Azerbaijan
benefitting from a complete overhaul of the country's pension    Azerbaijan Country Program Snapshot
system that included digitizing mountains of paper records
                                                                 Pension and Social Assistance Project
and depositing pension funds directly into pensioners' bank
accounts. Information from regional offices now reaches          State Social Protection Fund
headquarters within seconds. Powerful servers store              Ministry of Labor and Social Protection
individual records of 3.5 million people, both pensioners and
contributors.

                        Pension fund workers who no longer have to do everything manually. And
                        pensioners now receive pensions according to how much they've paid in, not an
                        amount fixed by the state.

                        Another fundamental change was separating social insurance from the social
                        benefits system, creating two separate agencies. The State Social Protection
                        Fund collects funds for pensions and disburses them, while the Labor Ministry
                        handles other benefits.
Makufa Asadova
                         Salim Muslimov, Chairman of the State Social Protection Fund, Azerbaijan's
pension administration entity says, "Our higher level goals were to establish an insurance-based
pension system, make the system more transparent and the quality of services to citizens better. We
also aimed at financial sustainability and building foundations for transition to more sophisticated
pension schemes."

                        The Pension and Social Assistance Project supported by the World Bank was
                        designed to help meet these goals with support for modernization, automation
                        and staff training.

                        Thanks to better management and more widespread coverage, social insurance
                        collection has increased from 1.3 million to just under two million participants.
                        This has decreased the system's dependence on transfers from the state
                        budget, and thus improved financial sustainability of the SSPF.
Salim Muslimov
                         Better work conditions, modern equipment and sophisticated software have
changed the business culture and quality of services at the SSPF. Nothing happens behind closed
doors now; instead visitors are welcomed and served in an open service area designed for clients.

                        Greater transparency is one of the most important gains in the project. "In the
                        past about 70 factors affected the amount that a person would get as pension
                        after retirement. This often encouraged fraud and agreements between the
                        fund's staff and pensioners. Now the system is simple and clear. Everybody can
                        calculate his future pension by using the pension calculator at the SSPF
                        website," says Ogtay Ibrahimov, director of the project at SSPF.

                         The Pension and Social Assistance Project also helped design and implement
Ogtay Ibrahimov          Azerbaijan's successful Targeted Social Assistance Program (TSA). Azerbaijan
                         has reduced poverty tremendously during the past decade, from about 50
percent of population to less than 15 percent. Recent World Bank analysis showed that the
government's social assistance program, including better targeting of benefits to the neediest, was
responsible for a tenth of this reduction in poverty.

Targeted benefits consolidated several often non-transparent and inefficient benefits into a single family-
based poverty benefit. The TSA program now covers over 120,000 families in the country and stands out
as the best in Europe and Central Asia in terms of accurate targeting and helping people to cope with
poverty. The poorest 20 percent of population receive half of their income from TSA benefits.

Azerbaijan's pensions and social assistance system still have to tackle many challenges. The fiscal
sustainability of the pension system may be at risk over the long term due as the population ages and
many workers employed in the informal economy are left outside the social insurance system. Similarly,
while many people have been lifted from poverty thanks to TSA, it is just the first step. More needs to be
done to sustain achievements in poverty reduction – particularly by creating more jobs for those who
need them.
