Report No. PID4374
Project Name                     Ukraine-Kiev District Heating Improvement(+)
Project
Region                           Europe and Central Asia
Sector                           Energy
Project ID                       UAPA44832
Borrower                         Republic of Ukraine
Implementing Agencies            Kievenergo
252001, Kiev, I. Franko sq., 5, Ukraine
Contact Person: Mr. Ivan Plachkov, Board
Chairman
Telephone No.:   (044) 293 62 61
Facsimile No.:   (044) 224 14 61
Kiev Municipal District Heating Company
252057, Kiev, 0. Dovzhenko Street, 2, Ukraine
Contact Person: Mr. Matvienko, General Manager
Telephone No.:   (044) 446 82 62
Date This PID Prepared           April 14, 1998
Appraisal Date                   March 14, 1997
Projected Board Date             May 21, 1998
Sector Background
1.      District heating (DH) systems provide the majority of heat and hot water
supply in Ukraine's urban areas as well as steam for industry. These systems
utilize primarily gas and some mazut, which during the period of the Soviet
regime were provided primarily from Russia at very low prices and at virtually
unlimited supply. As the cost of these fuels have increased over the past
four years while incomes have not kept pace, this has created a situation
where the DH service has become difficult to afford and service levels have
had to be reduced. In addition, many of the DH systems are in excess of 40
years old and have not been subject to the normal process of upgrading and
modernization which takes place in Western systems.
2.      The largest DH system in Ukraine is in Kiev city, with a population of
2.8 million roughly estimated to be growing at 1% per year. The Kiev DH
system can be characterized by a deficit of heat production capacity, old and
outdated heat production facilities, inadequate water treatment capacity, high
heat and water losses in the networks due largely to pipelines which have
reached the end of their useful life, lack of control and regulation equipment
and heat meters both in heat production plants and substations, and a general
inability to carry out major repairs, replace outdated equipment and initiate
new construction activities due primarily to a lack of funds. As a result,
energy wastage in the DH system is high and the quality of service has been
poor. The two Kiev DH enterprises, Kievenergo and Kiev Municipal DH Company,
are experiencing difficulties due to the high level of unpaid bills from
consumers. Investments are urgently needed to improve the efficiency of the
DH system, reduce losses and provide an improved service.



Objectives
3.      Against this background, the objectives of the proposed project would be
to: (a) replace and increase heat production capacity to better meet existing
and expected future demand and to improve the reliability and service levels
in the Kiev DH system; (b) extend the life of, increase the efficiency of and
enhance conservation of the Kiev DH system, through rehabilitation and
introduction of improved technologies and materials; and (c) promote sound
cost recovery policies and practices and the commercialization and
institutional strengthening of project DH companies, to identify the most
efficient corporate and institutional structure for provision of DH in Kiev
and ways to facilitate the eventual privatization of the service, and to
support project implementation.
Description
4.      The proposed project would consist of the following components:
(a)     heat production capacity improvement component, including
rehabilitation (500 Gcal/h) and replacement of old boilers (860 Gcal/h) and
construction of new boilers (720 Gcal/h) in the main DH, to alleviate the
current deficit of heat production capacity and to better meet the existing
and growing demand;
(b)     DH rehabilitation component, including a substantial program of
transmission (80 km) and distribution (15 km) pipeline and network
improvements in the main DH system, water treatment and substation (1,500)
improvements, including heat meters (1,500) and construction of a stack in the
city center, to address the deteriorating technical conditions and outmoded
technology, and rehabilitation of an electric substation (2 x 40 MVA) and
power cables in the city center to provide adequate electric supply for boiler
houses and DH pumping equipment; and
(c)     institutional support component for project agencies, including
consultancy and advisory services, training, equipment and software for
project management and implementation, and for review of appropriate
institutional and corporate structures for DH enterprises, including support
for implementation of recommendations.
5.      EBRD has expressed interest in co-financing the project with the World
Bank. The amount of the loans are $ 200 million for the Kievenergo investment
program, to be provided by the World Bank, and $ 40 million for the Kiev
Municipal DH Company investment program, to be provided by EBRD. The loans
would finance about 80t of total project cost (net), as project agencies have
limited capability to contribute to the capital cost of the project. Donor
support is being sought for part of the implementation support and the
institutional support component of the project.
Implementation
6.      Implementation of the project would be the responsibility of Kievenergo
-2 -



and Kiev Municipal DH Company for their respective parts of the project.
Performance indicators for each project objective were defined during project
appraisal. Supervision requirements were identified during project appraisal.
Sustainability
7.      The institutional and financial sustainability of the project would be
analyzed and supported through: measures to improve the financial performance
of DH companies, capacity building of project agencies to evaluate technical
options and prioritize investments based on economic considerations, and other
measures to be identified for inclusion under the institutional support
program for project agencies.
Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector
8.      The proposed project would represent the first DH investment loan to
Ukraine. The key lesson learned from the Ukraine Hydropower and Systems
Control Project approved by the Bank's Board is that strong commitment of both
the implementing agencies and the sector ministries is crucial to ensuring
approval by the Government and upfront improvement of collections is necessary
to ensure timely availability of counterpart funds.
9.      Lessons learned from other Bank-financed DH projects under implementation
in Poland, Estonia and Latvia include the findings that: (a) strong project
ownership and advanced preparation of project components is necessary for
timely implementation, (b) decentralized project management arrangements work
far better than centralized arrangements, (c) the relationship between prices
and incomes changes rapidly in countries in transition and the heating service
which appears largely unaffordable will become easier to afford in a
relatively short period of time, (d) end-user efficiency improvements, which
initially appear difficult to support due to building ownership and
affordability reasons, may be possible to support on a pilot level, and (e)
there is the possibility to redress the financial difficulties of DH companies
during project preparation through tariff increases and settlement of arrears
by major debtors, including households.
10.     These lessons were considered during the preparation period of the
proposed project. The project represents an important case study for an
ongoing ESMAP-sponsored study on DH systems which is examining industry
structure, alternatives to DH and the conditions under which building
efficiency improvements can best be supported.
Poverty Category
11.     Not applicable.
12.     Implementation of the project is anticipated to have positive
environmental benefits through improved efficiency in the use of fuels, by
contributing to a reduced level of air pollution in Kiev and by reducing the
wastage of water used in the DH system. The project has been placed in
environmental screening category "B," under which an environmental review and
- 3 -



mitigation plan has been prepared. See Environmental Analysis Annex for
details.
Program Objective Category
13.     The project is classified under the category of EN/GX - environmentally
sustainable development/other energy (100%).
Contact Point:
Carolyn Gochenour, ECSEG
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
(202) 473-9681 (tel)
(202) 477-8518 (fax)
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending August 14, 1998.
- 4 -



Annex
The DH rehabilitation/construction components would focus on improving energy
efficiency; environmental issues are principally restricted to the selection of
materials for pipeline insulation and the disposal of waste, possibly asbestos. The
heat production plant currently support the use of natural gas. Further investments
would focus on improvements to increase fuel use efficiency, reduce water losses in
networks and rehabilitate the water treatment system.
An environmental review has been carried out for the project and includes an
environmental mitigation plan.
The DH rehabilitation/construction components focus directly on the improvement in
the use of energy, reduction of wastage of fresh water in DH systems, and
improvements in water treatment. The potential impacts from these projects are
generally positive; potential adverse impacts would be highly localized and could be
effectively addressed through the environmental mitigation plan.
- 5 -



