Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4324 UA
Project Agreement
(Kiev District Heating Improvement Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
and
KIEVENERGO
Dated October 14, 1998
LOAN NUMBER 4324 UA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 14, 1998, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and KIEVENERGO (Kievenergo).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between Ukraine (the 
Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower an 
amount equal to two hundred million Dollars ($200,000,000) on the terms and conditions 
set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that Kievenergo agree to 
undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower 
and Kievenergo the proceeds of the loan provided for under the Loan Agreement for 
Parts A, C.2 and C.4 of the Project will be made available to Kievenergo on the terms 
and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
WHEREAS Kievenergo, in consideration of the Bank’s entering into the Loan 
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Page  2
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General Conditions (as 
so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth and the additional term, 
“Kievenergo Fiscal Year,” shall mean the year that commences on January 1 and ends on 
December 31 of each calendar year.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. Kievenergo declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall 
carry out Parts A, C.2 and C.4 of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, environmental, 
technical and utility practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly 
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the said 
Parts of the Project.
Section 2.02. Kievenergo shall duly perform all its obligations under the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, Kievenergo shall 
not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, 
assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for Parts A, C.2 and C.4 of the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the 
provisions of the Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) Kievenergo shall carry out the obligations set forth in 
Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods, works and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, Kievenergo shall:
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and 
furnish to the 
Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing 
Date or such later date 
as may be agreed for this purpose between the 
Bank and Kievenergo, a plan for 
the future operation of Parts A, C.2 and 
C.4 of the Project; and
(ii)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
Kievenergo on 
said plan.
Section 2.05. (a) Kievenergo shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views 
with the Bank with regard to progress of Parts A, C.2 and C.4 of the Project, the 
performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b)
Kievenergo shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the said Parts of the 
Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of Loan, or the performance by Kievenergo 
of its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.06. Kievenergo shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators agreed upon between 
the Borrower and the Bank, the carrying out of Parts A, C.2 and C.4 of the Project and 
the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank and furnish to 
the Bank by or before January 31 and July 31 of each year a semi-annual progress 
report which shall include, inter alia, information regarding overall progress of 
implementation of Parts A, C.2 and C.4 of the Project, costs of contracts concluded 
under the said Parts of  the Project in the period covered by the report, list of 
Page  3
procurement actions undertaken, summary of financial performance of Kievenergo, status 
of Kievenergo’s compliance with Project Agreement covenants, issues affecting 
implementation of the said Parts of the Project and evaluation of Kievenergo’s 
compliance with performance indicators;
(c)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, on or about June 30, 2001, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of Parts A, C.2 and C.4 of the 
Project during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the said Parts of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives of the Project during the period 
following such date; and
(d)
review with the Bank, by September 30, 2001, or such later date as the 
Bank shall request, the report referred to in subparagraph (c) of this Section, and 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of Parts A, 
C.2 and C.4 of the Project and the achievement of the objectives of the Project, based 
on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views on the 
matter.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of Kievenergo
Section 3.01. Kievenergo shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs 
in accordance with sound administrative, financial, engineering, environmental, 
technical and utility practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced 
management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. Kievenergo shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, 
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, 
make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound 
engineering, financial, environmental and utility practices.
Section 3.03. Kievenergo shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, 
or make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and 
in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) Kievenergo shall maintain records and accounts adequate to 
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial 
condition and to register separately the operations, resources and expenditures 
related to Parts A, C.2 and C.4 of the Project.
(b)
Kievenergo shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) and the records and 
accounts for the Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance 
with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent 
auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
(6) months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) above for such year as so 
audited; and (B) the 
report of such audit by said auditors of such scope and 
in such 
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records, accounts 
and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof, as the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably request.
Page  4
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditures, Kievenergo shall:
(i)
maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section, 
records and 
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Loan Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditures submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the 
related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, Kievenergo shall not 
incur any debt unless a reasonable forecast of the revenues and expenditures of 
Kievenergo shows that the estimated net revenues of Kievenergo for each fiscal year 
during the term of the debt to be incurred shall be at least 1.5 times the estimated 
debt service requirements of Kievenergo in such year on all debt of Kievenergo 
including the debt to be incurred.
(b) 
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
The term “debt” means any indebtedness of Kievenergo maturing by 
its terms 
more than one year after the date on which it is 
originally incurred.
(ii)
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan contract or 
agreement or 
other instrument providing for such debt or for the 
modification of its terms 
of payment on the date of such contract, 
agreement or instrument; and (B) 
under a guarantee agreement, on 
the date the agreement providing for such 
guarantee has been 
entered into.
(iii)
The term “net revenues” means the difference between:
(A)
the sum of revenues from all sources related to operations 
and net 
non-operating income, and
(B)
the sum of all expenses related to operations including 
administration, 
adequate maintenance, taxes and payments in 
lieu of taxes, but 
excluding provision for depreciation, 
other non-cash operating charges 
and interest and other charges on 
debt.
(iv)
The term “net non-operating income” means the difference between:
(A)
revenues from all sources other than those related to 
operations; and
(B)
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, 
incurred in 
the generation of revenues in (A) above.
(v)
The term “debt service requirements" means the aggregate amount of 
repayments 
(including sinking fund payment if any) of, and interest and 
other charges on, 
debt.
(vi)
The term “reasonable forecast” means a forecast prepared by 
Page  5
Kievenergo not 
earlier than twelve (12) months prior to the 
incurrence of the debt in 
question, which both the Bank and 
Kievenergo accept as reasonable and as to 
which the Bank has 
notified Kievenergo of its acceptability, provided that no 
event has 
occurred since such notification which has, or may reasonably be 
expected in the future to have, a material adverse effect on the financial 
condition or future operating results of Kievenergo.
(vii)
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to 
value, in 
terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable in 
another currency, such 
valuation shall be made on the basis of the 
prevailing lawful rate of exchange 
at which such other currency is, 
at the time of such valuation, obtainable for 
the purposes of servicing 
such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the 
basis of a rate of 
exchange acceptable to the Bank.
Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, Kievenergo shall 
maintain a ratio of current assets to current liabilities of not less than 1.2.
(b)
Before October 1 in each of its fiscal years, Kievenergo shall, on the 
basis of forecasts prepared by Kievenergo and satisfactory to the Bank, review whether 
it would meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) in respect of such year and 
the next following fiscal year and shall furnish to the Bank the results of such 
review upon its completion.
(c)
If any such review shows that Kievenergo would not meet the requirements 
set forth in paragraph (a) for Kievenergo’s fiscal years covered by such review, 
Kievenergo shall promptly take all necessary measures (including, without limitation, 
adjustments of the structure or level of its heat and electricity tariffs) in order to 
meet such requirements.
(d)
For the purpose of this Section:
(i)
The term “current assets” means cash, all assets which could in 
the ordinary 
course of business be converted into cash within twelve (12) 
months, including 
accounts receivable, marketable securities, 
inventories and pre-paid expenses 
properly chargeable to operating 
expenses within the next fiscal year.
(ii)
The term “current liabilities” means all liabilities which will 
become due and 
payable or could under circumstances then existing be 
called for payment 
within twelve (12) months, including accounts 
payable, customer advances, debt 
service requirements, taxes and payments 
in lieu of taxes, and dividends.
(iii)
The term “debt service requirements” means the aggregate amount of 
repayments 
(including sinking fund payments, if any) of, and interest 
and other charges 
on, debt.
(iv)
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to 
value, in 
terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable in 
another currency, such 
valuation shall be made on the basis of the 
prevailing lawful rate of exchange 
at which such other currency is, 
at the time of such valuation, obtainable for 
the purposes of servicing 
such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the 
basis of a rate of 
exchange acceptable to the Bank.
Section 4.04. Kievenergo shall take all actions required on its part to request 
NERC and the City of Kiev to establish electricity tariffs and heat tariffs for 
Kievenergo, respectively, at such levels as shall enable Kievenergo to cover the costs 
of production, transmission and distribution, operation and maintenance, interest 
payments, make allowances for depreciation and make contributions to its reserves and 
comply with the covenants set out in Sections 4.02 and 4.03 of this Project Agreement.
Section 4.05. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, Kievenergo shall reduce 
its overall accounts receivables for all customers, except for accounts receivables 
for budgetary organizations prior to January 1, 1998, to:  (i) 175 days by December 
Page  6
31, 1998; (ii) 150 days by December 31, 1999; (iii) 130 days by December 31, 2000; 
(iv) 110 days by December 31, 2001; (v) 90 days by December 31, 2002; and (vi) 70 days 
by December 31, 2003, and thereafter maintain its overall accounts receivables at the 
70 days level.
Section 4.06. By no later than the date of signature of the EBRD Loan by Ukraine 
and EBRD and related legal documents (the “Signature Date”), Kievenergo shall:
(a) 
conclude a debt restructuring agreement with KMDHC for repayment, over a 
period of one year, of Kievenergo’s arrears to KMDHC outstanding as of the said 
Signature Date, and commence paying installments due to KMDHC pursuant to the said 
debt restructuring agreement; and
(b)
make timely payments to KMDHC of the distribution fee for heat, payable 
to KMDHC at levels established from time to time by the City of Kiev.
Section 4.07. Beginning with its Fiscal Year 1999, Kievenergo shall prepare and 
furnish to the Bank on or about March 31 of each year during Project implementation, a 
financial report, containing its financial projections for the upcoming year.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of Kievenergo 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify Kievenergo thereof.
Section 5.03. All provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force and 
effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, DC 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For Kievenergo:
5 Ivan Franko Square
Kyiv
Ukraine 252001
Page  7
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of Kievenergo, 
may be taken or executed by the Chairman of the Board of Kievenergo or such other 
person or persons as the Chairman of the Board of Kievenergo shall designate in 
writing, and Kievenergo shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority 
and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Paul Siegelbaum 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Europe and Central Asia
KIEVENERGO
By /s/ Ivan V. Plachkov 
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and September 1997 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Prequalification
Bidders for supply of goods and mechanical installations in the amounts of 
$10,000,000 equivalent or more per contract shall be prequalified in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of the Guidelines.
Page  8
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
(c)
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $10,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
2.
National Shopping
Goods and works estimated to cost less than $50,000 per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for goods and works procured in accordance 
with procedures set out in Part B of this Schedule the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for goods or works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $50,000 or more, the following procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier under shopping procedures, 
Kievenergo 
shall provide to the Bank a report on the comparison and 
evaluation of 
quotations received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under shopping 
procedures, 
Kievenergo shall provide to the Bank a copy of the 
specifications and the 
draft contract; and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Page  9
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section 
II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services for design and supervision under Parts C.2 
and C.4 of the Project, estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, 
may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Single Source Selection
Services for technical assistance under Part C.4 (i) of the Project, which are 
estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent per contract, may, with the Bank’s 
prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 
through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for activities stipulated under Parts C.2 and C.4 (i) of the Project 
that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.01 of the Consultant Guidelines 
shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 and (other than the 
third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines 
shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of $200,000, the procedures set forth 
in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
Page  10
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
