Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4324 UA
Loan Agreement
(Kiev District Heating Improvement Project)
between
UKRAINE
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated October 14, 1998
LOAN NUMBER 4324 UA
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 14, 1998, between Ukraine (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of Parts A, C.2 and C.4 of the Project;
(B)
Parts A, C.2 and C.4 of the Project will be carried out by Kievenergo (as 
hereinafter defined) with the Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, 
the Borrower will make available to Kievenergo the proceeds of the Loan as provided in 
this Agreement;
(C)
the Borrower intends to contract from European Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development (EBRD) a loan (the EBRD Loan) in an amount of forty million Dollars 
($40,000,000) equivalent to assist in financing Parts B, C.3 and C.5 of  the Project 
on the terms and conditions to be set forth in an agreement (the EBRD Loan Agreement) 
to be entered into between the Borrower and EBRD; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and 
Kievenergo;
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, with the 
modification set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of 
this Agreement:
Section 6.03 is modified to read:
“Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Bank. If (a) the right of the Borrower 
to make 
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall have been suspended with 
respect to any amount of 
the Loan for a continuous period of thirty (30) days, or (b) 
at any time, the Bank 
determines, after consultation with the Borrower, 
that an amount of the Loan will not be 
required to finance the Project’s costs 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, or 
(c) at any time, the Bank 
determines, with respect to any contract to be financed out of the 
proceeds of 
the Loan, that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by 
representatives of the Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement 
or 
the execution of such contract, without the Borrower having taken timely and 
appropriate 
action satisfactory to the Bank to remedy the situation, and 
establishes the amount of 
expenditures in respect of such contract which would 
otherwise have been eligible for 
financing out of the proceeds of the Loan, or 
(d) at any time, the Bank determines that the  procurement of any contract to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan is inconsistent 
with the procedures set 
forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement and establishes the 
amount of 
expenditures in respect of such contract which would otherwise have been eligible 
for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan, or (e) after the Closing Date, an 
amount of 
the Loan shall remain unwithdrawn from the Loan Account, or (f) the Bank 
shall have received 
notice from the Guarantor pursuant to Section 6.07 with 
respect to an amount of the Loan, 
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower and 
the Guarantor, terminate the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals with 
respect to such amount.  Upon the giving of such notice, 
such amount of the Loan 
shall be canceled.” 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings 
therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“Kiev District Heating System” means the physically integrated system of 
heat production, transmission and distribution for the City of Kiev operated by 
Kievenergo and KMDHC;
(b)
“Kievenergo” means the state-owned joint stock energy-supply company 
established pursuant to Order No. 177 of the Borrower’s Ministry of Power and 
Electrification, dated August 31, 1995, and registered with Starokievsky Rayon State 
Administration on September 28, 1995, under No. 00131305, which is responsible for the 
generation, transportation, distribution and sale of electrical and thermal energy in 
the City of Kiev, and includes any successors to Kievenergo;
(c)
“KMDHC” means the Kiev Municipal District Heating Company established as 
a state municipal enterprise wholly-owned by the City of Kiev pursuant to the Order 
No. 368 of the Representative of the President of Ukraine to City Kiev, dated May 29, 
1992, and registered with the Kiev City State Administration on July 1, 1992, and 
includes any successor to KMDHC;
(d)
“NERC” means the National Electricity Regulatory Commission of the 
Borrower established by Decree of the President of Ukraine No. 738 on December 8, 
1994, and includes any successor to NERC;
(e)
“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank and Kievenergo 
of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term 
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
Page  3
(f)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(g)
“Statutes of Kievenergo” means the statutes of Kievenergo, dated August 
31, 1995, and approved by the Minister of Power and Electrification of the Borrower, 
and any statutes that Kievenergo may adopt in the future as part of its restructuring, 
if any, agreed with the Bank; and
(h)
“Subsidiary Loan Agreement” means the agreement entered into between the 
Borrower and Kievenergo pursuant to Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement, as the same 
may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to two 
hundred million Dollars ($200,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods, works and services required for Parts A, C.2 and C.4 of the Project described 
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of Parts A, C.2 and C.4 of the 
Project, open and maintain in Dollars a separate special deposit account in a 
commercial bank acceptable to the Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment. 
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2004, or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this 
Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date 
occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period 
from and including an 
Interest Payment Date to, but excluding the 
next following Interest Payment 
Date.
(ii)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.06 
of this 
Agreement.
(iii)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank 
offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for 
value the first day of such 
Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the 
Interest Payment Date occurring 
on or next preceding the first day of such 
Interest Period), as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage 
per annum.
(iv)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) one half 
of one 
percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the weighted 
Page  4
average margin, for such 
Interest Period, below (or above) the London 
interbank offered rates, or other 
reference rates, for six-month 
deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding 
borrowings or 
portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single currency 
loans 
or portions thereof made by it that include the Loan; as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period 
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in 
which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on April 
15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under this Loan Agreement, 
shall: 
(a)
cause the City of Kiev to carry out Part C.1 of the Project with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, accounting 
and financial practices, and shall take or cause to be taken all action, including the 
provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources necessary or appropriate 
to enable the City of Kiev to carry out Part C.1 of the Project, and shall not take or 
permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with the ability of the 
City of Kiev to carry out Part C.1 of the Project;
(b)
cause Kievenergo to carry out Parts A, C.2 and C.4 of the Project in 
accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of  
Kievenergo therein set forth, shall take or cause to be taken all action, including 
the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or 
appropriate to enable Kievenergo to perform such obligations, and shall not take or 
permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance;
(c)
the Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Loan to Kievenergo under a 
subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and Kievenergo, 
under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank.  Except as the 
Bank shall otherwise agree, such terms and conditions shall include the following:
(i)
the principal amount of the subsidiary loan shall be denominated 
in Dollars 
and shall be repaid by Kievenergo to the Borrower in 
semi-annual installments 
over twenty years, including a grace period of 
five years;
(ii)
interest shall be charged on the principal amount of the 
subsidiary loan 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at 
a rate equal to the rate 
payable by the Borrower from time to 
time pursuant to Section 2.05 (a) of this 
Agreement plus up to one 
percent (1%);
(iii)
a commitment fee shall be charged on the undisbursed amount of the 
Page  5
subsidiary 
loan at a rate equal to the rate payable by the Borrower 
from time to time 
pursuant to Section 2.04 of this Agreement; 
and
(d)
the Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and 
to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement 
or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for Parts A, C.2 and C.4 of the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the 
provisions of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall cause the City of Kiev to:
(a)
commence by the date falling two years after the Effective Date of this 
Loan Agreement a study of institutional structure of the district heating services in 
the City of Kiev under Part C.1 of the Project in accordance with terms of reference 
agreed with the Bank, which study shall, among other things, review options for the 
most efficient institutional and corporate structure for the provision of district 
heating services in the City of Kiev, identify the requirements for effective 
management of the said services, corporate and operations alternatives and propose a 
strategy and an action plan for implementation of its recommendations; 
(b)
complete the said study within one (1) year of its commencement date; and
(c)
within three (3) months of completing the said study, submit to the Bank 
for review and comment the report summarizing the findings, conclusions and 
recommendations of the said study.
Section 3.04. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by 
Kievenergo pursuant to Section 2.04 of the Project Agreement.
Section 3.05. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and 
furnish to the 
Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing 
Date or such later date 
as may be agreed for this purpose between the 
Bank and the Borrower, a plan 
for the future operation of the Project; 
and
(ii)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower 
on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause Kievenergo to maintain records and 
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations and financial condition of Kievenergo and to register separately the 
operations, resources and expenditures relating to Parts A, C.2 and C.4 of the 
Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall cause Kievenergo to:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) and the records and 
accounts for the Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance 
with appropriate auditing 
principles, consistently applied, by independent 
auditors 
Page  6
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
(6) months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) above for such year as so 
audited; and (B) the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and 
in such 
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records, accounts 
and financial statements and the audit thereof as the 
Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall cause 
Kievenergo to:
(i)
maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section, 
records and 
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Loan Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditures submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the 
related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause NERC to establish electricity tariffs for 
Kievenergo at such levels as shall enable Kievenergo to meet the financial covenants 
set out in Sections 4.02 and 4.03 of the Project Agreement.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall cause the City of Kiev to:
(a)
adjust heat tariffs for Kievenergo on a regular basis to such levels as 
shall enable Kievenergo to cover the costs of production, transmission and 
distribution, operation and maintenance, interest payments, make allowances for 
depreciation and make contributions to its reserves; and
(b)
maintain the present lack of cross-subsidization between heat tariffs 
payable by different categories of heat consumers.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
Kievenergo shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that Kievenergo will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(c)
Statutes of  Kievenergo shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, 
repealed or waived, except as otherwise agreed with the Bank, so as to affect 
materially and adversely the ability of Kievenergo to perform any of its obligations 
Page  7
under the Project Agreement.
(d)
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablish\1fment of Kievenergo or for the 
suspension of its operations.
(e)
The EBRD Loan Agreement shall have failed to become effective by 
September 1, 2000, or such later date as the Bank may agree; provided, however, that 
the provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to the 
satisfaction of the Bank that adequate funds for Parts B, C.3 and C.5 of the Project 
are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent 
with the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
(f)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A)
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the 
EBRD Loan 
shall have been suspended, canceled or 
terminated in whole or in part, 
pursuant to the terms of the EBRD 
Loan Agreement, or
(B)
the EBRD Loan shall have become due and payable prior to the 
agreed maturity 
thereof.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes 
to the satisfaction of the Bank that: (A) such suspension, 
cancellation, 
termination or prematuring is not caused by 
the failure of the Borrower to 
perform any of its obligations 
under such agreement; and (B) adequate funds 
for Parts B, C.3 and C.5 
of the Project are available to the Borrower from 
other sources 
on terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of the 
Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days after notice thereof 
shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower;
(b)
any event specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur; and
(c)
any event specified in paragraphs (e) or (f)(i) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (f)(ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions, namely that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly executed 
on behalf of the Borrower and Kievenergo.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, with the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
(a)
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by 
Kievenergo, and is legally binding upon Kievenergo in accordance with its terms; and
(b)
that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified 
by the Borrower and Kievenergo and is legally binding upon the Borrower and Kievenergo 
in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Page  8
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minister of Finance 
12/2 Hrushevsky Street 
Kiev 252008 Ukraine
Telex:
131450
For the Bank:
International Bank for 
   Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
UKRAINE
By /s/ Yuri Shcherbak
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Paul Siegelbaum
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
Page  9
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
 in Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Goods 
100% of foreign
expenditures, 100% of
(i)
Goods under Part
 188,800,000
local expenditures (ex-
A of the Project;         
factory cost) and 80% of
and
local expenditures for
other items procured
(ii)
Goods under Part
     100,000
locally
C.2 of the Project
(2)
Works under Part A
   1,000,000
100% of foreign
of the Project
expenditures and 80%
of local expenditures
(3)
Consultants' services
     300,000
100%
and training under
Parts C.2 and C.4 (i)
of the Project
(4)
Incremental Operating
     200,000
100%
Costs under Part C.4
(ii) of the Project
(5)
Unallocated
   9,600,000
TOTAL
 200,000,000
2.
For  the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods, works or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods, works or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; 
and
(c)
the term “incremental operating costs” means cost of audits required 
under Section 4.01 of the Loan Agreement which would not have been incurred absent the 
Project.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
$7,000,000, may be made in respect of Categories 1, 2 and 3 on account of payments 
made for expenditures before that date but after March 1, 1998.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for:  (i) goods under contracts not 
exceeding $300,000 equivalent; (ii) works under contracts not exceeding $1,000,000 
equivalent; (iii) services of consulting firms under contracts not exceeding $100,000 
equivalent; and (iv) services of individual consultants under contracts not exceeding 
$50,000 equivalent, all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by 
notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (i) improve heat production capacity of 
Page  10
the Kiev District Heating System in order to improve its reliability and service 
levels and enable it to better meet existing and expected future demand; (ii) 
rehabilitate and introduce modern technologies and materials into the said system in 
order to extend its life, increase its efficiency and enhance conservation; and (iii) 
promote sound cost recovery policies and practices and support institutional 
strengthening and commercialization of Kievenergo and KMDHC so as to optimize the 
manner in which district heating services are provided in Kiev, facilitate 
implementation of the Project as well as eventual privatization of the Kiev district 
heating service.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Kievenergo District Heating Improvement
1.
Expansion and replacement of old and worn-out boilers at CT-1 and CT-2 plants 
with new boilers, corresponding with output capacity of about 1000 Gcal/h.
2.
Rehabilitation of other boilers at CT-1 and CT-2 plants and construction of a 
new 100 m high stack at CT-1 plant to improve the environmental conditions in the 
center of Kiev.
3.
Rehabilitation and expansion of boiler capacity at TETS 5 and TETS 6 CHP plants, 
including construction of about 600 Gcal/h  of new capacity and reconstruction of the 
water treatment system at TETS 5.
4.
Completion of the partially-constructed boiler house at Pozniaki subdivision and 
equipping it with new  boiler capacity of about 600 Gcal/h.
5.
Replacement and rehabilitation of  about 80 km of old transmission networks and 
valves.
6.
Replacement of the electric substation servicing the center of Kiev and 
installation of two 110 Kv power cable lines as part thereof.
Part B:
KMDHC District Heating Improvement
Rehabilitation of  about 1,500 substations, including installation of heat 
meters, and rehabilitation of secondary networks of KMDHC. 
Part C:
Institutional Support
1.
Carrying out of a study of institutional structure of the district heating 
services in the City of Kiev.  
2.
Provision of personnel training and equipment to Kievenergo.
3.
Provision of personnel training and equipment to KMDHC.
4.
Provision of:  (i) technical assistance to Kievenergo required for 
implementation of Part A of the Project, including, inter alia, assistance with 
detailed design, construction supervision, as well as procurement and disbursement 
activities; and (ii) funding for the carrying out of audits required under the 
Project.
5.
Provision of technical assistance to KMDHC required for implementation of Part B 
of the Project.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2004. 
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule
Page  11
Payment of Principal 
Date Payment Due
(expressed in Dollars)*
October 15, 2003
4,220,000 
April 15, 2004
4,345,000 
October 15, 2004
4,475,000 
April 15, 2005
4,610,000 
October 15, 2005
4,745,000 
April 15, 2006
4,885,000 
October 15, 2006
5,035,000 
April 15, 2007
5,180,000 
October 15 ,2007
5,335,000 
April 15, 2008
5,495,000 
October 15, 2008
5,660,000 
April 15, 2009
5,825,000 
October 15, 2009
6,000,000 
April 15, 2010
6,180,000 
October 15, 2010
6,365,000 
April 15, 2011
6,550,000 
October 15, 2011
6,745,000 
April 15, 2012
6,950,000 
October 15, 2012
7,155,000 
April 15, 2013
7,365,000 
October 15, 2013
7,585,000 
April 15, 2014
7,810,000 
October 15, 2014
8,045,000 
April 15, 2015
8,285,000 
October 15, 2015
8,530,000 
April 15, 2016
8,785,000 
October 15, 2016
9,045,000 
April 15, 2017
9,315,000 
October 15, 2017
9,590,000 
April 15, 2018
9,890,000
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for  Parts A, C.2 and C.4 of the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time 
to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $800,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to 
$400,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent 
of $5,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
Page  12
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the 
Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in 
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if Kievenergo, on behalf of the Borrower, shall have failed to furnish to 
the Bank, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this 
Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to 
said Section in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special 
Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to Parts 
A, C.2 and C.4 of the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such 
procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further 
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been 
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the 
date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
Page  13
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Accounts.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
