                                   Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                   Report No: ICR0000587




           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                  (IBRD-43240)




                                     ON A

                                     LOAN

            IN THE AMOUNT OF US$200.00 MILLION EQUIVALENT

                                      TO

                                    UKRAINE

                                    FOR THE

              KYIV DISTRICT HEATING IMPROVEMENT PROJECT



                               December 18, 2007




Sustainable Development Department
Ukraine, Belarus and Moldova Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region

                            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                     Exchange Rate Effective November 30, 2007

                           Currency Unit = Hrivnya (UAH)
                                  1.00 UAH= US$ 0.20
                                  US$ 1.00 = 5.05 UAH

                                    FISCAL YEAR
                                January 1 ­ December 31

                       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
CHP          Combined-Heat-and-Power
DH           District Heating
EBRD         European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ERR          Economic Rate of Return
FRR          Financial Rate of Return
FSU          Former Soviet Union
GOU          Government of Ukraine
GDP          Gross Domestic Product
HOB          Heat-Only-Boiler
ICB          International Competitive Bidding
ICR          Implementation Completion and Results Report
IMF          International Monetary Fund
KMDHC        Kyiv Municipal District Heating Company
LPG          Liquefied Petroleum Gas
M&E          Monitoring and Evaluation
MOF          Ministry of Finance
MTR          Midterm Review
NERC         National Electricity Regulatory Commission
PIU          Project Implementation Unit
PMR          Project Monitoring Reports
VAT          Value Added Tax
        Vice President: Shigeo Katsu
      Country Director: Paul Bermingham
       Sector Manager: Charles Feinstein
   Project Team Leader: Pekka Salminen
     ICR Team Leader: Pekka Salminen

                                              UKRAINE
            KYIV DISTRICT HEATING IMPROVEMENT PROJECT




                                             CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 6
 3. Assessment of Outcomes.......................................................................................... 12
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 16
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 17
 6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 21
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 22
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 23
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 24
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis................................................................. 27
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 31
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................... 33
 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 33
 Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR..................... 34
 Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders....................... 42
 Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 42
 MAP IBRD No. 28701

A. Basic Information

                                                                     KIEV DISTRICT
Country:                Ukraine               Project Name:
                                                                     HEAT
Project ID:             P044832               L/C/TF Number(s):      IBRD-43240
ICR Date:               12/18/2007            ICR Type:              Core ICR
Lending Instrument:     SIL                   Borrower:              UKRAINE
Original Total
                        USD 200.0M            Disbursed Amount:      USD 159.7M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
Kyivenergo
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date            Process          Original Date   Revised / Actual
                                                                                Date(s)
Concept Review:        10/08/1996    Effectiveness:         04/12/1999        04/12/1999
Appraisal:             03/03/1997    Restructuring(s):
Approval:              05/21/1998    Mid-term Review:                         07/24/2002
                                     Closing:               12/31/2004        06/30/2007


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                     Moderately Unsatisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                  Substantial
Bank Performance:                             Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                         Moderately Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings              Borrower                Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory          Government:            Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory          Implementing
                                              Agency/Agencies:       Moderately Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                  Overall Borrower
Performance:            Satisfactory          Performance:           Moderately Satisfactory


C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                              QAG Assessments
      Performance              Indicators             (if any)              Rating

Potential Problem Project Yes                 Quality at Entry
                                                                    None
at any time (Yes/No):                         (QEA):


                                              i

Problem Project at any                           Quality of
                           Yes                                        None
time (Yes/No):                                   Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before           Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:   Unsatisfactory


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                               Original          Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
District heating and energy efficiency services                100                100


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Climate change                                                Secondary         Secondary
Other urban development                                        Primary           Primary
State enterprise/bank restructuring and privatization          Primary           Primary


E. Bank Staff
        Positions                       At ICR                          At Approval
Vice President:            Shigeo Katsu                      Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:          Paul G. Bermingham                Paul J. Siegelbaum
Sector Manager:            Charles M. Feinstein              Hossein Razavi
Project Team Leader:       Pekka Kalevi Salminen             Carolyn Gochenour
ICR Team Leader:           Pekka Kalevi Salminen
ICR Primary Author:        Sati Achath



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The project would: (a) replace and increase heat production capacity to better meet
existing and expected future demand and to improve the reliability and service levels in
the Kiev DH system; (b) extend the life of, increase the efficiency of, and enhance
conservation of the Kyiv district heating system through rehabilitation and introdution of
modern technologies and materials; and (c) promote sound cost recovery policies and
practices and the commercialization and institutional strengthening of project district
heating companies, identify the most efficient institutional and corporate structure for
provision of district heating in Kyiv and ways to facilitate the eventual privatization of
the service, and support project implementation.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)




                                                ii

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target      Formally      Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value           Values (from       Revised        Achieved at
                                                approval          Target       Completion or
                                              documents)          Values       Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Added heat generation capacity
                                           940Gcal/h (the
                                           target value was
                                           reduced compared
Value                                      to appraisal as a
quantitative or None                       result of cancelling              540Gcal/h
Qualitative)                               a number of
                                           project packages
                                           for installing new
                                           heat capacity)
Date achieved 12/30/1997                   12/30/2006                        10/15/2007
Comments
(incl. %        The target is not met because the heating plants Pozniaki (2*100 Gcal/h) and CT-

achievement)    1 (2*100 Gcal/h) could not be completed due to lack of funds.

Indicator 2 :   Replaced DH pipes
Value                                      Installed: 168 km                 168 km (single
quantitative or None                                                         pipe) procured; 130
Qualitative)                               (single pipe)                     km installed
Date achieved 12/30/1997                   12/30/2006                        02/15/2007
Comments        All planned pipes were procured but only about 75% have been installed because
(incl. %        of lack of financing from Kyivenergo's own and loan funds. The remaining pipes
achievement)    will be installed by Kyivenergo by 2011.
Indicator 3 :   Accounts receivable
Value
quantitative or 248 days                   70 days                           61 days for 2006
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/30/1999                   10/31/2005                        10/15/2007
Comments
(incl. %        The target was met. The overall improvement in accounts receivable during the

achievement)    project was significant, from 248 days to 61 days.

Indicator 4 :   Debt service coverage
Value
quantitative or 1.7                        1.5                               6.7 for 2006
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/30/2000                   10/31/2005                        10/15/2007
Comments
(incl. %        This target was met.
achievement)
Indicator 5 :   Current ratio
Value
quantitative or 1.09                       1.2                               0.62 for 2006
Qualitative)



                                                iii

Date achieved 12/30/2000                 10/31/2005                        10/15/2007
Comments
(incl. %       This target was not met.
achievement)


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                         Original Target       Formally      Actual Value

   Indicator        Baseline Value         Values (from                       Achieved at
                                             approval           Revised      Completion or
                                            documents)       Target Values   Target Years
Indicator 1 :  Intermediate outcomes are not stated in the SAR dated April 1998.
Value
(quantitative
or Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived               DO                         IP               Disbursements
                                                                            (USD millions)
  1     07/02/1998          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                   0.00
  2     12/16/1998          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                   0.00
  3     06/23/1999          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                   0.00
  4     10/25/1999          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                   0.00
  5     05/25/2000          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                   0.39
  6     10/19/2000          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                   2.67
  7     03/27/2001          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                   5.55
  8     06/25/2001          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                   8.79
  9     11/27/2001          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                  12.73
  10    03/12/2002          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                  19.93
  11    03/14/2002          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                  19.93
  12    08/07/2002          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                  24.38
  13    12/03/2002          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                  25.35
  14    04/02/2003          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                  27.80
  15    08/19/2003          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                  29.60
  16    01/09/2004          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                  32.65
  17    06/14/2004          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                  34.55
  18    10/28/2004          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                  44.51
  19    06/07/2005    Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                64.17

  20    11/28/2005          Moderately                 Moderately
                           Unsatisfactory            Unsatisfactory                  86.60




                                             iv

  21  06/27/2006   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory    103.04
  22  03/13/2007   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory    151.90

  23  06/28/2007         Moderately            Moderately
                       Unsatisfactory        Unsatisfactory           157.90



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




I. Disbursement Profile




                                          v

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
(this section is descriptive, taken from other documents, e.g., PAD/ISR, not evaluative)

1.1 Context at Appraisal

Country and Sector Background: In 1998 Ukraine, the second largest country in Europe
by area with a population of over 50 million people, was struggling to transform its
flagging post-Soviet economy into one based on market principles, despite more than six
years of efforts to that end. Sluggish economic reforms and rampant hyperinflation
during the first three years after Ukraine gained independence from the Soviet Union in
August 1991, combined with the external shocks of sharply higher energy prices and
reduced sales to traditional markets, significantly compounded the economic situation.
According to official statistics, the Ukrainian economy had slumped by nearly 60% from
1991 to 1997. Living standards had also fallen sharply and poverty had become more
widespread. Annual per capita Gross Domestic Product (GDP) had declined from
US$1,250 in 1995 to US$ 1,020 in 1997. The Government had accumulated over US$2.5
billion of wage arrears and debts to the public sector by the end of 1997.

Ukraine has vast coal resources, important oil and gas resources and significant hydro,
wood, peat and uranium resources. Crude oil and natural gas resources were declining,
but were still significant. Remaining proven and probable reserves were 190 million tons
of oil and 1,400 bcm of natural gas. The shallower and larger, oil and gas pools in the
Dnieper-Donetsk and Carpathian regions were rapidly being depleted. These deposits
were being replaced by reserves in smaller, deeper and less productive reservoirs, which
were more expensive to find, drill-up and produce, to the point that a large part of the
reserves appeared to be uneconomic. Hydro resources were significant but were almost
fully developed, while wood and peat resources appeared to have greater potential.
Energy demand in Ukraine was characterized by high energy intensity of industrial
output and the high share of industry in final energy consumption, due to the low thermal
efficiency of energy consumption technologies and high share (about 40% in 1995) of
industry (iron and steel, basic chemicals) in GDP. Energy consumption per capita was
about 3,000 kilograms of oil equivalent (koe) in 1996, which was high compared to
Western European standards.

Since 1991, energy fuel prices had skyrocketed and approximated world market levels.
Most notable were the prices of natural gas and crude oil, utilized primarily in heat and
electricity production. The price increases of energy inputs were translated into higher
prices for essential services, especially electricity and heat. Electricity, gas and coal
prices were set by the central government, while district heating (DH), Liquefied
Petroleum Gas (LPG), heating oil, peat and wood prices were set by local governments.
Household energy prices covered 50-80% of costs, with household DH prices, outside of
Kyiv, covering 80% of costs. The difference between costs and prices was covered by
subsidies from the central and local governments and/or by cross-subsidies from
industrial to household consumers (particularly for DH).




                                               1

The Kyiv District Heating system, with a capacity of about 8,600 Gcal/h and networks
totaling 2,300 km, was the third largest in the countries of the Former Soviet Union
(FSU), after the Moscow and St. Petersburg systems, and was thought to be the third
largest in the world. In Kyiv, the DH system provided most of the heat and hot water for
urban dwellers as well as steam for industry, produced in Combined Heat and Power
(CHP) or in Heat Only Boiler (HOB) plants and transported through pipeline networks to
substations to buildings. Since independence, maintenance of the Kyiv DH system had
been under-funded, resulting in serious corrosion of present assets, especially in external
corrosion of pipelines, due to the deteriorating and ineffective pipeline waterproofing.
Heat and water losses were high as compared to Western systems, with heat losses in the
transmission and distribution systems estimated at about 20% overall.

Rationale for Bank assistance: The project was consistent with the Bank's overall
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) in Ukraine, discussed by the Bank's Board in June
1996, as well as the interim strategy in the CAS Progress Report, which assigned
emphasis to the energy sector and sought to support Ukraine's efforts to improve energy
efficiency by replacing or rehabilitating old production facilities, networks and substation
equipment. The strategy also called for greater efforts in energy conservation, pricing and
ownership. The project was also fully consistent with the Government's energy strategy,
and aimed to support energy conservation, improvement of the efficiency of energy
facilities and environmental conditions, and rehabilitation of existing plants. The
efficiency gains would lead to lower costs of heat production and operation, thereby
resulting in more affordable heat tariffs and lower requirements for social assistance.
Most importantly, the quality and reliability of heating services would be improved for
the growing demand. At the same time, institutional development programs for
concerned energy agencies would help strengthen their management and operations.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as
approved)

The project's objectives were the following: (i) replace and increase heat production
capacity to better meet existing and expected future demand and to improve the reliability
and service levels in the Kyiv DH system; (ii) extend the life of, increase the efficiency of
and enhance conservation of the Kyiv DH system, through rehabilitation and introduction
of modern technologies and materials; and (iii) promote sound cost recovery policies and
practices and the commercialization and institutional strengthening of project DH
companies, identify the most efficient corporate and institutional structure for provision
of DH in Kyiv and ways to facilitate the eventual privatization of the service, and
support project implementation. (The objectives are taken from the SAR. The objectives
in the Loan Agreement were worded slightly differently, but had the same meaning.)




                                              2

Key Indicators:

Technical: Gas consumption (million m3), Gas into Plant; Total Fuel Consumption (gas
and mazut); Monthly Overall Efficiency %; Circulation Pumps' Electricity Consumption;
Added Make-up Water

 Financial: Accounts Receivable, Debt Service Coverage Ratio, Current Ratio, and
Average Heat Tariff; Residential Heat Tariff as % of Average Heat Tariff; and Average
Retail Electricity Tariff (US cents/KWh)


1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification

The objectives were not revised.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries,

    · The project was expected to have significant economic benefits for Ukraine,
       related to savings from the improved efficiency of the DH system, the avoidance
       of a supply deficit and the improvement of space heating and hot water service
       levels and reliability in the capital city of Kyiv.

    · The project would also have substantial financial benefits for the heat utilities
       related to fuel and operational cost savings and increase in sales revenue.

    · Residents of Kyiv were expected to receive improved quality and reliability of
       heat and electricity supply, resulting from the rehabilitation and construction of
       electric substations and boiler plants. In addition, installation of individual heat
       meters would enable consumers to pay only for the actual heat used. The
       installation of better quality boilers with improved ecological characteristics
       would result in reduction of environmental emissions.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

The project consisted of the following three components:

Component 1. Heat Production Capacity Improvement. This component included
replacement (560 Gcal/h) and construction of new boilers (1,580 Gcal/h) along with
rehabilitation of other boilers in the main DH system, to alleviate the existing deficit of
heat production capacity and to better meet the existing and growing demand.




 These indicators were monitored in the semi-annual progress reports, but not taken into the ICR.




                                                  3

Component 2: DH Rehabilitation. This component included; (i) a substantial program
of transmission (80 km) and distribution (15 km) pipeline and network improvements in
the main DH system; (ii)water treatment and substation (1,500) improvements including
heat meters; (iii)construction of a stack in the city center, to address the deteriorating
technical conditions and outmoded technology; and (iv) rehabilitation of an electric
substation (2 x 40 MVA) and power cables in the city center to provide adequate electric
supply for boiler houses and DH pumping equipment.

Component 3: Institutional Support. This component consisted of the following
activities:

(a) Restructuring Study of the Kyiv DH Companies: to review options for the most
efficient institutional and corporate structure for DH in Kyiv, to identify the requirements
for effective management, corporate and operations systems and to provide support for
implementing the study recommendations;

(b) Implementation Support and Audits: including consultancy services for detailed
design, construction supervision, procurement and disbursement, and auditing services
for the incremental auditing costs of the project; and

(c) Training and Equipment: for training of the management and staff of the DH
companies in the areas of procurement and disbursement, introduction of international
accounting standards, computerized billing, and environmental issues, among other
things, and provision of office equipment, computers and software.

1.6 Revised Components

The components were not revised.

1.7 Other significant changes

There were no changes in the project's design and implementation arrangements.
However, there were changes in the project's schedule, scope and scale, and funding
allocation as mentioned below.

The project schedule was revised twice. In response to government request, the project
closing date was extended first by two years, from December 31, 2004 to December 31,
2006. The extension was needed because the disbursement of Loan proceeds had reached
only US$45.1 (or about 23% of the original Loan amount of US$ 200 million) by
November 2004 and hence project objectives could not have been met by the original
closing date of December 31, 2004. The closing date was further extended by six months
to June 30, 2007, in order to complete the five remaining contracts and provide time to
Kyivenergo to get internal approval to negotiate arrangements for the additional
financing.




                                               4

The project's scope and scale. After the merger of Kyivenergo and Kyiv Municipal DH
Company (KMDHC) in December 1998, activities such as secondary pipe replacement
and rehabilitation of substations were to be implemented by Kyivenergo under the project.
The size of the sub-component was remarkably scaled down because the European Bank
for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD) withdrew from the planned financing
because of Kyivenergo and Kyiv City refusal to accept some conditions of the lending
proposed by EBRD.

In November 2004, the rehabilitation of CT-2 Heating Plant was dropped from the
project and $40 million was cancelled out of the proceeds of the Loan due to the inability
of Kyivenergo to fully utilize this amount before the revised closing date of December 31,
2006. At closing, the Loan was 99.8% disbursed (US$159.68 million), with $320,755
undisbursed and US$40 million cancelled.

Funding allocations. (i) As part of the Midterm Review (MTR) conducted in July 2002,
agreement was reached that a number of activities originally planned to be financed by
the World Bank Loan in the amount of US$13.55 million were no longer urgently
needed. Further agreement was reached that about US$10 million of these funds would
be utilized for installation works for goods already procured but not yet installed (i.e.,
pre-insulated pipes and valves and equipment for Pozniaki plant), in order to speed up the
project implementation which was hampered by insufficient counterpart funds.

(ii) In April 2003, $9 million was reallocated from Category (1) (i) (Goods under Parts A
and B of the project) to Category (2) (Works including installation of equipment, under
Parts A and B of the project).

(iii) In February 2006, $14 million was reallocated from Category (1) (i) to Category 2,
and $100,000 was reallocated from Category 3 (Consultant services and training) to
Category 4 (Incremental Operating Costs).

Other amendments to the Loan Agreement. (i) In April 2002, the legal agreement was
amended to allow the use of savings in the Loan account for: (a) rehabilitation of heat
distribution networks and heat substations, including heat meters; and (b) provision of a
heat networks dispatching center. In addition, the location of the water treatment
investments was changed from TETS-5 to TETS-6.

(ii) In April 2003 the loan agreement was amended to allow the use of loan proceeds for
additional works/installation activities in order to speed up project implementation.

(iii) Following a change in the Bank's policy framework governing the eligibility of
expenditures in World Bank financing, which was approved by the Board on April 13,
2004, and the Board approval of country financing parameters for Ukraine on March 29,
2005, the Loan Agreement was amended in February 2006 to allow 100% financing
(previously it used to be 80%) of the local expenditures under the contracts concluded
after November 1, 2005. This change in policy released Kyivenergo from the need to co-
finance these contracts, helped to start the installation of the equipment and mainly



                                              5

  complete the Pozniaki heat boiler plant (to serve rapidly growing Kharkovsky district of
  Kyiv), by the project closing date of December 31, 2006, and also guaranteed that the contractors
  were paid in a timely manner after the works were performed.


  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

  2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

  During preparation, the project design took into account lessons learned from previous
  Bank-supported DH projects in Poland, China, Estonia and Latvia. Likewise, the design
  considered the risk factors, and appropriate measures were adopted to mitigate all major
  risks identified at appraisal. The project also provided a participatory framework during
  preparation of the project.

  Lessons Learned from previous Bank-assisted projects.

      · Strong project ownership and advanced preparation of project components is
          necessary for timely implementation
      · Decentralized project management arrangements work far better than centralized
          arrangements
      · The relationship between prices and incomes changes rapidly in countries in
          transition and the heating service which appears largely unaffordable will become
          easier to afford in a relatively short period of time
      · End-user efficiency improvements, which initially appeared difficult to support
          due to building ownership and affordability reasons, may be possible to support
          on a pilot level
      · There is the possibility to redress the financial difficulties of DH companies
          during project preparation through tariff increases and settlement of arrears by
          major debtors, including households
      · Strong support from municipalities is needed to resolve collection and payment
          issues.

Risks and their mitigation. As the first DH investment project in Ukraine, the project faced
a number of risks, and the measures mentioned below were taken to mitigate them:

                        Risk                                      Mitigating measure
  The implementation capacity of project           To reduce this risk, the detailed implementation
  agencies in carrying out an investment program arrangements were fully identified and agreed
  of this order of magnitude to-date was untested  with the project agencies prior to project start-
  and might result in a longer implementation      up and adequate staffing arrangements were put
  period than expected.                            in place. In addition, bidding documents for the
                                                   first year's procurement activities were
                                                   prepared by Loan negotiations, and
                                                   international and local engineering consultants
                                                   would assist project agencies with the technical
                                                   implementation of the project.



                                                 6

                      Risk                                       Mitigating measure
Heat tariff increases may not be implemented     Given the commitment by the Government,
in a timely manner for political or other        Kyiv Municipality and DH companies to adjust
reasons                                          heat tariffs frequently during the period of
                                                 energy price increases, the risk of the heat tariff
                                                 increases not being implemented was expected
                                                 to be relatively small. Monitoring performance
                                                 in these areas would be a major focus of
                                                 attention during Bank supervision.
Uncertainty existed about how effective the      A package of measures to improve means
social assistance program for households         testing and other aspects of the social assistance
would be, and this had the potential to          program was currently under discussion with
negatively impact the financial position of DH   Kyiv Municipality for consideration for
companies. If the social assistance program      inclusion in the complementary Kyiv Public
was not working properly, arrears of             Buildings Energy Efficiency Project.
consumers' heat bills would increase.            Monitoring performance in this area would also
                                                 be a key focus of attention during supervision
                                                 of the project.

Adequacy of participatory processes. The project preparation involved consultation with
the customers of Kyivenergo, Kyiv City, and the Ministry of Fuel and Energy regarding
the design of the project and priorities of the project activities. For example, the social
assessment was based on: (a) structured in-depth interviews and focus group discussions
with residential DH consumers and (b) a survey administered to 365 households in Kyiv.

2.2 Implementation

The project was not restructured and no changes were made to the design. The project
was at risk due to the lack of counterpart funds which prevented Kyivenergo from
implementing on time the project activities that were to be fully financed by the
company.

As mentioned in Section 1.7, the Bank conducted a MTR in July 2002, and assessed
progress to date on all project components, the implementation issues and the actions to
be taken to ensure the successful completion of the project. Based on the
recommendations of the MTR, an Action Plan was prepared by Kyivenergo to speed up
the project progress, which included the following key elements:

(i) Strengthening Project Management. In the area of project management, a decision was
taken to supplement the project organization with a Deputy Project Manager who would
be primarily responsible for managing the procurement process.

(ii) Expediting the Procurement Process. Further actions that could ensure more timely
execution of procurement activities included the following:

       (a) rather than continuing to utilize direct contracting, Kyivenergo would conduct
           competitive tenders for the selection of the design institutes which would




                                                7

        prepare the technical specifications, in order to better manage the quality and
        schedule of deliverables;

    (b) Kyivenergo's project management would make available the prior technical
        specifications already utilized, including any revisions made during the bidding
        period and implementation, to Kyivenergo's technical departments and design
        institutes, in order simplify and speed up the preparation of specifications for
        the new similar packages;

    (c) instead of appointing new Evaluation Committees for each procurement
        package, Kyivenergo would make greater use of experienced evaluators from
        the previous tenders in order to expedite the evaluation process; and

    (d) Kyivenergo's Deputy Project Manager would follow-up more closely on internal
        approvals required for each stage of the procurement process, including contract
        signing.

Factors affecting project implementation.

The Project implementation was adversely affected due to the following factors:

  · Delayed effectiveness of the Bank Loan which was postponed by about six
      months awaiting Parliamentary ratification of the project

  · The lengthy period for establishing payment arrangements for local suppliers in
      Hrivnya

  · The Project Manager, who was also Chairman of the Board of Kyivenergo, was
      not able to devote sufficient attention to the project during a significant part of the
      time in the first 3-4 years

  · High turnover of staff in the Project Implementation Unit (PIU)

  · Kyivenergo's limited experience in international procurement, resulting in a slow
      and cautious approach to each stage of the procurement process
  · Inexperience of local and international bidders in preparing responsive bids in
      accordance with the requirements of the bidding documents, causing delays in
      successfully concluding contracts, a number of which had to be re-bid

  · The temporary cancellation by the Ministry of Finance (MOF) of the exemption
      of Value Added Tax (VAT) and duties on imported goods which delayed the
      project by more than six months, until the exemption was reinstated, as
      Kyivenergo was not able to finance an unexpected additional 30% of the project
      cost




                                             8

    · Disagreement between Kyivenergo and the MOF over the arrangements for
        opening and utilizing the Special Account

    · Project implementation was adversely affected by the persistent lack of
        counterpart financing caused by low tariffs for households, which were below the
        cost recovery level (about 70% of cost recovery level). For example, due to the
        lack of counterpart funding, very little progress was achieved in implementing the
        components on the Pozniaki boiler plant and CT-1 Heating Plant. Similarly, there
        was a high level of accounts receivable and outstanding debts for gas, which also
        affected Kyivenergo's ability to implement the project on schedule.

    · Dispute between Kyivenergo and Kyiv City regarding hot water/cold water
        arrangements for buildings and the lack of regulations in Kyiv City concerning
        the requirements of building owners with regard to heat meter and heat substation
        installation, both of which delayed the preparation of the heat metering and heat
        substation components.

    · The implementation of the gas pipeline and the gas pressure reduction station for
        Pozniaki heating plant was delayed because of: (i) difficulty in obtaining the right
        of way for the gas supply pipeline in the area of Kyiv Oblast resulting in delays of
        about three years; (ii) lack of co-financing from Kyivenergo, and (iii) the
        protracted negotiations between Kyivenergo and the gas supply company,
        Kyivtransgaz, concerning the final arrangements for maintenance and servicing of
        the gas pipeline and the gas pressure reduction station.

    · Higher than expected installation costs and limited installation capacity of local
        contractors resulted in slow installation.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

Indicators were developed to monitor the performance of the operation of the heat
production plants and the whole DH system in Kyiv. Some of the Technical Indicators
included: Fuel Consumption, Heat Production, and Plant Efficiency, District Heating
Circulation Pumps' Electricity Consumption, Water Quality, Monitoring of Breakdowns
in the Main DH systems. In addition, Financial Indicators such as Accounts Receivable,
Debt Service Coverage Ratio, Current Ratio, and Average Heat Tariff were also
developed. Kyivenergo had adequate methods for collecting these data.

M&E implementation. Kyivenergo was regularly collecting data according to both the
technical and financial indicators developed during project preparation. These data were
closely monitored and the actual figures were compared with the target values. For
example, under technical indicators, data on fuel consumption, heat production,
electricity production, heat losses and breakdowns in the main DH system were
monitored and analyzed.




                                               9

M&E utilization. Appropriate data collected from Kyivenergo's semi-annual reports of
indicators was evaluated and used to inform decision-making on certain activities. For
example, concerning the expansion of the heat generation capacity, the data on slower
than expected growth of heat demand was used to cut some of the planned hot water
boilers out of the project.

Sustainability of the M&E arrangements. After the project's implementation period,
Kyivenergo is planning to continue the M&E arrangements already in place and utilize
them for decision-making processes.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Safeguard issues. The project was subject to World Bank Operational Directive 4.01
Environmental Assessment (at the time of appraisal, OD 4.00) and was rated a category
"B" project. An environmental review was prepared for the project and included an
Environmental Mitigation Plan, which was followed during project implementation. The
environmental impact of the investments was generally positive due to improved energy
efficiency, reduction in water wastage and other energy efficiency improvements.

There were no major safeguard issues related to the implementation of the project.

Fiduciary issues. The project was not in compliance or complied with delays with the
following financial covenants in the Project Agreement and Loan Agreement:

    · Audit reports for FYs 2004, 2005 and 2006 were provided with a delay of over
        three months. Project Monitoring Reports (PMRs) for 2006 were provided to the
        Bank with delay.

    · The project also did not fully comply with all of the financial performance
        indicators, specified in the Project Agreement. However, it met two (accounts
        receivable, debt service coverage) of the three financial indicators listed as PDO
        Indicators. Especially the overall improvement in accounts receivable was
        significant, from 248 days to 61 days.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

    a. Transition arrangements.

Kyivenergo being a well established organization, appropriate technical, commercial and
institutional provisions are already in place to ensure effective and regular operation of
the investments financed by the project. While the regular operation, including repair and
maintenance will be managed by Kyivenergo staff, construction and installation works
will continue to be undertaken mostly by contractors. Kyivenergo will be recruiting new
employees in case of any shortage of staff resulting from retirement or resignations.
Kyivenergo's training institute has sufficient capacity to train new staff and enhance the
skills and capacity of existing staff. The supplier companies will be responsible for
training the staff on new equipment delivered.


                                              10

On the other hand, Kyivenergo is dependent on Kyiv City for its financial resources. As
discussed in Section 2.2, because of low tariffs on household heating, Kyivenergo's
financial situation is fairly weak. Based on the government legislation, Kyiv City is
obliged to compensate Kyivenergo for the difference between heat cost and heat tariff for
households. However, there are substantial arrears owed by Kyiv City to Kyivenergo.
For example, for 2007 this compensation is estimated at UAH 517 million (about
US$100 million) and has not yet been fully paid.

The Bank had proposed to provide additional financing of US$40.0 million to complete
the rehabilitation of the CT-1 Heating Plant in Kyiv, to replace old district heating pipes
with modern pre-insulated pipes, and to finance annual audits of Kyivenergo's financial
statements and project financial statements. This additional financing did not go to the
Board because of Kyivenergo's inability and Kyiv City's unwillingness to provide,
according to the toughened current Ukrainian legislation, 150% collateral to MOF under
the new sub-loan agreement.

The major issue is for Kyivenergo to get additional financing for completing the CT-1
Heating Plant. The two boilers have already been procured. It is estimated that for the
installation of these boilers, $30-40 million would be needed.

Lessons incorporated in the arrangements for post-completion operation. Based on the
lessons learned from the project Kyivenergo has adopted the following measures: (i)
before the project Kyivenergo did not have a specialist on international procurement and
implementation of a large scale project. These skills were developed during the project by
training specialists from different subsidiaries of the company which formed a
functioning working group for implementation, and (ii) economic/financial evaluation of
investment alternatives was developed based on examples of the project and is now used
within the company before investment decisions are made.

List of performance indicators. The following set of monitoring and evaluation
indicators will continue to be used as part of Kyivenergo's regular operations:

    · Added Heat Generation Capacity
    · Replaced DH Pipes
    · Accounts Receivable
    · Debt Service Coverage
    · Current Ratio

Follow-up project. The Bank has requested Kyivenergo to prepare an investment plan for
the next five years, and based on this request, Kyivenergo is currently preparing a
proposal for the construction of 110 kV electricity substations and for the reconstruction
and replacement of existing cable lines. For heat generation, Kyivenergo is also interested
in the completion of the third CHP unit at TETS-6. After receiving the investment plan,
the Bank would discuss with the Government of Ukraine (GOU) and the management of
Kyivenergo the possibility of having a follow-on project. A district heating project is not




                                              11

envisaged in the recently approved Country Partnership Strategy (CPS), but it is possible
that it could be financed as a component of another project in the CPS.


3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The project's objective is still relevant, and important to Ukraine's economic
development. It is timely and appropriate to the current needs of the country's energy
sector. The project is also consistent with the Bank's CAS for Ukraine. Both the CAS
(26448-UA) dated September 2003, which covered the period 2004-2007(26448-UA),
and the CAS Progress report (32250-UA) dated May 2005 highlight the importance of
the energy sector in Ukraine, both on the macro level to contribute to the resolution of
fiscal problems through financial discipline, as well as to address environmental issues
through improved energy efficiency. The Bank is continuing to emphasize the need for
attention to limit the risks that the energy sector poses for macroeconomic and fiscal
sustainability, and assure that the energy needs of the economy are met satisfactorily. In
addition, the government is also aiming to improve the technical performance,
governance and financial viability of the energy sector; and to upgrade national
infrastructure.

Improvement of energy efficiency continues to be one of the key elements of the
government's strategy to reduce the high energy intensity of the Ukrainian economy.
Taking into account the increased gas prices in Ukraine, the efficiency of heat generation
is in line with the government's and the Bank's energy policy. In addition, the objective
of the project is in line with the Bank's dialogue with the Government as outlined in the
CAS (2003- 2007) and further elaborated in two recent papers discussed between the
Government and the Bank in 2006: `Challenges Facing the Gas Sector' and `Addressing
Challenges in Provision of Heat, Water and Sanitation'.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

Moderately Unsatisfactory. The project was only partly successful in achieving its
objectives, as demonstrated by the following:

(i) Improving heat production capacity of the Kyiv District Heating System.

Three hot water boilers each of 180 Gcal/h heat capacity (one at TETS-5 and two at
TETS-6) have been installed and put into operation and have enabled Kyivenergo to
provide additional heat supply of 540 GCal/h, to housing and social facilities in some
areas of Kyiv. In addition, these three hot water boilers, have improved the reliability
and security of heat supply consumers in the respective areas of Kyiv both because of
additional heating as well as replacement of old unreliable valves and other equipment
with new. Another impact is the lower operation and maintenance costs because of the
reduced electricity consumption of the pumps.




                                              12

The CT-1 Heating Plant supplies heat to downtown Kyiv and its rehabilitation has been
one of the main components of the project. The plan was to replace two boilers which
have not been used for a long time with modern and efficient boilers (2*100 Gcal/h),
construct a new stack for the whole plant, construct new power supply lines and a gas
pressure station. All the equipment has been purchased and delivered. The stack and
cable lines are in operation, but the two boilers have not been installed because of the
unexpectedly high costs of installation works. As mentioned in Section 2.5, additional
loan funds of US$40 million to complete the installation could not be provided before the
project closing on June 30, 2007. Since two hot water boilers, the main equipment under
the project, are not in operation, there is no impact of this subcomponent in improving the
heat production capacity.

Pozniaki Heating Plant: The construction of the Pozniaki heating plant has experienced
many difficulties during project implementation including: (i) difficulty in obtaining the
right of way for the gas supply pipeline in the area of Kyiv Oblast resulting in delays of
about three years; and (ii) lack of co-financing from Kyivenergo. The plant is not yet in
operation in 2007. Kyivenergo expects to complete the remaining installations including
about two km of gas pipeline by the end of 2008. As in the case of the CT-1 Heating
Plant, since the scheduled activities were not completed, there is no impact of this
subcomponent in improving the heat production capacity.

Achievement of this objective is moderately unsatisfactory.

(ii) Rehabilitating and introducing modern technologies and materials into the Kyiv
District Heating System.

District heating system. Replacement of old heat and hot water supply pipe by pre-
insulated pipe has decreased significantly heat losses and increased the operational life of
the heating mains. Out of the planned installation of 168 km (168 km single pipe is equal
to 84 km double pipe channel) of pre-insulated pipe, 130 km (single pipe) have been
installed. The remaining pipes will be installed by Kyivenergo's own financing by 2011.

Installation of new modern equipment in the heat substations replacing obsolete and
physically worn-out equipment has made it possible to optimize the operational schedule
of the heating system and increase energy savings. Likewise, installation of about 1560
ultrasonic heat meters has resulted in improved payments by customers for consumed
heat energy. In addition, radio-modules have created a system of remote readings of heat
meters that has significantly decreased man-hours and increased the volume of data
handled.

Power supply of district heating system. Installation of SF-6 modules of OPTIGIM
type at two 110 kV substations has increased the reliability and safety of 110 kV
switching units operation, extending their service life and decreased operational costs.

Application of modern microprocessor protection and control devices has resulted in
increased safety of electric equipment, increased operational reliability of consumer
power supply networks and has provided the possibility of data collection and handling
for the substations' control systems (MicroSCADA). Creation of substations control
systems in turn will considerably increase the reliability of their operation.


                                               13

The Electric Substation was completed in 2002 as planned and it supplies power to
downtown Kyiv. Without it there would be deficit of power of about 30 MW in 2007.
The substation supplies new developments in downtown including new businesses,
public buildings, and apartment buildings. The benefit from the new substation is that it
has allowed the area to be supplied by power from the grid which is less expensive and
generated from a mixture of coal, natural gas and hydropower. The alternative would
likely have been to supply power from individual open cycle gas turbines. The difference
in the cost of power supplied from the open cycle gas turbines compared to power from
the grid is the main benefit of the substation. In addition there is a reduction in operating
costs because the substation is new.


Achievement of this objective is satisfactory.


(iii) Promoting sound cost recovery policies and practices.

Establishment of electricity tariffs. In September 2005, in accordance with Cabinet of
Ministers of Ukraine's resolution on transfer to unified retail tariffs for electricity, the new
scheme of electricity supply and unified tariffs for legal entities was adopted. Consequently,
electricity tariffs are given on a monthly basis for each electricity generating company in
Ukraine.

Electricity tariffs for individuals, established by National Electricity Regulatory
Commission (NERC), were defined in March 1999 and in December 1999 VAT was
imposed on electricity sales. In May 2006, electricity tariffs for residential customers were
increased by 25% and since September 2006 electricity tariffs were again increased by 25%.

Establishment of heat tariffs. Heat tariffs are established by the Kyiv City Government.
In accordance with Section 4.03 of the Loan Agreement between the Bank and GOU, the
City of Kyiv shall adjust heat tariffs for Kyivenergo on a regular basis to such levels as
shall enable Kyivenergo to cover the costs of production, transmission and distribution,
operation and maintenance, interest payments, allowances for depreciation and
contributions to its reserves.

Tariffs for heat for individuals and legal entities were changed in December 2006 from
the average 54.42 UAH/Gcal and 72.37 UAH/Gcal to average 132.41 UAH/Gcal and
136.82 UAH/Gcal, respectively.

In 2007, however, being a politically and socially sensitive issue, heat tariffs for
individuals were decreased to 94.44 UAH/Gcal with retroactive effect from December 1,
2006. Tariffs for legal entities were further changed on 1 February 2007 and are currently
171.62 UAH/Gcal. The municipality of Kyiv is compensating the losses due to the lower
than cost recovery level to Kyivenergo as obliged by the law. These arrangements
provide Kyivenergo annually funds, which will cover the heat generation and
transmission costs. However, the funds from the municipality are not provided in a
timely manner, which results in difficulties in financial planning of the company. At the
same time, it is worth mentioning that the increases in average heat tariffs combined with
the payments from Kyiv City Government mean that cost recovery, while still not yet




                                              14

adequate, has considerably improved compared to the situation when the project began.


Achievement of this objective is moderately unsatisfactory.


(iv) Supporting institutional strengthening and commercialization of Project district
heating entities.

(a) Kyivenergo and Kyiv City changed the institutional structure for DH by merging the
heat distribution networks and the small, isolated heat networks with the main heat
production and transmission system which has resulted in improvements in efficiency in
the supply of heat and hot water.

(b) A number of reforms were introduced regarding the heat tariff structure and in billing
and collection of heat bills, which were aimed at improving the financial performance of
Kyivenergo.


(c) An institutional study to review options for the most efficient institutional and
corporate structure of Kyivenergo was carried out by German consultants, and completed
with a final workshop held in February 2005. The workshop was attended by key
stakeholders including Kyiv City, Kyivenergo, Parliament, State and Housing and
Communal Service Committee and others. The audience largely supported the
consultant's recommendations on ways to improve the efficiency of Kyivenergo through
various restructurings. Kyivenergo, a beneficiary of the study, has started applying the
consultant's proposals, especially divesting non-core activities such as construction,
guard services, and repair works.

(d) About 1000 specialists from Kyivenergo participated in the numerous training
courses, workshops (installation, commissioning, operating and maintenance) held by the
suppliers of the equipment and materials.

(e) The project has created a strong positive influence on skill level of Kyivenergo
personnel. During preparation and implementation phases of the project the PIU staff
attended workshops on project management, procurement and financial management
which were conducted by the Bank. For example, the project has helped Kyivenergo staff
improve the speed of implementing bidding processes. In each and every branch there is
a special group for conducting the bidding process, including evaluating bidding
documents, contract preparation, and monitoring of the contracting process.


Achievement of this objective is satisfactory.

3.3 Efficiency

The efficiency of results vary greatly among the six sub-components. Three sub-
components were satisfactorily completed and have real Economic and Financial Rates of
Return (ERR and FRR) which are above the cost of capital (estimated to be 10%). These
three sub-components are: (i) the new boilers for the thermal heating plants TETS 5 and



                                            15

TETS 6; (ii) the new electric substation; and 3) the heat substations and heat meters sub-
component. The district heating transmission and distribution rehabilitation component
has an ERR and an FRR which are substantially below the cost of capital as a result of
the long delays in implementation. The Pozniaki Heating Plant and CT-1 Heating Plant
Components are not yet completed although they are expected to be completed within the
next two to three years. Their final ERRs and FRRs are unknown but are likely to be
below the cost of capital. Thus the results of this project are very mixed with three
economically efficient sub-components and three sub-components which are probably
not efficient. Overall the project should probably be rated as marginally inefficient,
taking into account the fact that the results of the two sub-components are not known at
this time.


3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

Based on the discussion given in Sections 3.2 and 3.3, the overall outcome is rated as
Moderately Unsatisfactory.


3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

The project has had a positive impact on poverty alleviation. Improvements in heat
services are beneficial to all customers of Kyivenergo, especially to the poor who cannot
afford investments in individual heating sources.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening)

See Section 3.2 (iv)

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

There was no unintended outcome or impact of the project.


3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

N/A

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Substantial




                                              16

    · Those investments already completed under the project are sustainable. On the
       other hand, there is the risk of not obtaining sufficient funds for the completion of
       two boiler plants in the CT-1 Heating Plant and also to continue financing other
       rehabilitation works.

    · Because tariff increases are a politically and socially sensitive issue Kyiv City
       continues to be reluctant to increase the tariff for household heating. Unless this
       tariff is adequately raised to cover the actual cost of operation, Kyivenergo will
       not be in a position to make investments for maintenance, rehabilitation, and new
       construction. Besides, huge arrears owed by Kyiv City to Kyivenergo as
       compensation to recover all expenditures, including the actual cost of operation
       (because of the low tariff on household heating), is making Kyivenergo's
       financial situation more vulnerable.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Satisfactory

The Bank's performance in the identification, preparation, and appraisal of the project
was satisfactory. During preparation and appraisal, the Bank took into account the
adequacy of project design and all major relevant aspects, including the technical,
financial, economic, institutional, procurement and financial management aspects. In
addition, major risk factors and lessons learned from previous Bank-supported DH
projects were considered and incorporated into the project design.

Preparation of the project included environmental studies consistent with the
requirements of: (i) the Ukrainian Ministry of Protection of Natural Environment;
(ii)1992 Law of Ukraine for the Protection of the Environment; and (iii) the provisions of
World Bank Operational Directive 4.00 on Environmental Policies. In accordance with
these procedures, an environmental review, consistent with the requirements for a
category "B" project for the boiler houses, CHP plant, DH piping, Center electric
substation and rehabilitation components was performed. A social assessment, to appraise
the impacts of the lack of adequate heat and hot water on residential DH consumers in
Kyiv, was carried out during the appraisal of the project. The social assessment was
based on: (a) structured in-depth interviews and focus group discussions with residential
DH consumers and (b) a survey administered to 365 households in Kyiv.

The Bank had a consistently good working relationship with the Borrower and the
implementing agency during preparation and appraisal.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Satisfactory



                                             17

The Bank's performance during the implementation of the project was satisfactory. The
task team focused on the project's development impact. The Bank allocated sufficient
budget and staff resources, and the project was adequately supervised and closely
monitored. The task team regularly prepared Aide-Memoires, alerted the Government
and Kyivenergo about issues found during project execution and facilitated corrective
actions. The Implementation Status Reports (ISRs) realistically rated the performance of
the project both in terms of achievement of development objectives and project
implementation.

The Bank's procurement and financial management staff worked with Kyivenergo staff
to explain the rules and procedures to be applied during project implementation, with
regard to procurement of goods and works, selection of consultants, accounts and audits.
The Bank's financial management specialist reviewed the project's financial management
arrangements as to their adequacy and acceptability to the Bank. The assessment included
a review of project staffing, accounting, flow of funds, internal controls, co-financing,
budgeting, reporting, auditing, and also a review of a sample of transactions.

The Bank carried out a MTR of the project in July 2002. In addition to the topics covered
under the semi-annual progress reports, the MTR included an in-depth review of the
economic viability of the project components, based on actual costs and benefits achieved
to-date, and of the overall institutional and financial viability of Kyivenergo. Based on
the recommendations of the MTR, measures were taken to ensure improvement in
implementation performance.

The Bank team assisted Kyivenergo in designing a medium and long term heating sector
strategy, and developing the necessary institutional and legal framework. The Bank team
provided detailed technical and strategic comments on the institutional study to review
options for the most efficient institutional and corporate structure of Kyivenergo.

The task team conducted workshops to present the findings and recommendations of the
consultants, and prepared its comments on the recommendations of the consultants, and
then they were sent to the government agencies concerned for taking decisions. The Bank
team also arranged for Kyivenergo's management and representatives of Kyiv City to
visit Germany and Finland to get acquainted with institutional arrangements of municipal
utilities.

The task team also provided intensive hands-on support to Kyivenergo to put in place
project management, procurement and financial management arrangements. The Bank
conducted numerous workshops on project management, procurement and financial
management, which resulted in a well-trained group at Kyivenergo and eventually
improved the speed of implementing bidding processes.

The Bank team arranged contacts between Kyivenergo and Krakow (Poland), Riga
(Latvia), and Tallinn (Estonia) District Heating companies which Kyivenergo's staff
visited to get acquainted with implementation of similar projects. Kyivenergo staff also



                                              18

visited Helsinki to get acquainted with a Western DH system. Technical, tariff and
financial aspects were discussed during the visits.

The task team discussed with the GOU and Kyivenergo management the possibility of
providing additional funding for completion of the CT-1 heating plant. Taking into
account the importance of the CT-1 heating plant, as the main heat source for the
downtown area, the task team recommended to the Bank management to consider
processing additional funding for the completion of the installation and civil works at
CT-1 in an amount of US$ 40 million.

The Bank's country office in Kiev provided an active supporting role, especially in terms
of coordinating with the officials of Kyivenergo and the government.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

Based on the Bank performance during lending phase and supervision as discussed above,
overall Bank performance is rated as Satisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

The government's commitment to achieve the development objectives was strong at the
project concept and preparation stages. It also ensured that the participatory process
during project preparation was adequate. The government consistently maintained its
commitment throughout project implementation. Appropriate levels of review and
approval were usually in place; financial accountability and follow-up was mostly
observed; and documentation was maintained properly for periodic review.

Nonetheless, the continuous political changes at the government level during the entire
project implementation period, and in the final years of the project, also at the municipal
level, made it difficult for Kyivenergo to have continuous support on important
legislative and regulatory improvements. This was the case especially in 2005-2007,
when the gas price in Ukraine increased rapidly. The increase in heat tariffs became a
hot political topic during the local elections. The debate finally caused the municipality
to lower already agreed tariffs, and the collection rate temporarily dropped because some
top politicians advised the population not to pay their heating bills.

The government's relationship and coordination with the Bank were satisfactory. The
government officials worked closely with the Bank's project team on a continual basis,
and cooperated fully with the task team. The MOF's internal procedures, especially for
disbursements, were implemented in a smooth way, even though at times there were




                                              19

some delays. Transition arrangements for regular operation of supported activities after
Loan closing are deemed adequate.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

As explained earlier, the project implementation started very slowly because of various
reasons, such as the Project Manager, who was also Chairman of the Board of
Kyivenergo, not devoting sufficient attention to the project during a significant part of the
time in the first 3-4 years, slow and bureaucratic approval procedures within the
company, and high turnover of staff in the PIU. These adverse factors resulted in slow
disbursement and a few amendments in the Loan Agreement.

Similarly, project implementation was seriously affected by the persistent lack of
counterpart financing from Kyivenergo. Due to the lack of counterpart funding, the
installation works could not be financed as was planned, and many implementation
activities were seriously delayed. In particular, two boilers in CT-1 Heating Plant could
not be installed, and construction and installation works in Pozniaki heating plant were
not completed under the project.

The PIU within Kyivenergo was well staffed, and managed professionally. It was
generally effective in carrying out various aspects of project management, such as
accounting, financial management, procurement arrangements, and reporting activities:

        Accounting. Accounting information was controlled by the chief accountant of the
        Company who had access to the data entered under the project. The cycle of
        initiation of the contract ­ acceptance of the work ­preparation of the financial
        documents ­ payment approval ­ payment- was properly segregated and
        controlled by different departments. Staffing of the financial management
        functions was acceptable. The functions of accounting and financial management
        were properly arranged.

        Financial Management. Kyivenergo's performance in Financial Management was
        overall moderately satisfactory for the following reasons: (i) improvements were
        needed in the contents and presentation of PMRs; (ii) PMRs were submitted with
        a delay; (iii) audit reports were submitted with a delay; and (iv) according to the
        audit of 2004 financial statements, Kyivenergo did not comply in 2004 with two
        out of three financial covenants, namely accounts receivable and current assets
        ratio. The non-compliance was largely due to sector-wide issues with loss-making
        tariffs established by municipalities and difficulties in collecting heat bills from
        households residing in multi-apartment buildings, and electricity bills from water
        supply and sewerage companies. The audit report of Kyivenergo for 2005 was
        qualified, and the management letter addressed a number of weaknesses in the
        internal control system of the entity.




                                              20

        Reporting. Kyivenergo prepared semi-annual progress reports which were
        generally submitted to the Bank within one month after the end of each semester.
        The progress reports included, among other things, information regarding: (a)
        overall progress of the project, (b) costs for each contract and for the total project,
        (c) procurement actions, (d) financial performance, (e) compliance with covenants
        under the Loan, (f) issues affecting project implementation and (g) performance
        monitoring indicators.

        Procurement Arrangements.          Procurement of all works, goods and technical
        services under the project followed the Procurement Guidelines "Procurement
        under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits".

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

In light of the Government and Kyivenergo performance as discussed above, the overall
performance of the Borrower was moderately satisfactory.


6. Lessons Learned

According to the Borrower, the lessons learned are:

    · For a project of this kind, even if the heating system is designed locally, it is
        important to use the services of advisors on a regular basis for updating technical
        know-how and learning international best practices on the technical design and
        other aspects of heating systems.

    · For boilers, it is better to have one contractor for both goods supplied and
        installation works. This would insure that responsibility is not divided and that the
        total costs are known from the start.

    · Considering that Kyivenergo did not have previous experience in dealing with a
        project financed by an international organization, for a huge project such as this, it
        would have been better to implement it in a phased manner with fewer
        components. This approach would have enabled Kyivenergo's management to
        implement the project more effectively and efficiently.

    · It is necessary to allocate substantial amount of funds for installation works in the
        Loan Agreement itself, so that even if the Government does not meet its
        commitments on heat tariffs, the implementation of the investment program
        would not suffer. Similarly, while preparing the business plan, it is important for
        the beneficiary to provide adequate reserves from its own funds for installation
        and other works, so that even if there is delay in getting funds from bilateral or
        multilateral institutions installation, maintenance, and investment activities will
        not be adversely affected.



                                               21

    · In light of the political sensitivity of raising the heat tariff on households and
       effective cost recovery, it is worth considering alternative means of reducing the
       impact of price hikes on the poor. There are better targeted means than flat rate
       tariff reductions, including social transfer systems and life line tariffs.

    · Tariff setting and price regulation should be separated from the municipalities
       which would reduce the political pressure on heat tariffs. This would provide a
       possibility for a sustainable financial planning within the heating companies. In
       Kyiv this was especially a problem at the end of the project in 2006-2007 after the
       gas prices increased drastically and the setting of heat tariffs became a political
       debate in the press. As a result, the prices were reduced much below the cost
       recovering level.

    · Training of the key staff involved in the project, not only from PIU but from the
       subsidiaries as well, should be conducted in the very beginning of the project
       implementation.

    · In order to harmonize delivery and installation phases, supply and installation
       (turnkey) contracts should be used whenever applicable.

    · The Company structure should be modified in the very beginning of the project
       implementation in order to ensure adequate and timely support from subsidiaries
       involved in the Project.


7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

Comments and corrections on the draft ICR received from Kyivenergo have been
incorporated in the text of this ICR.

(b) Cofinanciers

EBRD had planned to co-finance the project for the Kyiv Municipal DH Company
(KMDHC) but after the merger of Kyivenergo and Kyiv Municipal DH Company
(KMDHC) EBRD withdrew from the planned financing because of Kyivenergo's and
Kyiv City's refusal to accept some conditions of the lending proposed by EBRD.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)
N/A




                                              22

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a)      Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)

(Total rows and percentage column will be calculated by the system)


                                    Appraisal Estimate   Actual/Latest
           Components                                                             Percentage of
                                      (USD millions)    Estimate (USD
                                                            millions)               Appraisal

            Kyivenergo
Heat Production Capacity                 140.6                 55.1
Improvement                                                                            40%

District Heating Rehabilitation           71.5                163.3                    228%
Institutional Support                      0.5                 1.0                     200%


             Total Baseline Cost         212.6                219.4                    103%
Physical Contingencies                    21.2                   -
Price Contingencies                       17.4                   -
              Total Project Costs        251.2                219.4                    87%
Project Preparation Fund                   0.0                 0.0
Front-end fee IBRD                         0.0                 0.0
Import Duties                              3.1                 0.0
      Total Financing Required           254.3                219.4                    86%

  Kyiv Municipal DH Company
Secondary Pipe and Substation
Rehabilitation *                            54.7                   0


      Total Financing Required           308.9                219.4                    71%

* Kyiv Municipal DH Company was merged to Kyivenergo and this part of the project was implemented
partly under Heat Distribution Component



(b) Financing
                                                      Appraisal Actual/Latest

           Source of Funds               Type of      Estimate          Estimate     Percentage of
                                        Cofinancing    (USD               (USD         Appraisal
                                                      millions)         millions)
World Bank                                             200.0              159.7           80%
EBRD                                                    40.0               0.0              -
Project Agency: Kyivenergo                              54.2              59.7            110%




                                              23

Annex 2. Outputs by Component

1. HEAT PRODUCTION CAPACITY IMPROVEMENT COMPONENT

(i) Pozniaky Boiler Plant Subcomponent

The equipment was supplied for completion of the 1st stage of the Pozniaki heating plant
including the Gas Pressure Reduction Station (GPRS), gas pipeline (10.1 km), Automated Control
System (ACS), pipes (27.2 km), 0,66-10 kV cables and wires (245.7 km), valves (1620 pcs.), heat
insulation materials, electrical and auxiliary equipment.

Most of the construction and electrical installation works (over 90%) are completed. The complex
of works on hydro testing of water heating boilers, DH pipelines, and steam pipelines is also
completed. Pre-commissioning works on ACS, heat and mechanical equipment are in progress.
6.5 km of gas pipelines were installed, but only part of the gas supply pipeline is completed and
the plant has not been put into operation. The remaining works and commissioning will be done
by Kyivenergo's own funds by end 2008.

In addition to the investments at the Pozniaki heating plant this sub-component included power
supply line to Pozniaki, which also supplies electricity to the area. The following works were
fully completed: (i) power supply to Pozniaki Boiler Plant electrical substation (110 kV)
Osokorky was built and put into operation; (ii) the power transmission line (110 kV) from
Kharkovskaya to Osokorky (2.3 km) was built and put into operation; (iii) electrical substation
Kharkovskaya was rehabilitated, including replacement of 10 circuit breakers of 110 kV; (iv)
power cables (10 kV) between the Pozniaky heating plant and the electrical substation Osokorky
were installed, and (v) the fiber optic communication network between the power and heat supply
units of Kyivenergo, fibre optic cable (42.2 km) with accessories and multiplex equipment was
purchased and is being installed by Kyivenergo.

(ii) -1 Rehabilitation Subcomponent

Plant site subcomponent

For the rehabilitation the CT-1 heating plant the following equipment was supplied: (i) 2 hot
water boilers of 100 Gcal/h each; (ii) 2 steam boilers of 25 t/h each; (iii) equipment for the water
treatment plant (WTP); (iv) a 90 m stack for the whole plant; and (v) other electrical and
technical equipment.

The following works were performed, including dismantling of old water heating boilers,
disassembling of old buildings, reconstruction of sections of the heat main pipeline. Construction
of a new GPRS is underway and WTP construction are in progress under Kyivenergo's own
financing. Installation and commissioning of a three-pipe stack was completed and in operation
for two existing boilers.

However, the main equipment, two hot water boilers (2 * 100 Gcal/h), could not be installed
because of lack of Kyivenergo's own and loan financing and Kyivenergo's inability to obtain
approval to negotiate the additional financing loan from the Bank. Kyivenergo plans to install the
boiler equipment under their financing by 2010.

In addition to the investments at the site of CT-1 heating plant the following power cable and
electric substation investments were fully completed under the CT-1 sub-component: (i) to supply
power to the ­1 heating plant and to other consumers in the area, an electrical substation (110
kV) CT-1 was built; (ii) electrical substations Bastionna and Politekhnichna were rehabilitated;
(iii) 110 kV substations Vokzalna and Solomenska, which provides backup power to CT-1, are


                                                 24

under rehabilitation with Kyivenergo's own financing (iv) power cable (110 kV ) lines between
electrical substations Oktyabrskaya and Stankozavodska (1.6 km) and between substations
Oktyabrskaya and Polytekhnichna" (3.2 km) were built; and (v) and fiber optic communication
network between power and heat supply units of JSC Kyivenergo fiber optic cable with
accessories and multiplex equipment was purchased and is being installed by Kyivenergo.


(iii) TETS-5 and TETS 6 Rehabilitation and Expansion Subcomponent

One hot water boiler of 180 Gcal/h was installed in TETS 5. Rehabilitation of internal DH
networks was carried out.

Two hot water boilers of 180 Gcal/h each were installed in TETS 6. Rehabilitation of internal DH
networks was carried out.


2. DH REHABILITATION COMPONENT

(i) Pipes and Valves Replacement Subcomponent

168 km of preinsulated pipes together with valves and compensators were supplied, of which
about 130 km of pipes were installed and are in operation and 3254 pieces of valves were
installed. The remaining preinsulated pipes will be installed by Kyivenergo's financing by 2011.

(ii) Substation Center Subcomponent

Cable power transmission lines between the electric substations (110 kV) Centre and Bastionna
(3.1 km), substations Center and Vokzalna (2.6 km), and substations Vokzalna and
Polytekhnichna (0.4 km) were built and put in operation, which made it possible to put in
operation the substation Center (110 kV). The substation Center provides power to downtown
Kyiv. To incorporate the new substation Center into Kyiv power supply system 45 km of 10 kV
underground power cable was laid.

To provide data transmission from substation Center to the Dispatch Center of the Central Region
Cable Networks and to arrange dispatch/technology communication channels, 5.3 km of fibre
optic cable line was constructed.


(iii) Heat Metering and Heat Meters (DH Distribution Networks Subcomponent)

About 1950 heat metering units (including heat meters and temperature regulators) and 18
individual heat substations were supplied, of which about 1560 heat metering units and 17
individual heat substations were installed.


3. INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT COMPONENT

In accordance with the Loan Agreement an international consultant carried out the institutional
study, aimed at reviewing options for the most efficient institutional and corporate structure of
Kyivenergo.

The study has been completed with a final workshop held in February 2005 and attended by key
stakeholders including Kyiv City, Kyivenergo, Parliament, State and Housing and Communal
Service Committee and others. The audience largely supported consultant recommendations on
ways to improve the efficiency of Kyivenergo through various restructuring.




                                                25

Kyivenergo, a beneficiary of the study, has started applying the consultant proposals, specifically
divested non-core activities such as construction, guard services, and repair works.

Besides, about 1000 specialists from Kyivenergo participated in the numerous training courses,
workshops (installation, commissioning, operating and maintenance) held by the suppliers of the
up-to-date equipment and materials.

At the initial stage of the Project implementation consultancy services in the areas of detailed
design and procurement were provided.




                                                 26

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

The Project has six components broken down into two groups. The first group is heat production
and capacity improvements while the second group is district heating rehabilitation and electricity.
Four of these components are completed but two components have not yet been completed
although they are expected to be completed in the next two-three years. The ERR for all four
completed components together is 13%. This is reasonable, especially, since as discussed below,
it probably underestimates the benefits. This potential underestimation occurs because the price
of gas used in calculating this ERR was the price paid by Kyivenergo for Russian Gas- which was
mostly below the market price meaning the price paid by non Ukrainian Customers. The
financial rate of return for the four components is estimated at 7% .This excludes corporate
income taxes but includes the impact of various duties and social overheads as described in the
SAR.

Heat Production Capacity Improvement Components:

At appraisal there was a significant deficit in heat generation capacity and in addition the city of
Kyiv was expanding and population growing which resulted in the conclusion that the heat
demand would grow and there would be an urgent need for additional generation capacity. The
city has grown but the heat demand has not grown as expected because of energy savings and
new buildings, especially commercial buildings, which use gas in individual boilers for heating
purposes. The heat production components were reduced during the project to better reflect the
real heating needs of Kyiv.

There are three heat production components. One of these components was completed
successfully. This is the additional boiler capacity for TETS 5 and 6. The other two components
have not been completed. In that sense they are unsatisfactory, although it is possible that in the
longer run, when they are completed, they could have positive rates of economic return.

TETS-5 and TETS-6 Component:

The two major heat sources in Kyiv are TETS-5 and 6 (Combined heat and power (CHP) plants 5
and 6). The project included additional hot water boiler capacity for these heat sources to cover
the heat generation deficit. In 1998, 2 hot water boilers (2*180 Gcal/h) were installed, one in
TETS-5 and one in TETS-6. These boilers supply heat during the winter to cover the peak
demand. In 2004 an additional boiler of 180 Gcal/h was installed at TETS-6. The heating units
at TETS-5 have been nearly fully loaded every winter basically without reserve capacity, because
TETS-5 also supplies an area on the left bank of the Dnipro-river, which will be supplied from
the Pozniaki plant once it is completed.

The boilers at TETS-5 and 6 were installed early in the project and have been in operation since
late 1998. The benefits are:
    · Additional heat production and sale which is made possible by the higher capacity of the
        plants, due to the new boilers.,
    · Lower operation and maintenance costs mainly because of the reduced electricity
        consumption of the pumps,

The economic analysis gives the economic rate of return as 23.4% for these boiler investments.
The estimate in the SAR was 25%. The estimated FRR for this component is 22% compared to
18% in the SAR.



                                                 27

Pozniaki Heating Plant:

The construction of the Pozniaki heating plant has experienced many difficulties during project
implementation including; (i) difficulty obtaining the right of way for the gas supply pipeline in
the area of Kyiv Oblast resulting in delays of about 3 years, and (ii) lack of co-financing from the
Ukrainian side. The plant is not yet in operation in 2007. Kyivenergo expects to complete the
remaining installations, including about two km of gas pipeline, by the end 2008.

The economic analysis of this component could not be done because the component is not
complete.

CT-1 Heating Plant:

The CT-1 heating plant supplies heat to downtown Kyiv and its rehabilitation has been one of the
main components of the project. The plan was to replace two boilers which have not been used
for a long time with modern and efficient boilers (2*100 Gcal/h), construct a new stack and a new
water treatment facility for the whole plant and construct new power supply lines and a gas
pressure station. All the equipment has been purchased and delivered. The stack and cable lines
are in operation, but the two boilers have not been installed because of the unexpectedly high
costs of installation works. The Bank and Kyivenergo tried to process additional loan funds of
US$ 40 million to complete the installation, but because of the new conditions of the sub-loan
agreement (150% collateral in the first place, and higher margin of on-lending), the Ukrainian
sub-borrower could not meet the on-lending terms and the additional funds could not be provided.
Kyivenergo plans to finance the installation of the boilers from local sources and expects to
complete the plant in 2010.

Since the main equipment under the project, two hot water boilers, are not in operation, the
economic analysis for this component can not be completed.

DH Rehabilitation and Electric Components:

There are three such components. All of them can be viewed as satisfactory although the
transmission and distribution rehabilitation component would have to be viewed as marginally
satisfactory since it took so long to complete and the ERR is low. All of these components
involve saving natural gas either directly or indirectly ( electricity substation). The gas price used
is the one paid by Kyivenergo. However, this price was,during most of the period, substantially
below the market price where the market price is defined as the price paid by most non Ukrainian
Customers for the same gas from Gazprom. If this " market price" is used for natural gas instead
of what Kyivenergo paid, it would raise substantially the ERRs for all three of these components.

District heating transmission and distribution rehabilitation component

This component was planned to be implemented based on the principle that the loan proceeds
would be used for purchasing goods (pipes, valves etc) and local co-financing would be used to
finance the installation works. In the beginning of the project the above financing principle
worked and the pipes procured in 1999 and 2000 were installed using Kyivenergo's own funds.
However since 2001 Kyivenergo could finance the installation of only a small portion of the
procured pipes. In 2003 the loan agreement was amended allowing the use of loan proceeds for
installation works. This accelerated the installation works but the earlier delays, higher than
expected installation costs and limited installation capacity of local contractors, resulted in slow


                                                  28

installation. By the Fall of 2007 about 130 km of pipes (about 65 km dual pipe channel) had been
installed and put into operation. About 40 km of pipes (20 km dual pipe channel) are still in
storage and according to Kyivenergo will be installed by the end of 2011.

As a result of the slow installation works, the investments were made (pipes purchased ) but they
were not installed on time and therefore the benefits in terms of better efficiency and reduced
leakages were not achieved as soon as planned.

Benefits:
    · Reduced thermal losses due to replacement of the pipes in the worst condition,
    · Reduced water losses,
    · Reduced operation, maintenance and repair costs,
    · Improved reliability of heat supply,

The ERR for this component is 3.0%. The estimate in the SAR was 15%. The estimated FRR for
this project is negative while in the SAR it was 13%.

Electric Substation Center:

The Substation Center was completed in 2002 as planned and supplies power to downtown Kyiv.
Without it there would be a deficit of power of about 30 MW in 2007. The substation supplies
new developments in downtown including new businesses, public buildings, and apartment
buildings.

In calculating the ERR it was assumed that had this new and higher capacity substation not been
built, this part of downtown Kyiv would have been supplied with additional power by open cycle
gas turbines using natural gas since this is the least cost alternative. The benefit from the new
substation is that it allowed the area to be supplied by power from the grid which is less
expensive and generated from a mixture of coal, natural gas and hydropower. The difference in
the cost of power supplied by the open cycle gas turbines compared to power from the grid is the
main benefit of the substation. In addition there is a reduction in operating costs because the
substation is new. The ERR is 27%. This is about the estimate in the SAR which was 26%.

The FRR for this component uses the price at which electricity is sold as the value of the
electricity rather than the cost of operating an open cycle gas turbine. The resultant FRR is 17.7%
compared to 14.0% in the SAR.

Heat Substations and Heat Meters:

This component consisted of heat meters, heat substations and heat exchangers. About 1560 heat
metering units with automatic temperature regulation, a small number of individual building level
substations and heat exchangers for heating and hot water were installed between 2002 and 2007.
The economic benefits are energy savings in buildings (10 -15%) resulting in reduced gas
consumption in heat generation.

Other benefits are:
    · Better customer service and customer satisfaction, since they are less likely to get too
         much or too little heat.




                                                  29

The calculated ERR is 14.4%. The estimate in the SAR was 27%. The financial rate of return is
12.7% compared to the SAR estimate which was also 27%.

The table below summarizes the results of the Economic and Financial Analysis.

            ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL RESULTS COMPARED TO SAR

Components                            SAR ( Forecast)                      Actual
                                  ERR              FRR            ERR             FRR
Heat Production
 TETS 5 and 6                     25%              18%            23.4%           22%
 Pozniaki Heat Plant             15.5%             10.7%           n.a.            n.a.
 CT-1 Heat Plant                 30.3%             29.4%           n.a.            n.a.

DH Rehabilitation and
Electric Components
 DH Rehabililtation               15%              13%            3.0%            Neg.
 Electric Substation              26%              14%            27%            17.7%
 Heat Substations +meters         27%              27%            14.4%          12.7%




                                              30

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members

            Names                         Title                Unit       Responsibility/
                                                                             Specialty
Lending
Carolyn Gochenour        Financial Analyst                    ECS4IN Team Leader
Pentti Aro               District Heating and Power Engineer  ECS4IN District Heating Specialist
Eugen Finkel             Consultant                           ECS4IN Social Scientist
Luis Gutierrez           Consultant                           ECS4IN Energy Economist
Pekka Salminen           Consultant                           ECS4IN District Heating Specialist
Antanasijje Kocic        Consultant                           ECS4IN Power Engineer Specialist
Konstantin Skorik        Research Analyst                     ECCUA Research Analyst
Dmitry Slusarchuk        Research Analyst                     ECCUA Research Analyst

Supervision/ICR
Carolyn Gochenour        Sr. Financial Analyst                ECSIE Program Team Leader

Pekka Salminen           Sr. Energy Specialist                ECSSD   Team Leader (as of April
                                                                      2006)/Procurement Specialist

Pentti Aro               District Heating and Power                   District Heating and Power
                         Engineer                             ECSIE   Engineer

Yuri Miroshnichenko      Operations Officer                  ECCUA    Operations Officer/Task Team
                                                                      Leader (Jan 2005 ­ April 2006)
Konstantin Skorik        Operations Officer                  ECCUA Operations Officer
Enar Wennerstrom         Financial Management Specialist      ECSIE Financial Management Specialist
Jann Masterson           Operations Officer                   ECSSD Operations Officer
Irina Babich             Financial Management Specialist      ECCU2 Financial Management Specialist
Vitaly Kazakov           Financial Management Specialist     ECCUA Financial Management Specialist
Sati Achath              Consultant                           ECSSD ICR Author
Dmytro Glazkov           Operations Analyst                   ECCU2 Operations Analyst
Rozena Serrano           Program Assistant                    ECSSD Program Assistant

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                         Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle
                                      No. of staff weeks     USD Thousands (including
                                                             travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY96                                                                    0.0
  FY97                                                                    0.0
  FY98                                                                  265.86
  FY99                                                                    3.90


                        Total:                                          269.76




                                           31

                                         Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle
                                      No. of staff weeks     USD Thousands (including
                                                             travel and consultant costs)

Supervision/ICR
 FY00                                                                   131.51
 FY01                                                                    87.68
 FY02                                                                   128.22
 FY03                                                                    97.70
 FY04                                                                    99.11
 FY05                                                                    99.09
 FY06                                                                    86.51
 FY07                                                                    53.88
 FY08                                                                    26.98
                           Total:                                       705.66



Note: Staffweeks are no longer supported by Bank Information




                                           32

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

None




Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

None




                                    33

Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

                                     Joint Stock Company
                                         "Kyivenergo"

                              Implementation Completion Report

                      Kyiv District Heating Improvement Project, Ukraine

                                 World Bank Loan # 4324 UA

                                             Kyiv
                                          August 2007


  The Project name:

  Kyiv District Heating Improvement Project (further ­ Project).

The Project beginning date:
  The Loan Agreement was ratified by the Parliament of Ukraine on March 23, 1999.

  The Law was published in the mass media on April 1, 1999 and counseled by the Ministry of
  Justice on April 9, 1999.

  The Agreement came into force on April 12, 1999 after signing by the World Bank of the
  letter-of notification concerning effectiveness of the Agreement.

The Project closing date:
  June 30, 2007 (financial accounts shall remain open till October 31, 2007).

  The financing sources:

      · World Bank -USD 200 mln.(Loan Agreement of 14.10.1998). In accordance with the
           letter from the World Bank of 01.12.2004 the total amount of investment was
           reduced from USD 200 to 160 mln.

      · JSC Kyivenergo - USD 59.7 mln.(as of 01.11.2007)

  The necessity of Project implementation

  Kyivenergo is among the ten biggest Ukrainian producers of electrical power and the biggest
  producer of heat energy in Ukraine. The established structure of the Company provides the
  whole technological cycle from production to realization of heat and electrical power directly
  to the consumers, and reflects strategy of Kyiv City State Administration (KCSA) directed to
  creation of the integrated power complex in Kyiv.

  Heat supply system in Kyiv historically developed through creation of powerful sources of
  heat supply and distribution heat substations, interconnected by extensive heating networks.

  The low payment capacity of a considerable part of the consumers and the unprofitability of
  heat energy tariffs negatively affected the financial state of the Company, prevented if from
  conducting timely modernization and repair of heat supply sources, heat substations and
  networks.




                                              34

The development rates of city infrastructure and house construction outgrew the development
rates of Kyiv energy system. At present the connected heat load of the consumers in some
districts of the city exceeds the installed capacity.

Transportation and distribution of heat to the consumers are performed via heat pipeline
networks; the total length of which is about 2300 km in double-pipe calculation, one third of
them have been in operation over 25 years.

Maintenance of power equipment in appropriate technical condition needs yearly increases of
costs for its services, reconstruction and modernization, and a considerable part of the
equipment needs complete replacement.

Thus, the main technical problems in the operation of the district heating supply in Kyiv at
the time of Project preparation were:

 · Under capacity of heat supply sources in some districts of the city.

 · Necessity of very old boiler plants replacement (with more than 50 years service life
    period) in the city center and construction of new heat supply sources in the district
    Pozniaky for providing needs of housing construction counting on over 300000 people.

 · Necessity of new higher stack construction at CT-1 (=90 m), the low stacks of which
    created local ecological problems.

 · Under capacity of equipment and obsolete technology of water treatment facilities used
    at CT-1 for makeup of heat networks water losses.

 · Big losses of heat energy and water owing to ineffective pipelines insulation and out-of-
    date pipeline laying technology of heat networks resulting in heavy maintenance
    expenses and necessity of pipeline and equipment replacement before the end of their
    designed operation life.

 · Under capacity and low reliability of heat energy supply in the city center and to
    important consumers, such as the Parliament of Ukraine, the Ministry, the President
    Administration, the underground, the embassies and the representations of the foreign
    countries.

In order to solve the above mentioned problems Kyivenergo together with KCSA in April
1995 applied to the IBRD management with a request for a loan to carry out the
reconstruction of the district heating network in Kyiv.

The Loan Agreement between Ukraine and the IBRD was concluded on October 14, 1998.
The World Bank provided the Loan in the amount of USD 200 mln. with the repayment term
of 20 years, including 5 years of grace period, which corresponded to the Project
implementation period, with the variable interest rate LIBOR+0.5%. The Loan repayment
period is 15 years. The Ministry of Finance of Ukraine has on lent the Loan to Kyivenergo in
accordance with the terms and conditions of the IBRD and a rate increase of 0,5% for
reimbursement of administration costs and risks relating to the sub-loand.

Some problems (long procedure of Loan ratification, unregulated legislation for taxation of
goods imported to the territory of Ukraine in the framework of the Project, considerable
indebtedness of consumers for heat and electricity, long-term uncertainty of payments,
unprofitability of heat tariffs), that arose during preparation and implementation of the Project,
resulted in the delay of its implementation and prevented Kyivenergo from financing the
Project in the specified scope. As a result, the component "Rehabilitation and expansion of
Boiler Plant CT-2" was excluded from the scope of the Project.



                                               35

On December 1, 2004 at the request of Ukraine the World Bank canceled part of the Loan in
the amount of USD 40 mln. and extended the closing date to the end of 2006.

In January 2006 the World Bank approved the decision concerning 100% financing of the
contracts with the local suppliers/contractors that were concluded after November 1, 2005.

In December 2006 the World Bank took the decision concerning the prolongation of Project
implementation till June 30, 2007.

On June 21, 2007 the World Bank informed Kyivenergo about the provision of a four months
grace period (30.06.2007-31.10.2007) for further operations regarding applications for loan
funds for eligible expenses incurred before the Loan closing date.

The Project components

    The Project consists of the following components:

    1. Pozniaky Boiler Plant (completion of construction).


    2. CT-1 Heating Plant rehabilitation.


    3.Rehabilitation and expansion of CHP-5 and CHP-6.


    4. Electrical substation "Center".


    5. Replacement of DH networks pipelines and valves.


    6. Installation of heat metering devices and reconstruction of heat substations.


The Project importance

The project importance's is in achievement of maximum levels of power supply, system
operation reliability, improvement of the ecological situation in the region, arrangement of
comfortable conditions for citizens and the possibility of city infrastructure development as a
whole.

The Project goals:

    · Modernization and replacement of equipment at heat sources in order to increase heat
        sources capacity, resulting in improvement of existing and expected future needs and
        increase of Kyiv DH network reliability and service level;

    · Increase of heat energy sources power supply reliability

    · Operational life extension, effectiveness increase, and improvement of DH network
        maintenance by means of rehabilitation and implementation of up-to-date
        technologies and materials.

The Project implementation
Since the beginning of Project implementation, Kyivenergo has concluded 70 contracts for
equipment supply and work performance in total amounting to over USD 171 mln., of which
USD 160 mln. were to be paid from the World Bank Loan. Under these contracts USD 159.7
mln. has been paid.




                                            36

                                                                                         Table 1

Allocation of used loan funds according to the project components
                                                                                Used loan funds,
                             Components                                             USD mln.
     Pozniaky Boiler Plant (completion of construction)                              21,8
     CT-1 Heating Plant rehabilitation                                               53,9
     CHP-5 rehabilitation                                                             0,9
     Rehabilitation and expansion of CHP-6                                            4,5
     Construction of electrical substation "Center"                                   1,2
     Replacement of DH networks pipelines and valves                                 68,5
     Installation of heat metering devices and reconstruction of
     heat substations                                                                 7,9

     Project Audit and financial statement of Kyivenergo                              1,0
     Total                                                                           159,7

   Since the beginning of Project implementation the following results were obtained according
   to the components:

        1. Pozniaky Boiler Plant (completion of construction)


   The equipment for construction completion of the 1st stage of the Pozniaky Boiler Plant were
   supplied. These consist of the Gas Reduction Station (GRS), gas pipeline (8.3 km),
   Automated Control System (ACS), pipes (27.2 km), cables and wires 0,4-10 kV (245.7 km),
   valves (1620 pcs.), heat insulating materials, electrical and auxiliary equipment.

   Over 90% of construction, installation and wiring works were performed as well as a
   complex of works for the hydraulic testing of hot water boilers, pipelines of DH water and
   steam pipelines. Start-adjusting work of ACS, heat-mechanic equipment are being carried out.
   A gas pipeline 6,5 km long was installed.

   To provide reliable power supply to the Pozniaky Boiler Plant, the substation (s/s) 110 kV
   Osokorky was built with the installation of two 40 MVA, 110/10 kV transformers
   Reconstruction of relay protection for process control automation at s/s Kharkivska and s/s
   Pozniaky was performed. For power supply to s/s Osokorky the cable line 110 kV
   Kharkivska-Osokorky was built (14.8 km of 110 kV cable was laid). The rehabilitation of
   s/s Kharkivska including replacement of ten 110 kV circuit breakers was carried out. In order
   to connect back-up transformers of Pozniaky Boiler Plant to the 10 kV switchgear of s/s
   Osokorky the 15 km of 10 kV cable was laid.

   Putting into operation of s/s Osokorky will allow it to provide connection to a 40 MW load
   from the housing and social sector.

   To arrange the information exchange system between heat and power supply units of JSC
   Kyivenergo 42.2 km of fiber optic cable with accessories and multiplex equipment were
   purchased.




                                               37

    2. -1 Heating Plant rehabilitation


There were supplied: 1) 2 hot water boilers with capacity of 100 Gcal/h each 2) 2 steam

boilers with capacity of 25 t/h each with auxiliary equipment, 3) equipment for the Water

Treatment Plant (WTP), 4) a stack H=90 m, and 5)electrical equipment.


The following preparation work was performed: the old hot water boilers were dismantled,a
section of heat pipeline was reconstructed, and stacks from two existing boilers were
dismantled. The construction of a new GRS is being continued. The construction work for the
WTP is being performed. The installation and putting into operation of a three-pipe stack was
performed. Two existing boilers after dismantling of old stacks, were connected to the new
stack.

In order to provide reliable power supply to the CT-1 heating plant and other consumers the
110 kV s/s CT-1 will be built by the end of 2007. Power supply to the s/s CT-1 is provided by
taps from 110 kV cable lines "Bastionna-Vokzalna" and "Politekhnichna-Center", being a
part of a tandem link 110 kV CHP-5-Zhovtneva. Moreover, the rehabilitation of 110 kV s/s
Bastionna and Politekhnichna is completed and rehabilitation of 110 kV s/s Vokzalna
(connected to the above mentioned link), and also 110 kV s/s Solomenska, (that provides
backup power supply to CT-1) are being carried out. The 110 kV cable lines "Center-
Vokzalna" and "Vokzalna-Politekhnichna" (18 km of cable) were laid and put into operation.
The 110 kV cable lines "Zhovtneva-Mototsykletna" and "Zhovtneva-Politekhnichna" (30 km
of 110 kV cable) were built. The new draw-in technology of cable laying for saving of forest
park areas was applied here.

To establish an information exchange system between heat and power supply units of JSC
Kyivenergo 87 km of fiber optic cable with accessories and multiplex equipment were
purchased.

    3. Rehabilitation and expansion of CHP-5 and CHP-6


Three hot water boilers each of 180 Gcal/h heat capacity (one at CHP-5 and two at CHP-6)
were installed and put into operation. Putting into operation of these boilers allows
Kyivenergo to provide additional heat supply to housing and social facilities with a
population more than 200 000 citizens. The rehabilitation of the inner-plant heating network
with replacement of old valves was carried out.

    4. Construction of electrical substation Center


 In order to increase power supply reliability in the central part of Kyiv during conditions of
 under capacity and low reliability of power supply, the 110 kV s/s Center was put into
 operation with the installation of two power transformers with a total capacity of 80 MVA,
 and a cable power transmission line, 110 kV «Center ­ Bastionna» (18.7 km of 110 kV
 cable), was built and put into operation. To connect the new 110 kV substation Center to
 Kyiv power supply network 45 km of 10 kV underground cable was laid.

 Putting into operation of s/s Center will save 9.8 mln. kWh of electrical power till
 01.01.2008 owing to a decrease in transformer losses and cable lines, and 106 mln. kWh
 during the period of 2000-2018.



                                            38

             In order to provide data transmission from the substation Center to the Dispatch Center of
             the Central Region Cable Networks (DC CRCN) and to arrange dispatch process
             communications the 5,3 km fibre optic cable line was constructed.

                5.Replacement of DH network pipelines and valves


            There were supplied 168 km of preinsulated pipes and valves for the heating network; 130
            km of pipes and 3250 units of valves were installed.

                6. Installation of heat metering devices and reconstruction of substations

            There were supplied 18 Individual Heat Substations (IHS), 1950 heat metering devices. 1560
            units of heat metering devices were installed and 17 IHS were installed in dwelling houses.

            Installation of new, modern equipment instead of out-of-date and old equipment enables
            Kyivenergo to optimize the operational schedule of the heating network, to arrange and
            improve payments for consumed heat as well as to increase energy saving due to the
            possibility of lowering expenses on heating and hot water supply control.

                                                                                                  Table 2


                Project costs per component (in USD)

          Components                 Appraisal Estimate      Actual (as of 01.11.2007)
                                        (US$ million)             (US$ million)         Percentage of Appraisal

                                   Local Foreign Total        Local Foreign Total        Local Foreign Total
1. Pozniaki Boiler Plant            10.1     23.0     33.1    12.3     21.8     34.1      122%     95%   103%
2. CT-1 Rehabilitation               3.8     22.8     26.6     3.4     53.9     57.3       89%    236%   215%
3. CT-2 Rehabilitation               3.3     43.6     46.9     0.5               0.5
4. CHP-5 Rehabilitation and          6.2     11.8     17.9     1.6      0.9      2.5       26%      8%    14%
Expansion
5. CHP-6 Rehabilitation and          7.3     10.7     18.0     4.6      4.5      9.1       63%     42%    51%
Expansion
6. Electric Substation "Center"      2.9      6.9     9.8      7.0      1.2      8.2      241%     17%    84%
7. Pipe and Valves                  10.4     44.4     54.8    19.5     68.5     88.0      188%    154%   161%
Replacement
8. Heat Distribution Networks         -        -       -       1.7      7.9      9.6
9. Design and Supervision            5.0      0.0     5.0      9.1      1.0     10.1      182%           202%
10. Total Baseline Cost             49.0    163.1    212.1    59.7    159.7     219.4     122%     98%   103%
11. Physical Contingencies           4.9     16.3     21.2      -        -        -
12. Price Contingencies              3.0     14.4     17.4      -        -        -
13. Total Project Costs             56.9    193.8    250.7    59.7    159.7     219.4     105%     82%    88%
13'. Total Project Costs (w/o       53.6    150.2    203.8    59.2    159.7     218.9     110%    106%   107%
CT-2)
14. Project Preparation Facility
(PPF)                                0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0

15. Front-end fee (IBRD only)        0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
16. Total Financing Required        56.9    193.8    250.7




                                                        39

The World Bank and Kyivenergo performance


Taking into consideration the complexity and the scope of the Project, the World Bank
activities on preparation and implementation of the Project included continuous supervision
and support of the Borrower in case of problems, which could influence the Project
implementation.

Special attention should be paid to the World Bank consultations during Project
implementation. So, under the component "Installation of heat metering devices and
rehabilitation of substations", financed at the expense of saved funds on the Project, the
World Bank communicated the experience of the Riga DH supply Company in eliminating
group substations and their replacement them with IHS, which clearly showed the
considerable technical, financial and economic advantages they had in comparison with the
group substations. Moreover, the World Bank provided assistance during the preparation of
the technical specifications for the Project and Kyivenergo financial statements audits.

In order to increase the effectiveness of expenditure of the World Bank funds and the rate of
Project implementation as well as to solve the problem of lack of own floating funds in 2004,
Kyivenergo requested the World Bank to reallocate funds from the category Goods to the
category Works. This reallocation provided the opportunity to finance the construction and
installation works from the loan account and significantly speeded up putting into operation
the purchased equipment.

In order to monitor the state of Project implementation World Bank missions were constantly
carried out. They promoted the efficient solving of the current problems and speeded up
Project implementation.

Assessment of outcomes of Project implementation
The Project implementation will have positive influence on:the heat supply reliability, as well
as increase the quality of heating and hot water supply to dwellings, public-service and
administrative buildings, and considerably increase the quantity of heat supply to the
consumers.

Due to the use of up-to-date equipment and rehabilitation of existing equipment a reduction
of fuel spending for production of heat energy per unit will result. The considerable saving is
achieved by the halving of heat energy losses through heat network pipeline insulation. A
reduction of the operational costs of DH network maintenance is expected owing to the
increase of equipment reliability.




                                             40

                                                                                           Table 3

                                                                                                     2007

              Index               1999    2000    2001      2002     2003     2004     2005     2006  1st
                                                                                                     half
                                                                                                     year
    Reducing of heat losses
    in pipelines, Gcal/h           71     2957    10861    20140    31960    39168     50895   35773 42018

    Reducing of damage
    number in DH network,           -      4        7        17        18       24      52       50   26
    pcs.
    Average operational life
    of pipelines, year            17.9    21,01    22,0     22,9     24,12    24,4     24,2     24,7 24,7


   1)the old networks of KGTKE connected;
   2)the old networks of GTE connected


   The Project results in environment concern mainly the decrease of harmful emissions into
   atmosphere because of effectiveness increase of fuel usage, reduction of heat energy losses in
   DH network. The introduction of effective water treatment system, reduction of water losses
   in heat supply systems also shall contribute to lowering of environment pollution.

   The infrastructure development of heat supply system in new districts will promote the plans
   of KCSA concerning the residential construction, directed to the satisfaction of people
   demand in habitation receiving, that will considerably improve the social climate in the city.

   Influence of institutional development

   The Kyiv District Heating Improvement Project is the first investment project in the field of
   DH supply in Ukraine, which solves the most important needs of Kyiv City. The
   modernization of outdated equipment allows to increase the operation reliability of power
   complex, to improve the ecological situation in the region, and create comfortable conditions
   in dwelling, public-service and administrative buildings, that is one of the conditions of Kyiv
   transformation into city of civilized European type.

   Preparation of this Project implementation was carried out in the close cooperation of
   responsible representatives of Ukrainian Government and state regulating authorities with
   representatives of IBRD resulting in gaining of positive experience in creation of the
   conditions for implementation of the international projects.

This Project allowed to gain the experience in holding of the international competitive bidding,
preparation of the contracts for the equipment supply and work performance.




                                                41

Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

N/A

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

   · Project Implementation Plan

   · Staff Appraisal Report for Ukraine: Kyiv District Heating Improvement Project, dated
       April 24, 1998 (Report No: 16432 UA)

   · Aide Memoires, Back-to-Office Reports, and Implementation Status Reports.

   · Project Progress Reports.

   · Borrower's Evaluation Report dated August 2007


*including electronic files




                                           42

                                                                                                                                                                       IBRD 28701
SWEDEN          Baltic         LATVIA

                  Sea   LITHUANIA
                     RUSSIAN                                                                                              UKRAINE
                        FED.                             RUSSIAN
                                  BELARUS               FEDERATION
               POLAND                                                                      KYIV DISTRICT HEATING IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
 GERMANY                                   Kyiv
        CZECH                                                                                 KYIV DISTRICT HEATING SYSTEM IN THE YEAR 2000
         REP.                          UKRAINE
                   SLOVAK
                   REP.
                                       MOLDOVA
AUSTRIA         HUNGARY
            .                                                               Caspian
         SLOV
             CROATIA          ROMANIA

               BOS.&                                                                                                           TETS-COGENERATION PLANTS
               HERZ.    FRY
                      (Serb./                 Black                                Sea
                       Mont.)    BULGARIA     Sea                                                                              DISTRICT HEATING BOILER PLANTS
ITALY                      FYR                             GEORGIA
                      MACEDONIA
                                                              ARMENIA
                   ALBANIA                                          AZERBAIJAN
                                              TURKEY                                                                           PUMPING STATIONS
                           GREECE

                                                                                                                               UNDERGROUND DH PIPING


          This map was produced by the                                                                                         SERVICE AREA BOUNDARIES
          Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
          The boundaries, colors, denominations                                                                                ROADS
          and any other information shown on
          this map do not imply, on the part of
          The World Bank Group, any judgment
          on the legal status of any territory, or
          any endorsement or acceptance of
          such boundaries.                                                                                                                       TETS 6




                                                                                                                                           PS18

                                                  Vinogradar
                                                                                      PS2                                                       Voskresenka
                                                                                                      PS3                 PS19
                                                                                                                                                   PS6

                                                                                                  CT-2



                                                      Nivki
        Belichi
                                                             Molod



                                                                                                                                                            TETS 4
                                                               PS20
                                        Otradny                                                    CT-1
                                                                                                                                            PS17
        Nikolskaya
Borschagovka

                                                                                                                      PS5

                                                  PS13



                                                                                                                                                                          PS16



                                                                                                                  TETS 5



                                                                                                                                  Dneiper



                                                                                                                                         R.

                                                                                                                                                             Pozniaki

                                                                                       Teremki




                                                                                                      KILOMETERS
                                                                     0                                    5                      10

                                                                                                  (APPROXIMATE SCALE)


                                                                                                                                                                         APRIL 1997

