Document of
FILE COPY    The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2131-CD
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
FOR A
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
July 5, 1978
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit       :       CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1.00             :       CFAF 245 1/
CFAF 1,000                  US$4.08
ABBREVIATIONS
FED     Fonds Europeen de Development/
Commission des Communautes Europeenes   European Development Fund
UNDP                                             United Nations Development
Program
CTT      Cooperative des Transporteurs           Cooperative of Chad
Tchadiens                              Transporters
USAID                                            United States Agency for
International Development
ADF                                              African Development Fund
1/  CFAF Floating Exchange Rate tied to the French Franc (FF) (CFAF50-FF1).



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CHAD
THIRD HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           Republic of Chad
Amount:             US$7.6 million
Terms:              Standard
Project             The proposed project is designed to improve road main-
Description:       tenance and to strengthen transport planning and opera-
tions; it would consist of the following main components:
(i)  support of a four-year maintenance program covering
approximately 5,300 km of unpaved roads and
tracks;
(ii) regravelling of about 400 km of main roads by a
production brigade, which will also serve as a
vehicle for on-the-job training;
(iii)  a training program for staff of the Directorate
of Public Works;
(iv) construction of four ferry boats;
(v)  technical assistance and fellowships to strengthen
(a) the Directorate of Public Works; (b) transport
planning in the Directorate of Transport; and (c)
operations of the trucking industry;
(vi)  a study to prepare a rural roads project; and
(vii)  completion of the improvement program for cotton
feeder roads, started under the Second Highway Project.
The proposed project is expected to establish a permanent
road maintenance capacity and to contribute to improving
accessibility to administrative and commercial centers and
to some of the main agricultural production areas.
Project implementation could be impaired by the following
factors: certain roads and tracks may become inaccessible
for maintenance due to political unrest; a shortage of
funds may limit operations; and the training programs may
fail to produce sufficient personnel to expand maintenance
operations. However, the divisible nature of the projects
would permit adjustment of the maintenance program in
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
light of prevailing security conditions at any given time.
Economic ana:Lyses have also indicated that the project
would yield satisfactory returns even under rather pes-
simistic assumptions regarding physical achievements.
Estimated Costs (net of taxes except on fuel): 1/
-------US$ million-------
Local    Foreign    Total   % of Base Cost
Maintenance program                   0.8        5.3        6.1         35.9
Technical assistance,                 0.3        2.1        2.4         14.1
Training program and fellowshiLps    1.2         5.4       6.6          38.8
Construction of ferryboats            0.2        1.0        1.2          7.0
Completion of 5 year cotton feeder
road improvement program            0.2       0.2        0.4           2.4
Rural road study                                 0.3       0.3           1.8
Total base costs                    2.7       14.3      17.0         100
Physical contingencies              0.3        1.3       1.6
Price contingencies                 0.5        2.8       3.3
Grand Total                         3.5       18.4      21.9
Financing Plan:
IDA    USAID    ADF    Government   Total
Maintenance Program
i)  Equipment, tools & spare parts                    5.1                   5.1
ii) Civil works, office furniture,
and supplies                    2.7                                    2.9
Technical assistance and training  2.6        9.0                 0.2       11.6
Ferryboat construction and
maintenance                         1.5                                     1.5
Completion of 5 year cotton
feeder road program                 0.4                                    0.4
Rural Road Study                     0.4                                     0.4
Total                              7.6      9.0     5.1         0.2       21.9
Percentage of Total Cost          34.7    41.1    23.3          0.9    (100.0)
The Government will finance the recurrent costs of the maintenance program -
approximately US$8.1 million during the four year project implementation
period - from a Road Fund into which taxes on gasoline and diesel oil and
ferryboat tolls are paid. It is estimated that the Government contribution
can be made available by its reserving 87 percent of the proceeds of the Road
Fund for the project.
1/   The project will be exempt from all duties and taxes, except those on
fuel, totalling US$0.2 million, which will be paid by the Government.



- iii -
Disbursement Plan:
IDA Fiscal Year       :       1979        1980      1981       1982
Annual                         600       3,900     1,900      1,200
Cumulative                     600       4,500     6,400      7,600
Rate of Return:    The overall economic rate of return is estimated at 50
percent based on an evaluation of project components
accounting for 85 percent of total project cost (excluding
price contingencies).
Appraisal Report:  Chad - Third Highway Project
Appraisal Report No. 1834-Cli, dated 20th June 1978






INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF CHAD
FOR A THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Republic of Chad for the equivalent of US$7.6
million on standard IDA terms to help finance a Third Highway Project. The
United States Agency for International Development (USAID) is expected to
contribute US$9.0 million as a grant and the African Development Fund (ADF)
US$5.1 million as a loan, on the same terms as the IDA credit.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
Background
2.        The following paragraphs incorporate the conclusions of an Economic
Memorandum (Report No. 1340-CD) which was distributed to the Board in July
1977 and was based on missions that visited Chad in April 1976 and March 1977.
The findings of a short economic mission that went to Chad in November 1977
are also incorporated in this report.
3.        With scarce natural resources, a harsh climate, limited social and
economic infrastructure and a pervasive lack of skilled manpower, Chad faces
unusually large handicaps in its economic development. High transportation
costs to and from the outside world compound the problem. The main centers
of activity of this vast landlocked country are about 2,000 km from the sea;
in early 1976 freight rates from the port of Douala in Cameroon to Southern
Chad were about US$130/ton for bulk goods and US$180/ton for general goods.
4.        In 1977, Chad's GNP per capita was estimated at US$122.  Chad is
therefore one of the poorest countries in Africa and is classified as one of
the world's 29 "least-developed" countries by the United Nations. Close to
90 percent of the population, estimated at about four million, lives in rural
areas deriving its livelihood from agriculture and livestock. About half of
the rural population lives in the southwest, where rainfall levels are rela-
tively favorable to agriculture (about 1,000 mm/year). In this region millet
and sorghum are grown as subsistence crops and cotton as the predominant cash
crop. The other half of the country's inhabitants are mainly pastoralists
living in the dry grassland belt with lower and less reliable rainfall.
Recently, efforts have been made to intensify traditional rice growing on the
flood plains of the Logone River and to accelerate the development of the rich
polders in the Lake Chad area.
1/   Substantially unchanged from the President's Report for the Third Educa-
tion Project (Report No. P2205-CD).



-2-
5.        During the 1960s, real GDP increased about 2 percent annually.
The highest growth rates were achieved in the market economy (mainly import
substitution industries and services), while the growth rate of livestock
and subsistence crops probably did not reach that of population, which was
estimated at about 2.1 percent per year. Incomes have risen faster in the
small urban sector than in the rural areas and, within the latter, producers
of cash crops have gained more than pastoralists and subsistence farmers.
Recent Developments
6.        Three factors have affected economic growth and the financial
situation since the late 1960s: internal security problems, droughts, and a
deterioration in the terms of trade. The rebellion that broke out in 1968
rendered large areas insecure and cut off traditional cattle routes. Since
then the internal conflict has flared up occasionally. A cease fire was
agreed upon in April 1978 but has not been respected. Efforts are underway
to bring the opposing parties to the negotiating table. Pending a definitive
solution the northern half of the country is considered insecure. The impact
of the internal security problems was compounded by severe droughts, which
occurred in three of the five yesars 1969-1973. Water levels in the rivers
reached an all-time low, and Lake Chad shrank to one-third of its normal size.
Livestock losses were substantial, resulting in a reduction in the cattle herd
by one-third. Foodcrops were aLso severely affected: in 1972 production of
millet and sorghum fell to about 70 percent of pre-drought levels and to about
60 percent in 1973. Emergency i-ood shipments from abroad helped the hard hit
areas. With the return of normal rainfall, food production recovered to
pre-drought levels in 1974/75. However, in 1976, a localized drought again
occurred in Chad's Sahelian zones affecting agricultural output and requiring
the resumption of food aid. Drought again occurred in 1977 but with a com-
paratively limited impact.
7.        After the 1973 drought, cotton production picked up considerably
reaching a record volume of 175,000 tons in 1975/76. The upturn in cotton
production stimulated industry, transportation and trade. However, cotton
production decreased in 1976/77 to about 150,000 tons and in 1977/78 to an
estimated 130,000 tons. The principal factors responsible for the continued
fall were inadequate rainfall leading to conflicting needs between foodcrop
and cotton production and perhaps the declining motivation of extension agents
whose salaries have stagnated since 1970. Offtake from livestock has de-
creased substantially (after an upsurge in the drought years because of
emergency slaughterings), reflecting the reduction of the herd and the be-
ginning of reconstitution efforts. While the livestock sector was also
constrained by past marketing policies, the Government has recently improved
the situation by adopting a more liberal approach through the establishment of
an export cooperative involving state and private enterprises. Finally, the
economy was also affected by variations in the terms of trade due to increased
import prices and fluctuations i'n cotton export prices. The terms of trade
worsened by about 11 percent between 1972 and 1974, improved with the increase



of commodity prices between 1975 and 1977 and began to deteriorate again in
mid-1977 with the decline in cotton prices. This deterioration is expected
to persist through 1978.
8.        Until 1968 the Government succeeded in balancing the budget, and
fiscal performance was satisfactory despite development constraints. After
1968 expenditures began to grow more rapidly than revenue as military spending
increased; security and defense expenditures now account for about one-third
of the current budget. The drought also increased demand for Government
relief services while reducing revenues.
9.        Higher import prices and the rise in Government employment--
military as well as civilian--also contributed to the Government's financial
difficulties. Combined with stagnant public revenues these factors resulted
in an increase in budgetary deficits from CFAF 2.0 billion in 1970 (15.5
percent of revenues) to CFAF 4.4 billion in 1976 (about 30 percent of revenues).
The Government financed part of this deficit with limited domestic resources,
but the remainder of the gap was covered by accumulation of payment arrears to
local and foreign suppliers and creditors. Arrears of payments were estimated
to amount to CFAF 10.5 billion by end-1976, or about 70 percent of budgetary
revenues for that year. For this reason, foreign budgetary assistance, which
had been instrumental in closing the gap in the past, was stepped up in 1976.
The use of part of this assistance to repay local and foreign suppliers, as
well as the Government's efforts at containing expenditures, have stemmed the
growth of arrears and reestablished confidence on the part of suppliers.
10.       The Government's recent attempts to stabilize public finances have
included measures to increase revenues by collecting tax arrears and raising
the cotton export tax, as well as measures to reduce expenditures by main-
taining a freeze on wages and limiting the increase in public employment. The
Government has also restricted purchases of certain materials and supplies,
ceased budgeting for investment purposes, and deferred maintenance of capital
assets. To isolate resources for priority uses, the Government has reinstated
the Road Fund, to finance road maintenance, and established the Autonomous
Amortization Fund, for debt repayment. The Government is also reviewing the
fiscal structure to improve revenue collection and to increase resources.
Structural changes will be implemented only gradually, however, and will not
contribute, in the immediate future, to alleviating the critical shortage of
public revenues. Therefore, the effectiveness of most Government services
will continue to be hampered.
External Aid
11.       Since 1973, aid flows have been substantial, with grants alone
almost equalling tax revenues in 1973 and 1975, and exceeding them by 24 per-
cent in 1974. Total disbursements of external aid in 1973-1976 were US$327
million, three-quarters of which were grants. In 1976, aid disbursements
reached a record level of about US$105 million. Nearly two-thirds of this
was bilateral aid from OECD countries (France, 52 percent; USA, 5 percent;
Germany, 4 percent; Canada, 3 percent). OPEC countries accounted for 18 per-
cent (rising from zero in 1972). The remainder was from multilateral sources



- 4 -
(FED, 26 percent; UN organizations, 6 percent; IDA, 3 percent). External aid
financed most public investments. Up to 1975, the inflow of foreign aid
offset the large deficits in the current account of Chad's balance of payments
so that its reserve position with the Central Bank was stable. Since 1974
private investment in petroleum research has also helped to offset increasing
deficits. Moreover in 1976, record cotton sales, along with stagnating
imports, substantial foreign aid and private investment, produced an un-
precedented balance of payments surplus of about US$25 million.  At the end'of
1976, net foreign assets stood at about US$4 million compared to a December
1975 low of minus US$19 million.
12.       Chad's external debt is a considerable burden for a country with
such limited resources. At the end of 1976 total outstanding external debt
(including undisbursed) was estimated at approximately US$250 million or
about 52 percent of GDP for that year. Of this about 40 percent had been
disbursed. The largest increase in outstanding debt occurred between 1973
and 1975 during the worst period of the drought, at a time when the
Government was undergoing severe budgetary difficulties. These difficulties
also led to Chad's increasing inability to service the debt, resulting in the
accumulation of arrears of about US$10 million at the end of 1976 equivalent
to about 25 percent of overall arrears due to creditors and suppliers. For
1976, the external public and guaranteed debt service due, excluding arrears,
was estimated at US$10.5 million or 9 percent of exports of goods and non-
factor services; it is estimated under reasonable assumptions that the annual
debt service will remain at about: the same level in the mid-1980s. While the
ratio of debt service to exports is manageable, the bulk of service payments
has to be financed by budgetary revenues. The debt service ratio with respect
to budgetary revenues, excluding arrears, was estimated at 17 percent in
1976. The Government has established a Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement re-
sponsible for overall debt management and administration. The Caisse is
financed with earmarked revenues and its Director reports directly to the
Head of State. The Bank has assisted the Caisse Autonome in setting up debt
reporting and monitoring procedures. The Government has successfully reached
a debt rescheduling agreements for debt owed to Caisse Centrale de Cooperation
Economique and for arrears owed to Air Afrique. The Government is also dis-
cussing rescheduling of debts with other bilateral creditors.
Prospects
13.       Chad's development potential lies primarily in agriculture and
related activities.  The Government is carefully exploiting available in-
vestment opportunities (textiles, sugar, edible oils and soaps, irrigated
agriculture) and has obtained FED and FAC support to launch a south Chad
agricultural development program aimed at improving cotton production and
at promoting crop diversification. This program is part of an overall interim
development plan which, in addition to cotton productivity, emphasizes the
improvement of Chad's domestic and international transport infrastructure as
well as the delivery of basic services, particularly primary education.



- 5 -
Recently, the Government announced the discovery of oil in the northwestern
and southern parts of the country. For the time being, the Government is
concentrating on solving its domestic petroleum supply problems through the
construction of an import substituting refinery. This would somewhat reduce
the trade gap while providing some extra budgetary resources. Prospects for a
larger oil development project are uncertain. Other mineral prospects are
being investigated with the assistance of UNDP.
14.       The fiscal situation is a serious obstacle to development, since-
the Government cannot contribute to the financing of required investments
nor finance all recurrent costs of ongoing and new high-priority projects.
The Government has undertaken a review of the tax system with the help
of the IMF and has, recently, increased export taxes on cotton. However,
the narrow tax base and the rising cost of maintaining even the present
level of public services, make it unlikely that substantial budgetary sav-
ings can be generated during the remainder of the 1970s. In view of Chad's
financial constraints, its poverty and modest growth prospects, external
funds should be provided on the most concessionary terms possible. Moreover,
in the next few years foreign aid agencies should finance a high proportion
of total project costs, including local costs and some development-related
recurrent costs.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN CHAD 1/
15.       Development of Chad's agriculture, transportation and human re-
sources continues to be the main objective of Bank Group assistance to the
country. Twelve IDA credits to date amount to US$70.9 million. Six credits
and a supplementary credit were for agricultural projects, two credits for
transport projects and three credits for education projects. Finally one
credit, which was approved in September 1977 for a Sahelian Zone project,
includes mostly agricultural development schemes and also has transport and
rural water supply components. Five of the eleven projects are either com-
pleted or near completion; four are progressing satisfactorily; and three
have yet to commence. Delays have occurred in project implementation mainly
due to lack of counterpart funds and supplies, but also because of building
design problems and late signing of consultant contracts. A common constraint
to development in all sectors is insufficiency of Government funds for main-
tenance and recurrent costs. Annex II contains a summary statement of IDA
credits as of April 30, 1978, and notes on the execution of approved projects.
16.       In agriculture our main objectives are:  (a) to help Government
assure a sufficient food supply for the growing urban as well as the pre-
dominantly rural populations; (b) to help expand income from cattle exports;
and (c) to protect Chad's overall economic base against the vagaries of
climate. In rainfed agriculture, past IDA lending has been designed to raise
1/   Substantially unchanged from the Third Education Project (Report No.
P2205-CD).



- 6 -
rural productivity mainly through the provision of infrastructure, equipment
and storage facilities. In irrigation, IDA is assisting in the financing of
the Sategui-Deressia and Lake Chad Polders Projects which will produce, among
other products, rice, wheat and cotton. The Sahelian Zone Project will ini-
tiate drought-alleviating measures that will sustain or step up crop, live-
stock and forestry exploitation in the zone. Our First Livestock Project
assisted the Government with the rehabilitation and construction of Sahelian
pastoral wells and with studies oiE the livestock sector; the Second Livestock
Project, with animal health services, animal husbandry and pastoral develop-
ment, pastoral wells, credit and marketing components, will further expand
our assistance in this sector.
17.       In transportation, we are giving priority to road maintenance and to
improvement of feeder roads and agricultural export routes. The first Highway
project helped to focus Government's attention on the importance of road
maintenance and provided the necessary physical means to carry out a five-year
maintenance program. Our Second Hlighway Project and the road component of the
Rural Projects Fund are designed to improve feeder roads; the proposed Third
Highway Project would build on the! experience gained under the First Highway
project to strengthen the maintenance capacity and transport planning and
operations while maintaining and improving about 5,300 km of primary and
secondary roads in the south and in the Sahelian Zone. We are also consider-
ing projects which would improve Chad's transport links with the sea, although
much of the improvement will come from transport investments in the coastal
countries.
18.       Two education projects in 1968 and 1971 assisted the Government
in constructing schools for training both teachers and agricultural and
industrial technicians--the most needed skills in the economy. The recently
approved Third Education Project would mainly improve primary education in
rural areas.
19.       Chad's severe financial constraints limit investment opportunities
and necessitate special arrangements for counterpart funds and recurrent
costs. IDA and other donors have assisted the Government in financing local
costs. Recurrent cost-financing problems have been resolved in different
ways: by designing projects which promote cost recovery; by establishing
special funds replenished with earmarked revenues; and by providing technical
assistance grants which do not increase the burden of debt service. Further-
more some donors, primarily France, make direct contributions for covering
recurrent cost expenditures in many sectors.
20.       Most of our operations in Chad have been coordinated with other
donors and several projects are being executed under joint or parallel fi-
nancing. The recent focus on the problems of the Sahel has increased the
number of donors seeking cofinancing with IDA. The amounts of co-financing
tentatively pledged in FY78 and FY79 is likely to match the proposed IDA
lending to Chad during this period. IDA lending accounted for 17 percent
of total outstanding external public debt at the end of 1976 and on average
represents 4 percent of Chad's projected debt service over the 1979-1985
period.



- 7 -
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
21.       Road hauling dominates Chad's transport system and accounts for
nearly 85 percent of total freight. Other means of transport include air
transport and inland waterways (the Logone-Chari river system and Lake Chad).
22.       The road network. consists of about 7,300 km of roads (about 4,600
km of national roads and about 2,700 km of prefectural roads) and 24,000 km
of unmaintained tracks. 253 km of roads are paved and about 1,050 km are
all-weather engineered gravel roads. Most of the remaining roads and tracks
are passable only during 7-8 months of the dry season. The major portion of
the network is in the cotton zone which is located in the southern part of the
country and covers about 10 percent of Chad's total area. The sparsely
populated northern part of the country is served mainly by desert tracks.
Construction of all-weather roads began in Chad in 1964 with the east-west
trunk road from Sarh to Pala; this was followed by the paving of N'Djamena-
Guelendeng and N'Djamena-Mas4aguet roads.  No further extensions or major
improvements of the road infrastructure have been made since 1972. Except for
the paved road between N'Djamena and Guelendeng, the classified network
carries less than 100 vehicles per day (mainly trucks), varying from 30-60
vehicles per day on the most used national roads to fewer than 10 vehicles per
day on prefectural roads.
23.       For its international traffic the country relies primarily on three
routes, i.e.: through Nigeria (via Maidugari to Lagos); through Cameroon (via
Garoua and N'Gaoundere to Douala); and through the Congo (via the Transequa-
torial route through Bangui and Brazzaville to Pointe Noire). Since 1974 the
bulk of Chad's imports and exports has relied on the Cameroonian route (except
for petroleum products which are imported from Nigeria) thereby reducing the
earlier dependence on the Transequatorial route.
24.       Chad's road network is characterized by its inadequacy as regards
basic standards and its state of repair. The agricultural southern region
is cut off from N'Djamena and the northern part of the country approximately
3-4 months per year. Lack of funds, and of a trained workforce, results in
minimal maintenance and further deterioration. The remoteness of Chad's
urban centers from ocean ports (1,700-3,000 km), further aggravates the
situation since the prices of imports and most consumer goods increase while
the competitiveness of exports, particularly of cotton, is weakened.
25.       Chad has 44 air fields and air strips of differing quality but air
transportation is at present very limited. Some products (meat, fish and gum
arabic) are exported by air, while domestic transport is seasonal peaking in
the rainy season when many roads are impassable. The Government and the Bank
are discussing the preparation of a study to review the role of air transpor-
tation in the country.
26.       The waterways of Chad are trafficked by barges which carry about
15-20,000 m tons of goods per year. The major commodities are beer, timber,
sugar, fuel, natron, and fish. While traffic between Lake Chad and N'Djamena
is open the year round (and could be expanded) traffic between N'Djamena on
one side and Moundou and Sahr respectively is seasonal. Prospects for expan-
sion of river traffic are limited because of river regime constraints.



-8-
Institutional Arrangements
27.       The primary responsibility for transport planning and coordination
rests with the Ministry of Economy, Planning and Transport, while the Ministry
of Finance establishes road user taxes and approves budget requests and propo-
sals for tariff modification. The Ministry of Civil Works, Mines and Geology
is responsible for road construction and maintenance. The Government agencies
concerned with transport and public works are staffed with qualified Chadian
personnel supplemented by expatriates, mostly provided by French bilateral
assistance. However, this staff is not sufficient to meet the requirements
of the agencies. As a consequencie highway maintenance and transport planning
and operations have suffered.
28.       An important organization in the transport sector is the Cooperative
des Transporteurs Tchadiens (CTT) which consists of 350 active truckowners,
65 percent of whom own only one truck. The CTT exercises certain official
functions and its Director GeneraL is appointed by the Government. Although
the CTT is responsible for all trucking industry operations, including allo-
cating freight, billing customers and paying the truckowners, its control is
in fact only exercised on international routes and for larger shipments on
domestic routes; smaller shipments are not regulated.
29.       A number of factors have impeded the efficient development of
the trucking industry. Lack of coordination among shippers, carriers and
transport intermediaries and imbalance between imports and exports have
contributed to low truck utilizatiLon (50 percent) and high transport costs.
Also, transport tariffs were established in 1974 and are by now frequently
lower than actual transport costs.
Financing
30.       Capital expenditures on roads between 1971-1975 totalled some
US$13.1 million equivalent and expenditures for road maintenance during
the same period amounted to approximately US$7.8 million equivalent. About
63 percent of total expenditures was provided through external assistance,
of which IDA accounted for some 50 percent.
31.       The Govern,ment has established a Road Fund into which all taxes
on gasoline and diesel oil and ferryboat tolls should be deposited. The
funds thus earmarked should primarily be used to finance road maintenance costs.
However, prior to 1976 only 50 percent of these taxes were paid into the Road
Fund and used to finance maintenance costs. In view of the fact that ex-
ternal assistance cannot be fully utilized without adequate local funds, the
establishment of the Road Fund in a separate account outside the Central
Treasury was a pre-requisite for the submission of the proposed Third Highway
Project for approval. Although this step was agreed upon with Government
already under the Second Highway Project, the Government could not implement
it earlier because of severe drought, inflation, and the ensuing difficult
budgetary situation. The special account has now been opened.



-9-
IDA's Role
32.       The Bank Group has so far placed emphasis on road maintenance
rather than encouraging new construction. This would also be the primary
objective of the proposed project. Nevertheless the Bank Group is also
considering supporting the Government's efforts to establish an all-weather
trunk road between N'Djamena and the trans-Cameroon corridor.
33.       The (First) Highway Maintenance Project (Credit No. 125-CD, US$4.1
million) included: provision of the equipment, spare parts and material and
workshop improvement required for the implementation of a five year maintenance
program for primary and secondary roads; feasibilities studies of the Djermaya-
Djimitilo road and lake-side facilities; and a program of traffic counts. A
training program, initially included, was largely deferred to the follow-up
project. Although the project initiated the process of building up a mainte-
nance organization it fell far short of its maintenance target and covered a
maximum of 2,800 km during the project period as compared to the 4,350 km
which had been expected at appraisal. The shortfall was partly due to internal
security problems caused by political unrest but, more importantly, to shortage
of local funds and to insufficient attention to institutional aspects. The
Operations Evaluation Department's Project Performance Audit (No. 1883) points
to the need to provide increased local funds for maintenance personnel; to
emphasize training of local staff, and to develop the Government's ability
to plan and execute maintenance work. The proposed project takes full account
of these suggestions.
34.       The Second Highway Project (Credit No. 490-CD, US$3.5 million,
June 1974) included: a five-year program of improvement and maintenance of
cotton feeder roads; a three-year interim maintenance program for ferryboats;
a training program for Directorate of Public Works personnel; a two-year
traffic counting program; preinvestment studies of about 120 km of cotton
roads; a feasibility study for replacement of ferryboats; and a road transport
industry study. The improvement and maintenance of cotton feeder roads is
proceeding satisfactorily. The interim maintenance of ferryboats, the feasi-
bility study for replacing ferryboats, and the transport industry study have
been completed. Traffic counting has been carried out for one year, and the
training program is in progress. Detailed engineering of the two cotton
export roads was not undertaken because the proposed investment in one road
was not economically justified, and the other was contingent upon the implemen-
tation of a soap factory project, which did not materialize. In view of the
increased training requirements for the implementation of the proposed project,
the duration of the training program has been extended to provide continuity
in the training activities between the two projects. The additional cost
(US$400,000) is being covered by funds allocated to the 5 year cotton feeder
roads program, the completion of which would therefore be financed by the
proposed project.
35.       The proposed project serves as a logical extension of the (First)
Highway Maintenance Project but endeavors at the same time to support efforts
to improve transport planning and transport operation to ensure that a solid



- 10 -
foundation is laid for the continuation of permanent maintenance operations.
In addition - and more urgently - the project would ensure the serviceability
of a road network which at present risks deterioration beyond repair.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
36.       The Government of Chad is concerned about the rapidly deteriorating
condition of the transport network of the country which contributes to in-
crease already exorbitantly high transport costs. The proposed project is
therefore aimed at strengthening the highway maintenance program, transport
planning and operations. The road maintenance component of the project was
prepared by the French consulting firm BCEOM, with assistance from the
Government. An appraisal mission visited the country in March/April 1977
and the report "Appraisal of the Third Highway Project (No. 1834-CD)" dated
June 20, 1978 is being distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
A Summary of Key Events and SpecLal Conditions is presented in Annex III.
Negotiations were held in Washington from May 22 to May 26, 1978, and the
delegation from Chad was led by Mr. I. Gami, Director of Public Works.
Project Objectives and Description
37.       The proposed project would primarily support the Government's
efforts to improve road maintenance and to strengthen transport planning and
operations. It would consist of:
(i) support of a four-year road maintenance program covering
about 5,300 km of unpaved roads and tracks and including
purchase of road maintenance and workshop equipment and spare
parts, and renovation and construction of workshops and
office buildings;
(ii) a four-year regravelling program covering a total of about
400 km to be executed by a brigade, which would also serve
as a vehicle for on-the-job training;
(iii) a training program for personnel of the Directorate of
Public Works;
(iv) construction of four ferry boats;
(v)  technical assistance and fellowships to strengthen (a) the
Directorate of Public Wforks; (b) transportation planning
in the Directorate of T'ransport; and (c) operations of the
trucking industry;
(vi) a study to prepare a rural roads project; and
(vii) completion of the cotton feeder roads program started
under the Second Highway Project.



- 11 -
Project Implementation
Routine and Periodic Maintenance:
38.       Routine maintenance would be carried out on some 5,300 km of un-
paved roads and tracks. Both mechanical and labor intensive methods would
be employed on about 2,400 km of gravel and earth roads and major tracks.
On the remaining 2,900 km maintenance would be limited to mainly mechanical
grading in view of the low traffic intensity. The different types of roads
would be maintained to standards acceptable to the Association (Section
3.07 (a) of the draft Development Credit Agreement). Of the total 5,300 km
of roads and tracks to be maintained each year 4,000 km have been selected
for the full project period, while some 1,300 km, mainly tracks in the Sahelian
zone have been selected for the first year of operation but could change from
year to year in accordance with Government priorities. Any changes in the
network to be maintained during each year would be proposed to the Association
by end-October of the previous year (Section 3.07 (b) of the draft Development
Credit Agreement).
39.       The laterite, or sand clay, surfaces of engineered roads (about
1,050 km) are in generally poor condition due to inadequate routine and
periodic maintenance. Regravelling of roads carrying a minimum traffic volume
of 45-50 vehicles per day would be undertaken under the project. A work
brigade with support of technical assistance, would regravel about 100'km each
year and would also serve as a vehicle for on-the-job training (para. 43).
The Government would submit a list of roads to be regravelled, accompanied by
statistics on actual or estimated traffic on these roads, by October 31 each
year for approval by the Association (Section 3.07(b) of the draft Devel-
opment Credit Agreement).
40.       The effective implementation of the maintenance operations would
require adequate offices and workshops as well as equipment. The proposed
project would provide for the financing of such buildings as well as equipment
and an initial stock of spare parts.
41.       To facilitate the coordination of the project, the liaison with the
Association and cofinanciers and the preparation of reports and handling of
day-to-day matters, the Government will appoint a Project Coordinator (Section
3.05(d) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Training Program
42.       Implementation and subsequent continuation of the maintenance
operations would require an extensive training program. The Directorate
of Public Works would need approximately 75 additional staff, to implement
the proposed road maintenance program and similar programs supported by the
European Development Fund and the United Nations Sahelian Office. In addi-
tion most of the existing staff needs retraining. Allowing for an esti-
mated drop-out and staff turnover rate of about 30 percent a total of 225
mechanics, equipment operators and technicians would need to be trained under
the project to satisfy projected manpower requirements.



- 12 -
43.       The training program would consist of classroom instruction and
field training with emphasis on tFhe latter. A mechanized brigade would be
used for field training. As parl: of the training program the brigade would
be responsible for the regravellLng program. Training in road maintenance
practice for sector chiefs would also be provided for under the project. The
training curriculum would be submitted to the Association for approval by
December 31, 1978. The overall training program would be reviewed jointly
by December 31, 1979 in the light: of experience gained (Section 3.08 of the
draft Development Credit Agreement).
44.       The implementation of the training program would require additional
workshop equipment and teaching materials for the training center (established
under the Second Highway Project); it would also require equipment for the
brigade, operating expenses for the training program and 230 man/months of
technical assistance. These items would all be provided for under the project.
45.       A problem encountered hitherto under previous training programs
has been that the Government has not paid subsistence allowances to trainees
thereby making it virtually impossible for selected candidates to participate.
Under the project such allowances would be financed. Furthermore an incentive
system consisting of performance prizes to outstanding participants would be
established, with the assistance of USAID.
Construction of Ferryboats:
46.       The ferryboat traffic across the Chari and Logone rivers is a crucial
part of the transport system, since construction of bridges is not economically
justifiable in view of the low traffic intensity and wide riverbeds. Under
the Second Highway Project a feasibility study reviewed the need to replace
all ferryboats which were deteriorating. The study concluded that it would be
justified to replace the ferryboats at Bongor and Lai on the Logone river and
those at Bousso and Hellibongo on the Chari.
47.       The proposed ferryboats would have a capacity of 50 tons and would
thus be able to carry the heaviest truck-trailer combinations in use on the
national roads. The ferryboats would be constructed by the Directorate of
Public Works by force account at their boat yard which has in recent years
partially renovated existing ferryboats. Should it, however, appear that the
construction could not be finalized on schedule some work would be contracted
to local mechanical workshops.  The project would finance materials, workshop
equipment, labor, preparation of designs and 16 man/months of technical assis-
tance. The cost of the completed ferryboats is expected to be substantially
lower than the cost of imported ferryboats. The designs prepared under this
component and the expertise gained could subsequently be used for construction
of other ferryboats as and when the need arises.
Technical Assistance and Fellowships:
48.       Technical assistance would also be provided to the institutions listed
below to strengthen road maintenance operations and transport planning.



- 13 -
49.       Directorate of Public Works:  the Government intends to set up an
Equipment Inspection Office, a Procurement Office and a Road Planning and
Design Office in this directorate.
(i) Equipment Inspection Office. This office would introduce
and maintain a cost accounting system, inspect equipment
maintenance carried out by the sub-divisions and supervise
the Procurement Office. The services of an expatriate
mechanical engineer and four mechanics to work in sub-
division workshops would be financed for approximately
3 years.
(ii) Procurement Office. This office would be responsible for
procurement of spare parts and other materials required
to maintain equipment belonging to the Directorate.
In addition, it would establish and maintain a central
spare parts store with proper inventory and bookkeeping
procedures. The services of an expatriate Chief Mechanic
would be financed for approximately 3 years.
(iii) Road Planning and Design Office. This office would carry
out basic road planning and engineering studies, evaluate
projects, and supervise construction. One expatriate
engineer-economist would be financed for 25 months.
50.       About six fellowships would be provided for practical training
abroad. Candidates for these fellowships should be satisfactory to the
Association (Section 3.09 of the Draft Development Credit Agreement). To
ensure the adequate establishment of the three offices, the appointment of
qualified national staff as counterparts to the technical assistance would be
a condition of credit effectiveness (Section 7.01(a) of the draft Development
Credit Agrement). The relevant positions would be:
(i) Equipment Inspection Office. One mechanical or road engineer,
one chief mechanic and three equipment controllers.
(ii) Procurement Office. One procurement and one forwarding officer.
51.       Assistance to the Equipment inspection and Procurement Offices would
also include construction of buildings and improvement of workshops. The
effective utilization of the assistance would depend on the availability of
certain national staff, the appointment of which would be a condition for
disbursement of funds for construction of buildings (para 3(b) of Schedule I
of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
52.       Directorate of Transport:  The Directorate will be strengthened to
improve its planning function. The particular activities identified in this
context are: (a) collection and publication of transport data, (b) prepara-
tion of transport sector studies, (c) inter-departmental coordination for



- 14 -
transport planning and road traffic regulation and enforcement, and (d)
regulation of the road transport industry. The services of a transport
economist would be financed for 30 months. Furthermore a fellowship
would be financed for training in transport planning and operations. The
selection of a transport economist and of the recipient of the fellowship
would be subject to approval by the Association (Section 3.02 (a) and 3.09
of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
53.       Trucking Industry:  The Cooperative des Transporteurs Tchadiens
(CTT) controls most trucking operations. Its present organization and its
capacity to organize the industry requires strengthening particularly as
regards coordination among truckers, shippers and transport intermediaries.
The project would therefore include fifteen months of services of a trucking
industry expert. The project would also provide training abroad for CTT's
assistant director, who is responsible for trucking operations, and a fellow-
ship in transport industry operations.
Rural Roads Study
54.       A study to review the transport requirements of the rural areas and
to prepare a rural roads project for possible financing by the Association
would be financed under the project. Thirty-five man/months have been allo-
cated for the study and the terms of reference have been agreed upon.
Completion of the Improvement and Maintenance Program for Cotton Feeder Roads
55.       The training program, ;started under the Second Highway Project, was
recently extended to ensure continuity between this initial program and the
training activities envisaged under the proposed project. To finance this
additional cost of about US$400,1000 the cotton feeder roads program also in-
cluded in the Second Highway Project was reduced. The proposed credit would
finance the completion of this five year cotton feeder road program.
Cost Estimates
56.       The total cost of the lproject net of taxes is estimated at about
US$21.7 million, with a foreign component of about US$18.4 million. In addition,
recurrent expenditures during the four year project implementation period
would amount to some US$8.1 million, and unwaived taxes on fuel required for
the project to $0.2 million.
57.       The cost of equipment and spare parts is based on estimates prepared
by the consultants BCEOM and updated by the appraisal mission following a
survey of local dealers. The construction cost of buildings and workshops
is based on the current cost per surface unit of similar works. The cost of
technical assistance and consultLng services is based on the cost of similar
services rendered in Chad. The average cost of services of staff from con-
sulting firms (including overheads and the firm's fees) are estimated at
$8,600 per month.
58.       As in previous Bank Group financed projects, the Government will
waive all customs duties and other taxes on project-related goods and ser-
vices, except for fuel.



- 15 -
Financing
59.       The costs of the proposed project would be financed on a parallel
basis by IDA (US$7.6 million on standard terms), USAID (US$9.0 million grant)
and ADF (US$5.1 million on terms which are the same as IDA's).
60        Signature of agreements with USAID and ADF and fulfillment of
initial disbursement conditions under these agreements, except for the
effectiveness of the IDA credit, would be a condition of effectiveness
(Section 7.01 (b) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
61.       The Government is expected to provide US$8.3 million equivalent
which would primarily finance recurrent costs related to the maintenance
and ferryboat components. The Government contribution would be obtained
from the Road Fund (about US$7.3 million) and from the regular budget for
permanent labor wages (about US$1.0 million over the project period).
62.       In order to obtain the amounts required for its contribution the
Government would earmark 87 percent of Road Fund revenues for project-related
costs (Sections 3.01(c) of the draft Development Credit Agreement). A separate
account has been opened for the Road Fund outside the Central Treasury. In
addition the Government has agreed to introduce appropriate accounting pro-
cedures for the Road Fund and semi-annually inform the Association about the
Road Fund's revenues and expenditures (Section 4.02(a) and (b) of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).
Disbursement
63.       Funds from the credit would cover:
(a) Civil works for construction and improvement of offices
and workshops - US$1.9 million,
(b) Design and construction of four ferryboats and technical
assistance for execution of this component - US$1.2 million,
(c) Technical assistance, office furniture and equipment for
the Directorate of Public Works - US$2.0 million,
(d) Consultant services for preparation of Rural Roads study -
US$0.3 million,
(e) Construction material for completion of the cotton feeder
roads program - US$0.5 million,
(f) 90 percent of the operating costs to complete the cotton
feeder road program - US$0.35 million, and
(g) an initial advance of US$0.1 million for a revolving fund.
An amount of US$1.7 million would remain unallocated.



- 16 -
64.       Disbursements under (a), (b) except for labor, (c) and (d) would be
fully documented, and disbursements under (e) and (f) and labor costs of (b)
would be made against certificates of expenditures which would be retained by
the project for inspection by IDA supervision missions. The Government would
have difficulties prefinancing certain expenditures, particularly under the
ferryboat program. To overcome this problem a revolving fund of US$0.1
million would be established (Section 2.02 (b) of the draft Development Credit
Agreement). IDA would make a first disbursement to this fund and would
replenish it upon receipt of evidence of disbursements for allowable expenses.
Should any such disbursements prove ineligible for financing the Government
would deposit the corresponding amount in the fund account. The establishment
of an account with the Banque de Developpement du Tchad (BDT) for the revolving
fund would be a condition for credit effectiveness (Section 7.01(c) of the
draft Development Credit Agreement).
65.       The USAID grant would be used to cover the costs of the training
program and the technical assistance to the Directorate of Transport and
C.T.T. and of fellowships while the ADF loan would be used to purchase equip-
ment, tools and spare parts for the road maintenance program.
Procurement
66.       Construction and improvement of workshops and buildings (highest
expected contract price about US$:365,000) and office furniture, equipment
and supplies (totalling about US$250,000), would be procured following, local
competitive bidding procedures acceptable to the Association. Bidders for
construction and improvement of workshops and buildings would be prequalified.
Building materials for ferryboats to be constructed under force account would
be procured following international competitive bidding in accordance with
Bank Group Guidelines. A small quantity of materials (paint, electrodes,
bolts, etc.) might be required during ferryboat construction;  these items
and some office supplies would be purchased following solicitations of price
quotations, provided that the aggregate amount does not exceed US$60,000.
Should the need arise, the Directorate of Public Works could subcontract the
construction of some ferryboats or parts thereof to local steel workshops
following procedures acceptable to the Association (Part D of Schedule 3
of the draft Development Credit Agreement). Consultants services for tech-
nical assistance to the Directorate of Public Works, ferryboat building, and
the rural roads study would be secured under procedures and on terms accept-
able to the Association.
67.       Project components financed by the African Development Fund and
by USAID, would be procured under the respective procurement procedures of
these agencies.
Benefits and Risks
68.       The economic rate of return is estimated at 51 percent for the mainte-
nance and training program the cost of which is approximately US$14.7 million; 1/
1/   Excluding price contingencies.



- 17 -
and at 44 percent for the ferryboat program, the cost of which is about
US$1.2 1/ million (including technical assistance). The overall economic rate
of return for the proposed project is estimated at 50 percent, based on an
evaluation of about 85 percent of project costs. The main benefit of the
maintenance component would be the reduction of vehicle operation costs. The
ferryboat program would likewise contribute to reduction of operating costs by
allowing transfer of larger truck-trailers than at present, thus permitting
diversion of these trucks to shorter routes. Furthermore, lower maintenance
and operating costs of the ferries themselves would contribute to lower
costs.
69.       Cotton and related production inputs, fuel, sugar and beverage
are the most imoprtant cargoes transported by road in Chad. Reduced trans-
portation costs would thus benefit the cotton industry (which is the main
contributor to exports) and the economy as a whole. Furthermore reduced
costs are expected to encourage expansion of agricultural production. The
maintenance of about 1,300 km of roads and tracks in the Sahelian zone
is likely to benefit some of the poorest inhabitants in as much as it will
improve accessibility of the area. This would not only contribute to im-
proved management of livestock and agriculture resources but also facilitate
transport of food and other relief supplies during droughts.
70.       Other non-quantifiable benefits relate to the transfer of know-how
and institution building effects of the project: i.e. strengthening the
Government services responsible for road maintenance and establishing the
nucleus of a local ferryboat construction industry.
71.       The risks of the project are not negligible and may be divided into
three different categories:
i)   Some 1,000 km of the proposed road maintenance program would
be in areas which have been intermittently regarded as mili-
tarily insecure. It cannot be predicted whether this will
change during the project period. A remedy permitting suspen-
sion of disbursements is provided for should any part of
the project areas be inaccessible to IDA representatives for
efficient supervision of the execution of the project (Sec-
tion 5.01(b) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
ii)   Under present arrangements the Road Fund would finance a bare
minimum of recurrent costs and would not contribute to cover
equipment depreciation. Any reduction in the Road Fund
would result in a reduction of the maintenance program. A
review of the funds required, and of the possibility to
increase the Road Fund's revenues should be made jointly by
the Government and the Association not later than December 31,
1979 (Section 3.01(d) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
1/   Excluding price contingencies.



- 18 -
iii)   The training program could fail to train the required number
of staff and this would reduce the coverage of road mainte-
nance operations.
Economic analysis has, however, shown that even a reduction of the road
maintenance program to 3,500 km and of the regravelling program to 80 km per
year would still yield satisfactory rates of return. Consequently the risks
are not of such magnitude as to affect the basic justification of the project
particularly in view of its institution building and training benefits.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
72.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of Chad,
and the Association and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article V,
Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association are being dis-
tributed to the Executive Directors separately.
73.       The following features of the Credit Agreement, also listed in
Section III of Annex III of this report, are of particular interest:
(a) A remedy would be provided permitting suspension of relevant
disbursements if any part of the project area should be in-
accessible to IDA representatives for efficient supervision
of the execution of the project (Section 5.01(b) of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).
(b) Conditions of effectiveness (Section 7.01 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement) include:
(i) appointment of counterpart staff;
(ii) signature of agreements with USAID and ADF and ful-
fillment of initial disbursements conditions, under
these agreements, except for the effectiveness of the IDA
Credit; and
(iii) opening of a special account for the revolving fund.
(c) A condition for disbursement for civil works for Directorate
of Civil Works buildings would be the appointment of certain
key national staff (para 3(b) of Schedule I of the draft
Development Credit Agresement).
74.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.



- 19 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
75.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
July 5, 1978



- 20 -
ANIX I
TAB LE IAPaeIo4pgs
CHAD                - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET                           Page 1 of 4 pagec
LAND AhEA - T- OU K- 2)                          CHACD                                REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL     1284.0                                        MOSTC RECEIRT
AGRIC.     520.0 -19O                            1970   ESTIMATE           MALI            BOLIVIA       CENTRL AL RICN EMPIRE**
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                      70.0*     9C.0h    120.1*0               70.0*      220.0*      170.0
-__ __  ____  _ __  _    _
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION (MID-YR, MILLION)             3.1       3.5        4.1/a               5.1         4.9
POPULArION DENSIIY                                 30         30                   ,           .           .
PER SQUARE KM.                        2.0        3.        38                  4.0         4.0         3.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND         6.0        7.0        8.0/0              12.0        17.0       27.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/rHOU, AV)         45.8       44.8       44.0                49.6       44.4        45.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THOU,AV)          27.6       24.6       24.0               27.8         19.7       26.4
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)       160.0/S        .                                120.0  t54.0       ..
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)       33.5       38.0       38.5               37.2        45.3        39.0
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               2.4/b      3.0        2.5                3.3          2.8        2.9
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (%)
TOTAL                                  1.5       1.7        2.1                2.2         2.6         2.2
URBAN                                 6.9        7.1        6.4                4.3         4.2          7.2
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)            6.7      11.3       t3.9                12.1       32.3        30.1
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                       44.7       41.4       41.06              49.1        41.9        42.1
15 TO 64 YEARS                       52.6       56.0       55./bc             49.3        54.6        54.8
65 YEARS AND OVER                     2.7        2.5S       4.0 b ,C           1.6         3.S         3.1
AGE DEPENOENCY RATIO                     0.9       0,11       0.3                 1.0         0.8         0.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.3/C      .,        t.3/,d             0. /a        1.0/a       0.9/8
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPI'ORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)           ..        .          ..
USERS (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)              ..        ..         ..
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANO)         1100.0         ..    1300.0/a            2a0o.0      2300.0       820.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (%)         94.0       90.0         *-               91.0        65.0/b      91.0
UNEMPLOYED (% OF LABOR FORCE)             ..         ,,        .,                  ,,        16.0
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
% OF PRIVATE INCOME REC'D BY-
HIGHESr  5% OF HOUSEHOLDS            21t.5d       ''         ''                  ''       36.0/C
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS            44:8/d       .,                                      59.01C.
LOWEST  20X OF HOUSEHOLDS             7.7/d       ..         ..                  ,4
LOWEST  405 Of  WOUSS4WLDS           13/d         *-         *-                  *-       13.8/C
OISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
% OWNED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS              ..         ..        ..
% OWNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS            ..         ..        ..                  ..
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN                  .. 1690.0   44400.0                41490.0      2300.0    38120.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON        5700.0J            ,,    5570s.01e       3060.0      2730.0       1280.0/b
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED          q820.0/e,g 760.0          ..              1390.0/b    490.0        460.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (% OF REQUIREMENTS)         94.0       89.0       79.Q                92.0        77.0        96.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)              77.0       73,0      6U.1                69.0        46.0        48.0
-OF WHIICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          ..       33.0/a   18.8                  23.0/C      14.-0d     22.0
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4               ..         ,.        ..                  ..         7.4
EDUCATION
ADUUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                       15.0       32.0       36.0                20.0        71.0       69.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                       0.4       2.0        2.0                 3.0        20.0         5.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRS7 AND SECOND LEVEL)             13.0       13.0       13.0                12.0        12.0        10.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(% OF SECONDARY)                     21.0       10.0        9.0                40.0        13.0/e      12.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (%)                   ..        7.0      15.0                  *-        40.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)                  ..         ..        ..                  ..
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WAIER (                           ..        ..         ..                  ...
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(% OF ALL DWELLINGS)                                        ..          ..         ..
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY ()                       ..        ..         ..                  ..
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)           2.0       16.0       18.0               12.0       288.0        30.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)            1.0        1.0       1.5                 1.0         4.0         4.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)             3.0       12.0       14.0               11.0       160.0        29.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                 ..         .          ..                 ..         1.0
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



- 21 -
AifqE  I
Page 2 of 4 pages
Unless othercie noted, data for 1960 rdter to  my y"sr betwee  1959 ad  1961. for 1970 betwen 1968 and 1970, and for Most Recant
Estixate between 1973 snd 1975.
5  GNP por capita date are bed on the World Sauk   isU   mtbOdoloy (1974-76 bais).
as  Th. Centrol African epire bh  been selected as "  * bjSctive Country for Chad because it is also landlocked but at a higher level
of devalopnwt.
CHAD                1960    /n  1955-57;    A   1963.44 African population           tc  Ratio of population under 15 sod 65 and over to
total labor forca;    Ld  1958, population;    i   1962;    /f  including midwires and assistant
ours. in government medical centers;    Lg  Govrnment hospital establishments only.
1970    /a  1964-66.
MOST IECMSIT SSTDLCkTE:  /a, 1976;    tb  1971;    /c  Age groups 15-59 sod 60 and over respectively;    Id  Ratio
of population under 15 and 60 and over to total labor force;           e  Including l  idwives
and asistant didwives.
MALI                 1970         l Ratio of ppulation under 15 and 65 and oer to total labor force;    /b  Government hospital satab-
lishmantoe;    /c  1964-66.
BOLIVIA              1970    /   Ratio of population undar 15 sd 65 asd over to total labor fortce;    /b  As percentage of labor force
in esployxent;    Le  Population;    Ld  196446;    IC  aetwean 1965 and 1970 the duration of general
secondary education was reduced fra n  to 4 years.
CENTRAL AFRICAN    1970    /a  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and "oer to total labor force;    /b  Including midwives and
EMIPRE                       assistant nurses.
R7, February 2, 1978
DUIMO Of SOCIAL 15CATORS
Land Are. (thou m n                                                                       Populktion ocr oursin p osen - Populotion divided by onuxbr of practicing
_otel - Tots; surface area nosprieiog land area  nd inland wtrers,                          _    sd f  le greduste curses, "tr-ined" or "certtfied" nur e., sod
ARri. - Host re-ent estlet. of agricultural  rees usad tomporerily or peron-                auxili-ry pesonel with treiniog or anperisoc.
nently for crops, psetures, nsrkt & kitchen gardus or to lie fllow.                    Puistion t    r h"ital had - Popul.tion divided by nusber Of hospit1 beds
svis   npubic enud Privtet aenera1 cod sp-cislised hospital and
GNP oer c.Pit. (US$) - iNP par ..pit. .stietes at current  rkat price.,                     rehabilitation conters; excludes nursing homes and %ethbli honta for
caiculsted by same conversion method .s World Bnok Atlas (1973-75 bhsi.);                 cwtodil nd preventive crs..
1960; 1970 and 1975 dat.                                                               Per cupita  UpPl of calories (t of rasir.nts) -  Coputad fee  energy
equivalent of met food eupplie eilable in country per c.pit. par day;
Puoulotion sod vital ecacierics                                                             available auppliss comprise doosetic prodution, Imports lass -port., sod
Pooclecion (mid-vest oillion)   cs of July fir-t  if not evailohi, erere gchng_ in stock; net *upplies seclude animl feed, aeeds, qv ntiti.as ud
of two end-yar eatites; 1460, 1970  nd 1975 dots.                                         in food procecing and losas  in distribution; requir0mento  er eacles1ad
by F0 baseed on physiological esed, for  ._Ina  actiity Oan  heslth tonsd-
"Ponultion denairt - nor susro he  - Mid-year popul-tion per equsre kilometer               srfa.  andon phyl tompaertura, body wights. aa snd  s distributions Of
(100 h_ctsrea) of cocI rars                                                              population, and allowing 10  for wst.  t household leve.
Popultion density - neP square kh  of erict land - Computed As sbove for                  Per otoita .0rs1d of  aryein tre oar day) - Protein content of per capita
.gricoltural land only.                                                                   mt upply of food P r ds,; b-t supply of fonodia dm  s   abovS rveqr
ments for eli co,stries established b-y tSDA E-conomic Rotarach Services
Vital statistics                                                                            provide for s niln    .1llosoca of 60 gres. of total protein par day, and
Crude birth rate Lar  thouand. average - Annual liv  birth- par thousand of                 20 gre  of eeinsl snd pulse protein, of hich 10 gr_a ebould bh  anairl
aid-year population; tan-year sritNtic  verags ending in 1960 snd 1970,                   protein; these standards are Iowr than thos  of 75 gre   of total protai
and fin-year av-rge ending in 1975 fotr -ot recent -etimste.                              and 23 gras of  inial protein .  an verage for th  world, propod by FAG
Crude death rota Per thoOsa.-  av-rage  - Annual deatha per thousand of  id-yesr            in the Third World pond Sury.
population; tan-y.ar arithmetic avragas endirg in 1960 snd 1970 and five-               psr canit' Protein euny Ore  nimal sod  oulse  - Protein supply of food
year average ending in 1975 for mest recent estimte                                       der.  vd  re.olma snd puleaa in ar   par dsp
Infant mortality rate f/thou) - Anna.I deaths of tnfanta under use year of ea.            Death rat  t/thou) sees 1-4 - Annul deaths per thousnd in age group 1-4
per thoup nd live birtho-                                                                 yere, to childr n in this aga group; suggested as 00 indicator Of
Lif *ex ctano v at birth (yr.) - Aver-ge number of years of life rsiniog at                 ml-nutrition.
birth; usually five-yur aerages ending in 1960, 1970 snd 1975 far deelop-
ing countries.                                                                          Educ.tion
Gross rl.roduction rate - kverage number of live daughters a wn.n will besr               Adluteud e rollmnt ratio - rimrn school -  nrollent of  11 ages a per-
in hea nornl reproductive period if sh  epriences present age-specific                    cPnag   of pria ry school-apopulation; includes childrsn aged 6-11 years
fartility rates; usually five-year  ve-rgese oding in 1960, 1970 and 1975                 but adjusted for different longthe of primry education; for countries with
for d     veloping countries.                                                             univars-l education, enroll_t May encend 100I  since soe pupils ar below
Population oroath rate t21 - total - Compound aonual growth rat"e of id-yar                 or bov  th  officil school ag.
population for 1950-60, 1960-70 sod 1970-75.                                            Adbte=d enrollnt ratio -  econdary school - Computed s   bove; secondy
Popultion er,wth rat  t1) - urban - Computed likh  growth rate of totel                      dncatiom require  at leest four years of approved priesry instruction;
population; different definitions of urban  ares my  ffect cusprebility of                provides genaral, vocational or teachr training in"tructions for pupil.
data aong countries,                                                                      of 12 to 17 years of  ge; correspondnce coures amr generally secluded.
rb ..n .oPuhltion (t of total) - Ratio of urban to tot.l populttion; diff-acent           y-ra of *chooling erovid.d ffirst sd second levels   - Total years of
definitions of urban ar*e  nay effect comprobility of dats  ong countries                 s     lieg; at sEcandary lvel, vocational in trutino  my h  partially or
___________________                                                  oes~~~~~~~~~~~plately   tecl.ded.
*nd structure d ccoanyr  -nChildvre  (0-14 yr)   king-age  t15-64 yer),                 vocatie-l roll t  t2 of ticner) - Vocational institutions include
sod rtire  (65  esesand over) as P-aent.gee of mid-year pesaltio.                    tecHeia,idsra  o   te   rg                hich operate independently or as
Age de pedencv rntio  - mcia of population under 15 and 65 and over to cho.                 departents of econdary in_titotionu    .
of dga  15d thrug  64ti.-               t -                                          Adult literacytrate d7,t - Literate adults (shl. to read end write) as per-
Jconomic defendency ratio  - fato of populatton under 15 and 65 snd over to                 ceotagi  of  rto   tdl pulatIon eged 15 years and ov r.
Family olsuning - acceptors (tomulative. thou) - Cu1mlstive nuabr of acceptore            Houwiog
of birth-control device_   und-r auspices of natIonal f_ly  ploanina progre             Pers on *kr res (urban) - Aver-sa  nu ber of parsons pr roes in occupied
F"_ily lenninR - users  t% of o-rriod w   enl - Parcentag   of married wvon of              atares           ll mod O%Occupind uparts.
child-besing aE (IS-44 yasr) who use birth-cntrol devices to a11 _arriad                  in urhn            wh       siped eater (7) - Ocapied conventional dtilfogs
wn  in eese age group.                                           ix srbsn and~~~~~~~ _rurl areas wihu  isd  or outside piped wae.   aclte
es peeoentsge of .11 occupied dwellings .                      r  -
felvee                                                                                   dm55nd5Pl  to  electricyity- P--,i-7, ofarsdall" deall es      Convetional dwelling  with
Tot-l labor force (thoussod) - Oconomically active pereona  including armed                4cslteIctrolyinlIvin  quarters1 eelts pecn   Cofv ntic l dwellings inoranan
orcos and an-ploynd hut aecluding housoves,  tudent, *tc.; definitions                  rur c1 qa  rtrre                 a  psrcn  of trt1a_.  log  in ub  n  n
in various coontri.s  are not comp rable,                                               gnia
Labor force in agnicolcare (7,) - Agricultural 1sbor force (in farm ng,  oreatry           Rur I dd.lin   only.
hunting and fi hing) *  pert ntage of tot-l labor force
UeepPloved (2 of                 Unbor force) - Ine_ployed are us-lly defined as persona who Ch.too
ave abe and  iliiu  to cae aJlb, ont of a Job ow a given day, remsmeld nut      Radle rcies(w  hupo       i  ye   frciasfrrdobodat
of a job, snd  *king verk for a speified rmie    period wt esxceding ens                   tolnra   ulcehosnrfp. frirad  roceivtr
weask; may not he compareble betweenoun-Otries due ta different def.tiof oss               in countries andlin yer  whend registration; of ruadi  aelc asineffct
ourf   y o     n -pulsory  unpl0ydant in ur*                                               depOt  f or recant years  ay not he cnsparable since mast countries abolished
psemerear f   nt houPoe   -Passenger taee  comPrise macor care sesting
nct~ distribution - Perc ntsge of privat  into_ (both in cash ed kind)                       les    s t     pereou pop d -         bulencee, hesre  and   iary
received by rcchesc 57, richest 207, poorest 207, nd poorest 40% of hoCs-                  vehicles.                     Mae prbld  9-as, hearses  nd  ilitry
h=lectricity A'd v p r caP) -  Annual con  mption of itduotriel, co_rci
Distrib.tion Ar~~~~-   -f lmd  ~d by eselthi-t                          blie en  Prints electricity in kilowatt hours per capita,gesly
landibatonofes la donrhi 0eoscgso  a oowedbylantide  51basd on ptadution data, without sistefor losse  is grids but elbow
nd pot rst 17 of l  od rnr                                                                 S    for i rta and  Porta  of electricity.
b 1th and Nlut-ritio                                                             IIwriat t41/vr pe  casS  - Per tapIts annual consumption it kilogrm
Esell), and Surit                                                                            eesc        ouaindvd    yr ro   rctig*timttd fran d5_t10  productino  plus met t porta of newsprint.
p     tion           i  -       uldti   divided hy ombar of preotmcing                                                  'a"  i l
phscin  qaified from    mical school at  miosreity level.



- 22 -
ANNEX I
"age 3 of 4 pages
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1976                                         ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%, constant prices)
US$ Mln.       ,                        1960 -65           1965 -70           1970-76
GNP at Market Prices           492.93      100.0                          o.6               1.9                o.8
Gross Domestic Investment       75.48        1LS.3                       -3.5                9.3               2.4
Gross National Saving        -   0.02
Current Account Balance      -  75.30    _  15.3                        -3.6                 2.1              -9 2
Exports of Goods, NFS          139.40        28.3                         3.2                6.2                4.5
Imports of Goods, NES          228.60       46.4                          5.6                4.3              12.0
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 197
Value Added                   Labor Forc V                   V. A. Per Worker
US$ Mln.    _  'l
Agriculture                    248.13      50.0                 ..
Industry                        73.49      15.0 o,
Services                       173.67      35.0                  .        .
Unallocated
GDP Total/Average         ._.__
495.29    lO.o            100.0                                     '       100.0
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT FINANCE /2                                                                               of GDP
(Million LTS$)
1971    1972    1973    1974    1975    1976         1971    1976        1971 - 1976
Current Receipts               54.2    52.0    46.8    56.3    63.5    62.4         16.3    12.6             14.3
Current Expenditure            64.6      58       .1    73.36            80.6       19i4    16.3      1.
Current Surplus               -       - 7.8  -11.3   -17.0 -  6.4 -_=              - 3.1   - 3.7            - 3.0
Capital Expenditures            3.8      3.5     4.9     0.2      1.4     0,0        111      0.0             o.6
Fxternal Assistance (net)       9.4      4.1     2.7     3.2      o.4    11.3         2.8     2.3             1.3
MOYET, CREDIT and PRICES                  1971;         1972         1973        1974         1975        1976
EMillion USf outstanding end periodT
Money and Quasi Money                     40.1          40.7         41.7        62.3         69.6         81,9
Bank credit to Public Sector               5.2           9.3         12.3        14.0         10.5        17.8
Bank Credit to Private sector             40.3          39.8         46.6        53.9         87,4         75.8
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP         12.1          11.5         12.0         16.5        15.6         16.5
Consmzner Price Index (1970    10o0) /3   106.2        109.3       115.2        128,2        148.3       153.3
Annual percentage changes ins
Consumer Price Index                      6.2            2.9          5.4        11.3         15.7         3.4
Bank credit to Public Sector               4.0          78.8         31.2         13.8       -25.0         69.5
Bank credit to Private Sector            -15.0         - 1.2         17.1        15.7         62.2        - 1.3
NOTEt All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period
covered.
/ Total labor force; unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation.  "Unallocated' consists
mainly of unemployed workers seeking their first job.
To reflect changesin the real values of fineLncial flows, a constant exchange rate of CPA Francs 240/US$
is assumed in these tables.
General Price Index not available for Chad.
.riot available
.iot applicable



- 23 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 4 pages
TRAD3 PADHEDTS AND CAPITAL FW1S
BAlANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                                  MERCHWDISE EXPORTS
1971           1976       Average 1971-1976
17LI  1975        1976                  US  $ Mln  %   US $ Mln        US-$ Mln    %
(millions US $)
Exports of Goods, NFS           75.0    118.5    139.4         Cotton      19.0  45       84.o  83      36.8      61
Imports of Goods, NFS          100.0    237.0    228.6         Others      23.3  55       16.7  17      23.3      39
Resource Gap (deficit ' -)             - 7 1 < 5     -9.2       Total       2.3 100      100.7          60.1   lo
Workers remittances             0.7       -0.9     -1.3
Interest payments (net)        -1.8  ) - 2.3       -0.9
Other Factor Payments (net)   -0.4  )              -1.1
Net Transfers                   1.3       9.3      17.2
Balance on Current Account   -25.9    -11  4       75:3
Direct Foreign Investment       0.3      20.3      26.8            EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31. 1976
Net MLT Borrowing
Disbursements                4.5        .us   Min
Amortization                 1.8
Subtotal                     2.7       5.3      11.2              Public Debt, incl. guaranteed             250.0
Capital Grants                 28.9      53.3      68.4              Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Other Capital (net)             4.1       o.6      -8.o              Total outstanding including undisbursed c
Other items n.e.i               0.7       0.7       1.7                           (of which dis t sed)          (95.4)
increase in Reserves (+)       10.         .       24.8            DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1976
Gross Reserves (end year)      11.2       3.1      23.2
Net Reserves   (end year)       8.2     -19.0       4.1              Public Debt, incl. guaranteed               9.0
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Fuel and Related Materials                                            Total outstanding including undisbursed  g 
Imports
of which:  Petrolem        10.2      14.42 /
Exports
of which:  Petroleum         .          .        .       IBRD/IDA LENDING, (latest month) (Million US $):
RATE OF EXCHANGE (CFAF/US$)                                                                             IBRD        IDA
Outstanding & Disbursed                *
1971: 277     1974: 240                                        Undisbursed                             .         36.8
1972: 256     1975: 214                                        Outstanding incl. Undisbursed           *2-.
1973: 230     1976: 239                                                                                          62.6
11  Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services.
g Staff estimate
2   Unless otherwise indicated
not available
not applicable
June 12, 1978



- 24 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 6
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN CHAD
A.   STATEMENT OF IDA CREDITS (April 30, 1978)
Credit
Number    Year      Borrower         Purpose             ------------US$ Million-----------
(less cancellations) (undisbursed)
125      1968       Chad        Highway maintenance          4.1                    0*
126      1969       Chad        EducaLtion                   2.2 /1                  -
251       1971      Chad         EducaLtion                  2.7 /2                 0.2
309      1972       Chad        Livestock                    2.2                    0.1
445      1973       Chad        Drought Relief               2.0                    0 **
489       1974      Chad         Irrigation                  7.5                    0.4
489-1    1976       Chad         Irrigation                  8.0                    8.0
490       1974      Chad         Second Highway              3.5                    0.7
592       1975      Chad        Lake Chad Polders            5.0                    3.1
664       1976      Chad        Rural Projects Fund         12.0                   10.9
739 /4   1977       Chad        Sahelian Zone Project        1.9                    1.9
783 /4   1978       Chad         Second Livestock           11.5
Total now held by IDA                  62.6 /3 /5             36.8
Total undisbursed                      36.8
/1   Includes supplementary credit oif US$0.4 million.
/2   Includes supplementary credit of US$0.5 million.
/3   Prior to exchange rate adjustment.
/4   Not yet effective.
/5   The Third Education Project (811.CD) ($8.3 million) was signed after the
date of this table.
*    3,260.75 undisbursed.
**   9,546.28 undisbursed.
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (April 30, 1978)
Nil.



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 6
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Credit No. 125     Highway Maintenance Project:  US$4.1 million Credit of
August 14, 1968; Effective Date: February 11, 1969;
Closing Date: June 30, 1978.
The project consists of (a) a 5-year program for highway main-
tenance including technical assistance, the procurement of equipment and
materials, repair shop extension, training of operators and mechanics, and
establishment of traffic data collection system; and (b) feasibility studies,
and if found justified, detailed engineering for the Djermaya-Djimtilo road.
The project was practically completed on December 31, 1973 but
two of its components were not implemented: the training program was dropped
at the Government's request because the cost of the consultants' proposals
exceeded the amount available under the credit. Instead, a training program
is included in the Second Highway Project. The feasibility study for improve-
ment of the Djermaya-Djimtilo road was completed; however, detailed engineer-
ing found premature has been deferred. The project closing date has nonethe-
less been postponed to allow disbursements of surplus Credit funds to
complement the training program being carried out under the Second Highway
Project.
Credit No. 126      Education Project:  US$2.2 million Credit of August 29,
1968 (as amended); Effective Date: December 31, 1968;
Closing Date: Closed (fully disbursed).
The project consists of (a) the construction and equipping of a
teacher training college at Moundou and (b) the construction and equipping
of an agricultural technician training center at N'Djamena (transferred to
Sarh under Credit 251-CD).
The teacher training college has been completed and put into opera-
tion and the credit fully disbursed in the first quarter of 1976 about two
and a half years behind schedule. Reasons for the delay have been (a) delay
in reaching agreement on each stage of design; (b) the need to revise the
design and negotiate with the lowest bidder because of cost overruns; and
(c) the need to amend the Credit Agreement to resolve the financial problems
created by the US dollar fluctuation and internal budgetary difficulties.
However, this college will not be able to operate in the foreseeable future
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 6
because of inadequate budgetary funds to finance recurrent costs and lack
of technical assistance. An IDA mission is scheduled to visit Chad and dis-
cuss with the Government a plan for rendering this college operational.
Credit No. 251     Second Education Project:  US$2.7 million Credit
of June 16, 1371 (as amended); Effective Date:
December 28, L971; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
The project consists of (a) the construction and equipping of a
secondary technical school at N'I)jamena; (b) supply of complementary equip-
ment for the existing vocational training center at N'Djamena; (c) the
transfer of the agricultural technician training center, financed under
Credit 126-CD, from N'Djamena to Sarh; and (d) a study of young farmers'
training schemes.
The project is almost totally completed about 12 months behind
schedule due to (a) delay in reaching agreement on the educational and
architectural programs for the technical secondary school; (b) delay in
preparation of equipment lists; and (c) the need to amend the Credit Agree-
ment to resolve the financial problems created by the fluctuation of the
US dollar and internal budgetary difficulties. The new agricultural tech-
nician training center and the secondary technical school are not yet open.
It is unlikely that either of these institutions will operate this year
because of difficulties similar to those outlined for the teacher training
college (Cr. 126-CD), namely inadequate financing and lack of technical
assistance. The same measures to be taken to render this last institution
operational would also be extended to the agricultural technician training
center and the secondary technical school. The Government has also received
an offer for technical assistance from the Federal Republic of Germany.
Credit No. 309     Livestock Development Project:  US$2.2 million Credit of
MIay 31, 1972; Effective Date: November 28, 1972; Closing
Date: June 30, 1978.
The project comprises: (a) the construction of 18 new pastoral
wells and the repair and rehabilitation of 20 existing wells in the Batha
prefecture; (b) the establishment of two well maintenance units, including
their operating costs for the first two years; and (c) special studies
carried out by a Livestock Development Unit (LDU) established with UNDP
assistance.
Although the credit became effective in November 1972, project
implementation was begun only following the Board's decision to finance
100 percent of project costs net of duties and taxes, and to establish a
revolving account, which became effective in March 1974. Well construction
and repairs were completed by end of 1976. Well maintenance units are in
operation. Most of the studies, including water extraction and livestock
taxation are completed. Field works on the remaining studies namely the



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 6
identification of pastoral groups and sheep and goats are also completed.
UNDP did not extend its assistance to LDU, due to unsatisfactory results
and this unit is now integrated in the Livestock Services.
Credit No. 445     Drought-Relief Project:  US$2.0 million Credit of
December 7, 1973; Effective Date: March 22, 1974; Closing
Date: December 31, 1978.
The project is designed to help people in areas affected by the
drought to re-establish their productive base; it comprises the following
eight subprojects: equipment, workshops, technical assistance and operating
costs for underground water development; equipment and operating costs for
"Genie Rural", "Water Survey Bureau", and "Land Development Department";
equipment, buildings and operating costs for the Livestock Service; construc-
tion of warehouses; equipment and operating costs for a vegetable growing
pilot scheme; and equipment and operating costs for the Planning Department.
Physical execution of the project is satisfactory, with all of the
eight subprojects completed or nearly completed.
Credit No. 489      Sategui-Deressia Irrigation Project:-/ US$15.5 million
Credit of October 7. 1976; Effective Date: February 9,
1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
The project covers the development of 11,000 ha in the Sategui
Deressia plain, 5,000 ha inside polders under controlled flooding and 6,000
ha outside polders under improved agricultural practices. The whole area
will be exploited by small farmers and the main crop is rice. It includes
(a) the construction by force account of an intake on the right bank of the
Logone River, a main canal, polders, feeder roads, buildings, a rice mill
and storage facilities, (b) the strengthening of the project authority,
(c) applied agricultural research, and (d) intensive in-service training.
During the first dry season period (1977) earthmoving equipment for project
construction has been delivered as scheduled and implementation of earthworks
was carried out satisfactorily despite a general shortage of fuel in Chad.
The total polderized area amounts to 830 ha and yields are expected to exceed
appraisal forecasts. Other activities such as the use of labor for irriga-
tion works and building construction are carried out satisfactorily.
Credit No. 490      Second Highway Project:  US$3.5 million Credit of
June 28, 1974; Effective Date: March 7, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980.
The project comprises (a) a five-year program for improvement and
maintenance of feeder roads in cotton growing areas; (b) pre-investment
1/   Including the supplementary credit of US$8.0 million approved on
August 10, 1976.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 6
studies for about 120 km in cotton export routes; (c) a two-year training
program for DPW staff; (d) techn:Lcal assistance for the reorganization of the
road transport industry; (e) a two-year traffic count on about 2,000 km of
the most important roads; (f) reconditioning of ferry boats and their interim
maintenance over a three-year period; and (g) feasibility study for replace-
ment of ferry boats and improvement of dock facilities.
Pre-investment studies were completed. However, detailed engineer-
ing for the roads studies were not implemented as one road was not economic-
ally justified and the second was contingent upon construction of a soap
factory which was then cancelled by the Government. Because of the extension
of the training program to ensure continuity with the training envisaged under
the proposed project a cost overrun of about $400,000 is expected which
requires to reduce accordingly the program for improvement and maintenance of
cotton feeder roads. The Association and the Government agreed to include in
the proposed project the amount required to complete this program.
Credit No. 592      Lake Chad Poldlers Project:  US$5 million Credit of
November 26, 1975; Effective Date:  February 26, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The project comprises rehabilitation or construction of irrigation
and drainage networks of two polders of about 1,200 ha, to permit cotton and
wheat cultivation.
Although the project initially suffered a one-year delay because
the expatriate consultants were not appointed on time, this delay is pro-
gressively being reduced and should be made up by the time the second polder
developed under the project is completed. Most contracts have been awarded
and on this basis, project costs are estimated to be within appraisal esti-
mates. Building on this initial success, Government is exploring with other
external donors the financing of the contiguous Mamdi polder (1,600 ha),
which would bring the total area under polder development to 2,800 ha, and
thus create an important nucleus for development in that part of the country.
Credit No. 664      Rural Projects Fund:  US$12.0 million of December 8,
1976; Effective Date: March 2, 1977; Closing Date:
March 31, 1980.
The project comprises seven subprojects: (a) small-scale irrigation,
(b) warehouses, (c) pastoral wells, (d) village water supplies, (e) feeder
road improvements, (f) animal feed and poultry marketing, (g) bottomland
development as well as a management unit.
The management unit is now fully staffed and key personnel have
been engaged for all subprojects. Execution of the work program for 1976/77
has suffered from delayed effectiveness but the project is now fully opera-
tional.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 6
Credit No. 739      Sahelian Zone Proiect:  US$1.9 million of September 28, 1977:
Effective Date: May 15, 1978; Closing Date: June 30,
1980.
The project comprises fourteen subprojects leading to (a) increased
development of crop farming, (b) sustained and improved animal health services,
(c) maintenance of water supply, (d) expansion of forestry activities, and (e)
increase in Government's capacity to deliver transport services.
Credit No. 783      Second Livestock Project:  US$11.5 million of April 14, 1978:
Effective Date: July 13, 1978; Closing Date: March 31, 1983.
The project is designed to develop livestock production by (a) getting
pastoralists to accept responsibility for the environment through their parti-
cipation in the management and improvement of communal rangelands and stock
watering points; (b) broadening the field of competence of the Livestock Depart-
ment from provision of animal health services to provision of animal and pastoral
productivity services; and (c) increasing the scope for livestock production
in the South of the country through tsetse eradication.
Credit No. 811      Third Education Project:  US$8.3 million of June 5, 1978:
Effective Date: October 3, 1978; Closing Date: December 31,
1982.
The main objectives of the project is to assist the Government's
efforts to upgrade the quality of rural primary education and to improve
education management and administration.



- 30 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
SUPPLEMENTARY DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:  21 months
(b) Project prepared by: Government, IDA and Consultants BCEOM
(c) First time document piresented to IDA
(d) Departure of Appraisal Mission: March 1977
(e) Negotiation completed: May 26, 1978
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:  October    1978
Section II: Special IDA Implementation Action
Recommendation of a short list of specialized consultants as
requested by Government.
Section III: Special Conditions:
(a) Maintenance standards for different types of roads.
Agreement on core network of 4,000 km of roads and,
year by year, annual agreements on an additional 1,300
km of roads to obtain routine maintenance (para. 38).
(b) Yearly program for roads to be regravelled subject to
IDA approval (para. 39).
(c) Appointment of a Project Coordinator (para. 41).
(d)  A preparation of training curriculum by December 1978 and review
of overall training needs by December 1979 (para. 43).
(e)  Agreements on terms of reference for all Technical Assistance
(para. 48) financed under the project.
(f) Appointment of counterparts to technical assistants (condition
of effectiveness, para. 50).
(g)  Appointment of national staff concerned with DPW strengthening
(condition of disbursement, para. 51).
(h) Signature of agreement and fulfillment of initial disburse-
ment conditions of agreements with cofinanciers (condition of
effectiveness, para 60).



- 31 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(i) Disbursements could be suspended if any part of the country
became inaccessible to IDA staff for efficient supervision
of the execution of the project (para. 71).
(j) Review of level of resources of Road Fund and of funds re-
quired for carrying out road maintenance program (para. 71).






*     ~           N~            LIBYAC  HAAED
IkTHIRD HIGHWAY PROJECTw
We~~~~~W
k p ~ ~ ~   ~    ~ ~ ~ 4 
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
l x 1   0 X  z  0  1;   C E N T R ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A L A F R I C A pN E M P i R E   s    U    - 
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 4 2   <t     n,_,_ _<__ l,oo  






I B R D 13242
'i"  -'N.                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~I DECEMBER 10n
:   C  H  A  D         -                    1                       ,         - LIBYA                               A R. E.
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT                                            I----*
MAIN ROAD CONNECTIONS
MAIN ROADS (ALLWEATHERA -
?-.--- MXAIN ROADS ISEASONAL)                                                                                                         4.
t-b+--4 RAILROADS       . 
.4+  AARPORTS              '
.   -  -*-t INTERNATIONAL 8OUNDARIES                                                                            |
/ - ,              CHAD
5   .    7.- -   -                                      j50 v
;-  .             - .' |                                              EAbeche      ;        .........   -    ...~~~~Ab4ch
oena      S-UDAN
ANFRICA                                 Maiduouri         *N'D;JAMENA
A FR ICA      
. /                                      , 0 "50 Lere                                    d .i-
->27geg   :  ;-.        /           GoIa0Rr _,---                ~      . (             >.*jfQeSff)r
Moundou                                      Oi d f fho f\ Ot, W
,   ,->  _  <  -  g  ->  ,  : f' \   f  't  _  8  ts j,,^ys,e,Zra>tnv,>sROtrsfWeft~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~j  wo"' h ho ogo ontn  0
NqaoundW~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~, c~tOoaot on.,~
.               ' ./  Ngun                     %              -\
CAMEROON    CENTRAL AFRI'CA-N E M P I R E



