Report No. 1834b-CD
ChadFIECP
Third Highway Project                                                             FILE COPY
Appraisal Report
July 6, 1978
Western Africa Project Department
Highways Division
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
US$1.00                 C CFAF 245
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31
System of Weights and Measures: Metric
Metric                                  British/US
1 meter (m)                      =      3.3 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)      2                 0.6 miles (mi)
1 square kilometer (km )         =      0.4 square miles (sq mi)
1 metric ton (m ton)             =      1.1 tons (short tons)
I liter (1)                      =      2.1 pints (pts)
Abbreviations and Acronyms
ADF       -    African Development Fund
ASECNA    -    Agence pour la Securite de la Navigation Aerienne
en Afrique et a Madagascar
ATEC      -    Agence Transequatoriale des Communications
BDT       -    Banque de Developpement du Tchad
BTCD      -    Banque Tchadienne de Credits et Depots
CTT       -    Cooperative des Transporteurs Tchadiens
DCA       -    Directorate of Civil Aviation
DPD       -    Directorate of Planning and Development
DPW       -    Directorate of Public Works
DT        -    Directorate of Transport
EIO       -    Equipment Inspection Office
ENTP      -    Ecole Nationale des Travaux Publics
FAC       -    Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation
FED       -    Fonds Europeen de Developpement
ICAO      -    International Civil Aviation Organization
MCWMG     -   Ministry of Civil Works, Mines and Geology
MEPT      -    Ministry of Economy, Planning and Transport
PO        -    Procurement Office
RMA       -    Road Maintenance Authority
RPDO      -    Road Planning and Design Office
SHO       -    Studies and Hydraulics Office
STC       -    Swiss Technical Cooperation
UNCTAD    -    United Nations Conference for Trade and Development
UNDP      -    United Nations Development Programme
UNIDO     -    United Nations Industrial Development Organization
UNSO      -    United Nations Sahel Office
USAID     -    United States Agency for International Development
voc       -    vehicle operating costs
vpd       -    vehicles per day



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CHAD
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUMMgARY  ........................................... ...... o............   i-iii
1.    INTRODUCTION  ....            .........................            ..................            1
2.    THE  TRANSPORT  SECTOR  ..............                    ......................  O..            2
A.  The Land and the Economy ....................                                               2
B.     The Transport  System  . .....................................                           3
C.     Investments   .......................................... .                               5
D.   Management and Planning .............................                                      5
3.    THE  ROAD  SECTOR  ....................................................                          6
A.     The Network             .......................................... .                     6
B.    Road Transport  Characteristics                         ........................          6
C.    Road Transport  Industry  .....                   ......................... .             7
D.    Administration  ........................................                                  8
E.    Staffing  and Training  .................................                                 8
F.     Planning           ............................................. .                       8
G.     Financing              .............................................                     9
H.     Engineering and  Construction  .....                    .....................          10
I.    Road Maintenance  ......................................                                10
J.     Improvement  of  Feeder  Roads  ...........................                            11
K.     Domestic  Contracting  Industry  .....                   ....................          11
L.     Appropriate  Road Maintenance  Technology  ...........                      ....       12
4.    THE  PROJECT  ................................................                                  12
A.     Description  .......               ...................................                 12
B.     Road  Maintenance  Program  ..............................                             13
C.     Training  Program  .....................................                               13
D.     Construction  of  Ferryboats  .....                  .......................           14
E.     Technical  Assistance  and Fellowships  .............                     .....        15
F.    Rural  Roads  Study  ........ ...... ..........................                         16
G.   Completion of the Improvement and Maintenance
Program  for  Cotton  Feeder  Roads  .....................                          17
H.     Cost  Estimates  ........   ..........................  ......                         17
I.     Execution              .............................................                   19
J.     Procurement  ..........................................*                               19
K.     Financing  and Disbursement  ............................                              20
Frhis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
[of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Continued)                                                Page No.
5.   ECONOMIC EVALUATION .........................                               22
A.   Introduction ......                           ..................    23
B.   Road M[aintenance Program ........................                    23
C.   Replacement of Ferries ......... . . . .  ......................... .    24
D.   Distribution of Benefits .................        # .............    25
E.   Project Risks and Sensitivity Analysis .......... . .......    25
6.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ......................    26
TABLES
1.  Principal External Trade Corridors ..........................    28
2.  Public Sector Investment ...................................    29
3.  External Assistance:  Transport Sector              .....................    30
4.  Road Network (1977)              .................... .. ......... 5..     31
5.  Traffic on Road Network to be Maintained by DPW               .............    32
6.  Growth of t]ne Vehicle Fleet, 1970-76 .......... ..          ............    33
7.  Fuel Consumption, 1968-76 ...............       ..     ..................    34
8.  Government Revenues from Road Users, 1969-75 ................              35
9.  Expenditures on Highways, 1971-76 .....           ......................    36
10.  List of Roads to be Maintained .............       ..      ...............    37
11.  Unpaved Road Maintenance Strategies ....            .....................    38
12.  Road Maintenance Equipment and Spare Parts for
Existing Equipment; Cost Estimates ................. . .    ........    39
13.  Construction of Buildings and Workshops; Cost Estimates .....              40
14.  Network to be Maintained and Maintenance Operations .. .......   41
15.  DPW Personnel Training Requirements .........................    42
16.  Equipment for Training Program; Cost Estimates    ...........              43
17.  Four Locally-Built Ferryboats; Cost Estimates ....... .....                44
18.  Project Cost: Estimates .................     ..      ...................    45
19.  Project Implementation Schedule ............       ..     ...............    47
20.  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements ....            .....................    48
21.  Road Maintenance Cost Estimates ............       ..     ...............    49
22.  Ferryboat Recurrent Costs ...............       ..     ..................    50
23.  Road Maintenance Recurrent Expenditures; Cash Flow ..........    51
24.  Vehicle Operating Costs as a Function of Traffic
and Road Surface Characteristics ............................    52
25.  Breakdown of Cost Components for Shadow Pricing .............    53
26.  Summary of Economic Evaluation and Sensitivity Analysis   .....    54
This report has been prepared by Messrs. E. Staffini and A. Faiz, following
an appraisal mission in March/April 1977.



Table of Contents (Continued)                                       Page No.
ANNEXES
I.     Road Transport Industry  ....... ................... .....  55
II.     Technical Assistance for a Training Program -
Outline Terms of reference .............................   72
\III.     Exhibit I - Proposed Ferryboat (Plan) .................  76
Exhibit II - Proposed Ferryboat with Truck (Profile) ..  77
\IV.     Plan of Action .     ........................................  78
\V.     Technical Assistance for Strengthening Equipment
Maintenance Operations of the Directorate of Public
Works - Outline Terms of Reference      .......     ....  80
VI.     Technical Assistance for the Reorganization of the
Road Planning and Design Office - Outline Terms of
Reference .....................  .   83
VIIl.    Transport Economist for the Directorate of Transport
Outline Terms of Reference and Qualifications .85
VIII.     Trucking Industry Expert to be Attached to CTT -
Outline Terms of Reference and Qualifications    .......  87
IX.     Rural Roads Study - Outline Terms of Reference .... ... .  89
X.     Economic Analysis of the Project ............ 0..........   91
EXHIBITS
I.    Directorate of Public Works:  Organigramme .... ........ 115
II.     Incremental Benefits from Regravelling ....    ............ 116
III.     Benefits from Grading of Tracks ............... .......  117
MAPS
I.     CHAD - Third Highway Project (IBRD No. 13241-R)
II.     CHAD - Third Highway Project, Main Road Connections (IBRD No. 13242)






CHAD
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
SUMMARY
i.        The Republic of Chad, a vast, landlocked country in the heart
of north-central Africa, is counted among the world's poorest 25 countries
(Gross National Product in 1975: US$120 per capita, with incomes in rural
areas about US$60 per capita). The economy is based on agriculture, which
accounts for over 50% of the Gross Domestic Product (GDP); cotton is the prin-
cipal export, providing over two-thirds of the export earnings. As Chad's
principal economic centers are located about 2,000 km from the nearest ocean
port, external transport plays a critical role in Chad's economy. Roads form
the backbone of the internal transport system. The road network consists of
about 7,300 km of classified roads and tracks, and about 24,000 km of tracks
providing access to agricultural areas. Only about 1,300 km are engineered,
all-weather roads; of these 253 km are paved. Road distribution is uneven;
the major portion is located in the cotton-producing areas in the south,
while the sparsely-inhabited northern part is served mainly by desert tracks.
Inadequate maintenance, due to shortage of funds, has impaired the service-
ability of the road network.
ii.       Bank Group assistance to Chad's transport sector has been confined
to two highway projects and transport components in two other Credits. The
(First) Highway Maintenance Project (Credit 125-CD, US$4.1 million, August
1968) was geared to improving road maintenance. It consisted mainly of a
five-year maintenance program, and a preinvestment study. The road mainte-
nance program was completed in 1973, but physical targets were only partially
achieved, due to severe budgetary constraints as reflected in reduced alloca-
tions for recurrent expenditures. The Second Highway Project (Credit 490-CD,
US$3.5 million, June 1974), including an improvement and maintenance program
for cotton feeder roads, an interim program for maintenance of ferries, a
training program, preinvestment studies, a program of traffic counts, and a
road transport industry study is being implemented with satisfactory results.
The project is due for completion in 1980. The training program has been
extended to July 1978 to provide continuity with the training envisaged under
the proposed project. The extension of this program has increased the project
cost by about US$400,000, net of taxes, which would be financed under the
proposed project. This amount would be used to finance capital costs and
operating expenditures of the remaining part of the cotton feeder road main-
tenance and improvement program. Two other IDA-financed projects have small
transport-related components: (a) the Rural Projects Fund (Credit 664-CD,
US$12 million, December 1976) includes maintenance operations on selected
sections of about 1,200 km of feeder roads; and (b) the Sahelian Zone Project
(Credit 739-CD, US$1.9 million, October 1977) includes rehabilitation of six
airstrips.
iii.      The Government's objectives in the road sector are to improve
communications between the Sahel zone and the agriculturally productive south
in order to promote national integration, and to facilitate the export and



- ii -
import of essential commodities. In support of these objectives, the proposed
Third Highway Project aims to make road maintenance operations more efficient,
strengthen road maintenance and planning, and improve the operations of the
trucking industry. The Government's increased commitment to road maintenance,
despite the continuing critical budgetary situation, reduces the risk that
the proposed project will experience the difficulties that hampered execution
of the first project. The proposed project would include: (a) a four-year
road maintenance program of about 5,300 km of unpaved roads and tracks, in-
cluding purchase of equipment and construction of workshops and buildings; (b)
a training program for DPW personnel, including a training/production brigade
for regravelling about 100 km of roads per year; (c) construction of four
ferryboats; (d) technical assistance and fellowships to: (i) strengthen DPW,
(ii) provide plaining support for the Directorate of Transport (DT), and (iii)
improve the trucking operations of the Cooperative des Transporteurs Tchadiens
(CTT); (e) a study to prepare a rural roads project; and (f) completion of the
improvement and maintenance program for cotton feeder roads started under the
Second Highway Project.
iv.       The capital cost of the proposed project is estimated at US$21.9
million equivalent, with a foreign component of about US$18.4 million (84%).
Taxes amount to US$0.2 million as the Government has agreed to waive all
taxes, except those on fuel. Recurrent expenditures over the project period
amount to about US$8.1 million equivalent with foreign costs of about US$4.1
million (51%). The cost estimates are expressed in end 1977 prices and in-
clude physical and price contingencies during project implementation. All
the capital costs (net of taxes) of the proposed project would be externally
cofinanced on a parallel basis by the Association (IDA Credit; US$7.6 million),
the United States Agency for International Development (USAID grant; US$9.0
million), and the African Development Fund (ADF Credit; US$5.1 million).
The Government would provide US$8.3 million equivalent; US$0.2 million to
finance taxes on fuel, and US$8.1 million for the recurrent expenditures of
the maintenance program for roads and ferries.
v.        The proposed project provides for about 531 man-months of consulting
services and technical assistance: 230 man-months for the training program,
205 man-months to assist in strengthening DPW and improving regional workshop
efficiency, 16 man-months to assist in ferryboat construction, 30 man-months
to provide planning support to the Directorate of Transport, 15 man-months
to improve CTT's trucking operations, and 35 man-months for the rural roads
study. In addition, fellowship support would be provided for DPW, DT, and CTT
personnel. Consulting services and technical assistance for DPW, building of
ferryboats, and the rural roads study would be financed by the Association,
while USAID would provide for the remaining technical assistance requirements.
vi.       The Ministry of Civil Works, Mines and Geology (MCWMG) would imple-
ment, through its DPW, the road maintenance and training programs, construc-
tion of ferryboats, and civil works. It would also supervise the technical
assistance for DPW and administer fellowships for DPW staff. The Ministry
of Economy, Planning and Transport (MEPT) would supervise the technical
assistance for DT and CTT, and the rural roads study. Building materials



- iii -
for ferryboats would be procured under international competitive bidding
in accordance with Bank Group guidelines. Procurement of all other goods
financed by the Association would be carried out under local competitive
bidding procedures acceptable to the Association. Ferryboats would be built
under force account, but some of them, or parts thereof, might be contracted
to local workshops under local procedures. A small quantity of consumable
materials for ferryboat construction and office supplies (up to an aggregate
amount of US$60,000) might be purchased through local shopping. Consultant's
services for technical assistance to DPW and for ferryboat building would be
obtained following procedures, and on terms acceptable to the Association.
All other goods and services would be procured following the procedures
of respective cofinancing agencies. DPW will prepare bidding documents and
supervise construction of buildings. The Association would be responsible
for project supervision subject to agreement with all cofinancing agencies.
vii.      The best estimate of the economic rate of return for routine mainte-
nance is about 75%, corresponding to a benefit/cost ratio of 3.25 at a 12%
discount rate. Regravelling of about 400 km of roads by the training produc-
tion brigade would yield an economic rate of return of about 17% equivalent to
a benefit/cost ratio of 1.31 discounted at 12%. The overall economic return
for road maintenance operations, accounting for costs of routine maintenance,
regravelling, and training, is estimated at 51%. Replacement of the four
ferries would produce an overall rate of return of 44%, ranging from 27% to
58% for individual ferries. The overall rate of return for the project,
including the maintenance program and the replacement of ferryboats, is about
50%. Improved quality of roads through maintenance would tend to retard the
escalation in transport costs and the corresponding multiplier effects, re-
sulting in increased prices of consumer goods and reduced net export revenues.
As some of the project benefits are expected to filter down to the producers,
further expansion of agricultural output and generated traffic could mate-
rialize.
viii.     With the agreement reached on the conditions listed that in Chapter
6, the proposed project is suitable for an IDA Credit of US$7.6 million to the
Republic of Chad on standard IDA terms.






CHAD
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01      Chad's economic situation has been deteriorating since the late
1960's due to a prolonged drought and internal security problems. Increased
demand for Government services, resulting from the drought, and rising military
spending, caused budget deficits that rose from CFAF 2.0 billion in 1970 to
CFAF 4.1 billion in 1974, leading to accumulated payment arrears of CFAF 11.6
billion by 1976. The Government, therefore, has depended on external assis-
tance for most of its investment needs. This fiscal situation presents ser-
ious obstacles to transport development as the Government can neither con-
tribute to investments nor fully finance recurrent costs. During 1972-75,
annual expenditures on road maintenance averaged less than 2% of Government's
spending on recurrent expenditures. A properly maintained road network, how-
ever, is critical to the growth of the country's economy, particularly in the
agriculture and livestock sectors. It would also help to improve communica-
tions between many important commercial and administrative centers and reduce
the economic and administrative isolation of several prefectures. To help
maintain and improve its primary and secondary roads, the Government has
requested Bank Group assistance in financing a Third Highway Project.
1.02      To date, Bank Group assistance to Chad's transport sector has been
for road maintenance and improvement of cotton feeder roads. The First High-
way Maintenance Project (Credit 125-CD, US$4.1 million, August 1968) provided
a five-year maintenance program for primary and secondary roads, feasibility
studies of the Djermaya-Djimtilo road and lake side facilities, and a country-
wide program of traffic counts. Training for road maintenance personnel ini-
tially included in the project was largely deferred to the follow-up Second
Highway Project, although some training was provided under USAID auspices.
1.03      The project focused the Government's attention on the importance
of road maintenance and initiated the process of building a sound maintenance
organization. Equipment, spare parts, and materials were purchased and work-
shops improved. The shortage of local funds for recurrent maintenance expend-
itures, low equipment utilization due to lack of spare parts and inadequate
equipment maintenance, and grave internal security problems were the main
reasons for the shortfall in annual road maintenance targets (a maximum of
2800 km compared to the appraisal expectation of 4350 km at the end of the
project). The shortage of local funds can be generally attributed to the
allocation of fuel taxes to the general budget rather than the Road Fund,
although from 1972 onwards insufficient Government allocation for road main-
tenance was more a result of the Sahelian drought and the political unrest,
which caused a steep decline in production and revenues. The Operations
Evaluation Department's Project Performance Audit Report (No. 1883) points to
the need for provision of increased local funds for maintenance, improvement
of equipment utilization, expansion of training for maintenance personnel,
and development of Government's ability to plan and execute road maintenance
works. The design of the proposed project takes account of these considera-
tions.



-2-
1.04      The Second Highway Project (Credit 490-CD, US$3.5 million, June
1974) started in 1975, comprising a five-year program of improvement and
maintenance of cotton feeder roads, a three-year interim maintenance program
for ferryboats, a training program for Directorate of Public Works (DPW) per-
sonnel, a two-year traffic counting program, preinvestment studies of about
120 km of cotton export rpads, a feasibility study for replacement of ferry-
boats, and a road transport industry study. The improvement and maintenance
of cotton feeder roads is proceeding satisfactorily. The interim maintenance
of ferryboats, the feasibility study for replacing ferryboats, and the trans-
port industry study have been completed, while the training and traffic
counting programs are in progress. Detailed engineering of the two cotton
export roads was not undertaken because the proposed investment in one road
was not economically justified, and the other was contingent upon the imple-
mentation of a soap factory project, which was cancelle4 by the Government.
In view of the increased training requirements for the implementation of the
proposed Third Highway Project, the training program has been extended to
provide continuity in the training activities between the two projects. The
use of project funds for extension of the training program would require
additional financing to complete the improvement of cotton feeder roads. The
resulting cost increase, US$400,000, net of taxes, would be financed under the
proposed project (para. 4.14).
1.05      In addition to the First and Second Highway Projects, the Rural
Projects Fund (Credit 664-CD, US$12.0 million, December 1976) includes minor
drainage works and selective maintenance and improvement of about 1200 km
of feeder roads, mainly in the cotton zone. A first step to improve the
air transport sector will be taken under the Sahelian Zone Project (Credit
739-CD, US$1.9 million, October 1977) which includes a sub-project for
minor rehabilitation works on six airstrips serving regional prefectures.
1.06      The proposed project serves as a logical sequel of the road main-
tenance effort initiated under the Highway Maintenance Project and supports
the Government's commitment to establish road maintenance on sound technical
and financial grounds. Serving as the first phase of a long-term improvement
effort in road maintenance in Chad, the primary objective of the project is to
preserve the continued serviceability of the road network, so that earth roads
and tracks remain trafficable during the dry season and selected roads are
regravelled to provide all-weather service.
1.08      This report is based on studies prepared by consultant BCEOM, on
information provided by DPW and other Government agencies, and on the findings
of an appraisal mission comprising Messrs. E. Staffini (engineer), A. Faiz
(economist), P. Sooh (engineer), A. Pappalardo (engineer, consultant for
ferryboats) and P. Gueye (transport economist, consultant for the trucking
industry), which visited Chad in March-April 1977.
2. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A.   The Land and the Economy
2.01      Landlocked in the heait of north-central Africa, Chad occupies
an area of about 1.3 million km , with a population estimated at 4.0 million



-3-
in 1976.  The population growth rate is about 2.0% per annum.   About 85%
of the population is concentrated in the southwestern savanna zone, which
occupies only 10% of the land area. There, smallholders cultivate millet,
sorghum, groundnuts and, more recently, rice as food crops, and cotton as
the primary cash crop. As rainfall declines and becomes more erratic, trans-
humant pastoralism replaces rainfed farming in the Sahelian region.   The
vast northern part of the country is a rocky wasteland consisting of southern
extensions of the Sahara and Libyan deserts.
2.02      With a per capita Gross National Product (GNP) of US$120 in 1975,
Chad is one of the poorest countries of the world and is included among the
25 least-developed member countries of the United Nations. Agriculture repre-
sents over 50% of the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) and accounts for nearly all
exports, of which cotton, livestock and animal products, and fish are the main
commodities. During the past ten years, the pace of development has been slow
due to the country's formidable growth problems, namely lack of natural re-
sources (with the exception of recently discovered oil deposits), a hostile
climate, a literacy rate of 7%, a largely unskilled labor force., atl       I .1i-
uing political unrest. Between 1967 and 1975, per capita income dropped about
1% per year, and Government budget came under increasing strain with few
internally financed investments. Efforts, however, are being made to put
Chad's financial house in order; a balanced budget appears possible by 1982
in the judgement of the recent Bank economic mission (Report No. 1340-CD).
B.   The Transport System
International Transport
2.03      The remoteness of Chad's urban centers from ocean ports (1,700 -
3,000 km) and difficult internal communications give rise to high transport
costs, which in turn inflate the price of imports and most consumer goods,
and have a debilitating effect on the competitiveness of Chadian exports.
As land transport costs account for a significant 15-20% of the f.o.b. price,
the competitiveness of Chadian cotton exports is becoming increasingly mar-
ginal. Relative to imports, a bulk freight rate of about CFAF 34,000 (US$140)
per ton from ocean ports adds significantly to the final consumer prices.
2.04      The principal external transport corridors to the sea are:  (a)
the Nigerian route via Maiduguri to Lagos or Port Harcourt, carrying about
32% of the total freight in 1977; (b) the Cameroonian route via Ngaoundere
to Douala, accounting for about 48% of the total tonnage compared with 16%
in 1970; and (c) the Transequatorial route via Bangui and Brazzaville to
Pointe Noire, carrying about 12% of freight traffic compared with 47% in 1970
(Table 1 and map). Since 1974, transit trade has diverted substantially from
the Transequatorial route to the Cameroonian route, following the establish-
ment of a railhead at Ngaoundere and the improvement of the road link between
Ngaoundere and N'Djamena. This diversion was accelerated by the dissolution
of the Agence Transequatoriale des Communications (ATEC) in 1969 and improve-
ment of the road link between Sarh and the Cameroonian border via Moundou
during 1965-70. It is estimated that the Cameroonian route will continue to
attract an even larger share of Chad's transit trade, especially with the



-4-
projected increase in capacity at Douala port and the proposed construction
of the Moundou-Guidjiba road linking southern Chad with the Trans-Cameroonian
axis by a more direct route.
Transport Infrastructure
2.05      Road transport is the predominant mode in Chad's transport system,
accounting for about 75 million ton,-km? or nearly 85% of total freight traffic.
The details of the road subsector are discussed in Chapter 3. Other modes
include an air transport network and inland waterways comprising Lake Chad
and the Chari-Logone river system.
Air Transport
2.06      Chad has 44 airfields and airstrips, including one international
airport at N'Djamena for commercial jet traffic. Eleven of the larger air-
ports are efficiently managed by the Agence pour la Securite de la Navigation
Aerienne en Afrique et a Madagascar (ASECNA), while most of the remaining
airfields fall under the jurisdiction pf the Directorate of Civil Aviation
(DCA). Most of the airstrips are unpaved, and due to lack of adequate mainte-
nance, their serviceability has been impaired. A subproject under the ongoing
Sahelian Zone Project will restore six airstrips to their previous condition.
2.07      Total air freight traffic (arrivin$ anid departing) dropped from an
all-time high of 29,000 tons in 1970 to 14,500 tons in 1975. This was due
primarily to the recession in economic activity in Chad during the drought
years. Major commodities exported via air are meat, fish and gum arabic.
Domestic transport is handled by Air Tchad, an autonomous corporation which
offers scheduled service between N'Djamena and ten interior cities; six major
airlines, including the multi-national, ptate-owned, Air Afrique, of which
Chad is a member, handle the international traffic. The domestic demand for
air transport (0.3 million ton-km of air cargo in 1975) is seasonal, peaking
in August-September (the rainy season) when road transport becomes quite
difficult and in many cases impossible. Although preliminary studies carried
out by United Nations Conference pn Trade and Development (UNCTAD) and Interna-
tional Civil Aviation Organization (WCAO) reflect favorably on the potential
of air transport development in Chad.  supbstantial increase in air transport
demand does not appear likely in the near future.
Inland River and Lake Transport
2.08      The River Chari is navigable between N'Djamena and Lake Chad year
round, and between N'Djamena and Sarh (850 km) from mid-August to mid-December.
The Logone river is navigable between N'Djamena and Moundou (1,000 km) from
September to late October. Barge traffic on the rivers and Lake Chad is esti-
mated at about 15-20,000 tons per year, or about 10-15 million ton-km. Major
commodities include beer, timber, sugar, steel, fuel, natron and fish. Pros-
pects for river transport development are limited bepause of river regime con-
straints, although the outlook for developing barge transport on Lake Chad is
more favorable. The local construction of ferries under this project could well
serve as the nucleus of a future barge coinstruction industry for lake transport.



-5-
C.   lnvestments
2.09      Investments in the transport sector (including communications)
averaged about CFAF 0.75 billion per annum during 1967-70 (38% of total public
sector investments), but declined to CFAF 0.60 billion (6% of total invest-
ments) in 1975, due to a shift in government policy toward agricultural
development (Table 2). Major investments in the sector since 1970 comprise
the construction of the N'Djamena-Guelendeng and N'Djamena-Massaguet roads,
the Moundou-Airport road, the Ba-Illi bridge and runway strengthening at the
N'Djamena airport (Table 3), in addition to the Bank Group's highway projects
(paras. 1.02-1.05). Transport sector investments decreased from 2.4% of GDP
in 1967, to 0.5% in 1975.
D.   Management and Planning
2.10      The primary responsibility for transport planning and coordination
rests with the Ministry of Economy, Planning and Transport (MEPT). Within the
Ministry, the Directorate of Planning and Development (DPD) determines trans-
port investment priorities and coordinates external assistance; the Director-
ate of Economic Affairs establishes transport tariffs; and the Directorate
of Transport (DT) is responsible for transport policy and regulation of all
modes, including international transport agreements. The Ministry of Finance
establishes road user taxes, approves budget requests, and proposals for
tariff modification. DPW, within the Ministry of Civil Works, Mines and
Geology (MCWMG), is responsible for the construction and maintenance of
public works. ASECNA, and DCA within MCWMG, administer air transport.
2.11      The basic elements of a hierarchical transport planning process
are present in the Government's existing organization. DPW's Studies and
Hydraulics Office (SHO) and the technical planning sections of ASECNA and
DCA are responsible for data collection, analysis of sectoral trends, and
technical evaluation of projects. DT serves as the next operational level
in the transport planning hierarchy, liaising between the operating organi-
zations (DPW & DCA) and DPD, as well as being responsible for sector policy
and regulation. The next level of transport planning occurs in DPD where
inter- and intra-sectoral investment priorities are determined.
2.12      The Government has staffed its transport agencies with qualified
nationals where possible, and relies on technical assistance experts, mostly
supplied by thje Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (FAC), to fill other posi-
tions. Most management positions are held by Chadians, but there remains a
significant shortage of qualified technical staff in most agencies. For
example, technical staff of DCA consists of one civil aviation engineer who
heads the Air Transport Section, while the position of the director remains
vacant. DT is also understaffed; as a result, its activities have been
confined to immediate problems concerning the road transport industry and
negotiations pertaining to international transport agreements. Owing to the
shortage of trained local staff, technical assistance experts in most agencies
spend much of their time coping with routine administrative and operational
matters. Consequently most planning activity centers on developing a "shopp-
ing list" of projects for external financing. Although the Government is in
the process of formulating a development plan (1978-81), it is unlikely that
more than generalized guidelines and objectives will emerge from the exercise
under present constraints.



-6-
2.13      The basic strategy for improving sector planning in this context is
seen as a gradual one considering the country's limited absorptive capacity
for technical assistance, and other manpower constraints. The first and most
important need is to improve the system of data collection and technical anal-
ysis, i.e. the lower echelons of transport planning. To this end, technical
and financial assistance is included in the project for SHO (paras. 3.12,
4.09, and 4.10) and DT (para. 4.11).
3. THE ROAD SECTOR
A.   The Network
3.01      The road network consists of about 7,300 km of roads divided into
about 4,600 km of national roads and about 2,700 km of prefectural roads;
and 24,000 km of unmaintained tracks (Table 4). The network includes 253 km
of paved roads and about 1,050 km of all-weather engineered gravel roads;
most of the remaining roads and tracks are passable only during 7-8 months
of the dry season. The major portion of the network is located in the cotton
zone, covering about 10% of the area of the country. The sparsely populated
northern part of the country is served mainly by desert tracks. Construction
of all-weather roads began in Chad in 1964 with the east-west trunk road from
Sarh to Pala; this was followed by the paving of N'Djamena-Guelendeng and
N'Djamena-Massaguet roads, completed in 1971. No further extensions or major
improvements of the road infrastructure have been made since 1972, except for
the paving of the 11 km Moundou-Airport road and the construction of the
Ba-Illi bridge.
B.   Road Transport Characteristics
Traffic
3.02      Current traffic levels can only be approximated, since the latest
available traffic counts date back to 1970 (Table 5). It is estimated that
traffic flow on the network averaged about 25-30 million veh-km per year, and
about 70-75 million ton-km per year, during 1970-76. Except for the paved
road between N'Djamena and Guelendeng, the classified network carries less
than 100 vehicles per day (mainly trucks), varying from 30-60 vehicles per day
(vpd) on the most trafficked national roads to under 10 vpd on prefectural roads.
Vehicle Fleet
3.03      The operational vehicle fleet is estimated to be about 9,300 vehi-
cles (4,500 passenger vehicles, 3,000 pick-up and medium trucks, and 1,800
heavy trucks) on the basis of available Government statistics, adjusted to
account for vehicles retired from the fleet (Table 6). The vehicle fleet
has increased at an estimated rate of 3-6% p.a.
Fuel Consumption
3.04      Fuel consumption appears to have remained constant during 1968-76
(Table 7). This apparent paradox, in the light of an estimated 3-6% annual



-7-
growth in the vehicle fleet and a 3% annual increase in total tonnage moved
via road transport during the period 1968-74, may be explained in terms of
increasing unrecorded fuel purchases in Nigeria where the price of fuel is
one-third of that in Chad.
C.   Road Transport Industry
3.05      The domestic road transport industry (details in Annex I) carries
about 470,000 tons of freight per year including about 160,000 tons of import-
export traffic. There is no scheduled inter-city passenger road transport in
Chad, nor statistics on passengers transported. Except for a few vans and
covered pick-up trucks, freight trucks double as passenger vehicles.
3.06      The Cooperative des Transporteurs Tchadiens (CTT), a Chadian asso-
ciation of truck owners, has a monopoly of all internal and external public
road transport activity in Chad, except for the domestic transport operations
of a number of semi-public and Government agencies such as COTONTCHAD 1/.
Smal:L shipments on domestic routes are de facto not controlled by CTT.
CTT has 350 active members who own about 660 vehicles with an average age
of 6-7 years; 65% of the CTT members own only one truck while only 7% own five
or more vehicles. Each member manages his own operations, while CTT allocates
freight, bills customers, and pays the vehicle owner. When necessary, CTT
provides working capital in the form of advances to purchase fuel and helps
finance the purchase of new vehicles. For these services CTT charges its
members a commission equal to 10% of the freight transport cost. CTT is a
financially autonomous private enterprise supervised by DT, and its director
general is nominated by the Government. There is no restriction on vehicle
imports or entry into the industry, although a licensing system exists.
3.07      A number of factors have impeded the efficient development of the
trucking industry. The lack of coordination among shippers, carriers, and
transport intermediaries and an imbalance between exports and imports has
resulted in low truck fleet utilization (around 50% load factors) and high
unit costs. The regulated road transport tariffs, established in 1974, have
not kept pace with the escalating cost of transport. Except for a few routes,
transport tariffs are lower than transport costs, under assumption of modern
business practice. Liberal import policies, coupled with drought relief
programs, have resulted in excessive vehicle imports in recent years, while
sufficient attention is not paid to the maintenance of the truck fleet.
3.08      The proposed project aims at improving the efficiency of the truck-
ing industry by providing technical assistance to existing institutions. On
the regulatory side, the institutional support to DT (para. 4.11) would prepare
it to undertake normal regulatory functions of the road transport industry and
carry out basic planning studies aimed to improve the overall efficiency of
1/   COTONTCHAD is a semi-public company which has the monopoly for processing
and marketing cotton, as well as the transport of seed cotton from field
to ginnery, in its own fleet of 300 trucks.



-8-
the transport sector. On the operational side, the technical assistance to
CTT (para. 4.12) would help to improve its transport operations especially in
the areas of centralization of freight transport demand, freight allocation,
and coordination among shippers, truckers, and transport intermediaries.
3.09      Maximum authorized gross vehicle weight limit in Chad is 38 tons
with a maximum single axle load of 13 tons, following the French practice.
The movement of heavy vehicles on unsurfaced all-weather roads is forbidden
during, and for a few hours after, a heavy rain. The enforcement of traffic
reguLations is lax due primarily to a lack of funds and trained personnel.
With the provision of portable weighing scales under the proposed project,
enforcement of weight regulations is expected to improve. Regulatory func-
tions fall under the purview of DPW's Service of Mines, which inspects and
licenses vehicles, and the Gendarmerie, which is responsible for enforcement
of traffic regulations.
D.   Administration
3.10      DPW, responsible for about 4,600 km of primary roads and about
2,700 km of seconclary roads, also covers buildings and hydraulics. A fifth
subdivision will be created under the project. DPW has central services at
headquarters and four regional subdivisions. DPW's organization (Exhibit I)
is adequate to maintain the roads under its authority, but is in need of
improvements in some offices, additional training for its staff, and improved
workshop facilities and equipment.
E.   Staffing and Training
3.11      Except two, all DPW executive personnel are Chadian.  Division and
subdivision chiefs are foreign trained graduate engineers, while middle-level
personnel have received training in local technical schools. Staffing will
improve in 1978 as the proposed DPW budget provides for the hiring of two
additional engineers and more than ten middle-level technicians. FAC is pro-
viding 14 technical assistance experts to DPW under a long-term agreement
with the Government. Training of skilled personnel was initiated in 1970
with USAID assistance. Under the ongoing Second Highway Project, a training
program is being implemented for several categories of skilled personnel.
To consolidate the results of this program and assure the training of skilled
personnel required for the road maintenance program, the proposed project also
includes a training program (paras. 4.05-4.06).
F.  Planning
3.12      Until now, road planning has been carried out on a pragmatic, proj-
ect-by-project basis, but with insufficient attention paid to economic con-
siderations. Although DPW's SHO is responsible for basic road planning, it
has been hampered from undertaking planning activities by lack of personnel,
equipment, and funds. To rectify this situation, the Government intends to
strengthen its SHO:; the road section of this office would become a Road
Planning and Design Office (RPDO, Exhibit I). RPDO would carry out basic
highway planning and engineering studies, evaluate road projects, and super-
vise road construction. Furthermore, RPDO would collect and process data for



-9-
economic analysis of proposed road investments; this would help to establish
road investment priorities on criteria which take account of economic consid-
erationis.
G.   Financing
3.13      Annual Government revenues from road users averaged about CFAF 1.1
billion (US$4.4 million) during 1971-75, contributing about 8% to total
Government receipts, with about 45% derived from fuel taxes (revenue source
for the Road Fund); 45% from custom duties and other taxes levied on import of
vehicles, spare parts, and lubricants; and 10% from registration, license, and
vehicle inspection fees (Table 8). Total annual highway expenditures (capital
and recurrent) during this period, including external assistance for construc-
tion, purchase of equipment and technical studies (Table 3) averaged about
CFAF 1.0 billion (US$4.1 million). As such, road user charges were commensurate
with the Government's financial outlays in the road transport sector.
3.14      Capital expenditures on roads during 1971-75 totaled about CFAF 3.2
billion (US$13.1 million), while expenditures for road maintenance during the
same period amounted to about CFAF 1.9 billion (US$7.8 million). About 63% of
total expenditures, primarily capital investments, was provided through exter-
nal financial assistance, IDA accounting for about one-half of the external
financing. The remaining amount (37%), averaging about CFAF 380 million per
annum, consisted of Government expenditures for administration and maintenance
of roads and ferries (Tables 8 and 9).
3.15      The road maintenance budget prepared by DPW is reviewed by the
Ministry of Finance and finally approved by the Council of Ministers. Road
maintenance expenditures are financed from different sources: the national
budget, the Road Fund, and external donors. The national budget normally
finances administration expenditures, building maintenance, and salaries of
permanent road maintenance personnel. The Road Fund finances other recurrent
road maintenance costs and salaries of temporary personnel. External donors
have financed capital expenditures and recurrent costs of ad hoc maintenance
projects (e.g. Fonds Europeen de Developpement (FED) and Unitd States Agency
for International Development (USAID) for drought relief roads, FED for paved
roads, IDA for the Second Highway Project).
3.16      Although legislation establishing the Road Fund stipulates that
taxes on gasoline and diesel oil (currently CFAF 18.5/liter on gasoline, and
CFAF 1L6/liter on diesel oil) be earmarked for the Road Fund and deposited in
a special account in the Treasury separate from general revenue, only about
50% of the estimated fuel taxes were deposited in the Road Fund prior to 1976,
in the form of an annual budgetary allocation. In 1974, as a credit condition
for the Second Highway Project, the Government agreed with the Association to
deposit fuel taxes and ferryboat tolls, earmarked for the Road Fund, in a
special account to be opened in the Central Bank. This condition, however,
could not be met by the Government as its already impaired fiscal situation
was dealt a further blow by rampant inflation during 1974-75, causing severe
budgetary strains. In 1976, for the first time, the Government earmarked all
fuel tax revenues to the Road Fund (still within the Treasury) and used these
funds for road maintenance and related activities. In May 1978, the Govern-
ment issued a decree which modifies the original law establishing the Road



- 10 -
Fund. This decree provides for (i) the opening, as of June 1, 1978, of a
special account for the Road Fund in the Banque Tchadienne de Credits et
Depots (BTCD), and (ii) the deposit in the account of Road Fund revenues.
3.17      Budget allocations for road maintenance increased during 1970-72,
and then decreased, in real terms, until 1975 (Table 9). These allocations
were minimal when compared with total requirements, estimated at about CFAF
785 million in 1975, against expenditures of CFAF 220 million, and were a
major cause of the reduced road maintenance output. At times, available
funds were just sufficient to provide for salaries of personnel and purchase
of some fuel. During project implementation, Road Fund revenues (CFAF 450-500
million per annum) are expected to cover recurrent expenditures, excluding
equipment depreciLation and taxes other than fuel taxes for the proposed road
maintenance program, maintenance of ferries, and other ongoing road maintenance
and improvement projects (paras. 3.20 and 3.21). It is estimated that routine
maintenance of the entire road network of about 7300 km, including equipment
depreciation and all taxes, would require about CFAF850 million (US$3.5 mil-
lion) annually, iLn end 1977 prices. The proposed road maintenance program,
however, has been tailored to the expected availability of recurrent mainte-
nance funds over the four years of the project for all ongoing road main-
tenance and improvement projects (para 4.24).
H.   Engineering and Construction
3.18      Minor engineering studies are carried put by DPW's Studies and
Hydraulics Office (SHO), which also supervises construction works, while
all major roads are designed by foreign consultants under DPW's supervision.
Design standards are selected on a project-by-project basis as there are no
official design standards for roads. RPDO, to be established under the pro-
posed project, would define these standards for different categories of roads.
Facilities for soil and materials testing are available at the Ecole Nationale
des Travaux Publics (ENTP) laboratory in N'Djamena. Improvement and recon-
struction of limited sections of road are carried out by force account, as
domestic contractors are not yet available for undertaking these civil works.
Major road construction projects are executed by foreign contractors and
supervised by foreign consultants under DPW's overall charge.
I. Road Maintenance
3.19      Road maintenance is carried out by four DPW subdivisions located in
N'Djamena, Abeche, Sarh and Moundou. The subdivisions are divided into road
sectors, each with jurisdiction over a part of the subdivision's network,
but the sectors exist only on paper because of lack of offices, funds and
equipment. Minor equipment maintenance is carried out in the small sub-
division workshops, while heavy repairs are executed in DPW's central workshop
in N'Djamena. Since the area covered by the Abeche subdivision is vast, the
Government indicated that it was considering the establishment of a fifth sub-
division in Mongo. This would permit more efficient equipment utilization,
as much time is now spent in transporting equipment. Funds are therefore
included in the project to provide the necessary facilities for the additional
subdivision (para. 4.04).



- 11 -
3.20      Under the (First) Highway Maintenance Project, DPW was able to in-
crease the maintained network from about 1,800 km in 1970 to about 2,800 km
in 1972, but with no equipment renewal since 1972 and recurrent maintenance
expenditures averaging about CFAF 220 million p.a., the maintenance output
graduaLly decreased to an estimated 1,800 km in 1976. Periodic maintenance
(regravelling), economically justified for about 400 km of roads, should be
carried out as soon as possible to avoid further deterioration of roads and
the loss in invested capital. Other than the proposed maintenance program
for unpaved roads, United Nations Sahel Office (UNSO) has undertaken a road
improvement and maintenance program for 470 km of unpaved secondary roads and
tracks in the Sahel, to be executed over a seven-year period at an estimated
cost of US$14.4 million.
3.21      Chad's three paved roads, totalling 253 km, were constructed between
1969-73 under FED financing. Owing to lack of adequate maintenance, some sec-
tions of the N'Djamena-Guelengdeng (157 km) and N'Djamena-Massaguet (85 km)
roads have deteriorated to the point where reconstruction of the pavement is
required. At the Government's request, FED has agreed to finance capital and
recurrent costs of about CFAF 750 million (US$3.1 million), for the deferred
maintenance and rehabilitation of paved roads, over a two-year period (mid
1978-mid 1980). The Government would pay salaries estimated at about CFAF 53.6
million (US$0.2 million) in end-1977 prices. The equipment procured under the
FED program would be used for routine maintenance of paved roads after comple-
tion of the program.
J.   Improvement of Feeder Roads
3.22      The Government, with the assistance of the Association (Second
Highway Project and Rural Projects Fund), FED, and bilateral aid agencies has
made considerable efforts to improve feeder roads in the cotton zone in the
south-eastern part of the country. The Government's objective of producing
200,000 tons of cotton per year by 1980 (compared to 175,000 tons in 1976-77)
would require additional cultivation of about 50,000 ha, with related need
for feeder roads and probably some connecting secondary roads. Rural roads
are also required in support of development projects, in other parts of the
country, namely: (i) Lake Chad polders area where the Lake Chad Polders
Project (Credit 592-CD) is in progress; (ii) the Lake Fitri area; and (iii)
irrigated perimeters along the Chari River under the Rural Projects Fund. A
study to define rural road needs and establish implementation priorities for
these roads is included in the project (para. 4.13). This study will cover
all development areas except the Moyen Chari region, for which a separate
Swiss-financed study is envisaged.
K.   Domestic Contracting Industry
3.23      The domestic contracting industry is at an early stage of develop-
ment. About 15 contractors deal mainly with building construction, although
an additional number of small contractors carry out building repairs and other
minor works. The Government is trying to set up a contractor registration
system based on information furnished by the contractors. This operation is
being carried out with the assistance of the Office for Industrial Promotion



- 12 -
supported by UNIDO. Government efforts to identify domestic contractors
should be encouraged and expanded to (i) estimat present and projected demands
of the civil works sector, and (ii) study the present structure, capacity and
competence of the domestic contracting industry and make recommendations for
its improvement, including financial assistance. The possibility of this
study being carried out under UNDP financing is being explored and the Gov-
ernment will be kept informed of the outcome.
L.   Appropriate Road Maintenance Technology
3.24      The proposed project includes appropriate labor-based maintenance
methods, as a substitute for routine road maintenance solely dependent on
equipment (para. 4.03). For regravelling operations, a comparative analysis
by a Bank Group consultant, investigating labor-based construction methods,
showed by using data obtained from the Sategui-Deressia Irrigation Project
(Credit 489-CD) that equipment intensive methods were more economical than
methods employing a higher labor content due to the nature of regravelling
operations (e.g. need of compaction), the long haul distances for construction
materials, and the necessity to transport personnel to work sites.
4. THE PROJECT
A.   Description
4.01      The proposed project would primarily support the Government's
objective to improve road maintenance. The other main objective of the
project would be to strengthen transport planning operations.
4.02      The proposed project consists of:
(a)  a four-year road maintenance program for about 5,300 km
of unpaved roads and tracks, including purchase of main-
tenance and workshop equipment and spare parts, and reno-
vation and construction of workshops and office buildings;
(b)  a training program for DPW personnel including a training/
production brigade for regravelling;
(c)  construction of four ferryboats;
(d)  technical assistance and fellowships to:  (i) strengthen
the Directorate of Public Works; (ii) provide planning
support for Directorate of Transport; and (iii) improve
the operations of the trucking industry;
(e)  a study to prepare a rural roads project; and
(f)  completion of the improvement and maintenance program for
cotton feeder roads, started under the Second Highway Project.



- 13 -
B.   Road Maintenance Program
4.03      The proposed project supports the routine maintenance of approxi-
mately 5,300 km of unpaved roads and tracks, and periodic maintenance of about
400 km of main gravel roads (Table 10). Routine maintenance operations have
been tailored to maintenance standards compatible with the road type and
level of traffic (Table 11). Other than mechanical grading, compaction, and
tractor-drawn dragging operations, 17 road gangs of 25 laborers each covering
road sections of 100-200 km under the direction of a sector chief, would be
responsible for the maintenance of about 2,400 km of gravel and earth roads
and tracks. Specific routine tasks carried out by the road gangs would in-
clude filling potholes, clearing ditches and culverts, maintaining shoulders
and road furniture, and spot regravelling. For each sector, the project
provides for an office with stores, hand tools, a small truck (2.5 tons) for
transport of labor and materials, and a motorbike for the sector chief to
supervise the maintenance works. Only mechanical grading (in most cases once
a year), would be carried out on the remaining 2,900 km of tracks, the objec-
tive being to keep the tracks passable; of these, about 1,300 km would be
subject to change from one year to another in accordance with the Government's
economic priorities. Periodic maintenance (regravelling) of about 400 km of
relatively more trafficked roads (over 45 vpd), would be carried out by a
training/production brigade (para. 4.05). Economic design standards for
regravelling comprise a 6 m wide running surface, 0.5 m wide shoulders, and
a 10 cm thickness.
4.04      The proposed project will provide maintenance equipment including
an inLtial stock of spare parts, workshop equipment, and spare parts for re-
pairing existing equipment (Table 12). About 40% of the equipment procured
under the (First) Highway Maintenance Project, deadlined due to lack of
spare parts, will be repaired and used in the execution of the proposed
maintenance program. The maintenance program also includes the construction
of a garage for maintenance equipment; buildings for the equipment inspection
office, the procurement office, and a spare parts store; and improvements
to the central workshop, all in N'Djamena. In addition, a garage will be
constructed and improvements made to office buildings and workshops in each of
the existing four road maintenance sub-divisions, 14 small buildings will be
built to serve as administrative centers for the road maintenance sectors, and
offices, a garage and small workshop will be constructed for the subdivision
to be created in Mongo (Table 13). Agreement was reached with the Govern-
ment at negotiations on: (i) the maintenance standards to be applied (Table
14); (ii) the core network of about 4,000 km to be maintained annually (Table
10); and (iii) sending to the Association, before October 31 of each project
year, the following information on the maintenance program for the subsequent
fiscal year: (a) the list of minor tracks (about 1,300 km), other than the
core network, and (b) the proposed regravelling program, including actual or
estimated traffic on the proposed roads.
C.   Training Program
4.05      The training program envisaged under the project will provide
trained personnel for Chad's road maintenance and improvement works in order
to improve the productivity of road maintenance operations. Although only



- 14 -
about 75 additional personnel at various levels within DPW are needed to
implement the proposed road maintenance program, and other maintenance and
improvement projects under FED and UNSO assistance, a total of about 225
mechanics, technicians, and equipment operators need to be trained to ensure
efficient DPW operations (Table 15). This estimate allows for a drop-out and
turnover rate of 30%. The training program would combine classroom instruc-
tion with field training, with greater emphasis placed on the latter aspect.
A mechanized brigade will be used for field training, which, in addition to
its training functions, is expected to regravel about 100 km of main roads per
year. Given the importance attached to routine maintenance to be carried out
by road sectors (para. 4.03), appropriate training in road maintenance prac-
tice for the sector chiefs is also included.
4.06      Specific project inputs for the training program include additional
workshop equipment and teaching materials for the existing training center
(established under the Second Highway Project); equipment for the training/
production brigade (Table 16); technical assistance (230 man-months) to imple-
ment the four-year training program, including the operations of the training/
production brigade; and operating expenses for the training program. About 20
fellowships will be granted to DPW personnel at all levels, to complement the
training program. Provisions for a daily allowance during the training period
(additional to the normal salary paid to DPW personnel) and cash prizes for
outstanding trainees have been made in operating cost estimates, to serve as
incentives to recruit new trainees and attract in-service DPW personnel from
the distant subdivisions to participate in the program. The proposed training
package under the supervision of expatriate technical assistance is the most
cost-effective means of providing trained personnel in the Chadian context,
since a major drawback of past training programs was the lack of adequate
emphasis on field training. The Government agreed at negotiations to: (i)
prepare, and submit to the Association for approval, a detailed traininrg
curriculum by December 31, 1978 and (ii) assess, by December 31, 1979, future
training requirements in consultation with the Association.
D.   Construction of Ferryboats
4.07      The project includes the local construction of four ferryboats
to replace the existing ferries at Bongor, Lai, Bousso, and Hellibongo, as
limited traffic and wide river beds requiring long bridges make these struc-
tures uneconomical. The proposed 50-ton capacity ferryboats (Annex III) would
be able to carry the heaviest truck-trailer units plying the national roads
(38 tons, with full payload). The shallow draft (50-55 cm) ferryboats would
be identical in design, leading to standardization in construction (barges,
ramps, decks) and future maintenance requirements (spare parts). The new
ferrybqats are characterized by simplicity in operation with maintenance
requirements kept to a minimum. The proposed project includes funds for the
purchase of materials, workshop equipment, labor, preparation of detailed
design and specifications, and technical assistance (about 16 man-months) for
construction executions (Table 17). The ferryboats would be constructed under
force account, at the DPW barge-yard, which has some experience in barge build-
ing. Additional skilled labor, however, will be needed to build the ferryboats
within the project time schedule. Should all the necessary skilled labor not



- 15 -
be available, construction of some ferryboats, in whole or in part, would be
contracted to local mechanical workshops. The cost of locally built ferry-
boats, including the cost of workshop equipment and technical assistance, is
estimated to be substantially lower than the cost of imported ferryboats,
mainly due to reduced transport cost of disassembled building materials and
less expensive local manpower.
E.        Technical Assistance and Fellowships
4.08      Other than the technical assistance required for the execution of
training program and ferryboat construction, additional technical assistance
would be provided under the project to: (i) assist the Government in develop-
ing the necessary capability for equipment maintenance, execution of mainte-
nance operations, and road planning; (ii) initiate transport planning on a
systematic basis; and (iii) provide operational assistance to the trucking
industry. The technical assistance is complemented by a total of about 30
fellowhips (including those mentioned in paras. 4.06, 4.10, 4.11 and 4.12)
for training abroad so that a cadre of trained Chadian personnel is in place
when the proposed technical assistance lapses. The selection of candidates
for fellowships would be approved by the Association (Annex IV-C).
Strengthening of the Directorate of Public Works
4.09      Technical assistance (205 man-months) would be provided to set up
an Equipment Inspection Office (EIO), centralize procurement functions in a
Procurement Office (PO), and establish RPDO (para. 3.12). In addition, the
project provides for furniture and equipment for these offices to ensure
effective utilization of technical assistance. Portable weighing scales for
control of vehicles axle loads are also provided.
4.10      EIO would implement a cost accounting system, supervise PO, and
inspect equipment maintenance carried out by the sub-divisions. PO will be
entrusted with procurement of spare parts and other materials required to
maintain DPW equipment, and will also establish and maintain a central spare
parts store with proper inventory and book-keeping procedures. The technical
assistance for EIO and PO (180 man-months), comprising one mechanical engineer
for EIO, one chief mechanic for PO, and four mechanics for the sub-division
workshops, 1/ is expected to be in the field for about three years, and will
assist in training Chadian staff. To further improve the professional capacity
of in-service personnel (particularly the chiefs of workshops and mechanized
units), about six fellowships for practical training abroad will be financed
from project funds. Appointment of key qualified Chadian staff (one mechanical
or road engineer, 2/ one chief mechanic, and three equipment controllers for
EIO; and one procurement officer, and one forwarding officer for PO) to be
trained by technical assistance specialists, will be a condition of credit
effectiveness. To ensure effective operation of EIO, PO, and the workshops,
1/   One mechanic will supervise the Abecht and Mongo subdivisions.
2/   The Government agreed that this position will be filled with a mechanical
engineer not later than October 31, 1979.



- 16 -
appointment of key personnel (two mechanics, two accountants for EIO; one
mechanic, one accountant, and three storemen for PO; five equipment fleet
chiefs; and five subdivision workshop chiefs) will be a condition of dis-
bursement for construction of buildings and improvement of workshops. RPDO
will receive about 25 man-months of technical assistance (one engineer-
economist) to help establish this office and train local staff to carry out
basic road planning and engineering studies, evaluate projects, and supervise
construction. The Government agreed at negotiations on the outline terms of
reference for the proposed technical assistance (Annexes V and VI).
Institutional Support for the Directorate of Transport
4.11      The proposed project provides for the services of a transport
economists for 30 man-months to organize DT and help with: (a) collection
of transport data and publication of an annual report on transport statistics,
and preparation of technical reports; (b) inter-departmental coordination
for transport planning and road traffic regulation and enforcement; and (c)
regulation of road transport industry. The Government should agree at nego-
tiations on outline terms of reference for the technical assistance to DT
(Annex VII). The expatriate transport economist would assist DT's local staff
in their operational duties and train them to run DT with minimal external,
assistance upon completion of his services. Funds for technical assistance,
office equipment, furniture and supplies are included in the proposed project.
The project also includes a fellowship for training in transport planning and
operations. At negotiations, the Government agreed to appoint a suitably
qualified Chadian to serve as a counterpart to the expatriate transport-
economist, and other local staff needed to permit the implementation of items
outlined in Annex VII.
Operational Assistance to the Road Transport Industry
4.12      The proposed project provides for the services of a trucking indus-
try expert (15 man-months) to assist CTT in improving its operations. Outline
terms of reference for the proposed technical assistance (Annex VIII) were
discussed and agreed at negotiations. The project includes a fellowship in
transport industry operations and training abroad for CTT's assistant director
responsible for transport operations.
F.   Rural Roads Study
4.13      The Government wishes to improve rural roads in the cotton zone as
well as in other areas of the country, including the Sahel. Accordingly, the
proposed project includes a three-phase study of rural road needs in relation
to rural development in selected areas. The first phase will (a) identify
development areas in terms of economic potential and investment requirements,
concentrating on transport and rural infrastructure needs, and (b) examine and
report on basic and alternative institutional and manpower resources required
to execute and maintain a possible rural transport/infrastructure project.
The second and third phases will address detailed project description, economic
analysis and engineering design under guidelines resulting from discussions
between the Government and the Association following the first phase. This



- 17 -
study, requiring about 35 man-months over an eight-month period, will also
identify a long-term strategy for rural transport development and outline a
program for the construction, improvement and maintenance of transport facili-
ties. Outline terms of reference for the proposed consulting services (Annex
IX) were agreed with the Government during negotiations.
G.   Completion of the Improvement and Maintenance Program
for Cotton Feeder Roads
4.14      The training program under the Second Highway Project has been ex-
tended to permit continuity between ongoing training activities and those
envisaged under the proposed project, resulting in a cost increase of about
US$400,000. As funds from the Credit for the Second Highway Project were
reallocated to permit the extension of the training program, the ongoing
program for the improvement and maintenance of cotton feeder roads under the
same project would have to be reduced without additional financing. The
proposed project will, therefore, finance this cost increase through the
provision of capital and operating expenditures, to complete the improvement
and maintenance program covering about 760 km of cotton feeder roads.
H.   Cost Estimates
4.15      The total capital cost of the project is estimated at about US$21.9
million, with a foreign cost of about US$18.4 million (84%). As in previous
Bank Group financed projects, the Government would waive all customs duties
and other taxes on project-related goods and services, except taxes on fuel,
which amount to about US$0.2 million. An insignificant amount of taxes on
consumable items, procured from existing dealer's supplies, have not been
identified separately. Recurrent expenditures during the project period
(1979-82) amount to about US$8.1 million equivalent, with a 51% foreign
component of about US$4.1 million. Cost estimates reflect prices at end-1977.
Detailed cost estimates, including physical and price contingencies, are given
in Table 18 and summarized on page 18. During negotiations, the Government
confirmed that (a) all contracts for goods or services to be provided under
the project will be free of commercial taxes (taxe d'enregistrement, taxe sur
le chiffre d'affaires, and similia); (b) the special quarry tax (OFCA, Office
des Carrieres) will be waived with respect to construction works; and (c)
materials, equipment and spare parts for road maintenance equipment, including
that of the training unit, and construction materials will be imported duty-
free.
4.16      The cost of equipment and spare parts is based on consultant BCEOM's
estimates, updated by the appraisal mission following a survey of local
dealers. The construction cost of buildings and workshops is based on the
current cost per unit of similar works. The cost of technical assistance and
consulting services is based on the cost of similar services rendered in Chad.
The average cost per man-month of consulting services is estimated at about
US$5,800, including social security, bonuses, annual leave, expatriation
allowance, overhead and the firm's fees. Reimbursable expenses, including
air trips, airfreight, subsistence and local allowances, field supervision,
and vehicle purchase and operation, total about US$2,800/man-month. The for-
eign component amounts to US$7,350/man-month, or about 85% of the total cost.



- 18 -
SUMMARY OF PROJECT COST ESTIMATES
1/                          ll
CFAF Million-                     US$'000-                Foreign as
Local      Foreign   Total       Local      Foreign    Total    % of Total
A. Base Costs (End-1977)
l.TMaintenance Program_/   216,6       1717.5    1934.1    884          7010         7894          89
2.Technical Assistance
& Training for DPW        340.6      1246.9    1587,5   1390          5090        6480           79
3.Fellowships                 -          73,5       73.5      -          300          300         100
4.Construction of 4
Ferryboats3/               46.5       234.2      280,7    190          956        1146           83
5.Technical assistance
for Directorate of
Transport                   9,0        76,7       85.7      37         313         350           89
6.Technical ass$stance
for Trupking Industry
(30 man/months)             3,2        29.9       33,1      13         122         135          90
7.Completion of Feeder
Road Improvement &
Maintenance Program        41,2        66,6      107.8   168           272         440          62
8.Rural Roads Supply          7,3        66,2       73,5    30           270         300           90
664.4      3511.5    4175,9  2712         14333        17045          84
B. Contingencies*
1.Physical                   62.4       321,2      383.6   255          1311        1566
2.Price                     121 6       669.9      791.5   497          2734        3231
184.0       991.1    1175.1   752          AG45        4797
TOTAL         F75        430276    5351.0  3464          18378       2187#
RUN$DD                                       3500        18400       21900
About US$0.2 million of taxes on fuel are included in items A. 2&3.  The Government agreed to
waive all other taxes,
SUMMARY OF RECURRENT COST ESTIMATES -
l.Unpaved Road
Maintenance               892.7       879,8    1772T5  3644           3591        7235          50
2.Ferryboat Maintenance
&Operation                 8475       123,5      208.0   345           504         849          59
TOTAL         977.2      1003.3    1980,5  3989           4095        8084          57
ROUNDED                                     4000          4100        8100
1/ Net of taxes, except taxes on fuel amounting to about US$0.2 million.
2/ Includes an insignificant amount of taxes.
3/ Including contingencies.
A Detailed breakdown of cost contingencies:
Phys$cal                Price Contingencies
Contingencies 1976       1977     1978/79        1980/82
Equipment                       5%         8%       7.5%       7.5%            7%
Construction                   10%        10%       9%         9%              8%
Technical Assistance        10-15%         8%       7,5%       7.5%            7%
Fuel                            5%         -        sZ         5%              5%
Labor                           5%         _        5%         3%              3%



- 19 -
I.   Execution
4.17      MCWMG will execute the road maintenance program, the training pro-
gram, and the construction of ferryboats through its DPW, and will supervise
the technical assistance and fellowships provided for strengthening DPW (paras.
4.09-4.10), while MEPT would have responsibility for the administration of
technical assistance and fellowship for DT and CTT, and implementation of the
rural roads study. The project is expected to start in the second half of
1978 and be completed by end-1982; the project implementation schedule is
given in Table 19.
4.18      Preliminary contacts with USAID indicate that this agency would be
willing to let the Association approve the terms of reference for the services
they would finance. Agreement will be reached with all cofinancing agencies
to ensure the Association's involvement in all project components.
4.19      For the purpose of project monitoring, the Government agreed, at
negotiations, to designate a project coordinator, acceptable to the Associa-
tion, who will liaise with the Association on matters relating to the progess
of the project. He will prepare and send quarterly progess reports to the
Association in a format'to be agreed between the Government and the Associa-
tion. Eventually, he will prepare a final report to serve as a basis for the
preparation of a Project Completion Report.
J.   Procurement
4.20      Construction and improvement of workshops and buildings under unit
price contracts (totaling about US$1.8 million, before contingencies; highest
expected contract price about US$365,000); and office furniture, equipment and
supplies for EIO, P0, and RPDO (totalling about US$250,000, before contingen-
cies), would be procured following local competitive bidding procedures, which
permit participation of foreign contractors and suppliers.  These procedures
are acceptable to the Association, provided bids are opened in public. Bidders
for construction and improvement of workshops and buildings will be prequali-
fied.  DPW will prepare bidding documents for and supervise construction of
workship and buildings.  Building materials for ferryboats, to be constructed
under force account (about US$800,000), will be procured through international
competitive bidding, in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines. A small quan-
tity of con sumable materials and workshop tools required for ferryboat
construction and office supplies will be purchased through local shopping,
provided that the aggregate amount does not exceed US$60,000. Should DPW
decide to subcontract the construction of some ferryboats or parts thereof
to local workshops (para. 4.07), contracts would be awarded following local
procedures acceptable to the Association. Materials, fuel and lubricants,
and spare parts for the completion of the Cotton feeder roads improvement and
maintenance program would be procured folloing local procedures acceptable to
the Association. The services of consultants required for technical assistance
to EIO, P0 and RPDO, ferryboat building, and the rural roads study (and/or any
other services which would be financed by the Association) will be obtained
following procedures and on terms acceptable to the Association.



- 20 
4.21      Road maintenance equipment, spare parts, and workshop equipment and
tools financed by ADF would be procured following ADF procedures. Equipment
and spare parts for the training program, inclu4ing phe training brigade, tech-
nical assistance for training, DT, and the trucking induptry, and fellowships,
financed by USAID, would be procured in accord4nce vith USAID procedures. The
signing of loan, credit, and/or grant agreepents with USAID and ADF, and ful-
fillment of conditions for initial disbursement under these agreements (except
the effectiveness of IDA credit), would be a condition of credit effectiveness.
K.   Financing and Disbursements
4.22      The capital costs, net of taxes, of the pToject would be cofinanced
on a parallel basis by IDA (US$7.6 million), US4ID (US$9.0 million), and ADF
(US$5.1 million), under separate agreements for qaq4 agency.  These agencies
would finance 100% of their respective sharqs qf project capital costs, net
of taxes as shown below. In addition to f4ancinp taxes included in project
capital costs, amounting to about US$0.2 millton, phe Government is expected
to provide US$8.1 million for recurrent cost* over the project period.
Project Financing Plan (In US$ thousands)
IDA      U$AID    ADF  Government 1/  Total
Maintenance Program
- Equipment, spare parts, tools;                          5086                   5086
- Civil works; office
furniture, supplies                   2716                                     2716
Training Program                                    79 b              158         8134
Fellowships                                          345                           345
Technical Assistance for:
- DPW                                   2607                                     2607
- DT and Trucking Industry                          642               39          642
Ferryboat Replacement                    1527                                     1527
Rural Road Study                          345                                      345
Completion of Feeder Roads Program        401                                      440
TOTAL                               7596       8863   5086       197        21842
ROUNDED TOTAL                       7600       9000   5100       200       21900
Percentage of Total Cost                 34.7       41.1   23.3       0.9          100
(excluding taxes)                     (35.9)    (41.5) (23.5)        -          (100)
1/   Unwaived taxes on fuel.
4.23      On the basis of the above financing plan, the IDA Credit would be
disbursed to cover:
(a)  100% of total cost of building and workshop construction and
improvements;
(b)  100% of total cost of technical assistance for DPW including
office furniture, equipment, and supplies;



- 21 -
(c) 100% of total cost of design, materials, equipment and workshop
tools, and technical assistance for four ferryboats;
(d) 100% of total cost of wages for local labor and locally procured
materials for ferryboat building;
(e) 100% of total cost of consulting services for rural road study;
(f) 100% of total cost of construction materials for the completion
of cotton feeder road improvement and maintenance program; and
(g) 90% of the total operating cost for the completion of cotton
feeder roads improvement and maintenance program.
An estimated schedule of disbursements from the IDA account is shown in
Table 20. Disbursements would be fully documented. Disbursements for ex-
penditures under (d) and (g) would, however, be made against certificates of
expenditure, the documentation of which would not necessarily be submitted for
review, but would be retained by the borrower and made available for inspec-
tion by the Association's supervision missions. The Government agreed at
negotiations to make arrangements satisfactory to the Association for the
audit of expenditures covering disbursements under the latter procedure.
4.24      The Government is expected to bear the cost of:  (a) taxes on fuel;
(b) recurrent expenditures for road maintenance (Table 23) and for maintenance
and operation of ferryboats (Table 22); and (c) taxes on operating costs of
cotton feeder roads improvement and maintenance program. On the average, about
CFAF577 million (US$2.36 million) in Government funds, excluding equipment
depreciation, would be needed annually to implement DPW's overall road
maintenance (including FED and UNSO projects) and ferryboat operations,
equivalent to about 3-4% of the Government's total annual current expenditure
during 1974-76. On the basis of available information on present fuel tax
revenues and conservative estimates of future increase, the expected revenues
for the Road Fund would average about CFAF510 million (US$2.1 million) annually,
at the present level of fuel taxes. Permanent labor wages financed from
MCWMG's budget would add about CFAF60 million (US$0.25 million) per year to
the maintenance budget. Therefore, the total amount available would be about
CFAF570 million (US$2.3 million) per year, permitting the Government to bear
all recurrent expenditures for road maintenance, except equipment depreciation
(estimated at about CFAF100 million, or US$0.4 million per annum). This
assumes that all taxes, other than fuel taxes, would be waived (Table 23).
4.25      To ensure the availability of local funds for the project, the
Government agreed at negotiations that it will: (a) establish and maintain
adequate accounting procedures to record revenues to, and expenditures from
the Road Fund account opened at BTCD; (b) earmark to the Road Fund and deposit
in the separate Road Fund account the amounts collected from fuel taxes and
ferryboat tolls; (c) establish in DPW's accounting office a sub-account to
allocate all road fund revenues to the project, except about 13% required for
other road-related expenditures outside the project; (d) maintain records
adequate to record single and cumulative expenditures for the project com-
ponents it would finance; and (e) send to the Association every semester,



- 22 -
beginning January 31, 1979, a summary statement, as of June 30 and December
31, of (i) total revenues to the Road Fund; and (ii) expenditures incurred or
committed for the project by category of disbursement.
4.26      As future requirements for local funds to finance recurrent costs
of the project might change owing to higher than expected increase in prices
of fuel, spare parts, and labor, and as financing the depreciation of road
maintenance equipment must remain a long-term objective, the Government agreed
at negotiations to review in consultation with the Association not later than
December 31, 1979: (a) the amount of local funds required for project-related
recurrent costs over the remaining project period; and (b) the feasibility
of increasing Road Fund revenues to fully cover recurrent maintenance expend-
tures including equipment depreciation.
4.27      The Government's lack of cash was a major problem in previous Bank
Group-financed projects where Government funds were to be used. Delayed pay-
ment caused distrust among suppliers and slowed down project implementation.
To avoid this situation, the project provides, immediately after Credit effec-
tiveness, for an initial disbursement of US$100,000 into a project account to
be opened by the Government at the Banque de Developpement du Tchad (BDT).
This account would serve as a revolving fund to finance labor and the purchase
of a small quantity of consumable materials for ferryboat building, and local
procurement of supplies for the operation of EIO, PO and RPDO. The Associa-
tion will replenish the project account from relevant categories of disburse-
ment upon receipt of Government withdrawal requests accompanied by satisfactory
evidence that expenditures were eligible for financing from the Credit fund.
However, should any expenditure for which the Government requests replenish-
ment of the project fund not meet this condition, the Government will be
obligated to deposit the corresponding amount into that account. Assurances
to this effect were obtained at negotiations.
5. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A.   Introduction
5.01      Development of a reliable and inexpensive transport network within
Chad and assurance of dependable external links to ocean ports are of prime
importance to Chad's economic development. As roads cater for about 85% of
Chad's transport needs, the maintenance and improvement of the road network
is a basic prerequisite for Chad's future economic growth.
5.02      The economic return on investments in road maintenance and renewal
of ferries is quantified on the basis of savings in vehicle operating costs.
Additional benefits accruing from reliable and improved accessibility to
administrative and commercial centers, all-weather service on gravel roads,
protection of past: road investments, and time savings have not been included.
5.03      As recent traffic data are not available, traffic on the road net-
work (1978) was estimated by using 1969/70 traffic counts, adjusted by growth
trends in the vehicle fleet and fuel consumption (para. 3.03 and 3.04), and
the diversion of export traffic from the Transequatorial to Cameroonian routes.



- 23 -
Beyond 1978, a traffic growth rate of 3% p.a. was assumed. Vehicle operating
costs were derived by using the road deterioration and user cost relationships
developed under IBRD/TRRL research program in Kenya (Table 24).
5.04      Costs and benefits are calculated in CFAF, net of taxes, in December
1977 prices. As part of the analysis, shadow prices were used for valuing for-
eign exchange and labor (Table 25). The shadow price for foreign exchange is
estimated at 15% above the official exchange rate of CFAF. Unskilled labor
has been valued at 30% of the official minimum wage rate, while the shadow
price of the skilled labor has been set at 15% above the ongoing market rate.
The opportunity cost of capital in Chad is estimated between 10-12% p.a. The
economic rate of return is estimated to be 75% for routine maintenance, cost-
ing UJS$8.4 million (45% of total project cost excluding price contingencies),
and L7% for regravelling, costing US$4.0 million (22% of total project cost).
The combined rate of return for routine maintenance, regravelling and related
training activities, costing US$14.7 million (79% of total project cost) is
estimated at 51%. The rate of return for replacement of ferries, costing
US$1.2 million (6% of total project cost) is estimated at 44%. The average
economic rate of return for these components, which accounts for 85% of total
project cost, is 50%.
B.   Road Maintenance Program
5.05      The evaluation of the maintenance program followed a sequential
procedure involving selection and classification of roads to be included in
the maintenance program, determination of the optimal maintenance strategy
for each class of road, and the overall economic assessment of the mainte-
nance program. As the road network has not been functionally classified, it
was categorized broadly according to its engineering and traffic characteris-
tics. Road links were then selected for inclusion in the maintenance program
(Table 10) on basis of the following criteria:
(i) support of economic activity, e.g. maintenance of vital cot-
ton export routes, including connection to cotton ginneries;
(ii) maintenance of accessible road connections between regional,
administrative, and commercial centers, and the national
capital; and
,(iii) improved accessibility to the drought-prone Sahel zone.
5.06      An optimal grading strategy was then estimated for each road category
by calculating the incremental vehicle operating cost savings associated with
more frequent grading operations, using the Bank's Highway Design and Mainte-
nance Standards Model (HDM), modified where necessary to reflect operational
conditions in the field (Tables 11 and 14). The analysis for periodic mainte-
nance indicated that regravelling was generally justified only on links with
traffic of 45-50 vpd (Annex X). The economic return was calculated by relating
the incremental cost of equipment and other project inputs to the correspond-
ing incremental benefits from improved road maintenance brought about during
the economic life of the equipment (estimated to average about eight years).



- 24 -
Appropriate salvage value was assigned to inputs whose economic life was
longer than 8 years or where equipment was used for less than its estimated
economic life.
5.07      Project costs for the routine maintenance operation include capital
expenditures on equipment, spare parts, workshop improvements, and related
technical assistance as well as incremental recurrent maintenance costs, while
project benefits consist of vehicle operating cost savings resulting from
improved road surface conditions. The incidence and magnitude of vehicle
operating costs and related benefits, as a function of accumulated number of
vehicle passes, and level of road maintenance with and without the project
are shown in Exhibits II and III for a gravel road and a track, respectively.
Routine maintenance operations under the maintenance program are expected to
yield an estimated economic rate of return of 75%, corresponding to a benefit/
cost ratio of 3.25 at a 12% discount rate. The benefits from regravelling
consist of incremental reductions in vehicle operating costs, additional to
the reductions effected under routine maintenance. The incremental rate of
return for regravelling operations is estimated at 17%, corresponding to a
benefit/cost ratio of 1.31, discounted at 12%. The combined economic return
for routine maintenance, regravelling and related training activities, account-
ing for costs of routine maintenance, regravelling, and training, is estimated
at 51%, equivalent to a benefit/cost ratio of 2.20 at a 12% discount rate
(Table 26 and Annex X).
C.   Replacement of Ferries
5.08      The present condition of the four ferries, to be replaced under the
project, is generally characterized by damaged hulls, extensive rusting, and
frequent breakdowns. Their replacement is necessary to avoid severing the
link to Cameroon via Bongor and closing the cotton ginneries at Kyabe, Am
Timan, and Bousso. The Hellibongo ferry is critically important in maintain-
ing administrative links between Sarh and the prefectures of Guera, Salamat,
and Ouaddai. This ferry is frequently used to transport petroleum and mineral
exploration equipment to northern Chad. Similarly, future development of
irrigated perimeters around Bousso would be contingent upon reliable access
to the main N'Djamena-Sarh road via the ferry.
5.09      The project will provide for larger ferries, capable of accomodat-
ing 38 ton truck-trailer units, resulting in significant vehicle operating
cost savings through diversion of traffic (mainly cotton) to shorter routes
and the replacement of small six ton trucks with semi-trailer and truck-trailer
units. Other benefits include savings in handling costs, and savings in main-
tenance and operating costs of the ferries. An additional unquantifiable ben-
efit is the development of domestic capability to construct barges. The eco-
nomic analysis assumes a five-year remaining life for existing ferries except
for the Hellibongo ferry, which is assumed to continue providing service after
additional renovation. The new ferries are expected to have an economic life
of 25 years with a 10% salvage value. Project costs include ferryboat con-
struction costs, and expenditures for design and technical assistance. Based
on these assumptions, the economic return for the replacement of ferries at
Bongor, Lai, Bousso and Hellibongo is estimated at 60%, 44%, 27%, and 31%,



- 25 -
while first year benefits are estimated at 48%, 43%, 11%, and 24% respec-
tively. The overall economic return for this project component, including
all four ferries, is 44% (Table 26 and Annex X).
D.   Distribution of Benefits
5.10      Cotton and related production inputs, fuel, sugar, and beverages,
constitute the primary products transported by road. As the tariffs for
international transport of cotton are negotiated annually between COTONTCHAD
and CTT, it is expected that COTONTCHAD and CTT, together with Cameroonian
transporters who claim a fixed quota of Chadian transport demand, would be the
principal beneficiaries of improved road maintenance. For the farm-to-ginnery
transport of seed cotton, however, COTONTCHAD would be the initial beneficiary,
with benefits then accruing to the Caisse de Stabilisation du Prix du Coton.
These benefits would in turn be shared between the government and cotton pro-
ducers according to the Government's agricultural pricing and subsidy policy,
which is reviewed annually. As part of the benefits are expected to be passed
on to the producer, further expansion of agricultural output and generated
traffic could materialize.
5.11      In case of other freight transport (about 55% of the total freight
transport demand), most of the road user savings are likely to pass to the
truckers since the regulated transport tariffs are not sensitive to changes in
road user costs. User cost savings passed down to automobile owners would be
relatively inconsequential, as personal transport constitutes a small portion
of the traffic activity (5% or less). Relative to passenger transport, im-
proved road quality is likely to result in lower passenger fares and more
comfortable travel considering that trucks double as passenger vehicles, and
there are no fixed passenger transport tariffs. The road maintenance program
includes about 1,300 km of tracks in the drought-prone Sahel zone. These
tracks would provide improved accessibility to the Sahel Zone for better hus-
bandry of its livestock and agricultural resources.  This would also ensure
that lines of communication remain open for transport of food and relief
supplies during periods of drought. The beneficiaries would be the poorest
and most vulnerable segments of the Chadian population.
E.   Project Risks and Sensitivity Analysis
5.12      Since approximately 1,000 km of the proposed road maintenance pro-
gram are located in areas subject to political unrest, there is some chance
that the envisaged road maintenance might not be implementable in these areas.
Similarly, aggravation of the general economic situation could constrain the
availability of road maintenance funds. More specific risk elements concern
increases in project costs and shortfalls in the projected output of technical
personnel under the training program, with attendant repercussions on efficient
equipment utilization, and maintenance productivity. Even if routine mainte-
nance activities are confined to the most secure regions of the country with
maintenance output reduced to 3,500 km per year, this project component would
have an economic return of 66%. If the training program fails to produce suf-
ficient personnel to expand maintenance operations or if a shortage of funds
limits road maintenance to present levels (1,800 km), routine maintenance is
estimated to yield an economic return of 28%. The economic return was found



- 26 -
to be relatively insensitive to reduced equipment life as well as shadow
pricing of foreign exchange and labor. With respect to the regravelling
operation, a 20% reduction in the annual regravelling output would lower the
economic return from 17 to 14% (Table 26). Even if regravelling output drops
below 8Q km/year, the operation of the training/production brigade remains
justified in terms of its institutional and training benefits.
5.13      Relative to ferries, the major project risk concerns delays in the
construction of ferryboats, which could result in a fewer number of ferries
being built. If only two ferries were constructed rather than the four en-
visaged under the project, this project component would still yield a return
of 32%. A 20% increase in the cost of this component would reduce the eco-
nomic return to 38%, while a 5% increase in benefits would increase it to
46% (Table 26).
6. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government on
the following items:
(a) provision of allowances and prizes as incentives for parti-
cipants in the training program (para. 4.06);
(b) appointment of a Chadian counterpart to the expatriate trans-
port economist and other local staff in DT (para. 4.11);
(c) tax and duty exemption for contracts and materials required
for project implementation (para. 4.15);
(d) financing arrangements for the project, including cofinan-
cing by external donors (paras. 4.22 and 4.23) and local cost
financing (para. 4.25); and
(e) outline terms of reference for: (i) the training program
(Annex II); (ii) strengthening DPU (Annex V); (iii) reorgan-
ization of RPDO (Annex VI); (iv) instructional support for
DT (Annex VII); (v) operational assistance to CTT (Annex
VIII); and (vi) the Rural Roads Study (Annex IX).
6.02      During negotiations, the following items, detailed in the Plan of
Action (Annex IV) were agreed upon with the Government and incorporated as
covenants in the Credit Agreement:
(a) road maintenance standards and the road network to be main-
tained and/or regravelled each project year (para. 4.04);
(b) preparation and transmission of training curriculum to the
Association; and reassessment of training requirements during
project execution (para. 4.06);



- 27 -
(c)  selection of fellowship candidates to be approved by the
Association (para. 4.08);
(d)  designation of a project coordinator to:  (i) liaise with
the Association on progress of the project; and (ii) prepare
quarterly progress reports and, finally, a project completion
report (para. 4.19);
(e)  procurement procedures (paras. 4.20 and 4.21);
(f)  arrangements satisfactory to the Association for the audit of
expenditures under para. 4.23 (d) and (g) (para. 4.23);
(g)  procedures to ensure the availability of local funds for the
project (para. 4.25);
(h)  review by December 31, 1979, with the Association:  (i) the
amount of local funds required for project recurrent costs;
and (ii) the feasibility of increasing Road Fund revenues to
cover the total road maintenance recurrent expenditures (para.
4.26); and
(i)  the opening, utilization and replenishment of the special
project account (revolving fund (para. 4.27).
6.03      Conditions for Credit effectiveness would be the following:
(a)  appointment of key Chadian technical staff to EIO and P0
(one mechanical engineer, one deputy mechanical engineer,
and three equipment inspectors for EIO; one procurement
officer and one forwarding officer for P0) (para. 4.10);
and
(b)  signature of loan, credit and/or grant agreements with USAID
and ADF, and fulfillment of conditions for initial disbursement,
if any, under these agreements, except the effectiveness of the
IDA Credit (para. 4.21).
6.04      A condition of disbursement for construction and improvement of
buildings and workshops would be the appointment of: (i) two mechanics and
two accountants for EIO; (ii) one mechanic, one accountant, and three store-
men for P0, (iii) four equipment fleet chiefs; and (iv) four subdivision
workshop chiefs (para. 4.10).
6.05      Following satisfactory agreements reached on the above items, the
proposed project is suitable for a Credit of US$7.6 million equivalent to the
Government of Chad on standard IDA terms.



CHAD
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Principal External Trace Corridors
Length                  Total          No. of        Average
Route                            Section                 Road       Rail       River        Length      Transfers        Trariait   Practicability                        Remarks
(km                         Time
1. The Nigerian Routes                                                                                                                                                  No transfer needed for some fuel transport;
a) Lagos (Apapa)-NDjamena              Lagos-Maiduguri               -        1790          -           1790                                                          high risk of loss and breakages; long
(2040 km)                 Maiduguri-NDjamena               250          -          -            250           1                                              port delays in Lagos and Port Harcourt;
(road-rail)       2-3.1/       All-year             difficult custom procedures; different
b) Fort Harcourt-NDjamena          Port Harcourt_Maiduguri           -        1445          -           1445                       weeks                              road regulations;  carried about 32%
(1690 km)                 Maiduguri-NDjamena               250         -           -            250                                                          of total estimated freight tonnage in
1977.
2. The Cameroonian Routes                                                                                                                                               Relatively simple administrative and
a) Douala-NDjamena                 Douala-N'Gaoundere                -         932          -            932                                                          custom procedures; same monetary zone;
(1717  km)                N'Gaoundere-NDjuamena            785          3          -            785                                                          comparatively secure and reliable;
(1717 kin)  N'Gaoundere-NDjamena  785  -   -             785                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~some problems relative to priority
1            2-3         All-year              accorded to Chadian goods at Douala;
b) Douala-Mondou                   Douala-N'Gaoundere                -         932          -            932    (road-rail)        weeks                              carried approximately 48% of total
(1674 km)                 N'Gaoundere-Mondou               742          -          -            742
estimated freight tonnage In 1977.
3. The Transequatorial Routes
a) Pte. Noire-Mondou               Pte. Noire-Brazzaville            -         515            2|         515                                                          Long transit time with associated
(2450 km)                 Brazzaville-Bangui                -           -       1300-          1300                                                          risk of loss,wastage and thefts;
Bangui-Moundou                  635          -          -            635                            3/                             Poor condition of roads in CAE                 m
2         4-6-            6-8               barges can carry a full load on the
b) Pte. Noire-Sarh                 Pte. Noire-Brazzaville            -         515          - 2          515   (road-river-rail) months           months              Obangui only from August-December, a
(2450 km)                 Brazzaville-Bengui                -          -        1300-          1300                                                          period when road access to Bangui is
Bangui-Sarh                     635          -          -            635                                                          in its worst condition; carried about 12%
of total estimated freight tonnage in 1977.
4. The Benoue Routes
a) Burutu-Mondou                   Burutu-Garoua                     -          -        1550-/         1550                                                          Suitable for bulk commodities;
(1982 km)                 Garoua-Mondou                    432         -           -            432                                                          long waiting time at Nigerian ports
4                        1            4-5         Benoue River          of Wari and Port Harcourt; carried
b) Burutu-NDjamena                 Burutu-Garoua                     -          -        1550-/         1550    (road-river)    weeks             navigable           approximately 6% of estimated freight
(2032 km)                 Garoua-NDjamena                  482         -           -            482                                     2-3 months           tonnage in 1977.
5. The Sudanese Route                                                                                                                                                   Poor condition of road between AbechP
Abeche-Port Sudan                  Abeche'-Nyala                    570         -           -            570                                                          and Nyala; relativ        iY e      nt
(2623 kin)               Nyala-Port Sudan                  -         2053         -           2053          1-2             -All-year                        Sudan Railway; carried about 2% of
(road-rail)                                          estimated freight tonnage in 1977.
6. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~      ~ 
6. The Libyan Route
NDjamena-Tripoli                   NDjamena-Tripoli                3000         -           -           3000           -              -                                Through difficult and mountaneous
NDjamena-Tunis                     NDjamena-Tunis                  3000          -          -           3000           -              -                                terrain; politically troubled area.
(3000 km)
1/  Does not account for excessive port delays;  2/  Via Oubangui River;  3/  As a result of storage of goods in Bangui during the dry season, when river navigation is not possible.
4/ Via Benoue River.
SOURCE:  Bank mission.



-29-                            Table 2
CHAD
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Public Sector Investments
(in percentage and CFAF billion)
1967-68   1969-70   1971-72   1973-74   1975
Agriculture                     16.8       15.1       18.4      27.1    52.8
Industry                         4.3        2.1        3.1       4.4      4.9
Transport  & Communications   44.0         32.1       14.5       11.2     5.8
Health                            -          -         3.8        4.9     2.9
Education                        9.8        6.3        1.9        4.5     6.1
Community & Social Services  11.8          16.5       18.1       35.2    17.7
Unspecified                     13.3       27.9       40.2       12.7     9.8
TOTAL         100.0      100.0      100.0      100.0   100.0
Total in billions of CFAF        3.5        4.5        4.6        7.1     9.9
As % of GDP                      5.4        6.1        5.6        8.2     9.2
Source: Republic of Chad, Economic Memorandum, World Bank Report No. 1340-CD,
June 30, 1977.



- 30 -                              Table  3
CHAD
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
External Assistance: Transport Sector
(CFAF Million)
1971    1972    1973    1974    1975    1976   Total
A. FAC
Mondou Bridge Repair          -       135       28       6       35        4     208
Drought Roads                 -        -       -        30       39       65     134
N'Djamena Airport             _-                                 -      18o0/   180
(Runway Strengthening)
B. FED
2/
N'Djamena-Guelendeng Road  689         -       26       -        -        -      715
Mondou-Gidjiba Study          -        -       40       30        4       -       74
Mondou Airport Road           -        -         4     127      189      120     440
Bongor-Lai Study              -        -       27       85       20      -       132
3/
N'DJamena-Massaguet Road    -          -       -        69       62        7     138
. /
Ea-Illi Bridge                -        -       -         5       90      128     223
Cotton Roads(Drainage        192       21       7       _-               -       220
Project)
C. EEC
Drought Roads                   -    5          -                75       15      90
Urban Street Improvement (NDjamena)-                              -     145      145
D. UNSO (United Nations Sahel Office)
Road Maintenance Study        -        -       -        -        53      -        53
E. USAID
Maintihance of Drought Roads-          -       -        25       92-     22     139
Opening of Navigation Channel                            -       -       19      19
tetwaen e  ,ol and Lake Chad
F.'fiDA
Credit 125-CDi}              422     123      226      145       8       '23   '947
Credit 490-CD                 -       -        -        -       78      209    287
Total               1303      279     358      522      745      937  4144
1/ An additional CFAF 140 million provided by ASECNA
2/ Prior to 1971, FED provided CFAF 1,905 million for this project
3/ Prior to 1971, FED provided CFAF 754 million for this project
y/ Project to be completed in 1977 at a total cost of CFAF270.5 million
5/ Funds obtained from proceeds of food sales under Aide Cgrgale
6/ An estimated CFAF 79 million for equipment and spare parts
7/ CFAF58.5 million from the Credit used in 1969-70
Source: Directorate of Planning and Development, 1977.



- 31 -                                  Table 4
CHAD
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Road Network (1977)
(km)
--------------Subdivision-------------                % of
N'Dlamena   Abeche       Sarh    Moundou    Total   Total
A. Classified Network 1/
National Roads (Primary)
1. Paved                      242        -           -        11          253      3
2. Gravel and Earth
a. Engineered              189        -         393       463        1,045     14
b. Partially Engineered   83         259        150       128          620      9
c. Non-Engineered 2/      773        556        682       633       2,644      37
Subtotal            1,287        815     1,225    1,235         4,562      63
Prefectural Roads (Secondary)
Earth                         588     1,008        612       499       2,707      37
Total               1,875      1,823     1,837    1,734         7,269    100
B. Unclassified Network 2/
Tracks                                                                24,000
1/   The classified network represents roads that have been maintained from time
to time by DPW and prefectural authorities, and is not based on a functional
classified system.
2/   For all practical purposes, these may be considered tracks.
3/   The unclassified network represents an estimate of recognized or marked tracks.
Source: DPW, BCEOM.



- 32 -                         Table 5
CHAD
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Traffic on Road Network to be Maintained by DPW
Road l.ink-                                            Length    Average Daily Trafii(ADTXI'
(k.n)      _Actual          Projected
1963      1970     1978
A. All-weather Engineerad Roads
Paved -
N'D.amena-Guelesgdeng                               157           45       108       117
NH'Ra-ena-Maasaguet                                   85          33        48        52
Moundou-Kioutou                                       11           -         -       100
Unpaved(Laterite)
Niellim-Guere                                         80          13        16        17
Guere-Doba                                           164          12        40        50
Maindou-La Sido                                       86          12        12         9
Pala-Kelo                                           107           25        39        55
Kelo-Moundou                                         104          27        38        49
Moundou-Baik-ro                                       20          -         45        56
Baikoro-Gore-CAE                                    110           15        17        16
Unpaved (Earth)
Massaguet-Karne                                       53          17        12        13
Massaguet-Massakory                                   68          17        27        30
Massakory-Bir Garat'3                                 38          -         10        10
Chagoua-Linia                                         30          -         60        65
CGere-Sorh                                            27          -         56        63
Sar- Maindou                                          36          20        32        31
Pala-Lere-Cameroon                                  122           -          7        19
B. Par-tially Improved Roads
Unpaved (Laterite)
Baikoro-Doba                                          79          21        37        47
Unpaved (Earth)
Guelengdeng-Bongor                                   83           22        25        30
Abeche-Biltine                                        92           7         7         8
Abeche-Adre                                         167           12         8        10
Mogo-Miltou-Niellim                                 150           13        16        17
Magou-Lai                                             49          23        30        34
C. Earth Tracks
Mi jar
Karm;e-N'Goura                                        72          17        12        13
Bongor-Magou                                         99           23        30        34
C.elengdeng-Mogo                                    149           -         12        13
Guidari-Kou.ora                                     116            8        14       16
Kourvra-Mai.sala                                      74          11        13        14
Lai-Doba                                            108           14        16        18
Doba-Gore                                             95          18        14        10
Lai-Guidari                                          44            8        14        16
Moundou-Baibokoum-CAE                               152           12        16        14
Lai-Kelo                                             60           12        21       24
K-aton-Bere                                          91           17        23        26
Kelo-Gounou-Gaya                                     52           -         -         15
Sarh-Kyabe                                           98            9       10        10
Ati-N'Goura3/                                       233           17        11        10
Minor
Djeroaya-Djintilo                                    82
Couar-Bitkine       3                               244
Bir Tarat-Moussoro-r                                 96
Linia-Massenya                                      127
Ati-3unHadjer                                       165
OueM8adjer-Abeche                                   146
Ati-Mongo                                            154
Bitkine-Mongo                                        59
MongD-Mangalme                                       118
Melfi-Bitkine                                        118           Estimated Traffic, 1978
Oohadja er-Mangalme                                 110
Mangalne-Ab-odeia                                   123                 Under 10 vpd.
Kyabe-Am Timoa                                       259
Am T:iman-Aboudeia                                  135
Moisoala-Kendere                                     125
Gounnu Gaya-Tikem                                     58
Pala--Fianga-Cameroon                                 83
Oulibangala-Pandzangue                                15
Pala--Gagal-Beinamar                                121
Bein.abar-Koatoo                                      90
Ati-ifenat3/                                          63
Daokala-Y5a/       3/                                 39
Bir Garat-Moussoro                                    96
Melfi.-Dik                                           149
1/  Traffic projeotions are based on:  (i) frem  1970-74, no traffic growth;  (ii)
froo. 1975-78:  (a) 3% traffic gro-th per ananu  in Cotton Zone;  (b) 1% traffic
growth per amour in Sahel Zone; 6 (c) 2% traffic growth per annum around N'Djamena;
and (iii) a diversion of 35-40,000 tons of international traffic fron Trans-
equatorial to Cameroonian reate between 1970-74.
2/ Paved roads are not included in the Third Highway Project; their maintenance
will be carried out under FED assistance.
3/ To be improved and maintained under UNSO Road Rehabilitation Program.
Source: Mission eatimates.



- 33 -
Table 6
CHAD
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
1/
Growth of the Vehicle Fleet, 1970-76
1970    1971    1972    1973    1974    1975    1976    Annual Rate
of Growth2/
Motorcycles/Scooters        526      578      603      637     674      701      773         7%
Passenger Cars, Jeeps    4407    4765    4990    5560    5812    6058    6252                6%
Buses                       100      126      134     137      144      152      159         8%
Pickup Trucks              3765    4202    4471    4745    4961    5145    5327              6%
Trucks                     2345    2482    2648    2752    2907    3083    3165              5%
Special Vehicles            231      253      255     255      258      274      274         3%
Tractors                     78       88      104      111     130      159      163        13%
Trailers                    482      541      597     621      649      674      706         7%
TOTAL    11924   13035   13802   14818   15535   15545   16819              6%
1/ Inclusive of Government vehicles.
2/ The annual increase in vehicle fleet does not account for normal vehicle attrition.
Source: Directorate of Planning and Development;
Mission estimates.



CHAD
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Fuel Consumption, 1968-76 (m3)
1968      1969       1970       1971       1972       1973       1974        1975       1976
Gasoline (regular)          15,880       16,441    16,359    16,994    14,957    13,662          9,327    12,063      10,074
Gasoline (super)                885       1,001        978      1,528      1,767      2,137      1,786      2,582       2,541
Kerosene oil                  3,618       3,983      3,-069     2,956      2,890      2,304        937        986       1,432
Diesel oil                  14,222       14,428    15,319    17,063    16,955    19,713    22,186    19,876            17,822
of which for
Transport 1/             4,333        3,461      3,529      3,395      2,461      2,971     5,703       3,476       1,368   Lo
Aviation gasoline             7,350       7,420    11,730    10,567        7,374      7,034      6,769      6,770       3,513
Aviation kerosene           15,132       19,331    -24,79t3    23,144    26,714    31,942 /  23,175    16,413          32,245
11  Consumption by road transport   total consumption - consumption of diesel oil for power generation
2/  Large increase due to drought teliAef air lift.
Source: Bulletin de Statistiques, Republique du Tchad, 1969- 1976.
0m



CHAD
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Government Revenues from Road Users, 1969-75
(CFAF Millions)
Year             Fuel Taxes                                                               Custom  Duties and Taxes                                                                  Other Revenues
Gasoline    Diesel Oil    Total           Lubricants    Tires    Tubes    Spare    Automobiles    Trucks    Trailers    Special             Total            Annual      1/  Licencing2/  Vehicle           Total
Parts                                             Vehicles                    Registration-                    Inspection
1969      233.9           116.0     349.9             32.7         43.6      n.a.     40.9           n.a.         n.a.        n.a.        n.a.        n.a.                n.a.             2.6           n.a.        n.a.
1970      337.5           136.8     474.3             42.4         75.2      n.a.     40.6           n.a.         n.a.        n.a.        n.a.        n.a.                51.1             2.8           n.a.        n.a.
1971      363.0           174.2     537.2             33.6         64.3       7.2     43.3          117.6        170.0        21.2         4.4       461.6                67.2             3.7           n.a.        n.a.
1972      297.9           113.6     411.5             28.6         42.7       5.4      36.1          83.7         75.8        11.0         1.0       284.3                66.7             4.3           n.a.        n.a.
1973      337.6           209.2-/  546.8              25.0         41.5       8.2      32.1         106.3        125.3        10.2         0.4       349.0                69.0            22.0            2.0        93.0
1974      253.6           235.0     488.6             55.2         48.9      10.6      91.5         187.1        188.3        25.0         0.0       606.6                94.0            11.0            8.0       113.0        "
1975-41    195.1          120.0      315.1            41.7         74.8       7.9      71.3          99.2        190.4        30.7         0.6       516.6                85.05/          12.7-Y          9.&$'    107.5
1/  Vignettes - Annual fees on vehicles.
2/ Licence fees derived from grey cards which are issued when vehicle ownership is transferred.
3/  Inclodes an exceptional tax of CFAF 8/liter on an estimated 16.7 million litres of diesel oil for powar plants.
4/ Figures for "Fuel Taxes" and "Custom Duties and Taxes" are for 9 months (Jan. - Sept. 1975) only.
5/  Figures for 1975
n.a. - Not Wvailable
Source: a) Bureau of Customs
b) Directorate of Mines
c) Ministry of Finance



-36-                               Table 9
CHAD
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Expenditures on Highways, 1971-76
Year     Capital                 Maintenance                               1/
Expenditure      ActualExpenditures      Budget     Administration        Total
DPW  Prefectural    Allocation
Authorities
1971      1303          188       40             (223)           137              1668
1972       279          244       40             (224)           132               695
1973       358          220       30             (225)           140               748
3'
1974       522          220        -             (220)           148               890
1975       745          220        -             (221)           154              1106
4/
1976       738          303        -             (442)           144              1185
1/  Includes approximately CFAF50 million per year in wages for operational staff.
2/  During the period 1971-76, the capital expenditure on highways represents
the total of external assistance for studies, construction and purchase of
equipment.
3/ Maintenance of prefectural roads taken over by DPW in 1974.
4/  CFAF420 million were actually committed for maintenance of roads and ferryboats.
Source: Directorate of Public Works, 1977.



- 37 -                                         Table 10
CHAD
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
List of Roads to be Maintained
Road Type - Traffic Volume/km
-----Engineered------  -Partially Engineered-
Subdivision                          Laterite      Sand/Clay  Laterite         Sand/Clay               Tracks         Total
and Roads                             A    B       A       B       A          A    B      C         A     B      C
A. N'IDjamena North
Massaguet-Massakory                             68                                                                    68
Massapuet-llarne                                       53                                                             53
Karme-N' Goura                                                                                         72             72
Chagoua-Linia                                   30                                                                    30
Linia-Massenya                                                                                               127     127
Djermaya-Dijimt 1In.___                                                                                       82      82
98    53                                               72   453    676
B. N'Djamena South
ruelendeng-Bongor                                                         83                                          83
Bongor-Magou                                                                                    99                    99
Guelendeng-Mogo                                                                                       149            149
83f                   99   149            331
C. Abeche
Abeche-Biltine                                                                        92                              92
Abeche-Adre                                                                          167                             167
Ati-Oum Had jer                                                                                              165*   165
Osm Had jer-Abeche                                                                                           146*   146
2i5 9                   311    57-0
D. Mongo
NConura-Bitkine                                                                                              244*   244
At i-Mongo                                                                                                   154*   154
Bitkine-Mongo                                                                                                 59*     59
Mongo-Mangaime                                                                                               118*    118
Melfi-Bitkine                                                                                                148*   118
Oum Hadjer-Mangalme                                                                                          110*   110
Mangalme-Abou Deia                                                                                           123*   123
9q2-6   92-
E. Sarh
Maindon-La Sido                         86                                                                            86
Guere-Doba                        164                                                                                164
Niellim-Guere                           80                                                                            80
Guere-Sarh                                      27                                                                    27
Sarh-Maindou                                    36                                                                    36
Mogo-Miltou-Niellim                                                            150                                   150
Me If i-D ik                                                                                          149            149
Guidari-Koumra                                                                                        116            116
Koumra-Moissala                                                                                        74             74
Sarh-Kyabe                                                                                                    98      98
Kyabe-Ams Timan                                                                                              259     259
Am Timan-Abou Deia                                                                                           135*   135
Moissala-Kemdere                                _                                                            125     125
164 166      63                             150                     190   617  1,499
F. Moundou
Pala-Kelo                         107                                                                                107
Kelo-Moundou                      104                                                                                104
Moundou-Baikoro                    20                                                                                 20
Baikoro-Gore-CAE Border                110                                                                           110
Pala-Lere-Cameroon Border                             122                                                            122
Baikoro-Doba                                                    79                                                    79
Magou-Lai                                                                 49                                          49
Lai-Bere                                                                                               20             20
Bere-Kelo                                                                                              40             40
Koutou-Bere                                                                                            91             91
Lai-Doba                                                                                              108            108
Lai-Guidari                                                                                            44             44
Moundou-Baibokoum-
CAE Border                                                                                          152            152
Kelo-Gounou Gaya                                                                                       52             52
Gounou Gaya-Tikem                                                                                             58      58
Doba-Gore                                                                                                     95      95
Pala-Fianga-Cameroon Border                                                                                   83      83
oulibangala-Pandzangue                                                                                        15      15
Pala-Gagal-Beinamar                                                                                          121     121
Beinamar-Koutou                                                                                               90      90
231 110            122       79         49                          507   462  1,560
Total                           395 276      161   175        79       132  150   259   99          918 2,674  5,318
Traffic Volume (vehicles per day)
A       30-60
B       10-30
C       Less than 10
*    Tracks subject to change in annual program.
Source: Mission estimates.



- 38 -
Table 11
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Unpaved Road Maintenance Strategies
-----Engineered-----   Partially Engineered
Road Type                 Laterite   Sand/Clay   Laterite   Sand/ClaY    Tracks
Traffic Volume             A    B    A   B   C        A        A   B  .C   A   B  C
Dry Grading                    2    2    1   1   1        2       1   1   1   2   1  1
(frequency/year)
Grading-Compacting                        1   1                   1
(frequency/year)
EmSrgency Repairs                       50  50  50      50       50   50  50  25  25
(m /km)
Light Maintenance            150  200  100 150         150      100  150      150 200
(cantonnage)(km/year x unit)
Dragging
(frequency/year)             30   20                    30
Traffic Volume (vehicles per day)
A      30 - 60
B      10 - 30
C      less than 10
Source: Mission estimates.
August 1977



- 39 -
Table 12
CHAD
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Road Maintenance Equipment and
Spare Parts for Existing Equipment
Cost Estimates
(US$'000, End-1977 prices)
TOTAL COST          Foreign as
Quantity  Unit Cost   Local  Foreign   Total   % of Total
A. Road Maintenance Equipment
1. Bulldozer, 180/200 hp            3          145.4      30.5    405.7    436.2
2. Wheel Loader, 80/100 hp          4           63.5      17.8    236.2    254.0
3. Motorgrader, 120/130 hp          8           78.9      44.2    587.0    631.2
4. Towed Tank, Fuel, 5,000 1        7           14.4       7.1      93.7    100.8
5. Towed Tank, Wate5, 2000 1        8            5.8       3.2     43.2      4b.4
6. Motor Pump, 80 m /h              3            3.2       0.7       8.9      9.6
7. Liaison Vehicle, Pick-up        14            6.6       6.5     85.9      92.4
8. Liaison Vehicle,
4-Wheel Drive                   9            9.9       6.2     82.9      89.1
9. Light Liaison Vehicle            6            4.9       2.1      27.3     29.4
10. Agricultural Tractor
70/80                           5           17.9       6.3     83.2      89.5
11. Motorbike, 250 cc               20            2.8       3.9     52.1      56.0
12,, Dump Truck, 2.5 ton            20           14.3      20.0    266.0    286.0
13. Truck, 2.5 ton flatbed           2           13.2       1.8     24.6      26.4
1C, Labor Tools (sets)              16            2.7       3.0     40.2      43.2
15. Trailer with Mechanical
Tools                           5           15.9       5.6     73.9      79.5
16. Supply/Maintenance Truck         8           41.7      23.4    310.2    333.6
17. Workshop Truck                   2           78.3      11.0    145.6    156.6
18. Management vehicle               1            9.2       0.6      8.6       9.2
19. Workshop mobile cranes           2           20.6       2.9     38.3      41.2
20. Electric transformer,
300 KVA                         2            8.0      1.1      14.9      16.0
197.9  2,628.4  2,826.3        93%
21. Spare parts stock (10%)                                19.8    262.8    282.6
217.7  2,891.2  3,108.9
22. Quantity contingency (5%)                              10.9    144.5    155.4
228.6  3,035.7  3,264.3
23. Price variation (about 15%)                            33.7    448.1    481.4
Total                                                262.3  3,483.8  3,746.1
B. Spare Parts for Existing
Equipment                                                  50.1    665.9    716.0
1. Quantity Contingency (15%)                               7.5     99.9    107.4
57.6    765.8    823.4
2. Price Contingency                                        4.3     57.4      61.7
Total                                                 61.9    823.2    885.1        93%
Source: BCEOM, mission estimates.



- 40 -
Table 13
CHAD
THIRD IIIGHWAY PROJECT
Construction of Buildings and Workshops
Cost Estimates
(End-1977 Prices)
-----CFAF million----- -------US$'000------  Foreign as
Local Foreign Total Local Foreign Total % of Total
A. N'DJAMfENA
1. Equipment Division
a. Improvement of existing
Workshop (1,500m )    2               6.7    20.1    26.8    27          82      109
b. Procurement office (150   )              2.9      8.5    11.4    12        35       47
c. Spare parts store (800m )           2   8.1    24.1    32.2    33          98      131
d. Equipment inspection oVfice (200m )  3.8    11.4    15.2    15             47       62
e. Equipment Garage (8002 )                 8.1    24.1    32.2    33         98      131
f. Transformer room (25m ) 3                0.2      0.8      1.0      1       3        4
g. Land preparation (7,000m )  2            3.1      9.4    12.5    13        39       52
h. Roadways and aprons (10,OOOm )          22.3    67.0    89.3    91        274      365
i. Fencing and gates                        1.0      2.8      3.8     4       11       15
Subtotal                        56.2   168.2   224.4   229        687      Y16
2.  Road Maintenance Subdivision        2
a. Four road sector offices (4x200m )  10.8    32.1    42.9    44            131      175
Subtotal A                      67.0   200.3   267.3   273        818   1,091        75%
B. ABECHE
1. Garage Building (300m2)                  2.0      6.0     8.0      8       24       32
2. Fencing (650 m)                          0.9      2.7      3.6     4       11       15
3. Improvement of Existing Buildings    0.9          2.7     3.6      4       11       15
Subtotal B                       3.8    11.4    15.2    16         46       62       75%
C. MONGO
1. Office Building (lOOm )2                 1.7      5.9      7.6     7       24       31
2. Workshop Building (139m )                0.8      2.4      3.2      3      10       13
3. Garage Building (300m )                  1.9      5.9      7.8     8       24       32
4. Fencing (650m)                           1.0      2.7      3.7     4       11       15
Subtotal C                       5.4    16.9    22.3    22         69       91       75%
1D. SARH
1. Garage Building (600m 22  4.0    12.1    16.1    16                        50       66
2. Three Road Sector Buildings(3x200m ) 8.0    24.1    32.1    33             98      131
3. Improvement of Existing Buildings    0.9          2.7      3.6     4       11       15
Subtotal D                      12.9    38.9    51.8    53        159      212       75%
E. MOUNDOU
1. Garage Building (600m )                  4.0    12.1    16.1    16         50       66
2. Seven Ryad Sector Buildings             16.8    56.3    75.1    77        230      307
(7x200m )
3. Improvement of Existing Buildings    0.9          2.7      3.6      4      11       15
Subtotal E                      23.7    71.1    94.8    92        291      388       75%
Subtotal A-E                         112.8   338.6   451.4   460   1,382   1,842            75%
F. PHYSICAL CONTINGENCY (15%)                    10.1    57.3    67.4    41        234      275
G. PRICE CONTINGENCY                             31.1   110.7   141.8   127        452      579       78i,'
Source: DPW, BCEOM, Mission estimates.



- 41 -
Table 14
(CHAr
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Network to he Maintained and Maintenance Operations
Engineered    -- Partialiv Engineered
Road Type                                   Laterite      Sand/Clav Laterite       Sand/Clay                Tracks         Total
Traffic Votiime                              A    P       A        -B    A       A    B        C         A    B       C
Dry Cradine    a) 1. N'Djamena North                      98    53                                            72    209    432
(kin)            2. N'Dijamena South                                        83                     99     149             331
b) Abeche                                                                    259                    311     570
c) Mongo                                                                                            926     926
d) Sarh                    164  166      63                          150                    190    766  1.499
e) Motindou,               231  110            122      79    49 __ _____507    462  1,560
395  276    161   T75       79   132   150    259    99         918  2,674  5,318
GradinF          a) 1. N'Djamena North                    98    53                                                           151
Compacting        2. N'Djamena South                                          83                                            83
(ki)        b) Abeche
c) Mongo
d) Sarh                                  63                                                                  63
e) Moundou                                                     49                                            49
161    53            T32                                           346
Emergencv        a) 1. N'Djamena North                 4,900 2,650                                         1,800        1/ 9,350
Repairs           2. N'Djamena South                                      4,150                  2.475  3,725 12,000 22,350
(m )
b) Abeche                                                                 12,950                         12,950
c) Mongo                                                                                              2/
d) Sarh                               3.150                        7,500                  4,750  6,007,/21,400
e) Moundou                                  6,100  3,950 2,450                           12,675  5,000 30,175
18,050 8,750  3,950 6,600 7,500 12,950 2.475 22,950 23,000 96,225
Tight
Maintenance  a) 1. N'Djamena North                      98    53                                            72             223
(cantonnage)    2. N'Djamena South                                            83                    99    149              331
(kh)          b) Abeche
c) Mongo
d) Sarh                    164  166    63                            150                    190             733
e) Moundoui                231  110            122             49                           507           1,098
395  276    161   175       79   132   150               99    918            2,385
Brushing         a) 1. N'Djam.ena North
(km)              2. N'Djamena South
b) Abeche
c) Mongo
d) Sarh                    164  166                                                                         330
e) Moundou                 231  110                     79                                                  420
395  276                    79                                                   750
1/   Bongor and Bouisso ferryboat access roads.
2/   Hellibongo ferrvboat access road.
3/   Lai ferryboat access road.
Traffic Volmne (vehicles per day)
A       30-60
B       10-30
C       Less than 10
Source: Mission estimates



Table 15
THIR HIRCHAy PROJECT
0546 Personnel Training Haaolse.menin
Trained  or
Personnel               Traineng         Available foe
Available           rr4TL                 Training by
6 ~  0   s                                                                                                r t      a     r o   >Et
t7   p   c   8  _  L   W   c   ^   9   s txJ   43   =   l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oosI Ro-d  a     C   9      b'     t      t   4k 
T-n    l       R..dm
a)cito                  e                t     k   X L             .'  (hI  o        L    Mit7an              ' L          (f)      (g,  bh  ti    ( j         k)  Ii) in) la) io)        (p) (q)
1M-ehai-al - R.od oaineeg        -                                     I 1  1                            1                           1        -                1
2. Chief
nr-hanlo                                                            1                                                       I                  I
3, Eqaip-nn   Controller                                 3             3                                 3                           3        1           1    2             3             3
4, Suhoiolnior FlPn
Chief                                                                        I       I        1                                     5      5          5                            5       5
5.neohanioaiiaxpenr                                      2   1         3                                 3                  3        3        4          4   -;                       5       3
6. isotar Chief                                                                      5   2  17          17                          17       13          13    4                 17 _              13   4
. BHigade Chief              4         1          5                                                      5        1   2   3          8        B                              2                      8
8. Wp  It,e Cief            10         2         12                                                     12        6   28             0o       1 5         4   146               i                  12   8
9.Cbiefbeoheeio               7   2   1          10               6   6                                 1i        1   1   2         18                    4   14             2  16                 10   8
10. lineal Neohanir          13   2   2           14               6   6   3   1 1 3   4  12             32        2   3   5         31 43   24   33   57    41                                      0  18
II. HeoOaeif                                                6   6                                  6                           6i                                     10}_                    3   4
12. M-hanla Forenar
(C-ntePait-re)                                                 3   3                                  3                                   6                                   3                      3
13  Workshop Chief                                                           I   I II     1   5           5                           5        3           3    2                               5
14. MNhrania Help-r/
Greener                  24   4   6  '       34                         3   1 1 3   3  11           45'        4   7  11        5f         5   55   60   .4              26   SI                35  21
15. Buildoapr Operator        4         2   3      9                                                      9             4   4       1                                         9                     10   3
16. Lander Operator,          I         3   3                                 11                         I          2   4   6        13                                       9   8                 i2   3
17. Grader Operator           16        3   8    27                                                      23             5   5        22 95   11   40   51   44 18            24   8                 22  10
18. Ceepartor Opereooe        8         5   4    17                                                      13         6   6  12        2q4            44                                              I5  14
;9. PaIliole-r operator                 2          2                                                      2             2   2         44
20  Tool SpeSiiliet                                                4   4                                  4                           4              1    2    2                   4                      4
21i  Laihe Opeettoe                                                          1   1 1 1   1   5            4                           5                          5-                4                      5
22. Drill Ope-eor                                                           I   I6        1   4           5                              6                                         4                 5
23. Welder/1Dqkas.ith/
"onearPoe-                     1   l   2                                2   1 12   2   8             10             1   1       11       11    7   22  -il          11                           8   3
2      yvp.  eIor1ti2nl2 1                                                         1 2  2   i 12   2   8  10            1   1        11        3    6    9       2            1  I0                  8    3
25. rpete                                                                    1111                  5                                  8 6                                 5                               5
26, r e                                                                     I        1 I       5          5                           5                         5         5                               5
27. Skilled l.ebnr-r                                                8   B                      8          8                                                2,  4    S 2. -  8                        4   4
28. Skilled Lahorer -                                                                                                                16264
"Ieper                                                         6   6   2   2 22   2  IC              14                         16             12   12-             16                           8   8
29  Driver                   53   4  17           74      1    I        2   1   1 1 1   1   5            81                          81       50   57  107  -i6         81                          81
30. Ad,iniat-atire
Offi-er                                               I            1                      1           1                          1                          1                 1            1
31. S-retar-y/Tf piao
liesairapher                                          1            1                      1           1                          1                                   1 
32. Aooasntaot                                            2   1         3                      3          3                           3        2      7   11   .3                  3           3
33.Typi.t                                                 2   2         4                      4          4                           4        22                         4                          4
34  Ti-ek .eper                6        1          7                                                      7                           7              2    2    5              2   5                  5   2
35 Storasvna =d
HlelpeT                   3        1           4          5        5                                  9             1   1       0D         3   12   15   .5               1   9            1    3   4
36. Pro- `rerent Offi-er                                       I        1                                 1                           1                         1                      1   1
37. Porarding Agoet                                            I        1                _                                            1                         1                       11
Slbtotal                               230                  65                    101         396       22  39  61       457      166  243  409   751    120 139 175  17   730  291 139
topeotad Perroonel Tartover                                                                                                                                           54                 4
Sultttal                                                                                                                                                              227  22
TOTAL T NAINOIC NEEDS                                                                                                                                                   249
1/ Refors  airbaroenernt  for o-nsrr- on-en of bulhdtngn tnd  Vorekop.                 2/  Only praini-o fil-rea oddsd.  tlvee po-itieoo  a-ready budgecd,
3/   atirlntfd dooe_  for pereonol aoallability,  4t  This poeitior shall bo Tilled  iith a  -e-oasicel e-g9eeer -0t laser than Otob-r 31, 1979.
So.e.e:  BCEH, DPW, mlioioentioaien



- 43 -                                   Table 16
CHAD
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Equipment for Training Program
Cost Estimates
(End-1977 Prices)
___---_ ---(US$  000)        
Total Cost              Foreign as
Item                                            Quantity        Unit Cost      Local  Foreign  Total         % of Total
A. Training Center
1.  Lathe - Vernier 170 x 800 type
with accessories                          1              15.7            1.1      14.6      15.7
2.  Universal drill - Vernier
FV 250E type with accessories             1              31.4            2.2      29.2      31.4
3.  Service vehicles                          4                4.9           1.4      18.2      19.6
4.  Tools and improvement                     -               20.9           1.5      19.4      20.9
Subtotal                                                            6.2      81.4      87.6
5.  Price Contingency                                                        0.5       6.1       6.6
Subtotal A                                                          6.7      87.5      94.2
Rounded                                                             7        87        94            92%
B. Training Unit
1.  Bulldozer 180/200 hp                      1             145.4           10.2    135.2    145.4
2.  Wheel loader 80/100 hp                    2              63.5            8.9    118.1    127.0
3.  Motorgrader 120/130 hp                    2              78.9           11.0    146.8    157.8
4.  Rubber wheel compactor 15/20 tons         3              54.5           11.4    152.1    163.5
5.  Pulvimixer    3                           1              89.8            6.3      83.5      89.8
6.  Dumn) truck 6 m                          12              37.0           31.1    412.9    444.0
7.  Tank truck, water, 10,000 1
with pump                                 3              52.7          11.1    147.0    158.1
8.  Tank truck, fuel, 10,000 1                1              53.2            3.7      49.5      53.2
9.  Towed tank, fuel, 14,000 1                1              32.8            2.3      30.5      32.8
10.  Towed tank, water, 2,000 1                1               5.8            0.4       5.4       5.8
11.  Workshop truck                            1              78.3            5.5      72.8      78.3
12.  Supply/maintenance truck                  1              41.7            2.9      38.8      41.7
13.  Vibrating roller 0.7 ton                  1                8.3           0.6       7.7       8.3
14.  Liasion vehicle, pick-up                  1               6.6            0.5       6.1       6.6
15.  Liaison vehicle, 4-wheel drive            2               9.9            1.4      18.4     19.8
16.  Towed camper                              2              26.9            3.8      50.0     53.8
Subtotal                                                          111.1  1,474.8  1,585.9
17.  Spare parts stock (10%)                                                 11.1    147.5    158.6
Subtotal                                                          122.2  1,622.3  1,744.5
18.  Quantity contingency (5%)                                                6.1     81.1      87.2
128.3  1,703.4  1,831.7
19.  Price contingency                                                        9.6    127.8    137.4
Total B                                                           137.9  1,831.2  1,969.1
Rounded                                                           138    1.831    1,969             93%
Source: ORT, USAID, mission estimates.



- 44 -
Table 17
CHAD
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Four Locallv-Built Ferryboats
Cost Estimates
(End-1977 Prices)
-     _-----CFAF Million------------   --------------US$ '000--- -______
Local                                    Local                              Foreign as
Item                                      Taxes  Other  Total  Foreign  Total   Taxes  Other  Total  Foreign  Total   x of Total
A.  Basic Costs
1. Ferrvboat Building
(i)    Materials                      2.1       5.0    7.1   174.8   181.9        8.5   20.5   29.0   713.3   742.3            96
(ii)   Labor                            -     32.4   32.4       -       32.4        -   132.1  132.1       -      132.1         -
(iii)  Loading/Unloading Rails          -       0.4    0.4      3.3      3.7        -     1.5    1.5    13.5    15.0           90
(iv)   Ferryboat Transfer             0.1      0.2    0.3       0.5      0.8      0.5    0.7    1.2        2.0      3.2       62
(v)    Workshop Tools                   -      0.4    0.4       3.8      4.2        -     1.7    1.7    15.4    17.1           90
2.2    38.4   40.6   182.4   223.0          9.0  156 Y5 165.5    744.2   909.7          82
2.  Consulting Services
(i)    Technical Specifications
and Preliminary Design          -       -       -        5.2      5.2       -       -       -      21.4    21.4       100
(ii)   Final Design and
Procurement List                -       -               13.1    13.1        -       -       -      53.5    53.5       100
=      -       -       18.3    18.3        -       -       -      74.9     74.9      100
3. Technical Assistance
and Training                       -       5.9    5.9    33.5    39.4          -      24.1   24.1  136.6   160.7          85
(about 16 man-months)
Subtotal A                    2.2    44.3   46.5   234.2   280.7          9.0   180.6  189.6  955.7 1,145.3           83
B.  Contingencies
1. Physical
(i)    5% on A.1. and 2.               0.1      1.9    2.0    10.0    12.0        0.5       7.8    8.3   40.9    49.2          83
(ii)   1OT on A.3                       -       0.6    0.6      3.3       3.9       -       2.4    2.4   13.7    16.1          85
Subtotal 1                0.1       2.5    2.6    13.3    15.9        0.5    10.2   10.7   54.6    65.3            84
2.  Price
(i)    on l(i), (iii),            0.5      1.4    1.9    43.9    45.8         2.2    5.8    8.0   179.0   187.0           96
(iv), (v)
(ii)   on l(ii)                    -       3.2    3.2       -        3.2       -    13.0   13.0        -       13.0        -
(iii)  on 2                        -        -       -       7.4      7.4       -       -       -      30.2     30.2      100
(iv)   on 3                        -       1.9    1.9    18.4    12.3          -      7.5    7.6    42.6    50.2          85
Subtotal 2            0.5      6.5    7.0    61.7    58.7          2.2  26.4   28.6   251.8   280.4           90
Subtotal B            0.6      9.0    9.6    75.0    84.6          2.7  36.6   39.3   305.4   345.7           88
Total                 2.8    53.3   56.1   309.2   365.3          11.7 217.2  228.9 1,262.1 1,491.0           85
Rounded                                                                                                       85
Source: Mission estimates.



- 45 -                                              Table 18
Page 1 of 2
CHAD
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Proiect Cost Estimates
---CFAF million------   --------US$'000--------   Foreign as
Local   Foreign   Total   Local   Foreign   Total   % of Total
A.  BASIC COSTS
1. Maintenance Program
(i)  Road equipment & spare parts stock                      53.4    708.3    761.7    218    2,891    3,109             93
(ii)  Equipment & spare parts for Training Unit                29.9    397.4    427.3    122    1,622    1,744            93
(iii)  Spare parts for existing equipment                       12.2    163.2    175.4        50       666       716        93
(iv)  Workshop equipment and tools                              5.1     68.4       73.5      21      279       300        93
(v)  Workshop equipment for Training Center                    1.5     20.0      21.5       6        82        88        93
(vi)  Office furniture and supplies, and equipment for    1.7            21.6      23.3       7        88        95        93
for EIO and PO
(vii)  Workshop and building construction
and improvement 2/                                     112.8    338.6    451.4    460    1,382    1.842             75
Subtotal 1                                       216.6  1,717.5  1,934.1    884    7,010    7,894             89
2. Technical Assistance and Training for DPW
(i)  Training program for DPW specialized
personnel (about 230 man-months)                        67.4    381.9    449.3    275    1,559    1,834             85
(ii)  Strengthening of DPW (about 180 man-months)             59.8    337.1    396.9    244    1,376    1,620              85
(iii)  Road Planning and Design Office, including
office equipment and supplies
(about 25 man-months)                                   11.5      68.8      80.3      47       281       328        86
(iv)  Operating costs
(a)  Training Center 2/                                 57.3    159.5    216.8    234          651       885        74
(b)  Training Unit 3/                                  144.6    299.6    444.2    590    1.223    1,813             67
Subtotal 2                                       340.6  1,246.9  1,587.5  1,390    5,090    6,480              79
3.  Fellowships                                                   -         73.5      73.5    -          300       300       100
4.  Ferrvboat Replacement
(i)  Materials, labor and workshop tools 2/                  40.6    182.4    223.0        166       744      910        82
(ii)  Naval design and technical specifications                -         18.3      18.3    -           75        75       100
(iii)  Technical assistance (about 16 man-months)                5.9      33.5      39.4      24       137       161        85
Subtotal 4                                         46.5    234.2    280.7       190       956    1,146         83
5. Directorate of Transport
(i)  Technical assistance (about 30 man-months)                6.6     59.5      66.1      27        243       270       90
(ii)  Office equipment, furniture and supplies                  2.4      17.2      19.6      10        70        80        88
Subtotal 5                                          9.0      76.7      85.7      37       313       350        89
6.  Technical Assistance to Trucking Industry
(about 15 man-months)                                          3.2      29.9      33.1      13       122       135        90
7.  Completion of Five-Year Cotton Feeder Road
Improvement Program (Second Highway Project)                   2.9       9.3      12.2      12        38        50        92
(i)  Construction materials                                    2.9       9.3      12.2      12        38        50        92
(ii)  Operating costs 4/                                       38.3      57.3      95.6     156       234       390        60
Subtotal 7                                         41.2      66.6    107.8      168       272       440        62
8.  Rural Roads Study                                              7.3      66.2      73.5      30       270       300        90
Subtotal A                                        664.4  3,511.5  4,175.9  2,712   14,333   17,045             84
I/  End-1977 prices.
2/  Includes an i.nsignificant amount of taxes.
3/  Includes abotut 71 taxes.
4/  Includes abouit 10  taxes.



- 46 -                                               Table 18
Page 2 of 2
----CFAF million -0 --------0USS0O--------
Local   Foreign   Total   Local   Foreign   Total
C. CONTINGENCIES
1. PlOsical
(a)  On A.1 (i)      C 5%)                                      2.7      35.5       38.2      11       145        156
(b)  On A.1 (ii'   ( 5%)                                        1.5       19.8      21.3       6        81         87
(c)  On A.1 (iii)  (15%)                                        1.7      24.5       26.2       7       100        107
(d)  On A.1 (iv)    (10%)                                       0.5       6.9        7.4       2        28         30
(e)  On A.1 (v)      ( - )                                       -          -         -       -         -         -
(f)  On A.1 (vi)    (10%)                                       0.2       2.2        2.4       1         9         10
(g)  On A.l (vii)   (10%)                                      10.8      32.6       43.4      44       133        177
(h)  On A.2 (i)      (15%)                                     10.0      57.4       67.4      41       234       275
(i)  on A.2 (ii)    (15%)                                       9.1      50.5       59.6      37       206       243
(j)  On A.2 (iii)   (15%)                                       1.7      10.3       12.0       7        42        49
(I)  On A.2 (iv) (a)(10%)                                       5.6       15.9      21.5      23        65        88
(1)  On A.2 (iv)(b)(10%)                                       14.4      29.9       44.3      59       122        181
(m)  On A.3          (15%)                                       -        11.0      11.0      -         45         45
(n)  On A.4 (i)      ( 5%)                                      2.0       9.0       11.0       8        37        45
(o)  On A.4 (ii)    ( 5%)                                        -         1.0       1.0      -          4          4
(p)  On A.4 (iii)   (10%)                                       0.7       3.5        4.2       3        14         17
(q)  On A.5 (i)      (15%)                                      0.5       4.4        4.9       2        18        20
(r)  On A.5 (ii)    (15%)                                       0.5       2.4        2.9       2        10         12
(s)  On A.6          (15%)                                      0.5       4.4        4.9       2        18        20
(t)  On A.7          (-)                                         -          -         -       -         -         -
(u)  On A.8          (- )
Subtotal I                                          62.4     321.2     383.6      255     1,311     1,566
2.  Price
(a)  on A.1 (i)                                                 9.3     123.5      132.8      38       504       542
(b)  On A.1 (ii)                                                2.7      36.0       38.7      11       147       158
(c)  On A.1 (iii)                                               1.0      14.2       15.2       4        58        62
(d)  On A.1 (iv)                                                1.0      14.7       15.7       4        60        64
(e)  On A.t (v)                                                 0.2        1.5       1.7       1         6          7
(f)  On A.1 (vi)                                                0.5        2.7       3.2       2        11         13
(g)  On A.1 (vii)                                              31.1     110.7      141.8     127       452       579
(h)  On A.2 (i)                                                14.2      80.4       94.6      58       328       386
(i)  On A.2 (ii)                                               13.0      63.4       76.4      53       259       312
(j)  On A.2 (iii)                                               2.0      11.5       13.5       8        47        55
(k)  On A.2 (iv)(a)                                            13.7      38.5       52.2      56       157       213
(1)  On A.2 (iv)(b)                                            21.1      70.8       91.9      86       289       375
(m)  On A.3                                                      _         _          _       _         _         _
(n)  On A.4 (i)                                                 5.1      43.9       49.0      21       179       200
(o)  On A.4 (ii)                                                 -        9.8        9.8      -         40        40
(p)  On A.4 (iii)                                               2.7      15.7       18.4      11        64        75
(q)  On A.5 (i)                                                 1.4      13.5       14.9       6        55        61
(r)  On A.5 (ii)                                                0.5       2.7        3.4       3        11        14
(s)  On A.6                                                     0.7       6.6        7.3       3        27        30
(t)  On A.7                                                      _         _          _       _         _
(u)  On A.8                                                     1.2       9.8       11.0       5        40        45
Subtotal 1                                          80.4    528.5      608.9    328    2,157    2,485
Subtotal B                                         184.0    991.1  1,175.1       752    4,045      4,797
TO'TAL                                       848.4  4,502.6  5,351.0  3,464   18,378   21,842
ROUlNDED                                                                 3,500   18_400   21_800
RECURRENT COSTS OVER THE P'ROJECT PERIOD
A.   Basic Costs (Erd-1977)
1.   Unpaved Road Maintenance                                    691.4    581.3  1,372.7  2,822    2,781          5,683         50
2.   Ferryboat Maintenance and Operation                          69.8       95.8    165.6    285         391       676         58
Subtotal A                                         761.2     777.1  1,538.3  3,107    3,172    6,279             51
B.   Contingencies
1.   Physical                                                     37.9      39.0       76.9    155        159       314
2.   Price                                                       178.1    187.2    365.3        727       764    1,491
Subtotal B                                        216.0    226.2    442.2    882           923     1,805
TOTAL                                        977.2  1,003.3  1,980.5  3,989    4,095    8,084
ROUNDED                                                                  4.000    4,100    8,1()0



_ 47 -
CHAD
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT                                                                            Table 19
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
(CALENDAR YEARS)
1978                 1979                  1980                  1981                 1982
Item                     Activity              Responsibility         Quarter               Quarter               Quarter               Quarter              Quarter
1st  2nd  3rd  4th  1st  2nd  3rd  4th  1st  2nd  3rd  4th  1st  2nd  3rd  4th  1st  2nd  3rd  4th
Credit                   Signature                    Got./IDA                       0
Effectiveness               Government
Maintenance Program      Procurement of Equipment,
Spare Parts, and
Workshop Equipment           Govt./ADF
Workshop and Buiiding
Construction
Biddmg Documents           Government
Cons ruction
Procurement of Office
Furniture and Equipment     Govt./IDA
Technical Assistance
to DPW                   Training Program
Consultant Selection and
Contract                   Govt./USAID
Consultant Services
Procurement of Equipment  Govt./USAI D
Assesment of results and
further requirements for
the Training Program       Govt./USAID/IDA
Strenghtening of DPW
Consultant Selection and
Contract                   Govt./IDA
Consultant Services
Pellooships
Ferryboat Construction
Consultant Contract          Govt./IDA
Ferryboat Design            Consultant
Procurement of Building
Materials                   Govt./Consultant
Ferryboat Construction      Goot./Consultant,
Technical Assistance
to DT
Consultant Selection and
Contract                    Govt./USAID/IDA
Consultant Servicesv.__________
Technical Assistance
for FB                   Consultant Selection and
Contract                    Govt./USAID/IDA
Consultant Services
Completion of Cottonl
Feeder Road Maintenaisce                              Govt./IDA
Rural Roads Study
Consultant Selection and
Contract                    Govt./STC/IDA
Consultant Services
Road Fund Revenues and
Expenditunes             Reports                      Government
Proiect Mmtoring         Reports                      Government          _    _    _    _       _      1          F   1_
Source. Mission Estimates
May 1978                                                                                                                                                        World Bank - 18j82



- 48 -                             Table 20
CHAD
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(US$'000)
-------    Disbursements--------
IDA Fiscal Year        Quarter Ending         During Quarter          Cumulative
1979              September 30, 1978            ---                   ---
December 31, 1978            ---                    ---
March 31, 1979                150                   150
June 30, 1979                450                    600
1980              September 30, 1979          1,200                 1,600
December 31, 1979          1,200                 3,000
March 31, 1980                800                3,800
June 30, 1980                 700                4,500
1981              September 30, 1980            600                 5,100
December 31, 1980             500                5,600
March 31, 1981                400                6,000
June 30, 1981                400                 6,400
1982              September 30, 1981            350                 6,750
December 31, 1981             350                 7,100
March 31, 1982                300                 7,400
June 30, 1982                200                 7,600
Source: Mission estimates.
May 1978



CHAD
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Road Maintenance Cost Estimates
(End-1977 Prices)
_--------------- CFAF-----------------    -----------------US$------------------
Local                                        Local                              Foreign as
Item                               Taxes   Other   Total  Foreign   Total    Taxes   Other   Total  Foreign   Total   % of Total
Maintenance Operations
Dry Grading, per km                822   6,492   7,314   7,991   15,305    3.35    26.50   29.85   32.62    62.47             52
Grading - Compacting, pes km   4,632  31,771  36,133  42,048   78,181   18.90   129.68  147.48  171.62   319.10              54
Emergency Repairs 2/per m           66     490      556      670    1,226    0.27      2.00    2.27    2.73        5.00      55
Dragging, per day-               1,173   5,813   6,986   9,177   16,163    4.79    23.73   28.52   37.45    65.97             57     1
Light Maintenance, per day       1,072  15,992  17,064  10,392   27,456    4.38    65.27   69.65   42.41   112.06            38
(cantonnage)
Road Maintenance Cost              ------------CFAF Million/Year----------   ------------US$ 'OOO/Year-------------
N'Djamena North                  2,154  19,104  21,258  21,150    42,408   8,792  77,975  86,767  86,327   173,094
N'Djamena South                  2,837  25,556  28,393  28,174    56,567  11,580 104,310 115,890 114,996   230,886
Abeche                           1,883  14,474  16,357  18,682    35,039   7,685  59,078  66,763  76,253   143,016
Sarh                             4,458  40,961  45,419  43,291    88,710  18,196 167,188 185,384 176,698   362,082
Moundou                          6,077  55,365  61,442  59,031   120,473  24,804 225,980 250,784 240,942   491,726
Total                      17,409 155,460 172,869 170,328   343,197  71,057 634,531 705,588 695,216 1,400,804            50
1/  Excluding road administration, equipment, depreciation, import duty on spare parts, and other commercial
taxes, fuel tax included.
2/ Assuming operations over 45 linear km per day.
Source: mission estimates.



CHAD
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Ferryboat Recurrent Costs
Cost Estimates
(End-1977 prices)
----------- CFAF Million------------    --------------US$  000---------------
Local                                          Local                                Foreign as
Basic Costs                      Taxes   Other   Total  Foreign   Total    Taxes   Other   Total  Foreign   Total   % of Total
Personnel:  1979                -        9.5      9.5      -         9.5        -       38.7    38.7       -        38.7
1980              -        9.5      9.5      -         9.5         -      38.8    38.8        -        38.8
1981              -        9.5      9.5      -         9.5         -      38.8    38.8        -        38.8
1982              -        9.5      9.5      -         9.5         -      38.8    38.8        -        38.8
Subtotal                      -      38.0    38.0       -        38.0         -     155.1   155.1        -       155.1
Materials:  1979               2.0       7.8      9.8    29.5       39.3       8.2      31.8    40.0      120.4   160.4                   1
1980             1.6       6.7      8.3    25.1       33.4        6.9     27.3    34.2       102.0   136.2                  L
1981             1.4       5.5      6.9    20.6       27.5       5.7      22.5    28.2        84.1   112.0
1982             1.4       5.5      6.9    20.6       27.5       5.3      22.5    27.8        84.1       -
Subtotal                    6.4      25.5    31.9    95.8    127.7          26.1   104.1   130.2        391.0   521.2        75X
Total                        6.4    63.5      69.9    95.8    165.7         26.1   259.2   285.3        391.0   676.3
Source: DPW, mission estimates.



- 51 -                                  Table 23
CHAD
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Road Maintenance Recurrent Expenditures
Cash Flow
------CFAF M4illion---------        --------US$ '000----------
Item                                        1979    1980    1981    1982         1979    1980    1981    1982
A. Expenditures
l. Outside Project
a.  CILSS/'UNSO Brigade                       10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0         40.8    40.8    40.8    40.8
b.  FED Brigade                               26.8    13.4       -        -       109.4    54.7    -          -
c.  Paved road maintenance                    24.2    36.4    48.4    48.4         98.8   148.6   197.6   197.6
Subtotal                               61.0    59.8    58.4    58.4    249.0   244.1   238.4   238.4
d.  Quantity variation 5%                      3.0      3.0      2.9      2.9      12.2    12.2    11.8    11.8
e.  Price variation                            5.7      9.7    15.0    18.7        23.3    39.6    61.2    76.3
Subtotal 1                             69.7    72.5    76.3    80.0    284.5   295.9   311.4   326.5
2. Project Components
a.  Unpaved Road Maintenance /1             343.2   343.2   343.2   343.2  1,400.8 1,400.8 1,400.8 1,400.8
b.  Ferrylboat maintenance and operation  48.8    42.9    37.0    37.0    199.2   175.1   151.0   151.0
c.  Fuel taxes for training unit               7.4      7.4      7.4      7.4     30.2    30.2    30.2    30.2
d.  Cotton feeder roads                        4.7      4.7     -        -         19.2    19.2      -        -
Subtotal                              404.1   398.2   387.6   387.6  1,649.4 1,625.3 1,582.0 1,582.0
e.  Quantity variation (about 5%)             20.2    19.9    19.4    19.4        82.5    81.3    79.1    79.1
f.  Price variation                          54.8    76.8    98.6   122.4    223.7   313.5   402.4   499.6
Subtotal 2                           479.1   494.9   505.8   529.4  1,955.6 2,020.1 2,063.5 2,160.7
Total A                               548.8   567.4   581.9   609.4  2,240.1 2,316.0 2,374.9 2,487.2
B. Revenues
1.  Road Fund /2                              477.4   498.9   521.3   544.8  1,948.6 2,036.3 2,127.8 2,223.7
2.  Ministry Salaries /3                        56.9    58.6    60.4    62.2    232.2   239.2   246.5   253.9
Total B                               534.3   557.5   581.7   607.0  2,180.8 2,275.5 2,374.3 2,477.6
C. Balance (B-A)                               -14.5    -9.9    -0.2    -2.4    -59.3   -40.5    -0.6    -9.6
D. CumulatE!d balance                          -14.5   -24.4   -24.6   -27.0    -59.3   -99.8  -100.4  -110.0
/1   Excluding equipment depreciation and taxes other than tax on fuel.
/2   Based on CFAF 450 million estimated revenues in 1977, and the following annual growth: 2.5% in 1978,
3.5% in 1979, and 4.5% thereafter.
/3   Permanent labor.  Based on CFAF 53.64 million in 1977 and 3% annual increase thereafter.
Source: DPW, mission estimates.
August 1977



- 52 -
CHAD                                      Table 24
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
11
Vchicic    -tc.-u  casts  (CEAF/lO0  kmn) as a Function of Traffic and Road Surface Characteri.Tlr-
Gravel Road (Laterite Surface)                                       VOC Estimate
T            R             RD             LD             VL             CMS             CMR             CLR
0          3250           11.0           15.5           52264          96147           169780         211172
1          3332           11.2           11.1           52266          96152           169790         211185
5          3632           12.1            5.9           52322          96280           170039         211513
10          3944           13.0            2.9           52495          96677           170814         212536
15          4200           13.9            1.9           52784          97340           172107         214241
20          4410           14.7            1.6           53188          98267           173916         216628
30          4744           16.5            1.5           54343         100917           179086         223448
50          5400           22.4            1.5           58039         109397           195630         245272
80          7794           43.1            1.5           67048         130067           235956         298468
100         11450           70.0            1.5           75364         149147              -              -
2/
max. voc:      76000         150000           250000         300000
Earth Road (Sandy Clay Surface)                                      VOC Estimate
T            R             RD             LD             VL            CMSM5            CMR            CLR
0          3250           14.0           15.5S          50721          94560           165690         204287
1          4035           15.2           11.1           53813          99041           174092         216771
5          7175           20.0           10.0           64945         115666           205560         264572
10         11700           26.0           10.0           76132         133512           240080         319507
15         14000           32.0           10.0           84250         148100           269250         ;69092
20         14000           38.0           10.0           89311         159428           293076         378127
25         14000           50.0           10.0           91314         167498           511548         397212
30         14000           50.0           10.0           91500         172308           324669         406547
max. voc: -/  92000          175000           325000         410000
Earth Track                                                          VOC Estimate
T            R             RD             LD             VL             CMS             CMR            CLR
0          3250           14.0           15.5           50681          94212           165393         203632
1          4505           15.2           11.0           55755         101558           179219         224073
5          9525           20.0           10.0           72155         125814           225265         291067
10         14000           26.0           10.0           84391         145315           262877         343731
20         14000           32.0           10.0           88395         158510           293319         376250
30         14000           50.0           10.0           90410         169797           328719         409189
max. voc:      91000         170000           330000         410000
1/ Net of taxes, in January 1977 prices.
2/ Max VOC corresponds to an average speed of 10-15 km/hr.
LEGEND
T= cumulative traffic volume since last grading                    VL= light goads vehicle (2.5t)
in both directions (1000 vehs.)                               CMS= medium truck (13t)
E= roughness (mm/km)                                              CMR= medium tr-ck/trailer (29t)
RD= rot depth (mm)                                                 CLR= heavy truck/trailer (38t)
LD= depth of loose material (mm)
VOC= vehicle operating cost (CFAF11000 km)
Source: Mission estimates. 1977.



- 53                           Table 25
CHAD
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Breakdown of Cost Components for Shadow Pricing
Local Costs
Item                      Skilled Labor  Unskilled Labor  Other  Total  Foreign Costs
(%)               (%)        (%)    (%)         (%)
Vehicle Operating Costs          8                2           24      34         66
Recurrent Maintenance Costs
Regravelling                  13                1           28     42          58
Routine Maintenance           15                7           26     48          52
Workshop Buildings              10               10            5      25         75
Equipment                        -                -            7       7         93
Fuel                             -                -           15     15          85
Spare Parts                                       - -          7      7          93
Technical Assistance             -                -            7      7          93
Source:  Mission estimates.



- 54 -                             Table 26
CHAD
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Summary of Economic Evaluation and Sensitivity Analysis
Internal Rate of Return Cl)
Without Shadow    With Shadow
Prices             Prices
A.  Routine Maintenance - IRR = 75.0X;  B/C a 12% = 3.25
1. Effect of Reduced Maintenance Output
Network Maintained
5300 km!1                                                            74.1               75.0
3500 km                                                              63.0               63.8
1800 km                                                              26.6               27.4
2. Effect of Reduced Equipment Utilization
Economic Life of Equipment
8 yearsl/                                                             74.1              75.0
7 years                                                              73.0               74.0
5 years                                                              71.3               72.2
3. Effect of Cost Increase
Increase in Costs
5%                                                                    70.3              71.1
10%                                                                  66.9               67.5
15%                                                                  63.8               64.6
20%                                                                  60.8               61.6
4. Effect of Increase in Benefits
Increase in Benefits
5%                                                                   77.9               78.7
10%                                                                  81.8               82.6
B.  Regravelling - IRR = 16.7% B/C H 12% = 1.31
1. Effect of Reduction in Annual Output of Regravelling
Kilometers Regravelled per Year
100 ki-/                                                             17.2              16.7
80 km                                                                12.4              12.9
2. Effect of Increase in Cost of Regravelling
5%                                                                   16.1               15.9
10%                                                                  15.0               15.1
15%                                                                  14.0               13.8
20%                                                                  13,0               12.8
3. Effect of Increase in Benefits from Regravelling
Increase in Benefits
5%                                                                   18.4              17.7
10%                                                                  19.5               18.5
C. Road Maintenance and Training Programs Combined
IRR = 51.4%; B/C H 12% = 2.20
D. Ferries - IRR = 44.0%; B/C H 12% = 3.68
1. Effect of Decrease in Number of Ferries Constructed
No. of Ferries Constructed During Project Period
41/                                                                  43.4              44.0
3                                                                    36.0              36.6
2                                                                    31.3              31.8
2. Effect of Increase in Costs
Cost Increase
5%                                                                   41.7              42.3
10%                                                                  40.0              40.6
15%                                                                  38.5              39.1
20%                                                                  37.2              37.7
3. Effect of Increase in Benefits
Increase in Benefits
5%                                                                   45.3              45.9
10%                                                                  47,1              47.7
1/ As assumed under project.
Source: Mission estimates.



- 55 -
ANNEX I
CHAD
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Road Transport Industry
1.        Road transport industry is of vital importance to Chad's economy
due to the country's dependence on road transport for both internal and ex-
ternal transport functions. Beginning with the Bank Group's first transport
sector survey of Chad in 1969, considerable importance has been attached to
this industry, and in particular, the trucking subsector, leading to a diag-
nostic study of the road transport industry under the Second Highway Project
(Credit 490-CD).
A. Road Transport Demand
2.        The Chadian road transport demand consists of:
(i) international freight transport, comprising an annual ex-
port/import tonnage of about 253,000 tons of which imports
constitute nearly 75%. The portion of freight transport
carried by Chadian carriers is estimated at 160,000 tons
(63% of the total volume), corresponding to about 130 mil-
lion ton-km. Freight transport demand and its distribu-
tion by type of commodities are presented in Table I and
2; and
(ii) domestic freight transport of about 226,000 tons 1/ of
which cotton accounts for 146,000 tons (64%). The farm
to ginnery transport of cotton is effected exclusively
by COTONTCHAD; the remaining internal freight traffic
consists of about 80,000 tons distributed among the
principal commercial and administrative centers.
Estimates of local freight between small towns are
not available.
3.        There is no scheduled intercity bus transport in Chad.  Except
for a few vans and covered pickup trucks, freight trucks double as passenger
vehicles, carrying 5-10 passengers in addition to their normal load. Recent
statistics on demand for intercity passenger transport are not available,
but studies carried out in 1963 estimated intercity passenger transportation
demand at 190,000 passengers/year corresponding to about 74 million passenger-
kilometers.
4.        In 1976, Chadian transporters carried an estimated 130 million ton-
km of dry goods and about 55 million ton-km of petroleum products. Short-term
projections of the Chadian share of dry cargo transport indicate a demand of
1/   Estimated tonnage for 1976/77.



- 56 -
ANNEX I
about 150 million ton-km, excluding the farm-to-ginnery transport of seed
cotton. It is difficult to establish future transport demand for petroleum
products due to uncertainties concerning the construction of a mini refinery
in N'Djamena.
B. Road Transport Policy and Regulations
Road Transport 'olicy
5.        In October 1976, the Government granted exclusive rights to the
Cooperative des Transporteurs Tchadiens (CTT) for both international and
domestic public road transport (Ordonnance No. 027/CSM dated October 23,
1976). At its formation in 1958, the objective of CTT was to organize small
Chadian transporters under the umbrella of a cooperative that could offer
competition to Unitchadienne, a large foreign-owned transport company. Until
1972, CTT and Unitchadienne operated under a system of freight allocation
(applied to international transport only), that progressively favored CTT.
Such restrictive freight allocation practices eventually forced Unitchadienne
to cease its operations in Chad, and CTT assumed de facto control of inter-
national freight transport. Other factors contributing to the sole control
of international freight transport by CTT between 1972-77 were: (i) transit
agreements with Cameroon and Nigeria fixing Chad's share of international trade
through a quota system; and (ii) the monopolistic control of the Cameroonian
share of Chad's itransit traffic by the "Syndicat des Transporteurs", the
trucking industry cooperative in Cameroon.
6.        The Government's internal transport policy similarly appears to
encourage a controlled transport industry structure. A number of semi-public
and Government agencies have exclusive rights to transport functions related
to their activities. For instance, COTONTCHAD, the semi-Government cotton
processing and marketing agency, operates its own fleet of about 300 truck-
trailers with speCially-constructed frames, to transport seed cotton from
about 2100 purchase points to ginneries. Exclusivity of seed cotton trans-
port was granted to COTONTCHAD, as it was indicated that COTONTCHAD could
transport seed cotton, using its special trucks, at a cost 50% lower than
the rates charged by common carriers. Other agencies that operate their own
truck fleets are: Societe Nationale de Commercialisation du Tchad (SONACOT),
for collection and transport of gum arabic, onions and hibiscus flowers;
Direction de la Lutte Contre les Calamites Naturelles (DLCCN) which is respon-
sible for the distribution of essential supplies to regions affected by drought
and other calamities (e.g., the regions of Ouadai, Guera, Salamat and Batha);
and Fonds de Developpement et d'Assistance Rural (FDAR) for distribution of
food aid. Until October 1976, the remaining internal freight transport (about
60-80,000 tons/year) was free of direct control by CTT, although nearly all
independent transporters were members of CTT. As a few large transporters,
through individual contracts with petroleum companies and the brewery in
Moundou, were capturing a major part of the internal transport market, the
Government gave dejure control of all transport activities, external as well
as internal, to CTT. Ostensibly, this measure was designed to protect the
interests of the smaller members of CTT.



- 57 -
ANNEX I
The International Transit Agreements
7.        International arrangements governing Chad's transit trade are:
(i) With Cameroon: a transit agreement resulting in the award
of 65% of freight tonnage moved between N'Gaoundere and Chad
to Chadian transporters and 35% to Cameroonian trucks.
(ii) With Nigeria: a transit agreement, although already obsolete,
governs the allocation of freight between Chadian and Nigerian
transporters from Maiduguri to Chad as shown below:
(a)  General Merchandise - 85% of tonnage to Chadian
transporters
- 15% of tonnage to Nigerian
transporters
(b)  Fuel                 - 15% of tonnage to Chadian
transporters
- 85% of tonnage to Nigerian
transporters.
(iii) With CAE: there is no formal agreement between Chad and
CAE, concerning goods transit, although transport of cotton
exports and 85% of other goods is handled by Chadian trans-
porters.
Road Traffic Regulations
8.        The road regulations are defined by "Code de la Route" comprising
Loi No. 5 of February 9, 1971, Decrets 172/PR to 178/PR of September 16, 1971,
and Arretes 502/TP-INT to 508/TP-M of October 12, 1971. Concerning vehicle
operations, the "Code de la Route" prescribes the following traffic regula-
tions: (i) maximum speed, 60 km/h; (ii) maximum permissible payload on two
axle vehicles, 19 tons; on three or more axle vehicles, 26 tons; and on semi-
trailers and truck-trailer units, 38 tons; (iii) maximum axle load, 13 tons;
and (iv) load distribution, a maximum of 5 tons/m between the two extreme
axles. In addition, the movement of heavy vehicles on unpaved all-weather
roads is forbidden during, and for a few hours after, a heavy rain.
9.        The enforcement of traffic regulations, other than vehicle and
driver licensing and vehicle inspection, is lax. The weight regulations,
however, could not be enforced as scales for weighing axles were not avail-
able. Mandatory road closures during and after heavy rains are enforced by
DPW wherever road barriers are available. The main reason for absence of
enforcement is lack of adequate funds and trained personnel.



- 58 -
ANNEX I
C. The Truck Fleet
Characteristics
9.        The exact size and age of the commercial vehicle fleet in Chad can-
not be assessed accurately as vehicle statistics are not managed effectively
and different sources give conflicting data. The vehicle fleet of CTT is
estimatsd at 663 vehicles with a total capacity of 10,723 tons (trucks) and
1,476 m (tankers). The distribution of the CTT fleet by vehicle type is shown
below:
Light Trucks      Heavy Trucks      Tankers
(5-15 t)          (20-30 t)    (9,5-30 mn)
Vehicle Fleet           252                356                55
Payload               1,913 tons        8,810 tons         1,476 m3
Other than the 100 Fiat trucks and other vehicles purchased during 1974-75,
the average age of the fleet is estimated to be about 7 years. There is a
serious discrepancy between the size of the truck fleet given in Government
statistics and that obtained frQm truck ownership statistics of various
agencies. In view of the unreliability of Government vehicle fleet statis-
tics, additional effort is needed to establish these data on a sound basis.
Maintenance
9.        The truck fleet is maintained by vehicle dealers, some CTT members
who operate private repair facilities, and the semi-public and government
agencies that operate their own vehicle fleets. There are presently three
private garages in N'Djamena. In addition, mechanics in the "quartier", using
improvised facilities, provide inexpensive repair services, and as such, play
an important role in maintaining the vehicle fleet. The repair and after-
sales services at the private garages, which are the major suppliers of
vehicle repair facilities, are effective and reliable, but expensive. The
elevated cost of spare parts has contributed to exorbitant vehicle maintenance
costs, which lead to prolonged immobilization of a part of the vehicle fleet.
Financing of Trucks
10.       With few exceptions, purchase of trucks is financed through credit
facilities provided by commercial banks and truck dealerships. Normally, the
buyers makes an initial deposit equal to 25% of the purchase price. The re-
maining amount is financed either by bank loans at an interest rate of 12%
repayable in 3 years, or by credit provided by truck dealers at an interest
rate of 18%, repayable in 12 installments spread over a period of 18 months
(covering two seasons of transport activities). Commercial banks are gen-
erally reluctant to lend to transporters that do not have financially sound



- 59 -
ANNEX I
operations; accordingly, trucks are purchased mainly through credit arrange-
ments with dealers. In 1974-75, however, the Government provided credit
guarantees and permitted the entry of 100 Fiat carriers (60 tractor-trailers,
25 semi-trailers, and 15 semi-tankers) free of import duties for sale to CTT
at concessionary terms.
Truck Fleet Utilization
11.       The physical condition of the road network and climatic conditions
adversely affect the utilization of the truck fleet. Light trucks (5-10 t
capacity) are used for short to medium haul operations. Heavy trucks and
tankers (25 t capacity) operate primarily on international routes, and when
equipped with special tires for long-haul operations on domestic routes, e.g.,
N'Djamena-Abeche or N'Djamena-Sarh. Road transport operations are mainly
confined to the dry season (from October to May), with 80% of the annual
traffic movements occurring in this season. During the rainy season (June
to October), the international traffic, except for fuel imports, is substan-
tially reduced. With respect to domestic transport, there is no direct road
link between N'Djamena and southern Chad during the rainy season; the only
available route is via Figuil in Cameroon.
D.   The Cooperative des Transporteurs Tchadiens (CTT)
Organization
12.       Membership - As of March 1977, CTT had a roster of 826 members
of whom 350 were classified as active members. The majority of the active
members (about 65%) have a one-truck operation; only 7% of the transporters
operate fleets of 5 or more vehicles (Table 3).
13.       Management - The principal management personnel are the President,
the Director-General, the Assistant Director and a Technical Advisor (see
Exhibit I). Although the chief executive officer of CTT is the Director-
General, who is nominated by the Government and acts under the authority of
the Ministry of Economy, Plan and Transport, the actual management of the
organization is in the hands of the President, who is closely assisted by the
Assistant Director and the Technical Advisor.
14.       Functional Organization - The headquarters of CTT are located in
N'Djamena. In addition, CTT operates branch offices of N'Gaoundere, Bangui,
Garoua, Moundou and Sarh, and has a representative in Maiduguri. CTT opera-
tions at the headquarters consist of (see Exhibit I):
(i) Operations Service, which comprises the centralization of
freight demand and distribution of freight to transporters.
(ii) Accounting and Invoicing Services, which provide billing
facilities and process payments made to CTT. These ser-
vices are also used to determine the transporter's share
of the payments received from clients.
(iii) Computing Services, for preparation of accounts and finan-
cial statements of the co-operative members.



- 60 -
ANNEX I
(iv) Operation Fiat, to oversee the use of Fiat trucks purchased
under credit guarantees provided by the Government and to
ensure the reimbursement of credit guaranteed by the Gov-
ernment.
CTT's operational staff consists of 66 employees; of these 44 are stationed
in N'Djamena.
Operations
15.       Membership Requirements and Capital - Membership in CTT is contin-
gent upon the ownership of at least one truck and the payment of CFAF 10,000
per ton of vehicle payload. This sum is considered as capital subscription.
However, a CTT member in financial difficulties can borrow from CTT (appar-
ently without interest), an amount up to 75% of his initial subscription.
CTT's capital, as of February 1977, was CFAF 165,158,000. The magnitude of
CTT's capital assets fluctuates over time depending upon the amount of funds
transferred to members in financial need, and the level of membership.
16.       The Operational System - The shippers, either directly or through
agents (commission agents for domestic freight; freight forwarding agents for
international freight) inform CTT of their freight transport requirements.
Then CTT's operation service, under the direct control of the President and
the technical adviser, assigns freight to one or more transporters. Each
transport contract: is made under a voucher which indicates the characteristics
of the freight, the origin and the destination, and the tariff charged. The
transport contract is completed when the transporter presents to CTT a confir-
mation of the delivery of the merchandise, signed by the consignee. At this
time, CTT processes the payment for the transport services provided. After
deducting the advance made for the purchase of fuel, the 4.4% turnover tax,
freight insurance and a 10% commission, the accounting service pays the
balance to the transporter. At the end of each month, the accounting service
prepares a statement of all financial transactions. This financial statement
permits the identification of active transporters. The 10% commission is
charged by CTT for the services it provides in centralizing and processing
freight shipments. In case of a directly contracted shipment between CTT and
the shipper, the commission is retained by CTT. This applies to almost all
of the international freight and the major portion of domestic freight trans-
port. Where a commission agent serves as the intermediary between CTT and
the shippers, the 10% commission is divided equally between CTT and the com-
mission agent. A small portion of internal freight transport (in 1975, less
than 10% of total CTT operations), falls outside the purview of CTT. This
happens because a number of commission agents do not convey all the freight
orders to CTT; instead, they privately negotiate a more favorable rate with
individual transporters, especially for transport on relatively difficult and
insecure routes, e.g., to Abeche or Farcha. The truck operators also contri-
bute to illegal transport activities by overloading trucks with clandestine
freight or by carrying passengers when returning empty at the completion of
freight assignment. Para-CTT transport activities, however, appear to have



- 61 -
ANNEX I
decreased since CTT assumed exclusive control of public transport in Chad in
1976. CTT revenues increased from CFAF 1.2 billion in 1975 to about CFAF 2.0
billion in 1976. The ordinance granting exclusive transport rights to CTT
provides CTT with policing functions to control unauthorized transport ac-
tivity. Small freight shipments on domestic routes, however, are not moni-
tored by CTT. Despite the penalties (6 months to 3 years in jail and/or
fine of CFAF 50,000 to CFAF 5 million) for illegal movement of freight, it
remains difficult for CTT to enforce this regulation.
17.       Freight forwarding agents, who also serve as assessors and collec-
tors for the Chadian Customs Service, play a key role in Chad's international
commerce. The various functions performed by freight forwarding agencies are
clearance of Chadian goods at the port, inter-model trans-shipment of freight
(such as from rail to road at N'Gaoundere), and clearance of goods at Chadian
customs. In most cases, international transport shipments are contracted
between CTT and the freight forwarding agents on behalf of their clients.
Freight Allocation
18.       CTT's Operations Service (Service d'Exploitation) is charged with
freight allocation. When requests for shipment (normally large international
and domestic transport contracts) are received by this service, these are
allocated according to the availability of truckers, as recorded on a first-
come first-serve basis. Some transporters complain that freight is not
impartially distributed, but this is contradicted by CTT's management.
As the existing freight allocation arrangment under CTT does not provide
either a systematic basis for identifying freight transport demand or the
means of achieving a balance between transport demand and existing trucking
capacity, there is a need to improve the operational efficiency of CTT.
Fiscal Performance
19.       Each fiscal year (September 1 to August 31) CTT prepares an in-
ventory of membership and the operational truck fleet, a profit and loss
statemerLt, and a balance sheet. Since the last three years, the financial
statements have been prepared by a professional accountant. After interest
payments and a 30% deduction for the legal reserve, the net profits from
each year's operation are either distributed to the members in accordance
with the volume of business generated by them or deposited in the surplus
account. The 10% commission charged by CTT is estimated at about CFAF 200
million (10% of gross revenues) for 1975-76, while its operational expendi-
tures, including debt repayment, payment to commission agents, and reimburse-
ments for loss of merchandise, is estimated at CFAF 109 million.
Bankruptcies
20.       It is suspected that bankruptcies are common especially among
transporters owning 1 or 2 trucks. Of CTT's 826 registered members, only
350 were active during 1975-76. Although a number of CTT members are only
temporarily inactive due to lack of working capital or vehicle breakdown, a



- 62 -
ANNEX I
majority of inactive members have either suffered bankruptcies or sold their
businesses to members with more profitable operations. Except by voluntary
resignation, a CTT members is rarely removed from the membership roster.
E.  Economic Characteristics
Tariffs
21.       Transport tariffs were established by official decree (Decret 327/
PR/TPT/DT) for different routes in December 1974 (Table 5), and have not been
revised since that time. Some freight categories have special tariff struc-
tures such as transport of material for the army, transport for exploration
of petroleum, and tranport of beer from the brewery at Moundou to N'Djamena.
On international routes, with the exception of Nigerian routes, the tariffs
lie between CFAF 10-22 peS ton-km for dry goods. Tariffs for fuel traisport
vary from CFAF 11.7 per m -km (Lagos-N'Djamena route) to CFAF 20 per m -km
(Maiduguri-N'D-lamena route) depending upon length of haul. The tariffs on
domestic routes are of the same order of magnitude as on international routes
(CFAF 10-22 per ton-km). On difficult routes such as tracks in the Sahel
zone, tariffs vary between 25-66 per ton-km. The tariffs for the Maiduguri-
N'Djamena route' (Nigeria) do not conform to the general tariff structure; the
official rates for general merchandise and sugar on this route are CFAF 38.4
per ton-km and CFAF 31.2 per ton-km respectively, compared to CFAF 18 per
ton-km for general merchandise and CFAF 13.5 per ton-km for sugar on the
N'Gaoundere-N'Djamena route. The higher rates on the Nigerian route reflect
the higher transport costs associated with the use of smaller trucks (5-10
ton capacity) and are indirectly designed to protect the interests of small
operators. If light trucks were replaced on this route by larger capacity
carriers, a large part of CTT's membership would be out of business. The
Government and CTT, however, appear to endorse the preservation of these
smaller operators on social grounds, as most of the operators on this route
own one or two old vehicles that serve as their only source of income.
22.       Most transporters consider the official tariffs on international
routes and major domestic routes as too low; this is particularly true for
subsidized items such as flour for which the transport tariffs are about 30%
lower than for other commodities. Contrary to the widely held impression
that the transport tariffs are high in Chad, road transport tariffs in Chad
are of the same order of magnitude as in Upper Volta and Niger where the
range of international transport rates varies from CFAF 15-23 per ton-km
(1975 figures). On the average, the Chadian tariffs are lower than the
transport rates used in northern Cameroon by the Cameroonian Syndicat des
Transporteurs. The transport tariffs used by the Syndicat since December 15,
1976 vary from CFAF 19-25 per ton-km (see Table 4).



- 63 -
ANNEX I
Financial Transport Costs
23.       Average transport costs, in early 1977 prices, are summarized as
follows:
Average Financial Transport Cost (CFAF/ton-km)
International   Domestic        Tracks in
route          route      Sahelian Zone
(i) Dry Goods
Average Annual Kilometrage    40000  60000  30000  50000  20000  40000
Truck 12 t Payload
Load factor - 65%                 28      26      31     28      43     38
- 55%                33      30      36     33      48     43
Truck-Trailer 26 t Payload
Load Factor - 65%                 17      16      21     19       -      -
- 55%                20      19     25      22
(ii) Fuel
Annual Kilometrage                  70,000          80,000         90,000
Tanker - 30 m  (50% Load Factor)    14                13.5           13
Comparison of Transport Costs with Tariffs
24.       Except for the tariffs on the Maiduguri-N'Djamena route, the exist-
ing road transport tariffs are lower than transport costs (in some cases as
much as 20-25%). Accordingly, there is some justification for the upward
adjustment of tariffs to adequately reflect transport costs. The primary
factor contributing to high transport costs is the low rate of truck utiliza-
tion. If the load factor were to increase to 75-90%, the resulting transport
costs would be within the range of the existing tariffs. Similarly, an in-
crease in average annual haul distances would help to lower transport costs.
However, owing to the structural imbalance between exports and imports, which
is further magnified because a large proportion of imports (55%) are destined
to N'Djamena while most exports (over 90%) originate in the south, it is
unlikely that vehicle utilization can be improved much above a 60-65% load
factor in the near future, although there is scope for increasing annual haul
distarLces through better control of truck supply.
Trucking Capacity
25.       The available trucking caeacity considering only the CTT fleet
(10,723 tons for trucks, and 1,476m for tankers, see para. 9 ), is estimated
to be:



- 64-
ANNEX I
Truck Capacity
(million ton-km)
(i) Dry Goods Transport /1
Annual Kilometrage                 40,000                  60,000
Load Factor - 55%                      236 /2                  322
- 65%                     279                    418
Tanker Capacity
(million ton-km)
(ii) Fuel Transport
Annual Kilometrage              50,000      80,000      90,000      100,000
Load Factor - 50%                   30 /3       48          54           60
3
(Im = 0.81 tons of fuel)
/1   Includes domestic transport of fuel in barrels or containers.
/2   10,723 x 40,000 x 0.55 = 236 million ton-km.
/3   1,476 x 50,000 x 0.50 x .81 = 30 million ton-km.
26.       Transport demand available for exploitation by Chadian transporters
consists of: 85 million ton-km of dry goods transport and 55 million ton-km
of fuel transport on international routes; and 45 million ton-km of dry goods
transport (including fuel in barrels) on domestic routes; that is, about 130
million ton-km of dry goods transport and 55 million ton-km of fuel transport.
27.       A comparative analysis of available transport capacity with trans-
port demand is given below:
Excess Capacity
(percent)
Dry Goods
Annual Kilometrage                  40,000                60,000
Load Factor = 55%                        82% /1              148%
= 65%                      115%                 222%
Fuel
Annual Kilometraget            50,000 /2   80,000        90,000      100,000 /3
Load Factor = 50%                 -45% /4      -15%          -2%            9%
/1   (236-130)/130 = 0.82
/2   Equal to 12 round trips between N'Djamena and Lagos per year (1/month).
/3   Equal to 24 round trips between N'Djamena and Lagos per year (2/month).
/4   (30-55)/55 - 0.45



- 65 -
ANNEX I
28.       At the existing rate of truck utilization (40,000 km/year, and
a load factor of 0.55), there is an excess capacity of 80% for dry goods
transport. For fuel transport, an undercapacity in the range of 15-45% is
indicated with utilization of tankers varying from 50,000 to 80,000 km/year.
With improved scheduling and better coordination of transport with suppliers
in Nigeria, the existing tanker fleet could cater for the present demand
for fuel transport. The load factor for oil tankers, however, will continue
to remain 50% as long as Chad remains an importer of fuel. The foregoing
analysis shows that, at the current levels of transport fleet utilization,
the supply of fuel tankers would have to be increased, and future import
of trucks curtailed in order to strike a closer balance between transport
demand and supply. The excess transport capacity, however, is not a source
of serious concern considering the average size and poor maintenance of the
transport fleet.
Influence of Transport Costs on Consumer Prices
29.       The variation in the price structure of a number of commodities
from CIF Price, port of entry to retail price in N'Djamena is traced in
Table 5, as a function of international transit routes. The average cost of
transport per ton between Douala and N'Djamena is about CFAF34,000. Except
for sugar and flour, actual transport costs account for at most 20% of the
difference in CIF and retail prices. In fact, elevated import duties, dis-
tribution costs and markups are the primary contributors to high import
prices in Chad. Therefore, it appears unlikely that a reduction in transport
costs by itself will have an appreciable effect on lowering final consumer
prices in Chad, as long as taxes and distribution costs continue to account
for the major portion of intermediary costs. On the other hand, an increase
in transport costs would tend to be accompanied by corresponding increases
in transport tariffs and distribution costs, which, in turn, would have an
inflationary impact on consumer prices.
User Charges
30.       Total road user charges during 1973-75 averaged about CFAF 1.2
billion. The share contributed by road transport industry is estimated at
50-60% of the revenues. Custom duties and taxes on new trucks are about
40-60% of CIF price, while taxes and duties on spare parts are 60%. The
relatively higher price of spare parts makes the cost of vehicle maintenance
prohibitive, and consequently, results in prolonged immobilization of a
significant part of the vehicle fleet.



ANNEX I
- 66 -                     Table I
CHAD
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Estimated Demand for Freight Transport
1976-77
International Freight
Transit Route                Imports other         Exports            Total
than Petroleum          (tons)       Exports & Imports
(tons)                                (tons)
Nigeria                        15,000               2,000           17,000
Cameroon
- via N'Gaoundere            50,000              37,000           87,000
- via Benoue & others        36,000               8,000           44,000
CAE                            14,000              14,000           28,000
Other Overland Rouates          5,500                 500            6,000
Subtotal   121,000              61,5001'        182,000
Petroleum Imports (tons)
Nigeria                            65,000                           65,000
Other Routes                        5,000                            5,000
Subtotal         70,000                Total     252,000
---------------------------------------------------------------__------------__-------
Ddmestic Freight
Tonnage
N'Djamena - East and North                                          21,000
N'Djamena - South
- Beer                                                          20,000
- Other Merchanclize                                            20,000
Sarh - Moundou                                                     20,000
Farm to Ginnery Transport of Cotton                               145,000
Total      226,000
1/ Cotton exports account for about 54,000 tors.
Source: - SEDES,'"ia nostique Sur l'Industrie de Transport Routiere au Tchad"', 1977.
- Mission estimates.



ANNEX I
- 67 -                         Table 2
CHAD
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Distribution of International Freight Transport Demand by Type of Commodity
1976-77
Tonnage (tons/year)
1. Imports
Petroleum products                                         70,000
Agricultural related products
Sugar                                                25,000
Cement                                               15,000
Fertilizer and Insecticide                           16,000
Timber                                                7,500
Wheat Flour                                          10,000
Food Products                                        20,000
Equipment                                                  3,500
Miscellaneous                                             24,000
2.  Exports
Cotton                                                    54,000
Others                                                     7,450
TOTAL       252,450
Source: SEDES, 1977



- 68 -
ANNEX I
Table 3
CHAD
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
CTT - Distribution of Truck Ownership
Truck Ownership                Number of Transporters               %
(Number)
1                                  227                      64.85
2                                   63                      14.99
3                                   27                       7.70
4                                    7                       2.00
5                                   10                       2.90
6                                    5                       1.40
7                                    6                       1.70
8                                    1                       0.28
9                                    1                       0.28
10 and more                              3                       0.84
350                       100
Source: ORGATEC, "Evaluation de l'Industrie des Transports Routiers
au Tchad", 1977.



ANNEX I
-69-                           Table 4
CHAD
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Principal Road Transport Tariffs
(Excluding 4.4% Taxe de Chiffre d'Affaire)
A. INTERNATIONAL ROUTES
1. Dry Goods
---------------Tariff (CFAF/ton-km) -----------
Routes
Cameroonian    Transequatorial1/   Nigerian
Item                   (To N'Gaoundere)  (To Bangui)        (To Maiduguri)
Sugar                           13.5           14.0-20.0               31.2
Cotton                          17.0             16.53                 15.87
Metal Sheets (+7m)              19.0           16.6-21.4               38.4
Flour                           13.5           12.3-15.9               27.4
Cement                          13.5           14.1-18.2               38.4
Other Merchandise               18.0           14.8-19.1               38.4
2. Fuel
Routes                                 Tariff (CFAF/m3 -km)
Nigerian Route
- From Lagos                                    11.76
- From Kano                                     13.95
- From Maiduguri                                20.00
Transequatorial Route                           17.0-19.3
B. DOMESTIC ROUTES
-----------------Tariff (CFAF/ton-km)-------------
Item                      N'Dlamena to:                Tracks in Sahelian
Sarh    Moundou    Abeche               Zone
Cement                   13.8       13.2      20.6
Flour                    10.8       10.1      17.5
Metal Sheets             14.7       14.1      23.8                25-46
Other Merchandise        14.7       14.1      19.0         J
FueL/                  3/ 16.1      16.1      20.7                  -
Transport for the Army-   20          20        30                30-66
Transport for Petro-
leum Exploitation      19.5      19.5         -                 55
Beer3/                     -        12.4        -
C. COMPARATIVE ROAD TRANSPORT TARIFFS IN CAMEROON
(From N'Gaoundert to North Cameroon, Chad, and CAE)
Item                                ---Tariff (CFAF/ton-km)---
Metal Sheets                                      25.0
Rice, Flour, Sugar, Malt, Cement                  20.0
Fertilizer                                        19.0
Cotton                                            20.0
Other Merchandise-                                24.0
1/ Tariff variable depending upon point of origin or destination in Chad.
2/ Price in CFAF/m3-km.
3/ Tariffs obtained under special contract.
Source: - Chad, "Decret No. 327/PR/TPT/DT", December 4, 1974
- SEDES, 1977



CHAD
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Intermediary Costs Between CIF Price, Pbrt of Entry, and Retail Price in N'Djamena
(CFAF/ton in 1974 Prices)
I    te rn                 C I F   P ri c e ,  P o r t  H an d l i ng                      D i s t r i b u t i o n
ItemCIF Price,  Port   Handling & . Transport   Duties and    Costs and      Retail Price
Port of      Charges  Storage Cost    Costs          Taxes       CoIrercal
Entry                  at the Port                                 Mark-uc
Reinforcing Steel
- Cameroonian Route                        70,000        175         9,805       19,600       42,504          49,090         191,174
- Nigerian Route                           70,000        140        11,675       15,590       41,348          47,939         186,692
- Transequatorial Route                    70,000        590        10,346       25,515       42,133          51,335         199,919
Corrugated Metal Sheets
- Cameroonian Route                       104,800        175        10,260       19,600       64,361         123,501         322,607
- Nigerian Route                          104,800        140        12,130       15,590       63,205         121,436         317,301
- Transequatorial Route                   104,800        590        10,741       26,110       63,998         127,868         334,107
Tea
- Cameroonian Route                       170,000        523        17,995       27,183      182,840         105,613         504,154   1
- Nigerian Route                          170,000        172        12,580       23,628      180,557         102,538         480,475   -
- Transequatorial Route                   170,000        972        17,387       38,364      181,750         108,248         516,721   0
Sugar                                                                                                                                  1/
- Cameroonian Route                       100,000        125         5,800       19,945         1,597           -            127,467
- Nigerian Route                          100,000        140         7,870       15,690           431           -            194,131
- Transequatorial Route                   100,000        690         8,470       25,925         1,102           -            136,187
Flour
- Cameroonian Route                        68,000        125         6,235       18,700         1,622         19,883         114,565
- Nigerian Route                           68,000        140         8,673       13,290           461         19,018         109,582
- Transequatorial Route                    68,000        490         6,001       20,200           959         20,086         115,736
Tires less than 15 kg
- Cameroonian Route                         2,835                       740                     1,985          1,410            6,970
(Douala-N'Djamena by Air)
Light Truck 
- Cameroonian Route                     1,138,600      1,128         32,169     106,500       568,000        398,815       2,245,437  >|
Heavy Trucks - 12 t Payload
- Cameroonian Route                     4,290,700      2,958        62,510      175,000   1,590,986        1,690,283       7,812,437
1/ Wholesale price to factory.
Source: SEDES, 1977.



- 71 -
ANNEX I
Exhibit I
CHAD
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
CTT - ORGANIGRAMME
PRESIDENT
MINISTRY OF ECONOMY,
______-                 PLAN & TRANSPORT
DIRECTORATE OF TRANSPORT
TECHNICAL~~~~~~~~~ CHARTERED|
ADVISER  |                                                  ACCOUNTANT|
_   |    X                      ~~~~~~~~DIRECTOR
OPERATION                                 G
FIAT
l                  _                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~SECR ETAR IAT
U
ANT
| _ _    _ _ __ _ | DIRECTOR
I~~~~~~~
_V             NNPERSONNE71
SERVICE
OPERATIONS           ACCOU NTS  |INVOICING                    COMPUTING
SERVICE             SERVICE              SERVICE              SERVICE
AGENCY              AGENCY               AGENCY
(ABECHE)        | (SARH)                 MOUNDOU)
REPRESENTA-          EXTERNAL             EXTERNAL             EXTERNAL
^    TIVE    |  |   AGENCY              AGENCY              AGENCY
(MAI UGURI)          (GAROUA)          (NGAOUNDERE)            (BANGUI)
World Bank - 18583



- 72 -
ANNEX II
CHAD
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Technical Assistance for a Training Program
Outline Terms of Refernce
Objectives
1.        The ob.jectives of the technical assistance for the training program
are:
(a) continuation and strengthening of training of mechanics
and other technical staff in the brigades and regional
workshops;
(b) implementation of training and seminars for road sector
chiefs and other skilled personnel required for the
road maintenance brigades;
(c) management, administration and oupervision of:
(i)  a training-production brigade for regravelling; and
(ii) the training center; apd
(d) assistance to DPW in recruiting additional skilled staff
needed to execute the road maintenance program.
Team Composition
2.        A team of six technical experts will be assigned to DPW.  Tentative
composition of the team and the length of each expert's assignment is summar-
ized below:
Expert                                              Man-months
(a)  mechanical or highway engineer (chief of mission)            45
(b)  road maintenance and construction expert                     40
(c) heavy equipment mechanic for gasoline and diesel-
powered machinery                                            45
(d)  expert in equipment operator training                        40
(e)  brigade chief                                                40
(f)  expert in technical/administrative training                   20
TOTAL       230



- 73 -
ANNEX II
The team's exact composition and detailed schedule of activities will be
defined in agreement with DPW so that the training program under the Second
Highway Project will not be delayed or interrupted.
Qualifications and Duties
3.        Each expert should have:
(a) fluency in spoken and written French;
(b) training experience in his field in order to facilitate
professional and technical instruction;
(c) work experience in a developing country; and
(d) education commensurate with the position to be occupied.
Particular qualifications and functions of the team members are described
below:
(1) Chief of Mission
4.        The Chief of Mission should be a mechanical engineer (or senior
technician) with experience in operation and maintenance of road equipment,
or a civil engineer (or senior technician) with experience in road construc-
tion and maintenance. He should have at least (a) ten years' experience in
road administration, construction and maintenance, as well as in budget mat-
ters and cost price accounting; (b) five years' experience in a managerial
position in Africa; and (c) five years' experience in technical and profes-
sional training, preferably in on-the-job training. Experience in adminis-
tration and financial management of a construction firm and/or in manpower
planning and personnel management is desirable. His duties will include:
(i) coordinating all mission activities and maintaining
liaison with DPW officials;
(ii) preparing and implementing the training program in
conjunction with DPW;
(iii) preparing professional ability tests to be used as a
basis for recruiting personnel, and recommending the
personnel to be recruited; and
(iv) preparing a road maintenance manual.
(2) Road Maintenance and Construction Expert
5.        He should be a civil technician or road works foreman with at
least five years' experience. In particular, he should have extensive
knowledge of and experience in (a) construction and maintenance equipment,
(b) use of heavy equipment, (c) various elements of road construction, and
(d) soils engineering. He should:



ANNEX II
(i) train the work-site chiefs;
(ii) assist in training equipment inspectors and operators;
and
(iii) provide practical, on-site training to sector chiefs.
(3) Heavy Equipment Mechanic
6.        He sihould have at least eight years' professional experience in the
use of heavy equipment for public works. His qualifications are as follows:
(a) specialization in both diesel and gasoline engines; (b) experience in
operation and imaintenance of equipment used in maintenance work; (c) knowledge
of vehicle electrical systems; and (d) basic knowledge of general mechanics.
His task will lbe to:
(i)  train and give refresher courses to diesel- and
gasoline-engine mechanics;
(ii)  train and give refresher courses to mechanics,
mechanic-helper/greasers for workshops and
mechanized road units;
(iii)  train spare parts storemen; and
(iv)  assist in training equipment inspectors.
(4) Expert in Equipment Operator Training
7.        This expert should have at least three years' experience in train-
ing equipment operators. He should be familiar with the major types of heavy
equipment currently used in road construction and maintenance. He will:
(i)  train and give refresher courses to operators of
varicius types of road machinery; and
(ii)  supervise the mechanics and greasers assigned to
worksites.
(5) Brigade Chief
8.        He should have at least eight years' experience in the use of public
works equipment and for periodic maintenance and road construction in general.
His duties will be the following:
(i)  organizing the training production brigade for
regravelling, in collaboration with the Chief of
Mission and DPW;
(ii)  preparing the manpower and functional organiza-
tion of the training brigade;



- 75 -
ANNEX II
(iii) assisting DPW in preparing the training brigade's
annual work program;
(iv) supervising the road maintenance work performed by
the training brigade; and
(v) ensuring the training of DPW personnel in the above
works and that of Chadian counterparts who will then
be able to assume responsibility for the training
brigade and any other brigades which might be formed.
(6) Expert in Technical/Administrative Training
9.        This expert should be a road technician with at least ten years
of experience in the organization, management and administration of road
maintenance. In particular, he should have good knowledge of working con-
ditions in developing countries. He will have the following tasks:
(i) implementing the training and/or refresher
courses given to the road sector chiefs in
the areas of (a) modern techniques of light
maintenance of earth roads (cantonnage) and
operations to preserve the road surface, (b)
basic soil mechanics, (c) preparation of annual
light maintenance programs for earth roads, (d)
principles of accounting; and
(ii) assisting the chief of mission in all matters
related to technical and administrative training.



CHAD
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Proposed Ferryboat (Plan)
ENGINE
CASING
ENGINE                                                                                 /
12.40           BARG                                12.40
BARGE ARRANGEMENT                                                                             I 
SCALE 1:125                                                                                                                  |        >4
'-4
1-3
Worldi Bank - 18847



CHAD
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Porposed Ferryboat with Truck (Profile)
LONG - VEHICLE TRANSPORT - (PROFILE)
SCALE 1:125                                                                                                                     |   4
Hl  H
World Bank -18848



- 78 -
ANNEX IV
Plan of Action
A.   Road Maintenance Program
The Government agreed on:
(l)  maintenance standards to be used in routine maintenance
operations;
(ii) the core network of about 4,000 km to be maintained annually;
(iii)  sending to the Association, before October 31 of each project
year, the following information on the maintenance program
for the subsequent fiscal year: (i) the list of minor tracks
(about 1,300 km), other than the core network, and (ii) the
proposed roads to be regravelled, with relevant traffic
volume estimates.
B.   Training Program
The Government agreed to:
(i)  provide a daily allowance during the training period, in
addition to the normal salary paid by DPW, and cash prizes
for outstanding trainees, up to about 12% of estimated
recurrent cost of the training program, to serve as incen-
tives to recruit potential new candidates and attract
in-service DPW personnel from the distant subdivisions to
participate in the program;
(ii) prepare and send to the Association for approval, a detailed
curriculum by December 31, 1978;
(iii)  assess, in consultation with the Association, by December 31,
1979, future training requirements; and
(iv) give first priority to the road maintenance program in
assigning personnel trained under the project.
C.   Fellowships
The Government agreed that each candidate for fellowship would be:
(a) required to sign a commitment to serve for at least five years after his
return in the DPW Department or Service for which the fellowship is granted;
(b) considered in full service while on fellowship; (c) approved by the
Association, following submission by the Government to the Association of
his name, background and other information needed for fellowship award.



- 79 -
ANNEX IV
D.   Project Monitoring
For the purpose of project monitoring, the Government agreed to
designate a project coordinate who would:
(i)  liaise with the Association on matters relating to the
progress of the project;
(ii)  prepare and send quarterly progress reports to the
Association in a format to be agreed between the
Government and the Association; and
(iii) prepare a final project completion report.
E.   Project Recurrent Costs
The Government agreed to:
I(i) establish and maintain adequate accounting procedures to
record revenues to, and expenditures from the Road Fund
Account;
(ii)  earmark to the Road Fund and deposit in the separate
Road Fund account the amounts collected from fuel
taxes and ferryboat tolls;
(iii) establish in DPW's accounting office a sub-acccount
to allocate to the project all Road Fund revenues except
13%, or any other percentage to be agreed periodically
between the Association and the Government, required for
other road-related expenditures outside the project;
(iv)  maintain records adequate to record single and cumu-
lative expenditures for the project components it
would finance;
(v)  send to the Association not later than July 31 and January 31
of each project year, a summary statement as of June 30 and
December 31, of (a) total revenues to the Road Fund; and
(b) expenditures incurred or committed for the project
by category of disbursements;
(vi)  review in consultation with the Association not later than
December 31, 1979 (a) the amount of road funds required for
project recurrent costs over the remaining project period
and (b) the feasibility of increasing Road Fund revenues
to fully cover recurrent maintenance expenditures including
equipment depreciation.



- 80 -
ANNEX V
CHAD
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Technical Assistance for Strengthening
Equipment Maintenance Operations
of the Directorate of Public Works
Outline Terms of Reference
Oblectives
1.        The objectives of the technical assistance are the following:
(a) to establish the new Equipment Inspection Office (EIO) and
Procurement Office (PO);
(b) to convert subdivision workshops into equipment centers;
(c) to assist DPW in (i) purchasing road equipment and all other
equipment or tools related to the use and maintenance of
road equipment; (ii) supervision of construction works
and improvement of Buildings; and (iii) setting up tools
and equipment;
(d) to train on the job, management personnel and, in general,
staff required for the offices mentioned in (a) and (b)
above; and
(e) to establish a cost accounting system for equipment.
Composition of the Team
2.        A team of six technical assistance experts will be assigned to DPW.
The composition of the team and the estimated length of service of each expert
can be summarized as follows:
Expert                                           Man months
a. for EIO: one mechanical engineer (or senior
technician), Chief of Mission                                30
b.  for PO:  one senior mechanical technician                    30
c. for Subdivision workshops: four mechanics
(30 man months each)                                        120
180



- 81 -
ANNEX V
The exact composition and schedule of activities of the team will be defined
in agreement with DPW so as to best meet the objectives of strengthening DPW.
Qualifications and Functions
3.        Each expert should:  (a) be fluent in French; (b) have training ex-
perience in his field; (c) be experienced in working in a developing country;
and (d) have education commensurate with the position to be filled. Specific
qualifications and functions of the different team members are described as
follows:
Mechanical Engineer (or Senior Mechanical Technician)
4.        He should have at least ten years of experience, of which six in
managing workshops and maintaining public works equipment. He will serve as
advisor to the Director of EIO, with whom he will collaborate closely in set-
ting up EIO's organization and in improving, equipping and overseeing subdi-
vision procurement offices. In particular, he will:
(a) direct and supervise the rehabilitation of existing
equipment;
(b) participate in all phases of purchasing spare parts,
equipment, tools, etc.;
(c) plan and supervise the establishment of subdivision
procurement offices;
(d) conceive and implement systematic methods for setting
up and maintaining road maintenance equipment;
(e) conceive and carry out the establishment of an analytical
accounting system for the sound use of equipment;
(f) define the functions of the central workshop and the
subdivision equipment centers;
(g) train technical staff assigned to EIO;
(h) standardize work methods and establish functional rela-
tionships between the subdivisions using the equipment
and the central offices; and
(i) supervise the establishment and management of EIO.
Senior Management Technician
5.        The technician will have appropriate technical and managerial qual-
ifications, with at least seven years' experience in setting up stores and
procurement of equipment and spare parts. He will serve as Deputy to the
Director of PO. In particular, he will:



- 82 -
ANNEX V
(a)  organize, in close collaboration with the mechanical
engineer/chief of mission, the new PO and supervise its
operation;
(b) recei've and verify orders for spare parts submitted by
the subdivisions and order those parts which PO does
not have in stock;
(c) follow up orders with suppliers and ensure the ship-
ment and distribution of ordered spare parts; and
(d)  provide on-the-job training to Chadian staff, i.e.,
the procurement officer, forwarding agent, storemen
and accountant.
Four Mechanics
6.        These mechanics will be well qualified and will have at least five
years' experience in repairing and maintaining public works equipment. They
will participate in organizing the subdivision equipment centers and ensure
their efficient operation. They will advise either a subdivision Chief on
matters relating to equipment, or the chief of a subdivision equipment center.
They will be assigned to subdivision headquarters and will occasionally take
field trips, if necessary. In addition, they will assist in the more general
activities carried out by the experts assigned to EIO and PO.



- 83 -
ANNEX VI
CHAD
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Technical Assistance for the Reorganization of the
Road Planning and Design Office
Outline Terms of Reference
Qualifications and Duties of the Engineer/Economist
1.        He should hold a graduate degree in highway engineering with some
background in transport economics and have at least five years' experience
in the technical and administrative aspects of preinvestment studies, engi-
neering design, project execution and supervision of works. He should speak
and write fluent French. Experience in a developing country is preferred.
2.        The expert will be the technical advisor to the Director of RPDO
and assist him in the tasks outlined in paras. 3-6. He will participate in
these tasks and train Chadian staff so that they would be able to continue
the work once the expert's services have been expired.
3.        RPDO's tasks consist of:  (a) planning of road investments; (b)
design of road improvements and construction; and (c) supervision of road
construction. These activities are detailed below.
Road Investment Planning
4.        This ftnction will encompass the following activities:
(a) road inventory and classification, to be revised periodi-
cally as necessary;
(b) traffic studies with periodic updating, to be carried out
with the assistance of DPW subdivisions;
(c) traffic data analysis and forecasts, including a program
of vehicle weighing control;
(d) preparation of design standards for different types of
roads;
(e) determination and annual revision of unit prices for road
maintenance and construction;
(f) determination and annual revision of vehicle operating
costs;
(g) preparation of the annual road investment budget; and



- 84 -
ANNEX VI
(h) execution of road improvement feasibility studies or
supervision of those prepared by consultants.
Road Improvement and Construction Projects
5.        RPDO will assist in preparation of final engineering and bidding
documents for road improvement and construction projects under DPW's respon-
sibility. It will prepare in-house technical studies for small projects and
supervise the more complex studies prepared externally.
Supervision of Road Construction Works
6.        RPDO will be responsible for supervision of road construction works
under DPW's charge. The works will be supervised by RPDO within the limits
of available personnel. RPDO will oversee works supervised by other offices.



- 85 -
ANNEX VII
CHAD
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Outline Terms of Reference and Qualifications for a
Transport Economist for the Directorate of Transport
1.        The transport economist will help the Director, DT, to organize DT
and assist in elaborating and applying a rational transport policy. In par-
ticular he will:
(i) participate and supervise in the collection and annual
publication of transport statistics and preparation
of technical reports on:
(a)  vehicle fleet inventory by type and age, on a
country-wide basis with provisions for annual
updating;
(b)  proposal for revised of surface transport tariffs
in light of the recommendations made by consultant
SEDES, under the Second Highway Project, and consultant
ORGATEC;
(c)  review of road user charges from the viewpoint of
equity and efficiency considerations, including
the identification of financial resources for
creating a financially autonomous road mainte-
nance authority by 1985, and fiscal measures
aimed at reducing the cost of spare parts to
ensure improved vehicle maintenance;
(d)  assessment of the future needs of the vehicle
fleet in light of the present excess trucking
capacity, and if necessary, recommendations for
regulation of vehicle imports;
(e)  recommendations for reducing import duties on
spare parts and the effect of these measures
on road user revenues;
(f)  review of Chad's international transit agree-
ments and preparation of proposals for revision
of these agreements;
(g)  measures directed at harmonizing road regula-
tions between Chad and its neighbors, espe-
cially Nigeria; and



- 86 -
ANNEX VII
(h) establishment of scheduled inter- dty bus transport
in Chad.
(ii) assist. in inter-departmental coordination for transport
planning and enforcement of road traffic regulations;
(iii) develop a system of periodic analysis of freight transport
demand to establish the freight allocation system within
CTT on a scientific basis, and provide assistance to CTT
on economic and statistical matters;
(iv) collect and analyse financial and operational statistics
of the transport industry (CTT, Air Tchad, and other
transport entities);
(v) establish and organize an advisory committee, comprising
representatives of concerned Government ministries, shippers,
CTT, freight forwarders, the Chamber of Commerce, and other
related groups, to help formulate a national freight transport
policy and to resolve operational difficulties arising from
time to time in freight transport operations. The Director
of DT would act as chairman of the advisory committee; and
(vi)  establish a system for classification of trucks, and formulate
criteria for road transport operations on international and
domestic routes.
Qualifications
2.        The expert should hold a graduate level degree in economics and
should have at least five years of post-graduate work experience in trans-
port planning and operations. He should be familiar with regulations and
tariff setting for various transport modes. He should have worked for some
time in a developing country, preferably in West Africa. He should be fluent
in French.



- 87 -
ANNEX VIII
CHAD
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Outline Terms of Reference and Qualifications of the
Trucking Industry Expert to be Attached to CTT
Functions
1.        The trucking industry expert will serve as a technical adviser
(operations) to the President, CTT, and provide technical assistance to CTT's
Assistant Director responsible for freight operations. In particular, he will:
(i) review the transport operations of CTT, and suggest
methods to improve them:
(ii) evaluate the freight allocation system within CTT,
and devise a more equitable and efficient method,
if necessary;
(iii) collaborate with DT to:
a) establish a system for classification of trucks,
and formulate criteria for operations on inter-
national and domestic routes;
b) establish and organize an advisory committee for
coordinating freight transport operations;
c) recruit an appropriately qualified Chadian for
training abroad in trucking operations; and
d) arrange appropriate practical training (for a six-
month period) abroad for CTT's Assistant Director,
responsible for freight operations.
(iv) explore the possibility of creating an external branch
of CTT in Douala with a view to expedite transit of
Chadian goods through Cameroon;
(v) determine the feasibility of establishing:
a) inter-city bus transport; and
b) workshop for maintenance of the truck fleet as
part of CTT operations; and
(vi) prepare a final report on his assignment including recom-
mendations for improving the efficiency of freight transport
operations.



- 88 -
ANNEX VIII
Qualifications
2.        The expert should hold a graduate degree, preferably in economics
or finance, and have five years experience in the transport field with at
least three years in trucking industry operations, preferably in a freight
forwarding agency or freight bureau. Managerial experience in a multi-
national transport organization would be desirable. He should have worked
for some time in a francophone African country, and have familiarity with
French transport industry regulations and legislation. Fluency in French
is mandatory, while some knowledge of Arabic would be useful.



- 89 -
ANNEX IX
CHAD
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Rural Roads Study
Outline Terms of Reference
A. Scope of the Study
1.        The study shall examine transport needs in rural areas of Chad and
propose the most economic way of meeting these needs. Excluded from the
study are primary and secondary roads to the extent that they do not impose
an important obstacle in the way of the flow of goods and persons to and from
the rural network. Although it is expected that the study shall be mainly
concerned with the construction, improvement and maintenance of roads, the
study should also examine alternative means of surface transport (e.g. appro-
priate vehicles and barge transport).
2.        The proposed study shall be carried out within the overall framework
of the country's development plan and, in particular, the development of the
transport and agricultural sectors. In addition to normal engineering and
economic criteria, the study shall concern itself with the social needs of
the population and the extent to which the rural population can participate
in the construction and maintenance of rural road facilities, or associated
infrastructural needs (which shall be identified by the Government) such as
small dams, wells and grain stores.
3.        The general objective of the study will be the development of a
long-term (ten-year) strategy and a four-year program of rural road develop-
ment and maintenace. This strategy and program shall be related to priority
economic and social objectives and will include proposals for the most effi-
cient way of implementation including physical, personnel and institutional
requirements. Where it seems appropriate, consideration should also be given
to road making units' participation in other infrastructure activities in the
areas in which they are already working.
B. Methodology of the Study
Identification and Preparation Program
(a) study and identification of economic and social goals and
the translation of these into specific projects and proj-
ect areas;
(b) determination of existing and future transport needs to
maintain efficiently existing economic and social activity
and to promote planned economic and social activity, paying
particular attention to population patterns, existing and
potential agricultural production and the needs of surplus
and deficit areas; consideration should be given to ongoing
road programs and agricultural projects;



- 90 -
ANNEX IX
(c) inventory of existing transport facilities, and hydrological
data, soils and materials surveys, and estimation of the
cost of transportation using the existing facilities;
(d) estimate of the cost of constructing, improving and main-
taining identified transport needs to the most economic
level, paying particular attention to construction tech-
niques, including local participation and estimation of
transport cost savings associated with the improvements;
(e) study and evaluation of the agricultural potential within
areas of interest; this study shall be supported by a suf-
ficiently detailed sociological/anthropological assessment
of huiman attitudes, achievements and potential;
(f) evaluation of induced economic and social benefits that
would follow from improvements to the transport system;
in producing these estimates, attention should also be
paid Ito possible associated infrastructure investments;
(g)  a cost benefit analysis of the proposed transport improve-
ment projects and associated infrastructure investments
over a ten-year period using, where appropriate, economic
and shadow pricing techniques; and
(h)  preparation of a long-term strategy and a four-year program
of rural transportation improvement and maintenance, based
on the above surveys and analyses, paying due regard to
areas of risk and uncertainty.
Implementation Strategy
(a) examine the structures and capabilities of existing
organization engaged in construction, improvement and
maintenance of transport facilities in relation to the
proposed improvement program and other commitments;
(b) recommend the optimum practical method of executing the
proposed program (considering (a) above) including, where
necessary, institutional and administrative changes;
(c) specify the needs in equipment, spare parts, ancillary
services and buildings to carry out the proposed program;
(d) specify technical assistance needs at all levels and
Chadian personnel to carry out the proposed program;
(e) specify training needs for implementing the proposed pro-
gram and for providing a capability within the Government
to undertake future studies, design and project implemen-
tation; and
(f) use of the Government's Directorate of Mines and ENTP, with
appropriate technical assistance, to carry out the soils
and materials survey.



- 91 -
ANNEX X
CHAD
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Economic Analysis of the Project
A.   Engineering-Economic Analysis of the Road Maintenance Program
1.        The evaluation of the maintenance program is based on a dynamic
analysis that relates maintenance costs to vehicle operating cost (voc)
savings by evaluating the effect of maintenance operations on road sur-
face condition which, in turn, influences the cost of vehicle operation.
The mathematical models that relate road surface condition and vehicle
operating costs to traffic were developed under the IBRD/TRRL research
program in Kenya.
Road Deterioration Relationships
(a) Lateritic Gravel Roads
R    =  3250 + 84 T - 1.62 T  + 0.016 T
RD = 11 + 0.23 T - 0.0037T + 0.000073T3
LD   =  1.5 + 14e
T2
GL   =        0.9   5 -   (4.2 + 0.092T  + 3.5 R   + 1.88 VC)
a
(b) Sandy-Clay Earth Roads
R    =  3250 + 785 T
RD = 14 + 1.2 T
LD   =  1.5 + 14e 023T; under dry grading with LD > 10.0 mm.
LD   =  1.0             , under wet grading



- 92 -
ANNEX X
(c) Tracks
R       3250 + 1255 T
RD   =  14 + 1.2 T
LD   =  1.5 + 14e 0-23T; with LD > 10.0 mm.
where,    R    =  mean roughness (mm/km)
RD   =  rut depth (mm)
LD   =  depth of loose material (mm)
T    =  cumulative traffic volume in both directions
since last grading (thousands of vehicles)
GL   =  annual gravel loss (mm)
T    =  annual traffic volume in both directions
a      (thousands of vehicles)
RI  =  annual rainfall measured in meters
VC = rise and fall, vertical curvature (%)
The Kenya study relationships for sandy-clay earth roads and tracks were
modified to reflect the relatively dry environment in Chad.
Vehicle Operating Cost Relationships
2.        Except for vehicle depreciation, crew cost, and insurance, all other
VOC components were calculated for four typical vehicles using the Kenya Study 1/
equations relating the various physical components (e.g. fuel consumption) of
voc to road surface deterioration functions. For vehicle depreciation, the
method recommended in "Quantification of Road User Savings" 2/ was used. Phys-
ical components of VOC were then translated into costs, net of taxes. The re-
view of these results showed that once the road characteristics were fixed,
both road surface deterioration parameters and vehicle operating costs would
be related to the same common variable, traffic. Accordingly, the composite
1/   TRRL Report 672 "The Kenya Road Transport Cost Study:  Research on
Vehicle Operating Costs," 1975.
2/   World Bank Staff Occasional Paper No. 2, 1966.



- 93 -
ANNEX X
vehicle operating costs determined for the four vehicle types were regressed
with cumulative traffic (T). The results of the regression analysis are
presented in Table 1. The average road and environmental characteristics
assumed in developing VOC relationships are: moisture content, 3%, average
rise, 30 m/km; average fall, 30 m/km; average horizontal curvature, 175
degrees/km; and average altitude, 375 m. Although these characteristics are
somewhat severe, the sensitivity of VOC to these elements, within the range
used in this evaluation, was not significant. One of the reasons for using
these characteristics was to reconcile actual consumption of VOC components
observed in Chad to those predicted by the model.
Traffic
3.        Since the available traffic counts date back to 1970, forecasts
for 1978 were made by relating general economic trends to traffic. It was
assumed that there was no traffic growth during 1970-74 (the drought years);
between 1975-78, 3% traffic growth per annum in Cotton Zone, 2% around
N'Djamena and 1% in the Sahel Zone. Beyond 1978, an average traffic growth
of 3% per annum was assumed for the whole network. These estimates were
modified to account for a diversion of 35-40,000 ton of international traf-
fic from the Transequatorial to the Cameroonian route between 1970-74. The
distribution of traffic by vehicle type was assessed in the light of 1970
traffic counts and changes in the characteristics of the vehicle fleet since
then.
Determination of Benefits from Reduced Vehicle Operating Costs
4.        With the formulation of VOC equations shown in Table 1, savings
in vehicle operating costs can be estimated directly as follows:
(i) determination of a composite VOC equation by
weighting the VOC equations for different
vehicles by their respective percentages in
the traffic distribution;
(ii) summation of the total vehicle operating costs
for the accumulated vehicles between grading
intervals for a given maintenance strategy (e.g.
2 gradings/year);
(iii) summation of the total vehicle operating costs
for the accumulated vehicles between grading
intervals for an alternate maintenance strategy
(e.g. regravelling and 2 gradings/year);
(iv) calculation of VOC benefits as the difference of
total vehicle operating costs corresponding to
the two maintenance strategies, respectively.



- 94 -
ANNEX X
Mathematically, this can be expressed as:
VOC Savings    = Sf(T)1dT - 5f(T)2dT
where: f(T)1 - VOC equation corresponding to strategy 1
f(T)2  =  VOC equation corresponding to alternate strategy 2
This procedure simplifies the calculation of benefits and does not require
discrete addition of vehicle operating costs. For example, VOC benefits from
two gradings per year, as compared to one grading per year on a sand-clay
earth road, for a traffic stream containing only light vehicles (VL) can be
expressed as:
X                                                L
B  = SIOOO (50721 + 3152.7T - 61.16T2) dT - 2(1000)  50721 + 3.152.7T - 61.6T2) dl
=  100003152.72 -  x2)   61.16(x3 -  x
where:  x  =  accumulated number of vehicles per year in thousands
B = VOC benefits in CFAF/1000 km
Determination of Maintenance Strategies
5.        The design of the maintenance program required the determination
of the traffic level at which regravelling would be economically justified,
and the optimal grading strategies for various classes of roads to be in-
cluded in the routine maintenance program. The Bank's Highway Design and
Maintenance Standards Model was used for this purpose. The summary of the
results showing breakeven averaged daily traffic where regravelling becomes
economically justified as a function of unit cost of regravelling is shown in
Exhibit I. The benefits used in this analysis included incremental reductions
in vehicle operating costs due to regravelling as compared to routine main-
tenance and stockpiling costs for two months, resulting from road closures
to all-weather service. For one-month continuous stockpiling, the total
discounted storage costs were estimated at CFAF 0.2 million per km of road
closure. On basis of this analysis, it was concluded that: (i) 7 meter wide
regravelling by contractor was economically justified only on roads with base
traffic over 65 vpd; and (ii) about 400 km with base year ADT in the range of
45-50 vpd could be included in the regravelling program by the training
brigade.
6.        The optimal grading strategies for routine maintenance were
obtained by determining the grading frequency that resulted in maximum
net present value for a given class of road (Table 2).



- 95 -
ANNEX X
Benefit/Cost Analysis of Regravelling (Periodic Maintenance) 1/
7.   (M)  Costs - Total cost of equipment for the training/
production brigade; cost of technical assistance
directly used for operation of the training brigade;
and operating recurrent costs of the brigade.
(ii) Benefits - Incremental reduction in vehicle operating
costs over and above the reduction produced by incre-
mental routine maintenance.
(iii) Salvage Value - (a) At the end of the project period,
regravelling equipment would have been used for only
one-half of its economic life, therefore a 50% salvage
value was assumed; and (b) as the regravelling cycle
was calculated to be about 8 years, the remaining
thickness of the gravel surface was assigned a ter-
minal value.
(iv) Traffic - Traffic was assumed to grow at a rate of
3% per annum with a base year weighted ADT of 51
vehicles. Traffic distribution was taken as light
vehicles (VL)-45%, 13t medium trucks (CMS)-15%, 27t
medium truck-trailer (CMR)-25%, and 38t heavy
truck-trailer (CLR)-15%.
(v)  Economic Return - IRR         = 16.7%
B/C @ 12% = 1.31
B/C @ 15% = 1.11
The details of the analysis are presented in Table 3.
Benefit/Cost Analysis of Routine Maintenance
8.        The network was first classified into 15 sections according to
type of road and the estimated traffic distribution (Table 4). The main-
tenance output with and without the project is given in Table 5. Benefits
were taken as the VOC savings resulted from routine maintenance operations
with and without the project and accumulated over 15 classified sections
and categorized in three broad road categories. The details of the analysis
are presented in Table 6.
(i) Costs - Cost of maintenance and workshop equipment, spare
parts, buildings, technical assistance for strengthening
DPW (other than road planning) and incremental recurrent
maintenance expenditures;
1/   The results of all benefit-cost analyses reflect costs and benefits
adjusted by appropriate shadow-pricing factors, namely 1.15 for
foreign exchange and skilled labor, and 0.30 for unskilled labor.



- 96 -
ANNEX X
(ii) Benefits -. Reduction in vehicle operating costs
due to improved routine maintenance;
(iii) Traffic - 3% growth per annum; traffic distribution
as given in Table 4;
(iv)  Economic Return - IRR         = 75%
B/C @ 12% = 3.25
B/C @ 20% = 2.66
Benefit/Cost Analysis of Maintenance and Training Programs Combined
9.        As it was difficult to distribute the benefits of the training
program between periodic and routine maintenance, a further analysis, includ-
ing the training program costs, was made. The additional costs (besides the
costs of regrave]Lling and routine maintenance) comprised:
(i)  81% of cost of technical assistance and recurrent
expenditures for the training center, spread over
four years reflecting the proportion of trained
personnel to be assigned to the project. Prorated
cost (81%) of training equals CFAF 88.8 million per
year for technical assistance and CFAF 48.3 million
per year for operating expenditures over a 4-year
period. As the benefits of the training program were
assumed to be distributed over about 25 years, a 66% 1/
residual value was assigned to the training program
cost included in the analysis.
(ii)  The life of equipment for the training center was taken
as 15 years. These equipment costs, amounting to CFAF 21.5
million in the first year of the project, were also in-
cluded in the analysis; the equipment is assumed to have
a 33% salvage value.
(iii)  The combined incremental vehicle operating cost savings
for routine and periodic maintenance were taken as benefits.
(iv)  The economic rate of return for the overall maintenance
program was found to be 51.4%, equivalent to a benefit/cost
ratio oE 2.2 discounted at 12%.
1/   66% = (15/25 + 16/25 + 17/25 + 18/25) 1/4.  Residual value of first year
training program cost was taken as 15/25; for the second third and fourth
years, cost residual value was assumed to be 16/25, 17/25 and 18/25 res-
pectively.



- 97 -
ANNEX X
B.   Economic Analysis of Ferries
General
10.       The project includes the replacement of four ferries at Bongor, Lai,
Bousso, and Hellinbongo through local construction of ferry boats. The exist-
ing ferries are over 30 years old and are subject to frequent breakdowns caus-
ing extended traffic delays. It is estimated that ferry service at the above
locations will cease to function within the next five years; the Hellibongo
ferry, however, could be restored with provision of new boats and related
appurtenances.
Costs
11.       The costs of this project component include expenditures for de-
tailed design and specifications, cost of technical assistance for work
supervision and training, and cost of workshop equipment and construction
material. Of these costs, the share assigned to the project were 70% of
design costs and 100% of all other capital expenditures. The costs were
divided equally among the four ferry boats. All costs are expressed in
December 1977 prices. The expected life of new ferries is 25 years with a
salvage value of about 10%.
12.       The maintenance cost of existing ferries is estimated at CFAF 2.2
million per ferry and is expected to increase by 10% per annum during the
remaining 5 years of the estimated life span of the ferries. Engine re-
newal on new ferries is expected every 15 years while, on the old ones,
the renewal cycle was 10 years. Maintenance cost of new ferries is esti-
mated at CFAF 0.64 million. For Hellibongo, the option of renovating the
existing ferry was also considered. The total cost of improvements was
estimated at CFAF 42.6 million spent over two years. These improvements
would reduce the existing maintenance cost of Hellibongo ferry by about
50%. Future average maintenance cost of new ferries, as well as the
Hellibongo ferry, were assumed to remain constant during the first five
years, to increase by 15% for years 6 to 15 and by 35% for years 16 to 25.
13.       The operating cost of existing ferries comprises an estimated
fixed cost of CFAF 1.15 million/year and a variable cost of CFAF 1400 per
hour of operation, while, for new ferries, the fixed and variable costs are
CFAF 0.73 million, and CFAF 2630/hr, respectively. The time for an average
round trip by existing ferries is about 30 minutes while, for the new fer-
ries, it is estimated to be 20 minutes.
Benefits
14.       General benefits associated with provision of new ferries consist
of reduction in maintenance and operation costs of the ferries and vehicle
operating cost savings from traffic diversion to shorter routes, use of



- 98 -
ANNEX X
larger trucks, reduced waiting time, and avoidance of economic dislocation
resulting from the loss of ferry service. Vehicle operating costs used in
calculating voc savings were estimated as follows according to road type and
vehicle:
Vehicle Type                     Road Surface                     VOC (CFAF/km)
CLR                     Paved                                      181
Gravel (ERL)                               225
Gravel (PERL)                             248
Earth (SC)                                282
Track (Maintained)                        309
Track (Unmaintained)                      434
CMR                     Earth (SC)                                 219
Track (Maintained)                        239
Track (Unmaintained)                      350
GMS                     Track (Maintained)                         134
Track (Unmaintained)                      161
Handling costs avoided under the project were valued at CFAF 500/ton.
a.   Bongor Ferry
15.       Situated 240 km upstream from N'Djamena on the Logone River,
the Bongor ferry serves to connect Bongor with the international routes
in Cameroon. It also provides the only direct link between Bongor, the
prefecture headquarters, and parts of Mayo Kebbi prefecture across the
Logone. Although the existing ferry has a payload capacity of 25 t, its
deck cannot accommodate truck-trailer units. With the provision of new
ferry, cotton export traffic originating in Onoko and Bongor, and destined
to N'Gaoundere or Garoua would travel via Fianga and Lere rather than via
Lai, Kelo and Lere. It is also estimated that 50% of cotton transport
demand generated by the ginneries at Fianga, Pala and Gounou Gaya would be
serviced by trucks on the return haul from N'Djamena via Bongor rather than
via Lai. With complete disruption of existing ferry service expected in five
years, about 1/2 of the light and medium truck traffic would be obliged to
travel an extra 100 km on every trip from Bongor to the left bank of Logone.
Benefits derive from voc savings resulting from diversion of export traffic
to new ferry and avoidance of diversion of local traffic to longer routes.
Traffic projections and details of the economic analysis are given in
Tables 7 and 8. The estimated economic rate or return for Bongor Ferry
is 60% with first year benefits of about 48%.
b.   Lai Ferry
16.       Situated on the Logone, 390 kilometers upstream from N'Djamena,
the existing ferry cannot handle heavy traffic between Moundou and N'Djamena.
The provision of a larger ferry would reduce the distance between N'Djamena
and Moundou, by 93 km for transport of fuel, beverages and other general



- 99 -                       ANNEX X
merchandise using heavy trucks. Additional benefits would accrue to trans-
port ofE seed cotton from the right bank of Logone to the ginnery at Kelo,
which has excess capacity. The external transport of cotton ginned at Guidari
would gain from vehicle operating cost savings resulting from a distance re-
ductioa of 147 km. Traffic projections and details of economic analysis are
given in Tables 9 and 10. Based on the foregoing assumptions, the investment
in Lai ferry is expected to yield an economic return of 44% and first year
benefits are estimated at 43% of investment costs.
c.   Bousso Ferry
17.       Located 300 km downstream from N'Djamena on the Chari River, it
connects Bousso, a market town and the administrative center of the Bousso
sub-prefecture, located on the right bank of Chari with the main N'Djamena-
Sarh route. The ferry is indispensable to the operation of the ginnery in
Bousso, as about 60% of seed cotton ginned here comes from the left bank.
Since the ferry cannot accommodate truck-trailers, baled cotton is first
ferried across the river in small trucks to Mogo where it is transferred
to larger trucks for export. The envisaged development of 16 irrigation
perimeters in the vicinity of Bousso would depend on the ferry for trans-
port needs. If the ferry service were to terminate, Bousso would be effec-
tively isolated, its only outside link being to Massenya via tracks that
are virtually impassable. Traffic projections and details of the economic
justification are presented in Tables 11 and 12. Although the first year
benefits for this ferry are lower (about 11%) compared to other ferries,
the ferry needs to be replaced as early as possible to avoid the possibility
of economic dislocation in the Bousso area. The economic return for Bousso
ferry is estimated to be about 27%.
d.  Hellibongo Ferry
18.       Serves as the southern gateway to the Sahel zone.  Of all the
ferries included in the project, Hellibongo has the highest justification
in terms of its impact on the economy of the region it serves. Loss of
ferry service at Hellibongo would result in closure of cotton ginneries
in Kyabe and Am Timan, return to subsistence farming on land used for grow-
ing cotton on the right bank of Chari near Sarh, and permanent disruption
of the only viable transport link between Sarh and the Sahelian prefectures
of Guera, Ouaddai and Salamat. The ferry is also vital to petroleum and
mineral exploration in north Chad; in fact, the ferry was partially reno-
vated recently with assistance from petroleum exploration companies. The
traffic projections and details of economic justification are presented in
Tables 13 and 14. The primary benefits result from reductions in ferry main-
tenance and operating costs, avoided handling charges, and substitution of
single-unit trucks by larger capacity truck-trailer units for transport of
cotton from ginneries at Kyabe, Am Timan, and Melfi. The economic rate of
return for replacement of this ferry is 31% with first year benefit esti-
mated at 24%.



CHAD
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Vehicle Operatin,; Cost Equations
1/                                                                 Upper Bound
Road Surface             VOC Estimation Equation-             Maximum  'Number of   Coefficient of  Standard Error Limits onVOC
and                                                          T    Observation  Determination    of Estimate    (CFAF'G0j
Vehicle Type                                                                              R2
2/
l nterite-
VL                        VOC =  52264 +  2.31T2                100        19           0.985              453             76
CMS                       VOC =  96147 +  5.30T2                100        19           0.991              802            150
CMR                       VOC = 169780 + 10.34T2                 S0        19           0.984             2091            250
CLR                       VOC = 211172 + 13.64T2                 80        19           0.984             2683            300
3/
Sand-Clay
l3                 VOC =  50721 +  3152.7T -  61.16T2            30        17           0.987             1646             92
CMNS               VOC =  94560 +  4547.OT -  65.18TZ            30        17           0.994             2056            173    1
C'R                VOC = 165690 +  8509.3T - 106.95T2            30        17           0.994             4154            325    H
CLR                VOC = 204287 + 12591.9T - 194.71T2            30        17           0.994             5510            410 -
Track
VI            VOC =  50681 +  5270.5T - 197.24T2 + 0.07T4        30        17           0.986             1817             91
CMS           VOC =  94212 +  7605.7T - 259.54T2 + 0.1OT4        30        17           0.991             2528            170
CYR           VOC = 165393 + 14300.5T - 475.21T2 + 0.20T4        30        17           0.992             4712            330
CLR           VOC = 203632 + 21188.9T - 747.90T2 + 0.30T4        30        17           0.990             7102            410
1/ VOC's on partially engineered roads taken 10% higher                                       Legend
than V0C's on engineered roads.                                     T = Cumulative traffic volume since last grading in
2/ Applies to gravel roads with at least 4cm of laterite.                   both directions (1000 vehicles).
3/ Applies to earth roads, and gravel roads with less                VOC = Vehicle Operating Cost (CFAF/1000 km).
than 4cni of laterite surface.                                     VL = Light goods vehicle (2.5 t).
CM S = Medium truck (13 t).
CiR = Medium truck/trailer (27 t).
CLR = Feavy truck/trailer (38 t).
Source:  Mission estimates.                                                                                                    lb
H >1



- 101-                           ANNEX X
Table 2
CHAD
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Optimal Grading Frequencies
Gravel Roads   Earth Roads   Tracks
(Laterite)    (Sand-Clay)
1.  Approximately optimal number of               7000           5000         3000
vehicle passes per blading
2. Base Year Traffic = 45 vpd
(a) t  (45 vpd X 30)                          5.2            3.7          2.2
Grading Interval (months)                      5              4            2
Grading Frequency/Year                         2              3           6
3. Base Year Traffic = 20 vpd
(a) +  (20 vpd X 30)                         11.7            8.3          5.0
Grading Interval (months)                     12              8            6
Grading Frequency/Year                         1              2           2
4. Base Year Traffic = 6 vpd
(a) ;  (6 vpd X 30)                           -              -           16.7
Grading Interval (months)                                     -          12
Grading Frequency/Year                         -                          1
Source: CPS (Transportation)



- 102 -                 ~~~ANNEX _X
- 102 -                          Table 3
CHAD
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
1/
Regravelling - Benefit/Cost Analysis
Benefits
Costs (CFAF millions)                      VOC Savings (CFAF millions)
Year     Equipment2    Technical        Recurrent  Regravelling!/                            Net
Assistance3/  Expenditure Salvage Value  -Alt.15J/ *Alt.21/  Incremental6/
Benefits
(Alt.2-Alt.1)
1          448.8
2                          19.5          113.6                      167.4    196.6          24.2
3                          19.5          113.6                      175.8    252.3          76.5
4                          19.5          113.6                      182.8    313.6         130.8
5         -224.4           19.5          113.6                      192.4    394.8         202.4
6                                                                   648.8    897.2         248.4
7                                                                   660.1    921.9         261.8
8                                                                   673.1    950.9         277.8
9                                                     -141.9        685.6    979.8         294.2
Without Shadow Prices: IRR = 17.2%           With Shadow Prices:  IRR = 16.7%
B/C @12% = 1.26                           B/C @ 12% = 1.31
B/C @15% = 1.10                           B/C @ 15% = 1.11
1/ The analysis is based on the following assumptions:  (a) equipment life = 8 years with a
50% salvage value aEter 4 years; (b) traffic growth = 3% per annum; (c) base ADT =
51 vpd; (d) all benefits and costs in Dec. 1977 prices; (e) benefits realized through
incremental reduction in vehicle operating costp; and (f) regravelling(lOnthick) calculated
cycle to be about 8 years, reflecting an average annual gravel loss of about 12mm/year.
2/ 100% of training brigade equipment costs assigned to regravelling operations; the
50% salvage value applied at end of training program.
3/ 100% of technical assistance directly used to supervise regravelling operations.
4/ Salvage value of remaining gravel, (448.8+ 4(133.1) - 224.4) X (1/8 + 2/8 + 3/8)1/4 =
CFAF 141.9 millions.
5/ Maintenance Alternative"l"= 2 gradings/year + other routine maintenance
Maintenance Alternative"2"= Regravelling @ 100 km/year + 2 gradings/year + other
routine maintenance.
Without Project Case = one grading/year + other routine maintenance for initial three years
of project, no maintenance thereafter.
6/ Net Incremental Benefits Due to Regravelling = (VOC2 - VOCO) - (VOC1 - VOCn), where
subscripts refer to maintenance alternatives
and VOC to vehicle operating costs.
Source: Mission estimates.



- 103 -                           ANNEX  X
Table 4
CHAD
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Classification of Road Network for Economic Analysis of Routine Maintenance
Section:  Road Type                              Length   Weighted Base   Distribution of Traffic
(km)      ADT (vpd)       %VL   %CMS   %CMR   %CLR
1. Engineered Laterite (ERL)                       395          51            45    15      25      15
2. Engineered Laterite (ERL)                       276          15            45    15      25      15
3. Partially Engineered Laterite (PERL)             79          47           45    15       25      15
4. Engineered Sand-Clay (ERSC)                      63          45            45    15      25      15
5. Engineered Sand-Clay (ERSC)                      98          41            45    30       0      25
6. Engineered Sand-Clay (ERSC)                     175          17            45    30       0      25
7. Partially Engineered Sand-Clay                   83          30           45    30        0     25
8. Partially Engineered Sand-Clay (PERSC)           49          34           45    15       25      15
9. Partially Engineered Sand-Clay (PERSC)          150          17           45    15       25     15
10. Partially Engineered Sand-Clay (PERSC)          259           9           45    30        0     25
11. Major Tracks                                     99          34           45    15       25     15
12. Major Tracks                                    846          17           45    15       25     15
13. Major Tracks                                     72          13           45    55        0      0
14. Minor Tracks                                   1544           5           45    55        0      0
15. Minor Tracks                                   1130           7           45    15      25      15
TOTAL               5318
VL  = Light goods vehicle (2.5 t).
CMS = Medium truck (13 t).
CMR = Medium truck-trailer (27 t).
CLR = Heavy truck-trailer (38 t).
Source: Mission estimates.
BCEOM



- 104 -                        ANNEX X
Table 5
CHAD
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Maintenance Output
Routine Maintenance
Year                 Without Maintenance           With Maintenance        Regravelling
Program (km)                 Program (km)_              (km)
Gravel  Earth   Tracks  Total
Roads Roads
1                474    161        965    1600            -
2               474    161         565    1200         18001'                  100
3               474    161         165      800        531821                  100
4                400      -         -       4003/      5318                    100
5                         -                            5318                    100
6                         -                            5318
7                        -                             5318
8                         -                            5318
9                                                      3 545-/
1/  Only one-third of program output corresponding to the amount of
equipment delivered in the previous year.
2/  Distribution of roads and tracks  to be maintained as defined in the project.
3/  The existing-  equipment pool estimated to have outlived its economiic life.
4/  Two-third of program output corresponding to the remaining useful life of
equipment , provided under the project
Source: Mission estimates.



CHAD
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Routine Maintenance - Benefit-Cost Analysis I/
COSTS                                                                                                          BENEFITS
Year    Capital Investment (CFAF million) 2/            Recurrent Maintenance Costs (CFAF million)                                     -Iitemental VOC 'Savlngsll (CFAF millions)
Equipment &  Buildings    Technical-3/    With Project  Without ProjectAl   Incremental Costs5/                GRAVEL ROADS                     EARTH ROADS             TRACKS (3691 km)         TOTAL
Spare Parts                 Assistance                                                                   ER (671 ki) PER (79 km6    ER (336 km) PER (541 km)
1       360.8        173.5           152.2
2       721.6         347.0          152.2             120.8            120.8                   -                 45.8          9.8              21.7           34.9                 281.5              393.7
k
3                                    152.2             362.4            100.4                  262.8             157.6        115.7             106.1         220.9                 1013.9             1614.2
4                                                      362.4            100.4                  262.8             151.1         117.9            197.7          306.0                1042.1             1814.8
5                                                      362.4             59.7                  302.7             143.9         120.4            311.1          348.9                 1108.6            2032.9
6                                                      362.4             59.7                  302.7             208.0         123.0            353.7          354.5                 1178.1            2217.3
7                                                      362.4             59.7                  302.7             323.2        125.4             362.0         363.3                 1197.2             2371.1
8                                                       362.4            59.7                  302.7             575.2         127.8            369.7          372.1                 1218.7             2663.5
9                                                      362.4             59.7                  302.7             661.7         130.1            379.0          350.5                 1239.8             2761.1
10                    -260.2-/                           241.6            59.6                  181.9             453.6          88.4            257.8          261.7                  848.0             1909.5
Without Shadow Prices:  IRR =                                                 With Shadow Prices:  IRR = 75.07.
BB/C @ 12Z = 3.17                                                          B/C @ 12% = 3.25
B/C a 20% = 2.60                                                           B/C @ 20% = 2.66
1/  The analysis is based on the following assumptions:  (a) Equipment life = 8 years; (b) traffic growth - 3% per annum; (c) all benefits and costa in Dec. 1977 prices and (d) benefits
realized through reduction of vehicle operating costs by routine maintenance.
2/  One-third of capital expenditure for equipment, spare parts and buildings in year 1, remaininp in year 2.
3/  100 percent costs of technical assistance for DPW reorganizations (except road planning) assigned to routine maintenance operations.
4/  GFAF 56.3 million for salaries of permanent road maintenance field staff.
5/  Only 1/3 of incremental recurrent costs and VOC savings assigned to project in year I and 2/3 of incremental costs and VOC savings assigned to project in year 10.
6/  ER = Engineered Roads;  PER = Partially Engineered Roads,
7/  Salvage value of buildings estimated at 50% of cost.
Source:  mission estimates.



- 106 -                             ANNEX X
Table 7
CHAD
THIRD HIGHIWAY PROJECT
Bongor Ferry - Traffic Projections
I/
Year                                      Annual Traffic-                       2/
No. of                            No. of Round Trips -
Vehicles
VL    CMS
Without Project
1979                 2750  2750                                      3667
19823/               3000  3000                                      4000
With Project          NL    CMS         CLR (cotton)
From Onoko  Return Haul
& Bongor   From NDiamena
1980                 2832  2832    138             597               2556
1982-4/              3000  3000    153             655              2404
1985                 3267  3250    167             713              2612
199 5/               3790  3500    194             826              2940
2005                 3790  3500    194             826
1/ Traffic operations confined to dry season (about 250 days/year). Cotton traffic
assumed to grow at 5% per annum until 1982, 3% thereafter; other traffic estimated
to grow at 3% per year.
2/  Round trips estimat'ed on following basis:  (a) Existing ferry - 1.5vehicles/roundtrip;
(b) New ferry - 3 light vehciles or medium trucks per round trip, 2 truck-trailers
per round trip for local traffic and 1 truck-trailer per round trip for return haul
from NDjamena.
3/  Existing ferry estimated to cease operations.
4/ Estimated commodity flows: cotton fiber from Onoko (1,415 t); from Bongor (500 t);
and one-way return haul from N'Djamena (16,400 t).
5/ ferry traffic assumed constant after 1990 due to uncertainties in economic and
traffic forecasts.
Source: mission estimates, BCEOM



- 107 -                                                     ANNEX X
CHAD                                                        Table 8
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Replacement of Bongor Ferry - Benefit Cost Analyois
Year      Capital Costs (CFAF million)         Recurrent Costs gCFAF milliol)             Benefits (CFAF million)
Desig  Technical  Materials        Operating Costs  Maingenance Costs                voc savings from
Assistance and Labor       Without  With    Without  With              D$version of l/  Avoidance of2j
Project  Project Project  Project          export traffic   Diversion of
to new ferry      local traffic
to longer route
1 (1978)  3.4
2                  10.8        58.5
3                                             3.80       2.71      2.84    Q,64             30.72
4                                             3.88       2.78      3,11    0,64             31.67
5                              -1.1 2'        3.96       2.84      3.43    0.64             32.63
6                                                        2.90               0,64            34.22             32.53
7                                                        2.96               0.64            35.40             33.48
8                                                         3.02              0,73            36.35             34.44
9                                                         3.08              0.73            37.41             35.50
10                                                         3.14              0.73            38.69             36.57
11                                                         3.19              0.73            39.75             37.63
12                                                         3.25              0.73            40.92             38.8'
13-16                                                         3.31              0.73            42.09             39.97
17                                                        3.31               8.73-/          42.09             39.97
18                                                        3.31               0.86            42.09             39.97
19-26                                                         3,31              0.86            42.09             39.97
27                              9.9                       3.31               0.86            42.09             39.97
Without Shadow Prices:  IRR = 59%             With Shadow Prices:  IRR =60%
B/C a 12% = 5.60                          B/C @ 12% = 5.72
FYB = 46.8%                               FYB = 48%
1/  Export traffic crossing the ferry at Bongor, instead of going to Lai   wo4ld save a travel distance of  33 km
on tracks, 49 km on earth roads and 107 km on gravel roads.
2i/ Once existing ferryboat ceasesoperation, 50% of local traffic assumed to divert to longer rQutes since parts of
Mayo Kebbi prefecture across the Logone River are administered from Bongor.
3/ Salvage value of the motor on existing ferry.
4/ Includes cost of replacement of motors.
5I Salvage value of new ferry.
Source: Mission estimates.



- 108 -                           ANNEX X
Table 9
CHAD
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Lai Ferry - Traffic Projections
Annual Trafficl/
Year                                      Number of Vehicles                          No. of Round2/
VL   CMS   CMR                     CLR                          Trips by Ferry
Seed  Beverages  Cotton  Fuel       Other      Total
Cotton                            Merchandise
Without Project
1979               3285  2555                                                             3893
3/
1982               3590  2920                                                             4340
With Project
1980               3383  2752  309    254         247      246       171       918        2658
1981               3485  2835  333    267         254      266       181       968        2757
1982k4/            3590  2920  357    280         261      286       192      1019        2858
1985               3922  3191  389    324         285      312      210       1131        3131
1990               4548  3699  451    414         331      361      244       1350        3650
2005               4558  3699  451    414         331      361      244       1350        3650
1/  After 1982, cotton traffic assumed to increase by 3% per year; beverage traffic by 5% per
year; fuel and other traffic by 3% per year.
2/  Round trips estimated on following basis:  (a) existing ferry - 1.5 vehicle/round trip;
(b) New ferry - 3 light vehicles or medium trucks/round trip, and 2 truck-trailer units/
round trip.
3/  Existing ferry estimated to cease operations
4/ Estimated commodity flows: seed cotton (2,500 t); beverages (3,500 t); cotton fiber
(3,280 t); fuel (4,300 m3); and other merchandise (2,400 t).
5/  Ferry traffic assumed constant after 1990 due to uncertainties in economic and traffic
forecasts.
Source: Mission estimates, BCEOM.



ANNEX X
- 109 -                                Table 10
CILAD
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Replcacement of Lai Ferry - Benefit Cost Analysis
Capital Costs (CFAF million)    Recurrent Costs (CFAF million)  Benefits (CFAF million)
Year      Desig   Technical  Materials  OPerating Costs  Maintenance Costs    voc savings 1
Assistance and Labor  Without  With    Without  With
Project  Project Project  Project
1 (19,'8)   3.4
2                   10.8        58.5
3                                          3.98       3.05    2.84       0.64         27.38
4                                          4.08       3.15    3.11       0.64         28.75
5                               -1.1 2/   4.19        3.25    3.43       0.64         30.12
6                                                     3.24               0.64         31.55
7                                                     3.44               0.64         32.99
8                                                     3.53               0.73         34.41
9                                                     3.62               0.73         35.70
10                                                     3.71               0.73         36.98
11                                                     3.81               0.73         38.28
12                                                     3.90               0.73         39.60
13-16                                                  3.99               0.73         40.85
17                                                     3.99               8.733-'      40.85
18                                                     3.99               0.86         40.85
19-26                                                  3.99               0.86         40.85
27                               -9.9 4i                3.99              0.86         40.85
Nithout Shadow Prices:  IRR = 43%         With Shadow Prices:  IRR = 44%
B/C @ 12% = 3.06                       B/C @ 12% = 3.12
FYB = 42.3%                            FYB = 43%
1/ The larger capacity ferry to be provided under the project would allow a 48 km distance
reduction on tracks for transport of seed cotton and use of truck-trailer units; a distance
reduction of 48 km on tracks and 99 km on gravel (lateritic) roads for cotton export traffic;
and a distance reduction of 93 km on laterite roads for domestic transport between N'Djamena
and Moundou.
2/ Salvage value of the motor on the existing ferry.
3/ Includes cost of replacement of motors.
4,'   Salvage value of new ferry.
Source: Mission estimates.



- 110 -                         ANNEX X
Table 11
CHAD
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Bousso Ferry - Traffic Projections
Year                                 Annual Trafficl/
No. of                        No. of Round Trips
Vehicles                             by Ferry  .
2/
Without Project    VL  CMS
1979               426  2127                              1702
1980               439  2474                              1942
1982-/             465  2700                              2110
2/
With Project       VL   CMS   CMR   CLR
1
1981               452  1648  247    86                    867
1982               465  1724  257    89                    903
1985               506  2220  281    97                   1098
5/
1990               587  2574  326   113                   1273
2005               587  2574  326   113                   1273
1/  Traffic growth assumed to be 3% per annum except for traffic generated by proposed
irrigation perimeters.
2/ Includes traffic generated by irrigation perimeters, estimated to grow
from 156 vehicles in 1979 to 1070 vehicles in 1990.
3/  Round trips estimated on following basis:  (a) existing ferry - 1.5 vehicle/
round trip; (b) New ferry - 3 light vehicles or medium trucks/ round trip
and 2 truck-trailer units/round trip.
4/  Existing ferry estimated to cease operations.
5/  Traffic using ferry assumed constant after 1990 due to uncertainties in
economic and traffic forecasts.
Source: Mission estimates.
BCEOM.



ANNEX X
- 111 -                                               Table 12
CIUAD
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Replacement of rousso Ferry - Benefit Cost Analyois
Capital Costs  (CFAF million)             Recurrent Costs  (CFAE_ __lion)_ Benefits  (CFAF million_/
Year                                                                      I                          I  rr-
Design  Technical  Materials            OperatlgCgst6    VainteaanceCoPt$                31
Assistance                     Without   ith                 With        Savings-       VoC Savings
Project  Prolect   Project groJe-t    in
Handling
Costs
1 (L978)    3.4
2
3                      10,8        58.5
4                                                     2.57   1.49       3.11      0.64        1.50               2.29
5                                  -1.1 4            2.62   1,52        3,43      0.64        1,55               2.35
6                                                            1,58                 0.64                          26.20
7                                                            1.63                 0.64                          26.97
8                                                            1.69                 0.64                          27.78
9                                                            1.72                 0.73                          28.65
10                                                            1,75                 0.73                          29.54
11                                                            1.79                 0.73                          30.42
12                                                            1.82                 0.73                          31.34
13-16                                                            1.85                 0.73                          32.28
17                                                            1.85                 0.73                          32.38
5/
18                                                            1,85                 8.73                          32.28
19-26                                                             1.85                0.86                          32.28
27                                                            1.85                0.86                           32.28
28                                  -9.9 6/                   1.85                0.86                           32.28
Without Shadow Prices:  IRR = 26%              Wiph Shadow Prices:  IRR = 27%
B/C a 120 = 2.32                            B/C @ 12% = 2.37
FYB . 10.2%7/                               FYB = 11.017/
1I  Until the existing ferry remains operational, savings in operating and maintenance costs are the primary benefits.
2/ The new larger capacity ferry would permit use of truck-trailers for hauling cotton instead of a single unit
trucks, thereby reducing vehicle operating costs and eliminating the need for loading/unloading; if ferry service
were to terminate, truck traffic would have to use 313 km of large unmaintained tracks as opposed to travelling
on 156 km of paved roads and 149 km of maintained tracks between Bousso and N'Djamena.
3   Loading/unloading charges estimated at CFAF 500/ton for transport of seed cotton as well as ginned cotton.
4/ Salvage value of the motor on the existing ferry,
5/  Includes cost of replacement of motors.
6/ Salvage value of new ferry.
7i If expenditures for desigp and specifications are treated as a sunk cost, first year benefits increase to 11%,
and 12% respectively for the two cases without and with shadow prices.
Souirce: Mission estimates.



- 112 -                               ANNEX  X
Table 13
CHAD
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Hellibongo Ferry - Traffic Projections
Year                                              Annual Traffic
No. of Vehicles./                  No. of Round Trips 2/
Kyabe    Sarh    Am Timan   Melfi
3/f
Without Project          VL    cMS       CMS      CMS        CMS
1979                   4082    358      216         30        23                 3139
1982                   4461    391      266         32        28                 3452
1985                   4862    427      290         35        31                 3763
1990                   5640    495      336         40        35                 4364
2005                   5640    495      336         40        35                 4364
With Project             VL    CLR      CMR        CLR       CLR
1981                   4335      91     107         7         6                  1535
4461     94      114         8        7                   1599
!-35                   4862    103      124         9         8                  1743
4/
ii9O                   5640    119      144        10         9                  2021
2005                   5640    119      144        10         9                  2021
1/ Traffic .rowth estimated at 3% per year.
2/  Round trips estimated on following basis:  (a) existing ferry - 1.5 trips/round trip;
(b) New ferry - 3 light vehicles or medium trucks per round trip, 2 truck-trailers
rer round trip.
3/  Exhisting ferry assumed to continue operations witb udditionrl renovaLi2n and
provision of four new boats.
4/ Ferry traffic assumed constant after 1990 due to unce ,aintxes ir. economic and
traffic forecasts.
Source: Mission estimates; BCEOM.



ANNEX X
- 113 -                                                                    Table 14
CHAD
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
ReplaceMent of Hellibongo Ferry - Benefit Cost Analysis
Capital Cost of Renovation           Recurrent Costs (CFAF million) s                               31
and Purchase of 4 New Boats        Oaerating Cotgata-ntaace UO5tS                                   3/
Capital Costs (CFAF million)           (CFAF million)l/            Without   With    Without  Vith         Savings2l  VOC Savings
__________________Project_____ect                                 in              from
(with project)                (without project)             Project      Project  erojct  et       Handling    Conversion
Year       Design  Technical  Materials                                                                               Costs         to l.arger
Assistance                                                                                                   Capacity Trucks
1           3.4
2                                                     21. 34
3                     10.8       58.5                 21.3!'
3.50      2.08      1.42   0.64         0.65       3.89
5                                -1.1  -/                                      3.57       2.13      1.42   0.64         0.67      4.01
6                                                                              3.64       2.17      1.42   0.64         0.69      4.12
6~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~6
7                                                         ~~~~~~~~~ ~             ~      ~    ~ ~~~~~~~3.71  2.22  1 6/  .6  0.72  4.25
&                                                                              3.78       2.26     5.42   0.64          0.74      4.37
9                                                                              3.86       2.31      1.64   0.73         0.75      4.51
10                                                                              3.95       2.36      1.64   0.73         0.78      4.65
11                                                                              4240                 1.64   0.73         0.80       4.78
12                                                                              4.13       2.50      1.64   0.73         0.83       4.93
13-16                                                                           4.20       2.50      1.64   0.73         0.86       5.08
17                                                                              4.20       2.50    l164   0.73           0.86       5.08
18                                                                                                       6/     6/        .8        5
4.20      2.50      5.64   8.73         0.86       5.08
19-26                                                                           4.20       2.50      1.92   0.86         0.86       5.08
27                                                                               4.20      2.50      1.92   0.86         0.86       5.08
4.20      2.50      1.92   0.86         0.86       5.08
28                                -9.9 21                                        4.20      2.50      1.92   0.86         0.86       5.08
Without Shadow Prices:  IRR = 30%               With Shadow Prices:  IRR = 31%
B/C @ 12% = 2.39                             B/C a 12' = 2.44
FYB = 23.0%                                 FYB = 24.0%
1/   Existing ferry capable of providing service after substantial renovation and provision of four new boats.
2/ The larger capacity ferry to be constructed under the project would permit use of truck-trailers for hauling
ginned cotton instead of single unit trucks, thereby reducing vehicle operating coats and eliminating the
need for load/unloading at an estimated cost of CFAF 500/ton.
3/ With larger capacity ferry, ginned cotton would be carried on truck-trailers instead of single unit trucks between
Sarh and: Ci) Ryabe (98 kmn); (ii) Ain Timan (35 km);and (iti) Nelfi (299 kmn). Seed cotton from the right banLk
of Chari would be transported to Sarh over an average distance of 50 km.
41' Estimated cost of renovation spread over two years.
5/ Salvage value of the motor on existing ferry.
6/ Includes replacement cost of motors.
7/ Salvage value of new ferry.
Source: Mission estimates.



- 114 -
ANNEX X
CHAD                                 Exhibit I
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Breakeven Base ADT vs. Unit Regravelling Cost
(2-month stockpiling)
80 _
7-m (20%)
7-m (10%)
70                                                   -/ 6-m  (20%)
70 _  /     //    6-m (10%)
65 vpd (12%)                                       //             /
60 _                       /         /  ;/      /5~~~~~~~~~~~~~-rn (20%)
60                                                    1
5-m (10%)
50         48vpd (12%)
I-
2
a)
4                                                     / _
30
20~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
C~~~~~~~~.
US$/m3                     6             8             10            12             14
CFAF/m*3 980              1470          1960          2450          2940          3430
Unit Regravelling Cost
(Figures in parenthesis are the discount rates)
World Bank -18219



- 115 -
EXHIBIT I
CHAD
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
DPW Organigramme
|Ministry of Civil VVorks,|
|Mines and Geology
Directorate
General
Directorates
Study and Hydraulics                    _.            Drectoaef_
Office                                        PublicWok__
Contract            |Ropad Planning anE                  .                                            Adm in istrative                  Central Filing
Administration        Design Office                 Buildings            Hydraulics                   Services                          and Correspondence
(Accounting-Personnel)           Office
l  I  I  l  I      I           1    | ~~~~N'Djannena WaterL |
Drawings        Topography             General  |    Supply and
Urbanization
N'DJA?SMENA                                                                     SAR H
Division                                                                         Division
EuipmetPoceen 
1 1
Road   | Buildings and |                  |~ ~ Equpmen
iI                                          I             .__ 
|~ ~~       ~o    o         | Ferryboat Workshop                                       Procuemen
Key
Hierarchic Liaisons
- -  ~  - Functional Liaisons
L            Office to be reorganized
1/ Temporary
To be established under the project                                                                             World Bank- 18053



CHAD                                                     EXHIBIT II
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
INCREMENTAL BENEFITS FROM REGRAVELLING
230 -
Base ADT = 51vpd; Unit Length = 1 Km; 8-Year Project Life
220 -    Vehicle Distribution = 45% VL; 15% CMS; 25% CMR; 15% CLR
Traffic Growth = 3 % Per Annum
210 -                                                 \ koad                  ..............--n--jpv-n-->
210~~~~~~~~~~~~.
200              ,A ,                                                                                         _ r     ' Y   //
'7.~~~~~~Q
OsC)                I77'
c    170             1            27           3                                                                                    567
160                       I ~~~//7 7 ///77777777    cl 
With Proj/c (Rga777777O    120 +0004T
150 
140:                                                       10
V                                                                "'1L~~~~~A AU'                    C
130:                                                                                           I'/ il         0
110                                                                                                         '      
100 
Project Year  0            1            2           3             4            5            6            7            8
V/Year    18.6          19.2         19.7         20.3          21.0         21.6         22.2         22.9     (000' VEMH)
1V         18.6         37.8         57.5         77.8         98.8        120.4         142.6       165.5      (000' VEH)
With Project (Regravelling)         -         VOC = 1 12.06 + 0.0064 7T 2
EW(l   = Incremental VOC Savings
With Project (No Regravelling)          _    VOC= 109.076.11687T-0.09324T2                                          from Routine Maintenance
Without Project (No Regravelling)                                                                              W,.,,,,,,,. X VOC = 109.07 t  6.11687T-0.09324T2 = Incremental VOC Savings
V= No. of Vehicle Passes in Both Directions (000' VEH)              from Regravelling
VOC = Vehicle Operating Cost (CFAF/Km)
T = No. of Vehicle Passes in Both Directions
Since Last Grading (000' VEH)
World Bank -18246



CHAD
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT                         EXHIBIT III
BENEFITS FROM GRADING OF TRACKS
150
Base ADT = 5 vpd; Unit Length = 1 Km; 8 Year Project Life
Vehicle Distribution = 45% VL; 55% CMS.
140    Traffic Growth = 3% Per Annum
E  130 -
< , P^xo'.,r///7//7/7/7//7/7/7/7//7//////7/7//////////////////////
u- 120
_  s-////~~/////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////             s,
'0 ~~~0)~
o     ,/////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////7////////              .E _
o) 110 .///7////7/////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////    ',I
co                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a,-Z  -,0 a-Oc
Cu
v  ///////7////7//////////7///////////////////////////////////////////////  0 a  o] a
100 L/////////,//////////////////////////////////////////////////////////7//  & -  -a s.23  c   
a'    ,////////////////7///////////////////////////////////////////////////7/  s V B-' 0  a,  
a,                                                                                            IV
///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////// ._           CuL 
sc    7////7/7/ /7/7/7/  /7/7//// /7//7/7//  ,/7///o /7/7/7/,  /7/7/7/,  /7/7/7/,__           ,
a,     /807    /7/7       /7/7    /7//       /7/   /77         _77       7)777/ 
70~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
>   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IZ -i LL
80 zll ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~                                                      0c 
Project Year   0     1        2         3        4         5        6         7        8
V/Yr       -       1.83      1.88      1.94     1.99      2.05     2.11      2.18     2.24      (000' VEH)
IV        9.1      10.9      12.8     14.7      16.7     18.8      20.9     23.1      25.3      (000' VEH)
VOC = 74.62 + 6.55485T - 0.23151T2 + 0.00009T4
r/,,//A  = VOC savings from Routine Maintenance
V = No. of Vehicle Passes in Both Directions          [       ,   V
VOC = Vehicle Operating Cost
T = No. of Vehicle Passes in Both Directions Since Last Grading (000' VEHS)
World Bank - 18247






. >  ,                 Vd~~~~~4     ,t2,, 42       22'i         4)             24o
LBYA I                                A.R.E.
K~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
: t00 1, .G ~~~~~~~~~~~~C  H  A  D X<i :g0-s '02''3;;0 -|Si0u
Ir      k tg W -THIRD  HIGHWAY  PROJECT  '-
7d
0/
A4~~~~~~~~~~
A L A F R ICA N r         E M P I R 
:;i:< r t-  ------------------
+;':''::''/                       _" /   '               , {,N
,:S    1-;o  '\       ;                    _              0   0   -S6t~~~~~~~~~'S'2.,.I
| IDIFMX \ eWJ2.-                    ..... _  i?                      -___          -..






rt >                                      _0.
I3 8 Id W I N VD I 7 JV 1V 8i N 3 0                      NOOdN3MAr4f
*<                                  >,          ~~~~~/ ,9Y0         ,1    Y_.
2                 /    ,z_ X                    X papunoo6N !~~~~/                      (
n   Ihipufloq VOfPS Jo oeoor  no,.
suussJopo Ae JoO AtO 4tWZ Aue  0_o+               vJ                            
jpju e qJ   o uosd Y04 . .P
JosaeQ;a^<i 'o Xlluqs_                                                    .0 000*AO  aq  i. .
tittU Aj V  UOJ~0 UMv  5,pPttU                   .                ,   ~ ,'        ,. ,
y     P01   -WwOl)  0P w
OvpeaN5utuex9l ON    0                        J*~.  @        '4'\7   ^                                                    X6
_ : > t' ~~~~~~~~VN3WVflG,N 1~
N  V C  nl S      u     ;a -   ,eqaq                                        'K
.Poo, Qp 1-    Vq ~~~~~~1
._.                                                  /
pyi Aq 2-.d
SyJ13 IU                             GVHJa                                      I 30      
!                                   i ~~O
i~~~~~~~~~~~~ iS310tNflO1VNtOliVN831NM                                           +
<                                  i~~~~~~~~~~~ SCYOU1IVS f---
,t;g _._; /                                                                                (1VNOS't3S} SOb'O8 NiVW   -a
I~ ~                                                             SNOID93NNO2Y OVO NIVVW
VA~-1                              I    1)3rOUId AVMHOIH GdIIH1
I                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~N-Ahr,
lWzCL a u 9I



