Report No. 1499-EC
Appraisal of Agricultural                                                                   C
Credit Project Ecuador
May 25, 1977
Projects Department
Latin America and Caribbean Regional Office
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Sucre           =       S/
US$1            =       S/ 25
S/ I            =       US$0.40
S/ 1,000        =       US$40
S/ 1,000,000    =       US$40,000
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 quintal (qq)               45.5 kg  =  100 lb.
1 ton  =  22 qq        =     1,000 kg2=  2,200 lb.
1 hectare (ha)         =     10,000 m   =  2.47 ac.
I liter (1)            =     0.2642 gal.
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
MAG      -      Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock
BNF      -       National Development Bank
INIAP    -       National Agricultural Research Institute
CENAPIA  -       National Center for the Promotion of Small and
Artisan Industry
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ECUADOR
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS  ..............................                       i-v
I.    INTRODUCTION  ..................................... .................             I
II.    BACKGROUND  .......................................................               1
A.  General ........ ... ..*.... ................................                I
B.   The Agricultural Sector ....                ct .....................        2
C.   Small Industries  ..# .            ....... .... .* ............. .          4
D.  Banking and Credit ....................... ......                            5
E.   Government Objectives  and Policies .......                                 7
F.   Performance Under Previous Livestock Credit
Projects  ................................ ..*.                          8
III.    THE PROJECT  ........................................................             9
A.   Brief Description ...             ................. . .......... .          9
B.  Detailed Features   o  .........* .......              ...........          11
C.   Cost Estimates  ............                                               17
D.  Financing  . ........ ..                     .....................  ......  18
E.   Procurement  .             ................................. ...           19
F.  Disbursements           ................... .....                 .         19
G.   Organization and Management ......................                         19
H.  Lending Operations  ...* ........ .    ............. o... .                 22
I.   Accounts,  Auditing and Monitoring  ................                       24
IV.    PRODUCTION, MARKETS AND MARKETING,  PRICES AND PRODUCER
BENEFITS           ........................... ..      .............         24
A.   Production ......          .......................      .........          24
B.   Markets and Marketing  .             .......................   ...         25
C.  Prices ...... ............. ...................................             25
D.  Producer Benefits ................................                          26
V.    ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION  ..................                         27
VI.    AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  ................                          27
This appraisal report is based on the findings of a mission which visited
Ecuador in September/October 1976, composed of Messrs. F. Michael Crowe,
Delbert Fitchett, Renato Rossi and Thakoor Persaud (Bank) and C. Percival
(Consultant).
This document has a retricted distribution and may be usd by recipients only in the performance
of their offial dutie. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (continued)
ANNEXES
1.   Performance Under Previous Agricultural Projects
2.   The Agricultural Sector
Table 1 - Gross Domestic Product by Economic Sectors 1970-1975
Table 2 - Crop Areas, Yields and Production
3.   The Banking System and Agricultural Credit
Table 1 - Interest and Rediscount Rates
4.   Livestock and Crop Models
(a) Beef Ranch (50 ha)
Tables 1 - 4: Investment Costs, Herd Development Projection,
Sales and Operating Costs and Cash Flow Pro-
jection
(b) Sierra Dairy Farm (50 ha)
Tables 1 - 4:  Investment Costs, Herd Development Projection,
Sales and Operating Costs and Cash Flow Pro-
jection
(c) Small Dairy Farm (10 ha)
Tables 1 - 4:  Investment Costs, Herd Development Projection,
Sales and Operating Costs and Cash Flow Pro-
jection
(d)  Sheep Farm (40 ha)
Tables I - 4:  Investment Costs, Flock Development Projection,
Sales and Operating Costs and Cash Flow Pro-
jection
(e)  Small Cropping Farm (4 ha)
Tables 1 - 3:  Investment Costs, Production Costs and
Incremental Net Production Value, Cash
Flow Projection



Table of Contents (continued)
ANNEXES
5.   Applied Research - Terms of Reference
Table 1: Technical Assistance and Training Costs
6.   Farm Investment Costs by Category
7.   Project Cash Flow:  Central Bank
8.   Project Cash Flow:  Participating Banks
9.   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
10. Economic Rate of Return
Table 1: Incremental Project Output
Table 2: Producers' Prices Used in the Economic
and Financial Analysis
Table 3: Economic Rate of Return Calculation
BAP
IBRD No. 12618






ECUADOR
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
SUMMSARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises an agricultural credit project in Ecuador,
for which a Bank loan of US$15.5 million is proposed. The project would
help continue a successful program of livestock development initiated under
earlier projects; in addition it would help to increase crop production by
small farmers and to develop small industries in rural areas.
ii.       Since 1972, petroleum production and exports have had a dramatic
effect on Ecuador's finances and rate of economic growth. The country,
however, continues to be one of the poorest in Latin America, with a 1975 per
capita income equivalent to about US$550. At the same time, its population--
of 7.1 million in 1975--has been rising rapidly at an annual rate of 3.4% in
recent years. Only by expanding, diversifying and raising the productivity of
the non-petroleum sector can Ecuador create employment for its rapidly growing
labor force and raise the living standards of the broad mass of the population.
iii.      The Government's objectives in the agricultural sector are to
increase output and improve economic and social conditions in rural areas.
Some of its policies, however, have been inadequate: price controls of agri-
cultural products have rarely been effective, but usually costly; high support
prices for rice have led to over-production and exports at heavy losses;
Government involvement in the marketing of agricultural products and farm
inputs has been generally unsuccessful and inefficient--particularly heavy
losses were incurred on the import and distribution of fertilizer. Moreover,
there is at present no effective planning, programming and control of sectorial
activities.
iv.       Government is generally aware of the inadequacies described above;
it is equally aware of the difficulty of removing many of them. Some actions
have already been taken or are in process. The supply of credit to the sector
has increased from about US$60 million in 1971 to US$186 million in 1975.
Official milk (and some other) prices have been brought more in line with
market conditions. There are plans for the reorganization of the extension
services.
v.        The strategy for the future development of agriculture and the rural
areas should now be directed to: (a) formulating clear priorities for rural
development and strengthening project preparation capabilities, as already
initiated under the Technical Assistance Project (Loan 1230-EC); (b) improving
marketing systems, including standardization and enforcement of weights and
measures, credit for small traders to increase competition, and the expansion
of storage and marketing facilities; (c) improving government price policies
to reflect market forces; (d) reorganizing the extension services to provide
an integrated approach to the farm as an enterprise and improve the diffusion



- ii -
and adoption of agricultural research results; and (e) creating additional
employment opportunities in rural areas through investment in small local
industries. The proposed project, taken together with on-going and likely
future projects financed by the Bank Group, would contribute to achieving
these goals, and to striking a reasonable balance in meeting the needs for
increased production and for improved income distribution.
vi.       The project would be carried out over a five year investment
period. It would provide credit for:
(a) livestock development, including pasture improvement and
renewal, fencing and other infrastructure, machinery and
equipment and breeding stock, for beef cattle principally
in the Costa and Oriente and for dairy and sheep principally
in the Sierra;
(b) the development of crop farms in selected areas covering
a variety of on-farm investments, such as: irrigation
canals and pumps; land clearing and development; building
(including home) improvements; storage facilities; rehabil-
itation of permanent crops, such as cocoa and fruit trees;
incremental inputs for annual crops;
(c) small local industries, involving for example, processing
of meat, poultry, vegetables and vegetable oil, balanced
feeds and wood products; and
(d) the development of consulting services to commercial
agriculture.
The loans for sheep farms, crop farms and some dairies are expected to benefit
a significant number of small farmers; those for beef cattle, and some of those
for dairies, would help raise the output and productivity of larger farmers.
vii.      In addition to credit, other components of the project would be:
applied research, with particular emphasis on farm development in the Oriente
and Paramo region of the Sierra and on pasture development; technical assis-
tance to improve the administration and accounts of the Cooperative Bank and
of selected cooperatives; and equipment and technical assistance for the
Project Executive Unit, CENAPIA and participating MAG extension services.
viii.     The existing Project Executive Unit would be responsible for the
management of the project, under arrangements similar to those that have
proved successful for earlier projects. The staffing of the Unit would
be diversified and strengthened, in line with the expansion of activities.
ix.       As under previous projects, credit would be channelled through
participating banks. The minimum interest rates for medium- and long-term
credit under this project would be 11% for small farmers and 14% for other
borrowers. These rates would be adequate and represent substantial improve-
ments over the arrangement under Credit 222 (9% for subloans up to US$25,000;



- iii -
12% for other subloans). Individual livestock and agricultural subloans would
be made only to those whose principal source of income was the property to be
improved by the subloan. Moreover, 30% of the livestock and agricultural
credit would be earmarked for small farmers.
x.        The total project cost is estimated at US$36.0 million, including
price contingencies of US$9.8 million, with a foreign exchange component of
US$15.5 million. The financing would be provided as follows: Bank, US$15.5
million; Government, US$8.7 million; the participating banks, US$5.7 million;
and subborrowers US$6.1 million.
xi.       The Bank loan would be at 8.2% for a term of 14 years, including
five years of grace on principal repayments and would cover the estimated
foreign exchange cost, or 43% of total project costs. It would cover 41% of
the investment costs of subprojects and 90% of the costs of the applied research
and technical assistance components. Government and the participating banks
would meet 40% of project costs; this would cover 41% of the cost of sub-
projects and 10% of the cost of technical assistance and applied research.
Sub-borrowers would contribute the balance of the cost of subprojects.
xii.      In view of the fact that the credit program would be implemented over
a five-year period, be widely distributed geographically, and cover a variety
of investment plans (and thus items to be procured), bulk purchasing would not
be feasible. Capital items would therefore be purchased locally from commercial
suppliers, who maintain adequate stocks and whose margins are in an acceptable
range. Vehicles and equipment (US$125,000) for project administration would be
procured through local competitive bidding, according to procedures acceptable
to the Bank. The services of expatriate personnel and consultants would be
arranged according to procedures acceptable to the Bank.
xiii.     The Bank would disburse, over a five-year period, 50% of the amount
of the subloans disbursed by participating banks and 90% of the total cost of
the technical services, research and training component.
xiv.      At full development, annual incremental output of crops and live-
stock products farms is expected to be as follows: 1,300 m tons of maize;
2,000 m tons of oilseeds; 8,000 m tons of vegetables; 2,000 m tons of rice;
about 31 million liters of milk and 7,800 m tons of beef; about 140 m tons of
mutton and 35,000 kg of wool. It is not possible at this stage to estimate
incremental production from the small industries component, since this is
essentially a line of credit. Detailed projections would be included in the
feasibility studies that would be prepared for each individual subproject.
xv.       Project-induced production of milk and beef are not anticipated to
encounter marketing difficulties. In the past year and a half, there have
been substantial imports of powdered milk to meet the rapidly expanding
domestic demand. More than adequate processing capacity exists in the local
pasteurizing industry to absorb the projected expansion of output. There



- iv -
exists a similarly strong and expanding demand for beef. Although there is
much room for improvement in the marketing of other agricultural products,
the incremental volumes of crop production are modest relative to overall
national totals and are not expected to encounter marketing difficulties. The
marketing prospects for production from the small industries component would
be individually assessed in the feasibility studies for each subproject.
xvi.      Milk prices are now highly attractive to producers.  The official
prices on beef are not vigorously policed and appear adequate and relatively
stable at the producer level. The government's policy with respect to the
other crops to be financed under the project is restrained to merely setting
guidelines or referential prices and is not expected to act as a disincentive
to producers.
xvii.     The financial rates of return on the models range from 18% to 26%.
Net operating incomes are expected to increase as follows: 50-ha beef ranches
from about US$800 equivalent to about US$3,500; 50-ha dairies from about
US$6,800 to about $18,000; small dairies (taking only the income from 6 ha of
pasture on a 10-ha farm) from US$80 to US$700; small 40-ha sheep farms from
US$260 to US$2,100; and small crop farms from US$400 to US$1,300. Except in
the case of the crop farm, the net income is after charging incremental labor,
some or all of which may be previously unemployed family labor, so that the
increase in family income could be substantially more than the increase in the
farm operating income. Producer benefits cannot be quantified at this stage
for the small industries components, although preliminary estimates show
financial rates of return in the neighborhood of 20% for typical small indus-
tries.
xviii.    While the project would be basically production oriented, it would
also raise the living standards of a significant number of small farmers and
pave the way for future increases in the volume of lending to this group.
At full development, the project would generate some 4,000 man-years of em-
ployment annually. The total value of incremental output would be US$12
million a year, plus herd increments valued at US$16 million.
xix.      The economic rate of return of the agricultural and livestock
components of the project is estimated at 20%. The results of sensitivity
analysis may be summarized as follows:
Investment          Operating                            Shadow Wage
Costs               Costs              Output            Rate 80%
+10%     +15%       +10%      +15%       -10%     -15%
Rate of Return       19%        18%        17%       15%       15%       13%          21%



xx.       Because the small industries component is in the nature of a line
of credit, no calculation of the economic rate of return has been possible.
Tentative estimates of the financial results indicate rates of return of the
order of 20%.
xxi.      The experience of previous projects and the known demand for credit
suggest a relatively low level of risk for the livestock components of the
project.  The more limited experience in Ecuador of lending to small farmers
and small industries indicates an acceptable level of risk, given the insti-
tutional strengthening and safeguards incorporated in the project.
xxii.     The proposed project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$15.,5 million
for 14 years, including a five-year grace period.
May 25, 1977






ECUADOR
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Ecuador has requested a Bank loan of US$15.5
million for a credit project to help continue a successful program of live-
stock development, to strengthen crop production by small farmers and coopera-
tives, to develop small industries in rural areas, and to encourage local
consulting services.
1.02      Bank Group lending for agricultural credit in Ecuador has so far
been limited to three livestock development projects. Other Bank Group
activities in the agricultural sector are the Fisheries, Milagro Irrigation,
Seeds, and Technical Assistance Projects. The performance of the credit
projects is discussed in paragraphs 2.28 to 2.33; all are reviewed in Annex 1.
1.03      The proposed Agricultural Credit Project was prepared by techni-
cians of the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock, with support from
professional staff of the Third Livestock Development Project and three Bank
preparation missions.
II. BACKGROUND
A. General
2.01      Since 1972, petroleum production and exports have had a dramatic
effect on Ecuador's finances and rate of economic growth. In real terms,
the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) increased by about 5% annually from 1969
to 1971, by 6% in 1972, 18% in 1973, 12% in 1974 and 5% in 1975. This
rapid growth has been accompanied by price inflation, particularly in 1974
(23%), although the rate of inflation declined from 14.5% in 1975 to 10.6%
in 1976.
2.02      Ecuador continues, however, to be one of the poorest countries
in Latin America, with a 1975 per capita income equivalent to about US$550,
and with many of its people living in poverty. At the same time, its popula-
tion - 7.1 million in 1975 - has been rising at an annual rate of 3.4% in
recent years. The question now is how fully the country will be able to
utilize its new financial resources to strengthen its economic structure,
particularly in view of present uncertainties about oil exploitation and, in
consequence, the level of future output and revenues. Only by expanding,
diversifying and raising the productivity of the non-petroleum sector can
Ecuador create employment for its rapidly growing labor force and raise the
living standards of the broad mass of the population. Particular attention



- 2 -
needs to be given to the rural areas, where 58% of the people (and most of the
poorest) live, and where agricultural production has lagged behind the general
rate of growth and the needs of the population.
B. The Agricultural Sector (Annex 2)
Agriculture in the Economy
2.03      Although its contribution to GDP declined from 29% in 1965 to 21% in
1975, agriculture remains a most important sector of the economy. It employs
over 54% of the labor force and, even with the sharp expansion in petroleum
exports in recent years, still accounts for about 30% of merchandise exports.
The sector has, however, been unable to expand its production fast enough
to meet rising demand, especially for livestock and dairy products, feed
grains and edible oils. In 1975, imports of wheat were valued at US$33.5
million, edible oils at US$12.3 million, and dairy products at US$3.0 million.
There is a substantial, but unrecorded, border trade in live cattle.
2.04      According to the 1968 agricultural survey, there were 633,200 farm
holdings in the country, some 74% being less than 5 ha in size and occupying
no more than 10% of the total farm land. Since most farmers produce only for
family subsistence, they remain outside the market economy. By Bank defini-
tion, 1/ between 50% and 66% of the rural population in 1974 were "absolutely
poor" and 75%, "relatively poor." Nutritional surveys indicate that 47% of
the rural population suffer from calorie and protein deficiencies. According
to the 1974 census, about 90% of rural dwellings have no electricity or
plumbing. A special program of land tenure reform and settlement was started
in 1964 and continues under the provision of the 1973 Agrarian Reform Law, but
so far only some 55,000 recipients have benefitted, mostly through settlement
on new land.
2.05      The rural population is divided almost equally between the Pacific
coastal region--Costa--and the central Andean highlands--Sierra--with very
few people living in the lowlands of the Amazon basin--Oriente. Temperate
climate crops and dairy production are concentrated in the Sierra where there
are both medium and small sized farms. Tropical crops, including the main
export items--bananas, cocoa, coffee and sugar--are raised mainly in the
Costa, and, to a limited extent, in the Oriente. The Costa has the most
potential for increasing the cropped area as well as pastures and it is
probable that large areas of the Oriente, close to the Andes, could be devel-
oped as grassland; there is only limited additional land in the Sierra for
crops and livestock production.
1/   Report No. 588, Rural Development and Bank Policies:  A Progress Report,
dated December 2, 1974.



- 3 -
2.06      Of the total cropped area of about 1.6 million ha, some 175,000 ha
are irrigated, but many of these are served by systems which are incomplete
or in a poor state of repair, so that their output falls appreciably short of
potential. The potentially irrigable area is estimated at some 900,000
ha and an additional substantial area, largely in the lower Guayas Basin,
is suitable for large-scale drainage.
2.07      Yields are generally low and although improved seed varieties and
management systems have been developed for the main crops, their adoption has
by and large so far been restricted to a small number of larger commercial
producers. Shortages and poor distribution of improved seeds and fertilizer
supplies, poor pest control, improper land and water management practices,
inadequate credit and technical assistance, deficient pricing policies and
inadequate storage and marketing facilities have delayed improvements in
productivity.
Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock
2.08      The Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock (MAG) comprises planning
and administrative bureaus and five operating bureaus: Crops, Livestock,
Rural Development, Forestry, and Marketing. The Ministry's budget rose a
modest 9% in 1976, from S/ 640 million to S| 690 million. In 1976, the
total budgeted staff, unchanged from 1975, was 1,840 of whom 1,021 were pro-
fessional and technical. There are a number of autonomous agencies attached
to MAG dealing with: agricultural research (paragraph 2.10), land reform,
irrigation, storage and marketing, and retail marketing, and several regional
development agencies.
2.09      Extension services in MAG have hitherto been organized along specific
crop lines, for example, bananas, rice, cotton and so forth; similarly, the
practical training of extension personnel is generally limited to a single
"technological package" which they promote. This narrow focus is at odds with
the diversity typical of farming in Ecuador. In view of this, MAG is planning
a reorganization, under which extension personnel would focus on the farm as
an integral operation. This reorganization is to be accompanied by the reloca-
tion of MAG professional and technical staff in rural areas (rather than
largely in provincial capitals as at present) and the establishment of local
service centers, including badly needed marketing and storage facilities. A
first-phase trial program is being implemented in the Provinces of Imbabura
and Carchi. The reorganization of the extension services would be coordi-
nated with the provision under the project of credit to small farmers.
Agricultural Research
2.10      Official agricultural research in Ecuador is the responsibility of
the National Agricultural Research Institute (INIAP), which started operations
in 1962. INIAP has evolved as an institution of major importance in Ecuador
and has attracted the support of the Rockefeller Foundation and bilateral and
international aid agencies. Bank Group credits and loans for agriculture have



- 4 -
supported it and an extensive agricultural research loan has recently been
provided by the Inter-American Development Bank. INIAP's professional staff,
totalling some 300, engage in research into plant breeding, agronomic and plant
protection, pastures and livestock nutrition and farm management.
2.11      Fourteen years of research have provided a sound technical basis for
increasing agricultural productivity. INIAP has developed and tested improved
varieties of most of the major crops in Ecuador, although research should be
intensified to produce improved varieties of soft corn, beans, and pasture and
expanded to include grain sorghum, pulses, fruits, vegetables and poultry.
There is also a need to improve the dissemination of research results and to
develop cheaper technical packages for low-income farmers.
C. Small Industries
2.12      Total employment in industry amounts to less than 12% of the eco-
nomically active population.  Small enterprises account for about 75% of
employment in the sector but for only about 30% of value added. Nonetheless,
small enterprises should have a useful role in Ecuador's future development,
particularly outside the main cities. The size of local markets and their
fragmentation due to transport problems favor such enterprises, which in
addition tend to be labor intensive and provide a good training ground for
managers and entrepreneurs.
2.13      Government is concerned to promote and assist these small or artisan
industries. In the 1963-73 Development Plan, emphasis was put on building
industrial estates, particularly in areas other than Quito and Guayaquil.
Implementation of these proposals, however, has been notably slow. Other
measures have included the creation of numerous training centers and tech-
nical assistance programs, partly financed by Bank Loan 1157-EC of 1975.
2.14      A major step was taken in 1973 with the promulgation of a special
law for the promotion of small and artisan industries, which provides for
extensive tax exemptions. These incentives and the general improvement in
economic perspectives have led to a rapid expansion in the number of enter-
prises applying for these benefits.  In 1973, 131 new enterprises were classi-
fied to receive benefits under the law, involving investment estimated at
S/ 128, million (about US$5 million equivalent); in 1974 there were 217 enter-
prises with investment of S/ 289 million (about US$12 million equivalent).
The revision in August 1975, raising the size limit to S/ 5 million (US$200,000)
invested in machinery and equipment, has brought a further increase in appli-
cations. In addition, special funds and credit facilities have been provided
for small and medium industry (paragraph 2.23).
2.15      In November 1975 the Minister of Industry announced the creation of
the National Center for the Promotion of Small and Artisan Industry (CENAPIA)
to succeed an AID-financed program. CENAPIA carries out prefeasibility



- 5 -
studies for small industrial undertakings, assists in seeking out finance
and supervises the progress of projects. It also provides training in the
areas of finance, accounting, production and marketing. CENAPIA has a head
office in Quito and branches in Guayaquil, Cuenca, Portoviejo and Tulcan with
considerable administrative decentralization. A Board of Directors decides
on policy isues; administration is in the hands of an Executive Director.  In
October 1976 CENAPIA's professional staff numbered 32 and included economists,
an agronomist, industrial and chemical engineers, lawyers, and financial
analysts. Present plans call for the recruitment over the next three years of
30 more well-qualified professionals. CENAPIA's policies and management
appear to be sound.
2.16       During 1976 CENAPIA prepared feasibility studies for small-scale
enterprises calling for fixed investments of almost US$5 million equivalent;
during the same year it supervised credit totalling about US$1 million equiva-
lent. The volume of investment by small industries and their requirements
for credit are expected to grow rapidly in coming years.
D. Banking and Credit (Annex 3)
General
2.17       Ecuador has a well developed banking system, consisting of the
Monetary Board, the Central Bank, the Government-owned National Development
Bank (BNF), 25 private commercial banks, several development finance companies
(DFC) (one government-owned and the others private) and a Cooperative Bank.
The Monetary Board fixes monetary policy and regulates the volume and distri-
bution of money and credit. The Central Bank performs the traditional func-
tions of such an institution and provides re-discounting facilities within a
relatively conservative policy fraaework. The commercial banks are on the
whole soundly run, but the BNF has encountered serious financial and organi-
zational problems (para 2.32).
2.18       The most striking change in the financing of gross domestic invest-
ment between 1970 and 1974 is the increase in the participation of the Central
Government in net savings from less than 1% to 9%, due largely to oil revenues.
In addition, BNF's share rose from 1% in 1970 to 10% in 1974, with nearly all
of the increase channelled to the agricultural sector. The share provided by
commercial banks and DFCs increased from 9% to 16% in the same period (a
seven-fold increase in absolute terms).
2.19      More recently the petroleum boom has created severe inflationary
pressures, but by early 1976 these had been brought under control, mainly
by changes in legal reserve requirements, rediscount facilities and import
deposit requirements.



- 6 -
2.20      The Central Bank operates a rediscounting mechanism for short- and
long-term loans made by the BNF, commercial banks and DFCs. The great majority
of loans made by commercial banks and over half those of the BNF are for less
than two years. Banks pay 6% to 7% on passbook savings accounts and 7% to 10%
on term deposits. Mortgage certificates and government bonds yield up to 12%
(tax free for the latter). Until recently, the maximum lending rates permitted
by law encouraged short-term lending at the expense of medium and long-term
operations.
2.21      Ecuadorian monetary authorities have recognized the need for
changes in the interest rate structure which would make medium- and long-term
lending at least as attractive as short-term lending. In November 1976 the
Monetary Board introduced a graduated structure of allowable commission
charges on medium and long-term lending. According to new regulations,
both the banking system and DFCs are allowed to charge, in addition to the
unchanged maximum interest rates (9% for agriculture--except under Credit
222-EC for subloans over US$25,000 at 12%--and 12% for other sectors), the following
maximum commissions on new loans:
On Balances Outstanding:                                   Commission
for more than three years and less than five years             2%
for more than five years and less than eight years              3%
for more than eight years                                      4%
The new interest and commission structure provides both the public and private
banks with a reasonable interest rate spread and introduces an interest rate
differential between short- and long-term lending; it should help mobilize
domestic resources for investment and stimulate the interest of private
banks in agricultural credit.
Credit for Agriculture and Small Industries
2.22      In 1973 Government created the "Fondos Financieros" (Financial Funds)
to channel petroleum and some aid money to development and particularly into
agriculture. These funds are used to finance credits extended by both private
and public banks. In addition, the monetary authorities require that private
banks maintain 20% of their portfolio as loans to the agricultural sector (25%
in the case of foreign-owned private banks) or else hold 4% interest-bearing
national bonds. Loans to agriculture in 1975, amounting to US$186 million,
represented about 17% of total bank credit, well above the 13% average for
1971-73. This 1975 figure represents a tripling from the US$60 million
reported in 1971. During this period, credit for livestock approximately
quintupled while crop lending slightly more than doubled; by 1975, lending was
almost evenly split between crops and livestock. However, only a minority of
farmers have access to (and as few as 7% actually use) institutional credit.
Many others utilize a considerable but unquantified volume of non-institutional
credit from suppliers or money-lenders, at interest rates which range upwards
of 20% p.a. to as high as 100% p.a.--and usually for relatively short periods.



- 7 -
In this way farmers can avoid mortgaging land or having to submit to the
formalities generally required by banks.
2.23      Special finance and credit facilities have also been provided for
small and medium industry. Two of the eight Financial Funds have aimed at
assisting small-scale and artisan industries, namely, the Industrial Financial
Fund and the USAID Technical and Credit Assistance to Small Industry Program.
In 1975, the Government increased the resources of the former to US$16 million
equivalent; the latter program closed toward the end of that year.
E. Government Objectives and Policies
2.24      The Government's objectives, as outlined in the National Development
Plan for 1973-77, are to increase output by expansion into new areas, by irri-
gation, and by increases in productivity, and to improve economic and social
conditions in rural areas. With the exception of the relatively small increase
of 3.8% in sectorial output in 1973, Plan targets for both 1974 and 1975 have
been exceeded, although, since the Plan was formulated before the increase
in financial resources made available by petroleum exports, it is difficult to
assess performance against it.
2.25      Other actions taken or planned by Government, and already noted
above, include: the reorganization of the extension services; the increased
supply of credit for agriculture; the increase of some producer prices (parti-
cularly for milk) to better reflect market conditions; and, financial and
other incentives for small industries.
2.26      Although much has been and is being done, some of the policies
followed by Government in the pursuit of its objectives have been inadequate.
Price controls on agricultural products have rarely been effective, but
usually costly. On the other hand, high support prices for rice have led to
over-production and exports at heavy Government losses. Government involve-
ment in the marketing of agricultural products and farm inputs, through its
marketing agencies and the BNF has been generally unsuccessful and inefficient--
particularly heavy losses were incurred on the import and distribution of
fertilizer. Moreover, there is at present no effective planning, programming
and control of sectorial activities in either the National Planning Office or
in MAG's planning bureau.
2.27      The strategy for the future development of agriculture and the rural
areas should now be directed to:
(a) formulating clear priorities for rural development and
strengthening project preparation capabilities, as already
initiated under the Bank loan for Agricultural and Rural
Development Technical Assistance (Loan 1230-EC). For this
purpose, clear lines of authority and responsibility must
be established within the public sector agencies concerned;



- 8 -
(b)  improving marketing systems, including standardization and
enforcement of weights and measures, credit for small traders
to increase competition, and expansion of storage and marketing
facilities;
(c)  continuing improvement of government price control and support
policies to reflect market forces;
(d)  further expansion of the availability of credit for agriculture;
(e)  reorganizing the extension services to provide an integrated
approach to farm enterprise management and to improve the
diffusion and adoption of agricultural research results; and
(f)  creating additional employment opportunities in rural areas
through investment in small local industries.
F. Performance Under Previous Livestock Credit Projects
2.28      The First Livestock Development Project financed on-farm investments
for beef production in the coastal region. Loan 501-EC, for US$4.0 million,
became effective in December 1967 and was fully committed by June 30, 1969,
some six months ahead of schedule. The program was administered by a Project
Executive Unit, under an expatriate Director and a specially created auton-
omous Project Committee. One hundred thirty-two subloans were made, averaging
US$37,000 each.
2.29      The Second Livestock Development Project was of an interim nature
and designed, in view of the rapid advance of the first project, to continue
financing coastal livestock activities until a third, more comprehensive
project could be prepared and approved. Under Credit 173-EC for US$1.5
million, 90 subloans, averaging about US$25,000 each, were made.
2.30      The Third Livestock Development Project (Credit 222-EC for US$10
million) continued to finance beef cattle development in the Costa and was
expanded to include dairy farm development in the Sierra highlands and a
smaller volume of lending for beef cattle in the Oriente. It also covered
research, technical assistance, and a seed improvement program. Under the
Project, 356 subloans have been approved by the Project Unit, averaging
US$31,000 each. The livestock credit funds are nearly fully committed,
and it is likely that the credit will be fully disbursed by end-1977.
2.31      The performance of the first two projects (Loan 501-EC and Credit
173-EC) was assessed in the Project Performance Audit Report dated October 21,
1975. The Report found that the projects had been well managed, had improved



- 9 -
productivity and output on participating ranches and had jointly resulted in
an increase of roughly 10% (worth about US$4 million a year) in national beef
production. The economic rate of return, however, was estimated to have
fallen sharply (to about 12%, compared with 27% at appraisal) because of
higher investment costs and lower beef prices relative to input costs.
The financial rates of return to ranchers, on the other hand, were estimated
to have been about equal to the 27% forecast at appraisal, because rapid
inflation eroded the real value of subloan repayments, offsetting the unfavor-
able price movements.  The Report also noted:  the low sanitary standards of
slaughterhouses processing project output; the regressive impact on income
distribution resulting from subsidized interest rates to medium-sized and large
producers (granting that commercial production was the project's main objec-
tive); the capital intensive nature of the developments financed; and the lack
of a monitoring system.
2.32      The performance of the third project has been basically similar to
that of the first two. Two issues have arisen, however: first, the account-
ing and audit arrangements have been inadequate and, second, there have been
serious deficiencies in the accounts and internal controls of BNF, the princi-
pal participating bank.
2.33      The proposed project would continue the livestock program estab-
lished under the first three projects. Producer prices for milk have just
been substantially increased. At the same time, the investment models have
been designed to reduce capital costs in the light of the experience already
gained. Assurances on health standards in slaughterhouses were obtained
(paragraph 4.04). A substantial share of the benefits would accrue to small
farmers and the new interest rate structure would not favor the larger pro-
ducers. Following a recent supervision mission, work has already begun on the
collection of actual operating results from participating farms and ranches;
this would be continued. Agreement has been reached on the actions being, and
to be, taken to remedy the accounting and auditing deficiencies noted above.
Summary project accounts for 1975, certified by the Superintendent of Banks,
were submitted to the Bank in February 1977, and similar statements for 1976
are expected to be received in June 1977. Moreover, the Central Bank and the
Superintendent of Banks are now proceeding with a review of Credit 222 accounts
of BNF and other participating banks during the final stage of execution of
that project. For the proposed project, the auditing and accounting safeguards
have been strengthened (paragraphs 3.55 and 3.56).
III. THE PROJECT
A. Brief Description
3.01      While continuing the type of successful livestock lending estab-
lished under earlier projects financed by the Bank Group, the new project
would place greater emphasis on lending to small producers and cooperatives,
and would diversify by providing credit for crops and for the development of
small industries in rural areas. It would be carried out over a five-year
investment period, as follows:



- 10 -
Average
Investment
Project Year:              1       2         3       Total        per Subproject
(Estimated Number of Loans)               (US$)
Beef Ranches              100     150       150         400           15,600
Dairies                    50      75        75         200           39,000
Small Dairies             50      100       150         300            6,000
Sheep Ranches              10      15        25          50            5,500
Crop Farms                150     300       550       1,000            2,200
Small Industries           10      15        25          50          128,000
Professional Loans          5       5         -          10           20,000
Total               375      660      975       2,010
3.02      The project would provide credit for:
(a) livestock development, including pasture improvement
and renewal, fencing and other infrastructure, machinery
and equipment and breeding stock, for beef cattle ranches
primarily in the Costa and Oriente and dairy and sheep
farms and ranches primarily in the Sierra;
(b) the development of crop farms in selected areas covering
a variety of on-farm investments, depending on the area,
such as: irrigation canals and pumps; land clearing and
development; building (including home) improvements;
storage facilities; rehabilitation of permanent crops,
incremental inputs for annual crops;
(c) small local industries, principally in the areas covered
by (b) above, involving, for example, processing of meat,
poultry, vegetables and vegetable oil, balanced feeds and
wood products; and
(d) the development of agricultural consulting services to
commercial agriculture.
3.03      In addition to credit, other components of the project would be:
applied research, with particular emphasis on farm development in the Oriente
and paramo and on pasture development; technical assistance to improve the
administration and accounts of the Cooperative Bank and of selected coopera-
tives; equipment and technical assistance for the Project Executive Unit,
CENAPIA and participating MAG extension services.
3.04      The existing Project Executive Unit would be responsible for the
management of the project, under arrangements similar to those that have
proved successful for earlier projects. The staffing of the Unit would be
diversified and strengthened, in line with the expansion of activities.



- 11 -
3.05      As under previous projects, credit would be channelled through par-
ticipating banks. The minimum interest rates for medium- and long-term credit
under this project would be 11% for small farmers and 14% for others. These
rates would represent substantial improvements over the arrangement under
Credit 222 (9% for low-income farmers; 12% for higher-income farmers). Indi-
vidual livestock and agricultural subloans would be made only to those whose
principal source of income was from the property to be improved by the sub-
loan. Moreover, 30% of such credit would be earmarked for small farmers.
B. Detailed Features
Location and Phasing
3.06      The project would be countrywide.  The dairy and sheep ranches would
be concentrated in the Sierra; the beef ranches would be mostly in the Costa,
with a few in the Oriente. The small cropping and mixed farms would be in
selected pilot areas in order to enable the credit operation to be coordinated
with the reorganization of the extension services (paragraphs 2.09 and 3.42).
The small industries subprojects would be mainly in the Costa and Sierra, but
away from Quito and Guayaquil. Some 2,000 loans are expected to be committed
over a three-year period, and to be fully disbursed over five years.
3.07      The credit program reflects the experience gained from earlier
projects and the assessment of local banks and other institutions of the
demand for the different types of credit. The farm and ranch models described
in the following paragraphs also reflect the experience of previous projects
and have been designed to illustrate the financial and economic viability of
the types of investment proposed. In practice, however, there would likely
be considerable variation, not only in the size of the subloans, but also in
the investments financed in individual cases. For example, the small dairy
and beef ranch models represent units of minimum economic size; average
investments are likely to be about double. Also, it is possible (and desir-
able) that farmers with mixed operations would borrow to increase their crop
production and also to improve or introduce beef or dairy operations. Again,
the small crop farm model includes provision for irrigation improvements that
would be unnecessary in rainfed conditions. The numbers of subloans shown
against each model are, therefore, only intended to give a broad indication
of the volume of lending. The small industries component is essentially a
line of credit although detailed profiles have been prepared of representative
enterprises. For the purposes of the financial projections, it has been
assumed that the recipients of loans for small dairies, sheep farms and small
crop farms--and these only--would qualify for the reduced interest rates and
borrowers' contributions applicable to small farmers, as defined in para 3.47.
Ranches, Dairies and Farms
3.08      Beef Ranch.  For ranches specializing in beef production, a minimum
economic unit is between 50 and 100 ha; smaller units would include a crop-
ping component. The model ranch of 50 ha represents a breeding and fattening



- 12 -
operation based on grazing unfertilized improved or renovated pastures. It
provides a guide to the level of investment per hectare which would be eco-
nomical for beef production over a considerable range of ranch size, produc-
tion systems and environments. Total beef output (liveweight) is estimated to
increase from around 70 kg per ha before development to about 220 kg per ha in
the ninth year under a program of renovating pasture and developing new pasture
areas, increasing weaning rates from 55% up to 70%, reducing fattening time
from over three years to about two years, and reducing herd mortality. The
total investment of about US$15,600 equivalent (US$156 per ha) would include
pasture improvement, 28%; fencing, 12%; watering, 3%; and breeding stock, 37%.
The detailed model appears in Annex 4(a).
3.09      Sierra Dairy Farm.  This model of 50 ha is representative of com-
mercial dairy farms which are usually specialized enterprises with around 75%
of sales from milk and the remainder from surplus and cull animals. Male
calves are sold at one week of age and heifer calves usually as weaners or two
year heifers. Under a five-year pasture renewal and annual pasture fertiliza-
tion program, carrying capacity is expected to increase from 1.2 to over 2.0 AU
per ha, daily milk production to increase from a level of 7.5 up to 10.5 liters
per cow and from 1,600 liters per ha to 3,800 liters per ha in seven years.
The total investment of around US$39,000 represents US$780 per ha, and com-
prises pasture development, 21%; fencing, 5%; stock watering facilities, 3%;
farm structures, 24%; machinery and equipment, 9%; and breeding stock, 37%.
The detailed model appears in Annex 4(b).
3.10      Small Dairy Farm.  These farms are typically family enterprises in
the Sierra. In the model, 6 ha of pasture is renewed over a five-year cropping
program, in conjunction with subdivisional fencing, the purchase of better
quality cows and improved management. Carrying capacity rises from 1.0 to
1.8 AU per ha while milk production per cow increases from 5 up to 8 liters and
annual milk production from 600 to 2,400 liters per ha. Surplus calves are
sold at about one year of age--steers at about 160 kg liveweight for slaughter
or fattening. Total investment costs are estimated at about US$3,000, compris-
ing pasture renewal, 36%; subdivisional fencing, 6%; stock watering facilities,
4%; building improvements, 12%; and purchase of breeding cattle, 41%. The
total investment equals about US$500 per ha of pasture land. The detailed
model appears in Annex 4(c).
3.11      Sheep Farm.  The 40 ha sheep model is designed to promote the devel-
opment of more accessible areas of the paramo and to change the present low
output, free range farming system to a higher yielding enclosed system by the
use of improved legume-based pastures. Local crossbred sheep would be up-
graded through the purchase of proven rams from MAG. Increases in productivity
over a five-year period would result from the weaning rate rising from 50% to
80% and the carrying capacity from 2 sheep units up to 5.5 sheep units per
ha with an increase in wool production from 1.0 kg to 3.5 kg per sheep unit.
Male progeny would be sold for slaughter at over one year of age and surplus
ewes at about the same age for breeding purposes. The investment cost would be
about US$5,300 equivalent (US$130 per ha), comprising new pastures, 27%;
fencing, 17%; stock watering facilities, 8%; construction, 26%; and breeding
stock, 19%. The detailed model appears in Annex 4(d).



- 13 -
3.12      Small Cropping Farm.  Participants would be small farmers cultivating
irrigated or rainfed crops.  The 5 ha model includes investments estimated
to cost about US$2,200 equivalent for:  on-farm irrigation works, 22%; incre-
mental production inputs, 36%; building improvements, 19%; and land clearing
and preparation, 13%. Farm output and income would increase as a result of
more intensive land use (double cropping), expanded cropped area, changes in
cropping patterns and the use of improved techniques and inputs. The detailed
farm plan appears in Annex 4(e).
Small Industries
3.13      This component of the project would finance small industries in
rural areas, utilizing local products and providing local employment. Most of
these enterprises would fall into the following main groups: (a) livestock
products - slaughterhouses and cold storage facilities; sausage manufacture;
hides and skins processing; spinning and weaving; and chicken packing plants;
(b) vegetable products - canneries; peanut packaging plants; oil mills for
peanuts, cottonseed, sesame seed and oil palm; flour mills; and the produc-
tion of balanced animal feed stuffs; and (c) wood products - factories for
the production of parquet flooring and furniture.
3.14      Preliminary subsector studies, covering market prospects and the
availability of raw materials in different localities, have already been
prepared or are in course of preparation by CENAPIA (para 2.15).  CENAPIA
has also prepared profiles of 15 small enterprises typical of those referred
to in the preceding paragraph. These profiles cover: building, machinery
and equipment requirements and layout; raw materials, labor and staffing; out-
put; sales; and operating and investment costs and working capital requirements.
Total investments for each enterprise range from about US$50,000 equivalent to
about US$200,000 and average about US$125,000; the number of persons employed
in each enterprise ranges from about 10 to 30 and averages about 20; the invest-
ment cost per job created averages about US$6,000.
3.15      This component of the project would be in the nature of a line of
credit since, although the main types of enterprise have been identified,
assistance to individual enterprise would be based on specific and detailed
feasibility studies prepared in the course of the project and submitted to the
Bank (paragraphs 3.40 and 3.50). Over the period of the project, it is expected
that some 50 enterprises, providing employment for about 1,000 people, would
be financed. There is ample demand for this type of credit and the number of
operations is considered to be within CENAPIA's capacity to handle.
Professional Loans
3.16      This small component is designed, as a pilot scheme involving about
10 subloans, to assist the development of local consulting services for com-
mercial agriculture, and to complement Government's policy of attracting
graduates in the agricultural sciences into the rural areas. Under the project,



- 14 -
suitably qualified agricultural graduates operating their own farms, or in
full-time professional practice would be eligible for finance for the purchase
of professional equipment. Subloans would not exceed US$15,000 equivalent to
any single beneficiary, and would be presented to the Bank for approval.
Investments to be financed by such subloans would generally be restricted to
(a) topographical, soil laboratory, and veterinary equipment; (b) four-wheel
drive motor vehicles; and (c) office equipment. Assurances on these matters
were obtained.
3.17      This development of local consulting services would be further
encouraged under the project by the provision of finance to the larger ranches
and farms to help meet the cost of professional fees for the preparation of
the farm plans supporting credit applications. In addition, the larger
borrowers would, at the discretion of the participating banks, be required
to engage professional services (costing around US$500 equivalent a year)
to review regularly the implementation of their ranch or farm plans during
the investment period.
3.18      These arrangements would enable Government extension services to
concentrate on smaller farmers, oblige those who could afford it to pay for
technical advice, reduce the burden of work on the Project Executive Unit
and reduce the costs of the participating banks.
Applied Research
3.19      The project would support applied research programs of INIAP in the
tropical and temperate regions of the Oriente and Sierra respectively.
3.20      A demonstration research unit would be established in the Oriente,
based on Limonoche. The program would be production oriented to assist the
farm holdings presently being established by IERAC in this tropical forest
area. The area has been traditionally farmed under a slash, burn, shifting
cultivation system, but, with increasing colonization, the resting phase under
regenerated bush is so shortened that soil fertility rapidly deteriorates and
seriously reduces crop yields.
3.21      An agronomist with at least five years of experience under similar
conditions, including livestock production, would be internationally recruited
for about three years. He would conduct applied research toward developing a
mixed farming system giving sustained yields through the better integration of
crops, animals and forestry. He would train local staff to continue the pro-
gram, and provide extension to local farmers. He would also spend up to one-
third of his time in assisting the pasture/animal production research and
training programs at the Pichilingue Experimental Station in the Costa, in-
cluding the development of the dual purpose system of beef and milk production
in the coastal region.
3.22      The program for the Sierra region would be essentially a broadening
and strengthening of the pasture research begun under Credit EC-222. This has
shown that, in the phosphate deficient inter-Andean zones, the low ability of



- 15 -
indigenous white clover to fix nitrogen is due to a deficiency of sulphur in
the soil. Formerly the main phosphate fertilizer imports into the country
have been in the form of triple superphosphate which is devoid of sulphur
whereas single superphosphate contains 10% sulphur. With adequate sulphur and
phosphate, white clover can supply about 100 kg of nitrogen per hectare per
year, and thereby significantly reduce nitrogenous fertilizer costs. In addi-
tion, there are still major problems with improved pastures which have to be
replaced at high cost after five years, and, in the Paramo region, satisfac-
tory pasture improvement methods have yet to be developed.
3.23      A plant nutrition specialist would be internationally recruited and
be employed for about three years to cover this pasture improvement research.
He would train two teams in trial techniques for the two different zones as it
is essential that field trials continue for at least five years. He would be
based on the Santa Catalina Experiment Station.
3.24      For all project-oriented research, INIAP would continue with the
present Research Planning Committee, with the Project Director as one of the
members. INIAP would also provide local costs and facilities for the programs.
The two specialists to be financed by the project would have appropriate qualif-
ications and experience and would be recruited by February 1, 1978 on terms
and conditions acceptable to the Bank; draft terms of reference are in Annex
5. Assurances on the above matters were obtained.
Technical Assistance and Training
3.25      An internationally recruited financial specialist would be appointed
to the Project Executive Unit to assist the Unit as Financial Advisor and, in
the case of small industries, CENAPIA. This specialist would review existing
procedures and, in the light of experience, establish new procedures for the
preparation of financial projections and actual results for the farms, ranches
and other enterprises financed under the project. In addition, an interna-
tionally recruited Agricultural Advisor would be appointed to supervise,
under the Project Director, the credit program to small farmers and to coordi-
nate with MAG the organization and provision of extension services to these
farmers.
3.26      The project would help finance consulting services for the
Cooperative Bank and up to 10 selected cooperatives. The consultants would
review the accounting and credit procedures of the bank and the management,
administrative and accounting procedures of the cooperatives. In addition to
recommending and helping to implement improvements in the procedures
generally, the consultants would particularly concern themselves with devising
mechanisms to enable the cooperatives to act, not only as retailers of credit
to members from the Bank (to try to reduce the cost of such credit), but also
as mobilizers of savings and sources of deposits for the bank. The coop-
eratives would be selected on the basis of the soundness of their management
and financial position and their willingness to participate in the project.



- 16 -
Selection would be on the recommendation of the Cooperative Bank, subject to
the final approval of the Project Director; in addition, the information on
which the selection was based, including recent accounts of the cooperatives
selected, would be submitted to the Bank for comment before any final decision
was made. Assurances were obtained that the consultants employed, the terms
and conditions of their employment, and the cooperatives selected for such
assistance would be acceptable to the Bank.
3.27      In addition, the project would finance a small discretionary fund
which would enable the Project Director to engage consultants for special short-
term assignments - for example to advise on particular crops or on the market-
ing or engineering problems of particular small industries. The appointment
of such consultants would, in each case, be made with the prior approval of the
Bank; appropriate assurances were obtained.



- 17 -
C. Cost Estimates
3.28      The total cost of the project is estimated to be US$36.0 million,
of which US$15.5 million, or 43%, represents foreign exchange requirements.
Baseline costs were estimated at early 1977 prices. The amount of taxes and
duties in project costs would be negligible. Price contingencies were applied
on estimated expenditures during the years 1978 through 1982 on the basis of
8% per annum, which reflects the expected rate of inflation in Ecuador.  Cost
estimates are summarized below:
Total Project Costs
Foreign
Local  Foreign   Total   Local  Foreign   Total   Exchange
-----S/ million ------   --- (US$ million) ----          (%)
Beef Ranches         114.3    40.1    154.4    4.6         1.6      6.2         26
Dairies              115.9    77.3    193.2    4.6         3.1      7.7         40
Small Dairies         28.1    16.5       44.6    1.1       0.7      1.8         37
Sheep Farms            3.9      2.7       6.6    0.2       0.1      0.3         41
Small Crop Farms      34.1    20.9       55.0    1.4       0.8      2.2         38
Small Industries      72.0    88.0    160.0    2.9         3.5      6.4         55
Professional Loans    2.5       2.5       5.0    0.1       0.1      0.2         50
Total Credit         370.8   248.0    618.8   14.9         9.9    24.8          40
Applied Research        1.1    10.3      11.4    -         0.5      0.5         90
Technical Ass't'ce
Project Unit         1.8    16.6       18.4    0.1       0.6      0.7         90
Cooperatives         0.6      5.7       6.3    -         0.2      0.2         90
Baseline Costs       374.3   280.6    654.9   15.0        11.2    26.2          42
Price Contingencies 138.2   106.9    245.1    5.5          4.3      9.8         44
Total Project
Cost               512.5    387.5   900.0   20.5        15.5    36.0          43
A summary of investment costs by category is shown in Annex 6, in respect of
the ranches, dairies and farms.
3.29      The costs of the Project Executive Unit cover the additional senior
staff, and associated equipment, and consulting services required for the
project. Other costs of the Unit (estimated at about US$200,000 equivalent a
year initially and rising to about US$250,000) would be covered by transfers
from a special account maintained by the Central Bank from which MAG is entitled
to withdraw funds for the purpose of financing technical services. Cost of
staff of the participating banks working on the subprojects would be covered
by the interest charges from subloans.



- 18 -
D. Financing
3.30      Financing would be shared in the following amounts and proportions:
Participat-    Sub-
IBRD       Government    ing Banks   borrowers    Total
US$           US$           US$           US$          US$
million  %   million  %   million  %   million  %   million
Beef Ranches
and Dairies           5.2   40       2.7   20      2.6   20      2.6   20      13.1
Small Dairies,
Sheep Ranches and
Crop Farms            2.3   45       1.8   36      0.5    9      0.5   10       5.1
Small Industries         2.6   40      1.5   24      1.0   16      1.3   20       6.4
Professional Loans       0.1   40       *    24       *    16       *    20       0.2
Total Credit            10.2   41      6.0   24      4.1   17      4.4   18      24.8
Technical Assist-
ance, Training
and Applied
Research              1.3   90       0.1   10       -      -      -      -      1.4
Price Contingencies    4.0             2.5   _       1.6   _       1.7            9.8
Total Project Cost    15.5   43        8.7   24      5.7   16      6.1   17      36.0
* Less than US$0.05 million equivalent.  Columns do not total because of rounding.
3.31      The project would be financed by a Bank loan of US$15.5 million, or
43% of total project cost, which would cover the estimated foreign exchange
cost. The Government of Ecuador and the participating banks would finance,
respectively, US$8.7 million and US$5.7 million (24% and 16% of total cost);
the balance of US$6.1 million (or 18% of project cost) would be contributed by
the sub-borrowers. Small farmers would contribute not less than 10% of the
investment costs in their subprojects, and other sub-borrowers would contri-
bute not less than 20% of the investment cost. The technical assistance to
the Cooperative Bank and selected cooperatives (US$200,000) would be passed on
under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank. Assurances were obtained
that the participating banks would provide adequate short-term loans and
working capital to cover the needs of beneficiaries. Government would bear
the foreign exchange risk. The Bank loan would be at 8.2% for a term of 14
years, including five years grace on principal repayments. Government funds
would be provided through the Central Bank; in addition, the Central Bank
would charge 1/2% for its services. This charge would be covered by the
rediscounting rate (paragraph 3.52). Project cash flows for the Central Bank
and the participating banks are shown in Annexes 7 and 8. Conclusion of a
contractual arrangement between Government and the Central Bank, to the
satisfaction of the Bank, is a condition of effectiveness.



- 19 -
E. Procurement
3.32      Bulk purchasing would not be feasible in view of the fact that the
farm and ranch development sublending program would be implemented over a five
year period, be widely distributed geographically, and cover a variety of invest-
ment plans. Capital items would therefore be purchased locally from commercial
suppliers, who maintain adequate stocks and whose margins are in an acceptable
range. Vehicles and equipment for project administration (US$125,000) would
be procured through local competitive bidding, according to procedures accep-
table to the Bank. The services of expatriate personnel and consultants would
be arranged according to procedures also acceptable to the Bank.
F. Disbursements
3.33      The Bank would disburse over five years:  (a) 50% of amounts dis-
bursed by participating banks for small farmer subloans; (b) 50% of the amounts
disbursed for agricultural, livestock, small industries, and professional
subloans; and (c) 90% of technical services, research and training costs.
3.34      Disbursements for technical services, research, training, the
purchase of vehicles and for other project-related equipment would be made
against normal documentation. Disbursements for subloans would be based on
certificates of expenditure submitted by the participating banks and by the
Project Executive Unit to the Central Bank after approval by the Project
Director. The supporting documentation for such expenditures, which would
not be submitted for review, would be retained by the borrower and made
available for inspection by Bank supervision missions. Investments financed
by the project would be subject to regular physical inspection by staff, both
of the participating banks and of the Project Executive Unit. These arrange-
ments, together with the audit requirements set out in paragraph 3.57, would
provide reasonable safeguards for the proper use of project funds.  An esti-
mated schedule of disbursements is set out in Annex 9.
G. Organization and Management
3.35      The Government of Ecuador would be the borrower.  Responsibility for
the execution of the project would be with the Technical Executive Committee
and its Project Executive Unit, which were established under earlier livestock
credit projects and which continue to function satisfactorily. Other organiza-
tions involved in the implementation of the project would be CENAPIA, the
participating banks, and the extension services of MAG.



- 20 -
Technica'l Executive Committee and Project Executive Unit
3.36      The Technical Executive Committee, under the chairmanship of the
undersecretary of MAC, would comprise its present membership 1/ and, in
addition, a representative of the Ministry of Industries. The Committee would
continue to formulate general policies and be responsible for the appointment
of the Project Director.
3.37      The Project Director, who would continue to act as secretary to the
Committee, would be the chief executive of the project. He would be assisted
by two Regional Technical Directors, as at present, and in addition by an
Agricultural Advisor and a Financial Advisor (para 3.25). The other staffing
arrangements of the Project Executive Unit would continue as at present.  The
Project Director, or his delegate, would approve development plans supporting
requests for credit under the project and disbursement requests before the
latter were forwarded to the Central Bank. He would lay down the technical
guidelines and standards to be followed by the staff of the Unit and by other
organizations and consultants in the preparation of investment proposals, the
supervision of sub-borrowers and the collection and analysis of the results of
subprojects. He would also be responsible for supervising the application of
such guidelines by the participating banks. During the execution of the
project, the delegation to participating banks of the authority to approve
subloans would be reviewed in consultation with the Bank. The Project Director
would submit quarterly reports to the Bank, prepared according to guidelines
mutually agreed with the Bank, not later than three months after the end of
each quarter. Suitable assurances were obtained.
3.38      The Project and Regional Directors, and the Financial and Agricultural
Advisors would have appropriate qualifications and experience and, in the case
of expatriates, be appointed on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank;
all the above positions would be filled by December 31, 1977, or, in the case
of the Financial Advisor, by such later date as may be agreed. Suitable
assurances were obtained.
3.39      The Project Executive Unit was originally attached to the Central
Bank and subsequently transferred to MAC. Any future change, if made, would
be after consultation with the Bank and on conditions acceptable to the Bank.
The operational autonomy of the Unit would be adequate and acceptable to the
Bank. Suitable assurances were obtained.
1/   Presently, the Technical Executive Committee comprises, under the chair-
manship of the Undersecretary of MAG, the General Coordinator of MAG, the
General Director for Livestock of MAG, the Deputy Manager of Credit from
the Central Bank, and the Project Director as Secretary of the Committee
(with voice but without voting power).



- 21 -
CENAPIA
3.40      CENAPIA would be responsible, under the general supervision of the
Project Director, for the execution of the small industries component of the
project. It would identify suitable subprojects and sub-borrowers and assist
the sub-borrowers in the preparation of feasibility studies, investment plans
and requests for finance; these would include cash flows and other financial
projections, output and productivity estimates, management and personnel
budgets and accounting and audit arrangements. CENAPIA would approve subloans
based on the investment plans. It would also supervise the maintenance of
statistical and accounting records by sub-borrowers, and it would collect and
analyze information on the results of subprojects as compared with projections.
The present management and staffing of CENAPIA are satisfactory. Prior to
making any change in the position of the Executive Director of CENAPIA, the
Borrower would notify the Bank concerning the qualifications and experience of
the person to be appointed to such position and would allow the Bank a reason-
able opportunity to comment thereon; suitable assurances were obtained.
Participating Banks
3.41      The arrangements for participating banks would be similar to those
under the previous and on-going project. Any legally established bank or
financial institution carrying on business in Ecuador, and acceptable to
the Bank, would be eligible to participate. Each participating bank would
conclude a subsidiary loan agreement with the Central Bank under terms and
conditions acceptable to the Bank. Conclusion of a subsidiary loan agreement
with at least one participating bank, to the satisfaction of the Bank, is a
condition of effectiveness. Suitable assurances were obtained. The technical
standards and procedures employed by the participating banks for preparation
and supervision of subloans financed under the project, would be acceptable to
the Project Director.
Extension Services
3.42      Implementation of the small farm component of the project would be
coordinated with the reorganization of the extension services in selected
zones and the establishment of local service centers (paragraph 2.09). The
work of the extension agents would be limited to extension work, to the
exclusion of other matters such as marketing, input distribution and statis-
tical and administrative work, for which specialized staff would be employed
as required. Extension agents would concentrate on (a) the development of
small farms as integrated operations; (b) the most important crops in the
locality; (c) the basic improvements in husbandry practices and application of
research findings likely to yield quick and substantial economic returns; and,
(d) selected demonstration farmers, who would also be likely to be the earliest
recipients of credit under the project. Assurances were obtained on these
matters.
3.43      The new extension arrangements would be gradually introduced in
the areas covered by the nine general delegations or offices of MAG. The
Agricultural Advisor of the Project Executive Unit would collaborate with
the MAG Directors handling extension matters and the heads of zonal offices
in identifying main crops and key husbandry practices, in preparing and



- 22 -
carrying out training programs and timetables, in selecting demonstration
farmers and in preparing simple development plans for small farms.
3.44      Assurances were obtained that:  the zones selected for the reorgan-
ization of the extension services and the implementation of the small farms
credit component would be coordinated; and the extension services would
collaborate fully with the Agricultural Advisor of the Project Executive
Unit.
H. Lending Operations
3.45      Credit would be made available through the participating banks,
who would employ their normal criteria of creditworthiness in approving pros-
pective sub-borrowers. The eligibility of subloans for rediscounting through the
Central Bank and drawing down project funds would be determined by the Project
Director on the basis of the technical, financial and economic soundness of the
investment plans and projection.
3.46      The minimum annual interest rates on subloans, including commissions
allowed to be charged by Regulation 927-76 of the Monetary Board of the Borrower,
would be 11% for small farmers (paragraph 3.47) and 14% for others. Terms of
subloans are expected to vary between eight and 12 years, with three to five
years of grace on the repayment of principal. The proposed interest charges
are considered adequate. Inflation rates in Ecuador have fallen substantially
from the levels of 23% and 15% registered in 1974 and 1975, respectively, to
about 10.6% in 1976, responding to the Government's vigorous control policy.
The rate projected for future years is about 8%. On this basis, all catego-
ries of sub-borrowers would be paying positive real interest rates. These
rates represent a significant improvement over those applied in previous
projects. In these circumstances, the project would retain the differential
in the rates for small and larger farmers, which reflects Government policy
and the arrangements under the on-going project. Assurances were obtained
that any changes in the terms and conditions of subloans would only be made
with the concurrence of the Bank.
3.47      For the purpose of determining the rate of interest, a small farmer
would be defined as one with net assets of less than S/ 500,000 (US$20,000),
including land but excluding housing. Cooperatives composed entirely of small
farmers would qualify for the same terms and conditions as individual small
farmers.
3.48      Subloans to small farmers would be to eligible individuals whose
principal source of income was the farm for which the subloan was sought.
These subloans would cover up to 90% of investment costs, with the remaining
10% contributed by the beneficiary. The maximum subloan to any beneficiary
would be US$12,000 equivalent. Of the total lending for livestock and agri-
cultural operations, 30% would be earmarked for small farmers.



- 23 -
3.49      Other subloans for livestock and agricultural operations would be
to (a) individuals whose principal source of income was the ranch or farm to
be improved; and (b) cooperatives, whose soundness of management, operations
and financial position were judged suitable by the participating bank and
by the Project Director. Subloans would cover up to 80% of investment costs.
The free limit of US$100,000 equivalent, cumulative, to any sub-borrower,
established under Credit 222-EC, would continue to apply; subloans above the
free limit would continue to be submitted to the Bank for approval and would
not together exceed 20% of the total lending under this category.
3.50      Subloans to small industries would cover up to 80% of investment
costs. The maximum subloan amount (cumulative) to any single enterprise would
be US$200,000 equivalent. The first three subloans to small industries, and
all subsequent subloans to small industries of more than US$150,000 equivalent
(cumulative to the same beneficiary), would be presented to the Bank for
approval, together with supporting studies, investment plans and financial
projections. Suitable assurances were obtained.
3.51      The very small number of professional subloans would be made to
agricultural science graduates, with qualifications acceptable to the Project
Director, to assist them in establishing or expanding consulting practices in
rural areas. Residence in the area of the practice would be a condition of
lending; the practice could be carried on full time or in conjunction with
farming or livestock or dairy production. The maximum subloan amount would be
US$15,000 equivalent. The subloan would finance up to 80% of the total
investment costs; the participating bank would be able to rediscount up to 80%
of the subloan.
3.52      Participating banks would be able to rediscount with the Central
Bank up to 90% of the subloans made to small farmers. Other subloans made
and disbursed by the participating banks could be rediscounted as follows:
80% for small agro-industry subloans and other subloans
of up to US$50,000 equivalent;
75% for other subloans of between US$50,000 and US$100,000
equivalent; and
70% for other subloans of over US$100,000 equivalent.
Rediscounting requests to the Central Bank would be made within three months
of the date of disbursements of the participating banks.
3.53      Interest rates charged to participating banks under subsidiary
loans (including the administrative services charge of 0.5% of the Central
Bank) would yield a minimum spread of 3%, and a maximum spread of 6%, below
the interest rates charged by participating banks for subloans. In the case
of subloans to beneficiaries other than small farmers, the rediscount rate
charged participating banks would be no less than the sum of the interest
rate on the Bank loan plus the administrative services charge of the Central
Bank. Repayment schedules to the Central Bank would be in line with those of
the sub-borrowers.



- 24 -
3.54      The above arrangements are considered to provide adequate incentives
to the participating banks and, in addition, to encourage both lending to
small farmers and also the use of the participating banks' own funds for
agricultural lending. Projected cash flows for the Central Bank and for the
participating banks are in Annex 7 and 8, respectively.
I. Accounts, Auditing and Monitoring
3.55      The Central Bank and the participating banks would maintain separate
project accounts in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
The project account in the Central Bank would be audited by the Interventor
General (the representative of the Superintendency of Banks), whose report
thereon would be of such scope and in such detail as the Bank may reasonably
request. The project accounts in the participating banks would be audited by
independent professional auditors acceptable to the Bank. In the case of
those participating banks which had requested, or to which authority had been
delegated for the approval of subloans, their annual accounts would be audited
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, whose reports would be of such
scope and in such detail as the Bank may reasonably request. The project account
of the Central Bank and the accounts of the participating banks referred to above,
together with the relevant audit reports, would be submitted to the Bank not
later than three months after the end of each financial year. Assurances on
the above were obtained.
3.56      The results of the agricultural and small industries lending would
be monitored by the Project Executive Unit and CENAPIA, which would arrange for
the collection of financial and statistical information in a form directly
comparable with the original development plans and projections of the enter-
prises financed.  These results would be collected:  (a) for all small industry
loans and for those agricultural and livestock loans above the free limit (para-
graph 3.49); (b) for 10% of the number of small farmer loans; and (c) for 20%
of the number of other agricultural and livestock loans. The detailed informa-
tion would be retained by the Project Director and available for inspection by
Bank supervision missions; summaries and analyses of the information would be
included in the Project Director's quarterly reports, as the information became
available. Suitable assurances were obtained.
IV. PRODUCTION, MARKETS AND MARKETING, PRICES,
AND PRODUCER BENEFITS
A. Production
4.01      At full development, annual incremental output from 1,000 small crop
farms is expected to be as follows: 1,300 m tons maize (less than 1% of 1974
national output); 2,000 m tons oilseeds (6%); 8,000 m tons vegetables (4%) and
2,000 m tons rice (1%).  Incremental annual output from 600 small dairy farms
(6-ha) is expected to be about 9 million liters of milk (0.8%) and 500 m tons



- 25 -
of beef (0.5%), while for the 200 commercial dairying operations annual incre-
mental output is expected to be 22 million liters of milk (3%) and 800 m tons
of beef (1%). For the 800 beef farms (50-ha modules), annual incremental
output of beef at full development is expected to be 6,500 m tons (6%). Incre-
mental output from 50 sheep farms (40-ha modules) is expected to be 139 m tons
mutton (2%) and 35,000 kg wool (2%).
4.02      It is not possible at this stage to estimate incremental production
from the small industries component. Detailed projections would be included in
the feasibility studies that would be prepared for each individual subproject.
B. Markets and Marketing
4.03      Agricultural marketing is largely in the hands of the private sector,
with some Government intervention. Inadequate roads and storage facilities
tend to create thin markets with wide handling and distribution margins.
4.04      Nonetheless, project-induced production of milk and beef is not
anticipated to encounter marketing difficulties. In the past year and a half
there have been substantial imports of powdered milk to meet the rapidly
expanding domestic demand. More than adequate processing capacity exists in
the local pasturizing industry to absorb the projected expansion of output.
There exists a similarly strong and expanding demand for beef. Ranchers are
to some extent at a disadvantage in selling beef on the hoof (S/15/kg or
US$0.60 per kg liveweight) to local traders, although implementation of
proposals for regional auction yards could improve their bargaining position.
In several of the main producing areas, slaughter facilities are poorly
organized and unhygienic, and assurances were obtained that the health and
hygiene standards required by Ecuadorian law would be strictly enforced
in project areas. Although there is much room for improvement in the market-
ing of other agricultural products, the incremental volumes of crop production
are modest relative to overall national totals and are not expected to encoun-
ter marketing difficulties. Moreover, the service centers to be established
in conjunction with the reorganization of the extension services (para 2.09)
should improve marketing and storage facilities in the project areas.
4.05      The marketing prospects for production from the small industries
component would be individually assessed in the feasibility studies for
each subproject.
C. Prices
4.06      The Government has frequently intervened in the establishment of
prices for basic food consumption items in Ecuador, setting them at relatively
low levels. However, a willingness recently to implement price policies which
promote production expansion is evident. The recent (September, 1976) 50%
increase in the cash price to producers for fluid milk delivered to processors
(US$0.17 per liter) is a case in point. Milk prices are now highly attractive
to producers. The official prices on beef are not vigorously policed and



- 26 -
appear adequate and relatively stable at the producer level. The Government's
policy with respect to the other crops to be financed under the project is
restrained to merely setting guidelines or referential prices and is not
expected to act as a disincentive to producers.
D. Producer Benefits
4.07      The following table summarizes the producer benefits from the live-
stock and agricultural lending, as shown by the models in Annex 4:
Beef     Dairy    Small        Sheep    Crop
Model                  Models    Farm      Dairy       Farm      Farm
50 ha    50 ha  10 ha total  40 ha    4 ha
6 ha pasture
Financial rate of return:
overall                         19%     22%         20%       18%      26%
on owner's investment          26%      40%        >50%       41%      47%
Net operating income             ------------------ US$ --------------------
with project                  3,520  18,220        708        2,088    1,334
without project                  836   6,796        76          264      428
Debt service                     1,440  6,248       572        1,008      536
The figures for net operating income with project shown above are at full
development before charging debt service. Except in the case of the crop
farm, the net income is after charging incremental labor, some or all of
which may be previously unemployed family labor, so that the increase in
family income could be substantially more than the increase in the farm
operating income--for example, about US$1,300 equivalent in the case of the
small dairy. It is expected that the project would reach some 1,500 rural
families classified as small farmers, most of whom have income levels well
below the national average.
4.08      Producer benefits cannot be quantified at this stage for the small
industries component, although preliminary estimates show financial rates of
return in the neighborhood of 20% for typical enterprises.



- 27 -
V. ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
5.01      The project would lead to substantial increases in the output
of agricultural products and derivatives, improve the country's food supply
and reduce the need to utilize foreign exchange for food imports. Whilst
the project would be basically production oriented, it would also raise
the living standards of a significant number of small farmers and pave the
way for future increases in the volume of lending to this group. At full
development, the project would generate some 4,000 man-years of employment
annually. The value of incremental output would be US$12 million a year;
the value of incremental herds would total US$16 million.
5.02      The economic rate of return of the agricultural and livestock
components of the project is estimated at 20% (Annex 10). This estimate is
based on current financial wages, with fertilizer and project output priced
according to the Bank's projections and an allocation of technical and admin-
istrative costs. The results of sensitivity analysis may be summarized as
follows:
Investment        Operating                         Shadow Wage
Costs             Costs            Output          Rate 80%
+10%    +15%       +10%   +15%      -10%   -15%
Rate of Return      19%      18%      17%      15%       15%    13%           21%
5.03       Because the small industries component is in the nature of a line of
credit, no calculation of the economic rate of return has been possible.
Tentative estimates of the financial results of enterprises of the type to be
financed indicate rates of return of the order of 20%.
5.04      The experience of previous projects, and the known demand for
credit suggest a relatively low level of risk for the livestock components
of the project. The more limited experience in Ecuador of lending to small
farmers and small industries indicates an acceptable level of risk, given
the institutional strengthening and safeguards incorporated in the project.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.01      During loan negotiations, agreement was reached on the following
principal points:
(a)  participating banks would provide adequate short-
term subloans and working capital to project benefi-
ciaries and the Central Bank would provide the
rediscount facilities outlined in paragraphs
3.52 and 3.53 (paragraph 3.31);



- 28 -
(b) During the second year of the project, the delegation
to the participating banks of the authority to approve
subloans would be reviewed in consultation with the Bank
(paragraplh 3.37);
(c) the Project Executive Unit would have adequate
operational autonomy and any change in its loca-
tion within the public service would be made after
consultation withi the Bank and on terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank (paragraph 3.39);
(d) the terms and conditions of the subsidiary loan agreements
between the Central Bank and participating banks would
be acceptable to the Bank (paragraph 3.41); and
(e) the arrangements for the provision of MAG extension
services would be as specified in paragraphs 3.42-
3.44.
6.02      Conditions of effectiveness are that:
(a) a contractual arrangement has been executed and delivered
by the Government and the Central Bank (paragraph 3.31); and
(b)  a subsidiary loan agreement with at least one participating
bank has been made to the satisfaction of the Bank
(paragraph 3.41).
6.03      The proposed project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$15.5  million
for a terni of 14 years, including a 5-year grace period.
May 25, 977



ANNEX 1
Page 1
ECUADOR
Agricultural Credit Project
Performance Under Previous Agricultural Projects
1.        Previous Bank Group lending for the agricultural sector in Ecuador
has comprised three livestock development projects and four other projects for
fisheries, irrigation, seed production and technical assistance. The three
livestock development projects are treated separately below because of their
special relevance to the proposed project.
The Livestock Development Projects
2.        The First Livestock Development Project financed on-farm investments
for beef production in the coastal region. Loan 501-EC for US$4.0 million
became effective in December 1967 and was fully committed by June 30, 1969,
some six months ahead of schedule. The program was administered by the Proj-
ect Executive Unit, under an expatriate Director and a specially created
autonomous Project Commission. One hundred thirty-two subloans were made,
averaging US$37,000 each, larger than had been anticipated during appraisal.
3.        The Second Livestock Development Project was of an interim nature and
designed, in view of the rapid advance of the first project, to continue fi-
nancing coastal livestock activities until a third, more comprehensive project
could be prepared and approved. Credit 173-EC for US$1.5 million became effec-
tive in June, 1970 and was closed in February, 1974. Under the project, 90
subloans, averaging about US$25,000 each, were made.
4.        The Third Livestock Development Project has continued to finance beef
cattle development in the tropical coastal region and also expanded to include
dairy farm development in the temperate Sierra highlands (plus a smaller
volume of lending for beef cattle in the tropical Oriente). The project also
covered: (a) pasture and beef cattle research; (b) technical assistance; and
(c) a pasture seed certification and multiplication service. Credit 222-EC
for US$10 million became effective in September 1971. The project has pro-
ceeded smoothly except for a hiatus from late 1973 to late 1974 during which
the goverment renegotiated the credit conditions regarding project organiza-
tion and the interest rates on subloans. Under the project, some 356 subloans
have been approved by the Project Unit, averaging US$31,000 each. The live-
stock credit funds are nearly fully committed, and it is likely that the credit
will be fully disbursed by end-1977.
end-1977.
5.        The performance of the first two projects (Loan 501-EC and Credit
173-EC) was assessed in the Project Performance Audit Report dated October 21,
1975. The Report found that the projects had been well managed and smoothly



ANNEX 1
Page 2
implemented; they had improved productivity and output on participating ranches
and jointly resulted in an increase of roughly 10% (worth about US$4 million a
year) in national beef production. The economic rate of return, however, was
estimated to have fallen sharply (to about 12%, compared with 27% at appraisal)
because of higher investment costs and lower cattle and beef prices relative to
input costs. The financial rates of return to ranchers on the other hand, were
estimated to have been about equal to the 27% forecast at appraisal, because
rapid inflation eroded the real value of loan repayments, offsetting the
unfavorable price movements. The Report also noted: the low standards of
slaughterhouses processing project output; the regressive impact on income
distribution resulting from subsidized interest rates to medium-sized and large
producers (granting that commercial production was the project's main objective);
the capital-intensive nature of the developments financed; and the lack of a
monitoring system.
6.        The performance of the third project has been basically similar
to that of the first two. Since the Audit Report was written, however, two
issues have arisen: first, the accounting and audit arrangements have been
inadequate and, second, there have been serious deficiencies in the accounts
and internal controls of BNF, the principal participating bank.
7.        The proposed project would continue the successful livestock lend-
ing program established under the first three projects. Producer prices for
milk have just been substantially increased. At the same time, the investment
models have been designed to reduce capital costs in the light of the experience
already gained. Assurances on health standards in slaughterhouses were obtained.
Any regressive impact on income distribution would be countered by the new
interest rate structure and by the introduction of credit for small crop and
mixed farms. Following a recent supervision mission, work has already begun on
the collection of actual results from participating farms and ranches; this
would be continued. The Bank and BNF have agreed on the accounting and auditing
arrangements which need to be made to enable BNF to participate in the proposed
project.
Other Agricultural Projects
8.        The Fisheries Project Loan of US$4.6 million was approved on 3
September 1968 and became effective on 4 September, 1969. Its components are:
(a) provision of physical facilities and implementation of a training program
for fishing crews; (b) design and construction of tuna purse seiners; and,
(c) feasibility and detailed engineering studies for improved fishing harbor
facilities. The training facilities are completed and training operations
commenced in September 1976. As the demand for tuna purse seiners was less
than originally anticipated, only four have been constructed and the remaining
loan funds reallocated. After prolonged conversations with the Government on
the scope of the port studies (owing to differing interpretations of the



ANNEX 1
Page 3
preliminary feasibility studies), it has been agreed to proceed with detailed
engineering studies for a phased upgrading of the Manta fishing port facil-
ities. The loan's closing date, originally October 1974, is May 1977, but
may very likely be further extended.
9.        The Milagro Irrigation Credit for US$5.5 million was approved on
July 5, 1973 and became effective on January 17, 1974. The project will
provide irrigation and drainage systems, roads and on-farm development on
about 7,000 ha. It includes establishment of an agricultural production
unit, a seed multiplication program, and applied research, as well as studies
to extend a second-stage project over an additional 12,000 to 15,000 ha. Con-
struction is progressing well but the on-farm development phase is about one
year behind schedule, owing to the delay in procuring equipment and extremely
slow progress in preparing land titles through the land reform agency (IERAC).
10.       The Seed Production Loan (US$3 million) was approved on May 24,
1976 and became effective on October 20, 1976. Under it a National Seeds
Council will be established as a policy formulation body, improved seed pro-
duction increased, three large-scale seed processing and storage plants set
up, the Agricultural Ministry's Seed Certification Department strengthened
and some 25 seed distribution centers upgraded or constructed.
11.       The Agricultural and Rural Development Technical Assistance Loan
for US$4 million was approved on March 30, 1976 and became effective on Octo-
ber 20, 1976. It provides technical assistance and associated equipment for
(a) setting up a national rural development planning group (UNDER) in the
Planning Ministry (JUNAPLA), (b) preparation of a rural development project
in the Sierra (Tungurahua), (c) preparation of rural and agricultural devel-
opment projects in the lower Guayas Basin and a framework plan for water
control and agricultural development in this region, and (d) pre-investment
studies of rural development possibilities in the Esmeraldas River Basin.
There has been little progress made until recently in contracting the
expatriate experts provided for under the various loan components.



ANNEX 2
Page 1
ECUADOR
Agricultural Credit Project
The Agricultural Sector
Introduction
1.        Since 1972 the development of petroleum production and exports has
had a dramatic effect on Ecuador's internal and external financial position
and has accelerated the rate of economic growth. In constant terms, the
Gross Domestic Product (GDP) increased on average by about 5% annually from
1969 to 1971, 6% in 1972, 18% in 1973, 12% in 1974 and 5% in 1975. This rapid
growth has been accompanied by price inflation, particularly in 1974 (23%);
however, the rate of inflation declined from 14.5% in 1975 to 10.6% in 1976.
2.        A basic question now is how fully will the country be able to uti-
lize its considerably increased financial resources to strengthen its economic
structure, particularly in view of uncertainties about oil exploration and the
level of output and revenues in the 1980s. Only by expanding, diversifying
and raising the productivity of the non-petroleum sector can Ecuador create
employment for its rapidly growing labor force and raise the living standards
of the broad mass of the population.
Agriculture in the Economy
3.        Agriculture is a major source of output, income and employment
(Table 1). In 1975, it accounted for 21% of GDP. The rural population
is about 58% of the national total and some 54% of the working population
is in agriculture. Until 1972, the sector accounted for more than 85% of
total export earnings; its share has dropped to about 33% since then as a
result of the rapid expansion of petroleum exports. Still, the sector
accounted for 10% of the increase in GDP between 1970 and 1975, compared to
the petroleum sector's 9%.
Natural Resources
4.        There are three broad natural resource regions in Ecuador:  Costa,
Sierra and Oriente. The Coastal Zone, typically humid tropical, having
mostly medium-sized and large farms, specializes in the production of rice,
hard corn, yuca, bananas and plantains, citrus, oilseeds (annual and peren-
nial), fibers, coffee, cacao, sugarcane and beef. The Sierra highland val-
leys, with most of the country's small to medium-sized farms and considerable
amount of subsistence farming, produce temperate climate foodgrains, pulses,
potatoes, vegetables, and deciduous fruits and contain most of the dairy ranches.
Sheep herds are maintained on the paramo pastures at altitudes of 3,000 m and



ANNEX 2
Page 2
above. The Oriente still suffers from limited access, though this is improv-
ing, especially in the Northeast where most of the oil fields are located. As
yet it contributes relatively little to sectorial output; it may have consid-
erable potential for such products as oilseeds, beef and rice, but much more
investigation is needed. Substantial investment in infrastructure would be
required to open the area to settlement.
5.        Most of the farming areas receive annually between 1,000 and 2,000
mm of rain, which is generally concentrated in the early part of the year.
The northern part of the Costa and the piedmont section of the Oriente are
high rainfall areas, receiving over 5,000 mm a year. In the Costa and parts
of the Sierra, second crops are occasionally grown with irrigation during
the 2nd semester. The wide range of altitudes and broken terrain--espe-
cially in the Sierra--produce a multitude of climatic conditions. Soils
also vary widely, from young volcanic ash to deep well-developed soils of
high potential. The Ministry of Agriculture is undertaking a comprehensive
resource and environment study of the various regions. Except in the Oriente,
the area of arable land per rural inhabitant is low in Ecuador, averaging
about 0.4 ha per capita (1974). This is particularly the case in the Sierra,
where the ratio is 0.34 ha per capita; physical constraints limit further
expansion of the cropped area, although there is considerable room for in-
creasing yields and cropping intensity. The situation is less severe on the
coast, where the present figure is 0.5 ha per capita.
Rural Standards of Living
6.        The average rural income per capita was estimated to be US$132 in
1973 (IBRD, Report of a Rural Development Mission,, May 30, 1975). Of the
1974 rural population of 3.8 million persons, 1.5 million have been classi-
fied as "absolutely poor," i.e., per capita income less than US$50; 2.5 mil-
lion had income less than the cost of basic nutritional needs and 2.8 million
were classified as "relatively poor" as their per capita income was less than
one-third the national average. While rural poverty is nation-wide, it is
generally more serious in the Sierra than on the Costa. Although few if any
reliable data are available on such questions as the number of landless
laborers, rural wages, seasonal/migratory farm labor, and off-farm work by
farmer operators, rural unemployment and underemployment are thought to be
high. A study of rural employment estimated an unemployment rate (comparing
ing man-day requirements to the total available labor force) of 41% in 1968,
projected to rise to 49% in 1973. While the methodology applied in the study
probably overstates the severity of the problem, it suggests its magnitude.
7.        Nutritional information is incomplete, but surveys indicate that
47% of the rural population suffers from calory and protein deficiencies.
Estimates for 1968 indicate that the national daily average intake was 2,100
calories per capita, while the protein availability was 48 grams per capita
(20 grams from animal sources); these averages compare unfavorably with FAO-
suggested daily norms of 2,600 calories and 75 grams of protein. There can



ANNEX 2
Page 3
be no doubt that such averages mask more severe nutritional deficiencies for
lower income groups in both rural and urban areas. Also illustrative of rural
living conditions is the fact that (according to the 1974 census) almost 90% of
rural dwellings have no indoor plumbing or electrical service.
Land Distribution and Use
8.        The basic resource of the agricultural sector--land--is distributed
in a very skewed fashion. Of the 633,200 farm holdings estimated by the 1968
Agricultural Survey, 32.6% were less than 1-ha and 41.7% were in the I to 5-ha
range. These two strata accounted for 10.2% of the area in farms. Of the
total number of farms, 76% were owner-operated (accounting for 83% of the
area in farms). While the first land reform law dates from the mid-1960s,
less than vigorous enforcement of it and the successor law of 1973 has re-
sulted in little effective change in the situation in presently settled areas.
9.        Ecuador's farms cover some 8 million ha, or about one-third of
its geographic area (27.1 million ha). About 3.5 million ha, are devoted
to crops (annuals, perrenials, fallow and artificial pastures): 3.3 million
ha are rainfed and about 0.2 million ha irrigated. The remaining 4.2 million
ha are devoted mainly to livestock. Some natural and man-made forest covers
part of the total land in farms. Average farm size is about 11 ha; however,
three-quarters of total number of farms account for only about 26% of the
cropped area and about 17% of the total value of crop production. Only about
7% of the farms are served by institutional credit.
Crops for Domestic Consumption
10.       Production figures for crops are set out in Table 2.  The major
domestically produced grains for human consumption are soft corn and rice.
Corn production has fallen drastically since 1972; rice output, however, ex-
panded vigorously in 1974 and 1975, covering domestic demand and providing a
small surplus (25,000 m tons) for export in 1976. Another major domestic food-
grain is wheat, whose output in the 1970s has stagnated and given rise to
considerable imports (US$33.5 million in 1975). Among root crops, potatoes,
and, to lesser extent, cassava, and sweetpotatoes are basic consumption items.
During 1971-75 production of potatoes was about 20% above that for the preceding
five years. Regarding pulses (mainly beans, lima beans, peas and lentils),
production during the 1971-75 period averaged below that for the preceding five
years. Production of oilseeds has expanded rapidly in the last five years,
especially for soybeans and African palm. Nevertheless, vegetable oil imports
amounted to over US$12 million in 1975. Cotton production has recovered from
the decline in the early 1970s to about double the 1966-70 average.
Forestry
11.       There are some 15 million ha of forest, but the vast majority are
in the Oriente and remain largely inexploitable because of their inaccessi-
bility. In the Costa most of the forest resources are in the high rainfall



ANNEX 2
Page 4
areas of the north, where government efforts to promote private or mixed-
enterprise exploitation have had little success. In the Sierra, there are
about 2 million ha suitable for forestry. The area in eucalyptus may be
expanded in the proposed rural development programs for the region. FAO/CP
also prepared (in mid-1976) a prefeasibility report for a forestry project
including a eucalyptus planting program (25,000 ha), establishing a pinus
radiata plantation in Cotopaxi Province, growth trials for long-fiber pulp-
wood species, and institutional reinforcement of the Forestry Bureau in the
Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock.
Export Crops
12.       Banana continues to be the sector's most important export crop,
earning US$156.9 million from about 1,300,000 tons exported during 1975.
The main production area has moved progressively from the northern and central
parts of the Costa to the eastern parts of the Provinces of Guayas and Los
Rios as the Gros Michel variety has been replaced by the Panama disease-
resistant Cavendish variety. Cocoa exports in 1975 amounted to US$38 million,
down from the record US$102.9 million in 1974 when an unusually large crop of
about 70,000 tons coincided with exceptionally high world market prices. More
attention is required to rehabilitate and replant cocoa trees in suitable
areas of the Costa and to improve on-farm processing and the internal market-
ing system. Coffee export value in 1975 was US$64.6 million (US$67.4 million
in 1974). This crop is grown in parts of most provinces, but principally in
the Costa. As in the case of cocoa, attention is required to improve the
productivity of coffee, which also is a crop of importance to many small-scale
farmers.
13.       Sugarcane production is estimated to total 5 to 6 million tons a
year, but much of this is used for the production of unrefined sugar and
alcohol. For the May 1974 to April 1975 season, refined sugar production
from the seven main mills totalled about 305,000 tons (270,000 tons in
1973/74). The value of exports during 1974 was US$42.6 million but this
declined to US$15.7 million in 1975. In 1974, Ecuador was able to fill only
about two-thirds of the sugar-import quota assigned by the United States
(about 60,000 tons out of 96,754 tons). Castor beans are produced almost
exclusively in Manabi Province of the Costa in association with corn, pea-
nuts, cotton, cassava and coffee. In 1974, exports totalled 19,331 tons
valued at US$5.8 million, while production was 45,000 tons. Abaca (Manila
hemp) production rose from 9,500 tons in 1974 to 10,000 tons in 1975. Ex-
ports of vegetable fibers, principally 7,000 tons of abaca, brought in US$5.7
million in 1974. Pyrethrum production in the Sierra has declined from 612
tons of dry flowers in 1973 to only 338 tons in 1974 and 183 tons in 1975.
Production in 1968 amounted to about 3,000 tons of dry flowers, but since
then production has fallen rapidly, although world demand for pyrethrins has
recently recovered. Other export items from the agricultural sector in 1974
brought in an additional US$4.3 million.
Livestock
14.       About 230,000 farmers, representing about 40% of all farmers, own
cattle, but over 60% of livestock owners have less than five animals and own



ANNEX 2
Page 5
about 13% of the national herd. Nearly 80% of the livestock farmers are
located in the Sierra and are predominantly dairy farmers. Beef ranching is
located predominantly in the tropical zones with nearly 90% of ranches lo-
cated in the Costa region.
15.        Beef cattle are predominantly criollo (native) Brahman crosses
with about a 55% weaning rate and slaughtered at three to four years. The
total herd is estimated at 2.5 million animals. About 320,000 head are
slaughtered annually, representing a low offtake of around 13%. With improved
husbandry practices and basic capital investments, producers could readily
attain offtake rates of over 20%, as well as doubling carrying capacity.
Annual beef output can range from 50 kg to 500 kg liveweight per hectare.
Based on an average carcass weight, including offal of 175 kg, annual beef
production is about 64,000 tons, representing a per capita consumption around
9 kg (there is, however, a substantial border trade in live animals which goes
unreported and is not reflected in these figures.)
Milk Production
Milk Production
Annual
Cattle           Cow            Cows in        Per cow         Total
Population      Population           milk        per day        (million
m              '000              '000       (liters)        liters)
Sierra           1.2             509              280            6              613
Costa            1.1             398              159            2.2            128
Total            2.3             907              439            4.6            741
Over 80% of the milk is produced in the temperate Sierra zone. Commercial
dairy farms (these with more than 30 animals) are generally confined to the
interandean valleys. Cattle are predominantly Holstein or Holstein crillo
crosses with a high production potential. Milk cattle predominantly feed on
pastures, with low levels of concentrate feeding. Milk production per cow
and carrying capacity in the Sierra vary widely with the quality of herd
management and pasture. Daily production per cow in milk can vary from 5 to
13 liters and ranges from 500 to 7,000 liters of milk per ha per year. In the
Costa region, up to 40% of the beef cows mothering calves are milked once daily
for about 120 days and produce around two liters of milk per day; although
improved management with Brown Swiss Brahman crossbreds can produce 4 liters of
milk per day. Total annual milk production, which is around 740 million
liters, or about 0.3 liters per capita per day, is increasing, but less than
the growth in fluid milk consumption and industrial utilization. As a result,
there has been an increasing volume of imports of whole milk powder.



ANNEX 2
Page 6
16.       Poor management associated with poor nutrition are the main factors
responsible for the low weaning rates and retarded slaughter age on coastal
beef ranches and the high calf mortality and low milk production on Sierra
dairy farms. Animal health is not a major problem provided preventive mea-
sures are taken to control foot and mouth disease (FMD), tick infestation
and internal parasites. Tick infestation, particularly in the Coastal re-
gion, can cause serious losses unless frequent dipping is practiced. Im-
proved grazing management and adoption of prophylactic measures to control
internal parasites could contribute significantly to reducing the calf
mortality rate. There is testing for eradication of tuberculosis in dairy
cows, and heifers are vaccinated against brucellosis, using vaccine produced
locally.
17.       The national sheep flock has remained around 1.1 million head for
the last decade. The majority of flocks are of less than 100 sheep and are
generally located in the Sierra region at an altitude between 3,000 and 4,000
meters known as the paramos. This area of about half a million hectares is
predominantly in stipa pastures currently carrying around two sheep per hectare
under extensive grazing conditions. Improved pastures, based on legumes and
use of phosphatic fertilizer, are capable of trebling carrying capacity. The
sheep breed is a mixture of criollo, rambouillet and corriedale crosses, with
about a 60% weaning rate. Productivity is low mainly because of poor quality
pastures. Mlale lambs are sold for slaughter at about one year of age and
wool production averages less than 2 kg per head. Most of the wool is uti-
lized by the local cottage industry for the manufacture of clothing (ponchos)
and carpets.
Marketing, Distribution and Prices
18.       The present system for collecting, storing, distributing and market-
ing most agricultural products exhibits serious deficiencies. Rural roads
(where they exist) typically become impassible during heavy rainfalls. Pro-
ducer organization is generally lacking in the marketing field. Access to
local market facilities is restricted and is typically controlled by munici-
pal authorities; the license fees represent an important local revenue source.
Losses in perishable products appear very high. Shortages of storage facili-
ties are particularly acute in producing areas (especially on farms) and at
commodity assembly points. Products for which the greatest inadequacies in
storage exist, in both the public and private sectors, include rice, pota-
toes, corn, wheat, oilseeds and cotton. In these conditions, markets tend
to be thin and the marketing and distribution system inhibits the transmis-
sion of price signals between final consumers and producers.
19.       The Government's response to this situation, in addition to its
price regulation and price support activities (which have generally tended
to further complicate rather than resolve product marketing problems, as
pointed out in paragraph 27) has been the creation of the Empresa Nacional de
Almacenamiento y Comercializacion (ENAC) to stabilize the prices of prin-
cipal agricultural products by intervening in the market. Thus far, its lack



ANNEX 2
Page 7
of storage facilities and operating experience has hampered its effective-
ness. Moreover, its operational capacity have been increasingly strained as
it has taken over from the Banco Nacional de Fomento the latter's activities
in purchasing and processing the rice crop (which has expanded substantially
in recent years). A serious effort should be made for strengthening the pri-
vate sector in storage and distribution activities, rather than relying pre-
dominantly on an increasing public sector involvement in this area.
20.       In the case of livestock, a small number of traders exercises con-
siderable control over the marketing of live animals, operation of abattoirs
and sale of carcass meat to retail outlets and processors. In practice, they
have opposed changes to improve the meat marketing system such as improved
slaughtering facilities, introduction of beef grading and the establishment
of local saleyards. Apart from three modern abattoirs, two of which are
expanding their activities, most livestock are still processed in municipally
owned and country slaughterhouses. There are some 53 milk plants nearby all
located in the Sierra, of which only 10 receive more than 10,000 liters daily.
In the Sierra about 70% of the milk is sold as raw milk, about 20% pasteur-
ized and 10% manufactured into cheese, butter and milk powder. On average,
milk plants are operating at only about 40% of capacity. In the Costa,
nearly all milk is sold as raw milk or cheese.
21.       Government fixes prices for such key food items as meat, sugar,
rice and wheat flour in some cases at both producer and consumer levels.
More numerous are the products (largely perishable) covered by indicative
prices which are intended to serve as guidelines, as they are not policed
as closely as fixed prices. The indicative list includes fruits, vegetables,
pulses, potatoes, and eggs. Official milk prices to producers were increased
in September 1976 to S/ 4.2 liter. There have been increases in the price
of milk each year since 1972 which have increased 220% since that year. Over
the same period 1972-76 meat prices peaked in 1975 (S/ 15.4 kg on the hoof)
and have receded only slightly although representing a 50% increase over the
five year period. The Government only sets meat prices at the consumer level
for certain low quality cuts. To some extent, consumer prices (and prices to
producers) are regulated by the extent to which the Government tolerates the
volume of live cattle crossing the borders (from Colombia and into Peru). In
general, current milk and beef prices provide sufficient incentives to farmers
to invest in milk and beef production.
Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock
22.       MAG comprises a Planning Bureau (Direccion), several administrative
bureaus and five operating bureaus: Crops, Livestock, Rural Development,
Forestry, and Marketing. The Ministry's budget rose a modest 9% in 1976, from
S/ 638.9 million to S/ 693.4 million. In 1976, the total budgeted staff of the
Ministry was 1,840 of whom 1,021 were professional and technical, 25 management,
469 administrative and 325 service personnel. These numbers were unchanged from
1975. There are a number of autonomous agencies attached to MAG: agricultural



ANNEX 2
Page 8
research (INIAP) (para 24), land reform (IERAC), irrigation (INERHI), storage
and marketing (ENAC), retail market (EMPROVIT) and several regional develop-
ment agencies (PREDESUR, CEDEGE, CRM, CREA).
23.       Extension services in MAG have hitherto been organized along spe-
cific crop lines, e.g., banana and tropical fruits, rice and (hard) corn,
cotton and other fibers, temperate-climate grains and pastures, sugar and
derivatives, and coffee. The practical training of extension personnel is
generally limited to one "technological package" which they promote. This
narrow focus is at odds with the diversity typical of farming in Ecuador.
In view of this, a reorganization plan is presently being prepared in MAG.
Rather than the narrow commodity orientation, it is proposed that extension
personnel focus on the farm as an integral operation, providing advice
on the various activities taking place thereon. This organization will be
accompanied by the relocation of MAG professional and technical staff to
rural areas (rather than largely in provincial capitals as at present) and
the establishment of local service centers, including badly needed market-
ing and storage facilities. As a first-phase trial, the 4th Agrarian Zone
(Provinces of Imbabura and Carchi) is designing a program which will be im-
plemented in CY 1977. This re-organization of the extension services would
be coordinated with the provision under the proposed project of credit to
small farmers.
Agricultural Research
24.       Official agricultural research in Ecuador is the responsibility
of the Instituto Nacional de Investigaciones Agropecuarias (INIAP), which
started operations in 1962. INIAP has evolved as an institution of major
importance in Ecuador and has attracted the support of the Rockefeller Foun-
dation and bilateral and international aid agencies. Bank Group credits
and loans for agriculture have supported its activity, and an extensive agri-
cultural research loan has been provided by the Inter-American Development
Bank (IDB). In 1974, INIAP's professional staff, totalling 299, was engaged
in research into plant breeding, agronomic and plant protection, pastures
and livestock nutrition and farm management.
25.       Fourteen years of research have provided a technical basis for
practical advice on increasing agricultural productivity. During this
period, INIAP has developed and tested improved varieties of most of the
major crops in Ecuador, although research should be intensified to produce
improved varieties of soft corn, beans, and pasture and expanded to include
grain sorghum, pulses, fruits, vegetables and poultry. However, the dis-
semination of research results to farmers through the extension service is
inadequate. Another factor inhibiting the application of the research re-
sults has been the tendency to concentrate on relatively sophisticated, high-
cost production techniques rather than developing cheaper packages more ap-
propriate to low-income farmers.



ANNEX 2
Page 9
Government Objectives and Policies
26.       Very broadly, the Government's objectives in the agriculture sec-
tor, as outlined in the National Development Plan for 1973-77, are to in-
crease output and improve economic and social conditions in rural areas. In
that plan, investment in the sector was projected to total US$554 million.
Agricultural output would grow 5.3% p.a. and exports 3.9% p.a. Labor produc-
tivity would increase 3.3% p.a. and employment by 2% p.a. However, the Plan
was formulated prior to the significant increase in the volume and value of
petroleum exports. In this new context, it is difficult to assess perform-
ance in the light of the proposals of the original plan. Still, with the ex-
ception of the relatively low increase of 3.8% in sectorial output in 1973,
both 1974 and 1975 have exceeded the plan target.
27.       Many of the policies followed by Government in the pursuit of its
objectives have, however, been inadequate. Price controls of agricultural
products have rarely been effective, but usually costly. Producer price sup-
ports for wheat have not brought about national self-sufficiency, which is
in any case a dubious goal since conditions in Ecuador are not particularly
favorable; at the same time, subsidies on imported wheat have stimulated
demand and increased the cost to Government (about US$8.7 million in 1975).
Price controls on fluid milk have diverted output into other dairy products
and resulted in shortages of fluid milk and imports of powdered milk. High
support prices for rice have led to over-production and exports at heavy
losses by the Government's marketing organization. Heavy Government involve-
ment in the marketing of agricultural products and farm inputs, through its
marketing agencies and the Banco Nacional de Fomento, have been generally
unsuccessful and inefficient - particularly heavy losses were incurred on the
import and distribution of fertilizer.
28.       At present, there is no effective planning, programming and control
of sectorial activities in either the National Planning Office (JUNAPLA) or in
MAG's planning office. The disarticulated administrative structure, with the
proliferation of public agencies, lack of overall effective control and re-
sponsibility lodged in a given office, plus the absence of a comprehensive
public sector budget (preferably on a multiannual basis, which could be a very
powerful tool for both resource allocation and program monitoring) impede
efforts to prepare and execute projects of economic priority within the
framework of sound national plans and policies.
29.       Government is generally aware of the inadequacies described above;
it is equally aware of the political difficulties of removing many of them.
Some actions have already been taken or are in process. The supply of credit
to the sector has increased from about US$60 million in 1971 to US$186 mil-
lion in 1975. Official milk (and some other) prices have been brought more
in line with market conditions. Plans are being prepared for the re-
organization of the extension services.



ANNEX 2
Page 10
30.       The strategy for the future development of agriculture and the
rural areas should now be directed to:
(a) reorganizing the extension services to provide an integrated ap-
proach to farm enterprise management and improved diffusion and
adoption of agricultural research results;
(b) improving marketing systems, including standardization and en-
forcement of weights and measures, credit for small traders to
increase competition, and the expansion of storage and marketing
facilities;
(c) improving Government price policies to reflect market forces;
(d) creating additional employment opportunities in rural areas through
investment in small local industries; and
(e) formulating clear priorities for rural development and strengthen-
ing project preparation capabilities, as already initiated under
the Bank loan for Agricultural and Rural Development Technical
Assistance (Loan 1230-EC). For this purpose clear lines of au-
thority and responsibility must be established within the public
sector agencies concerned.
The proposed project, taken together with on-going and likely future projects
financed by the Bank Group, will contribute to achieving these goals and to
striking a reasonable balance in meeting the needs for increased production
and improved income distribution.



ANNEX 2
Table 1
ECUADOR
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT BY ECONOMIC SECTORS,
1970 THROUGH 1975
(S/ million at constant 1970 prices)
Economic Sector                          1970      1971      1972      1973      1974      1975
Agriculture, forestry, fisheries         9,087    9,252    9,052    9,394   10,388   11,088
Mining                                      268       315       275       332       416      533
Petroleum                                    33        30      671    2,179    1,923    1,732
Manufacturing                            5,671    6,125    6,546    7,058    7,910    9,017
Electricity, gas, water                     396      413       449       478       599       670
Construction                             1,440    2,152    1,642    1,942    2,240    2,862
Trace                                    4,763    5,207    5,817    8,335   11,985   11,191
Transport and communications             2,158    2,427    2,628    2,810    2,386    2,487
Financial institutions                   1,356    1,380    1,549    1,577    1,627    1 880
Housing                                  1,948    2,047    2,224    2,536    2,947    3,321
Public administration                    3,275    3,133    3,461    3,646    4,166    4,365
Other services                           3,575    3,445    3,672    4,657    4,449    4,573
Totals                             33,970   35,926   37,986   44,944   51,036   53, 719
Source: Banco Central del Ecuador.
January, 1977



ECUADOR
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Crop_Areas, Yields and Production
Ave rage                                             Average
PRODUCTS                   UNITS     _        1966   1967   1968   1969   1970   1966-70   1971    1972   1973   1974   1975                1971-75
CFREALS
1.  Barley            Area/'000 ha             143    144    135    126         134      136       120    119    93        61       72        93
Yield kg/ha               -       -       -       -       -       618        -      -        -       -       -        708
Production '000 t.        77      81      76      73    110        84        69       73    79       56      63        68
2a. Corn (soft)       Area/'000 ha              -        -       -     215    211        213       241     250   124       90    109         163
Yield kg/ha               -       -       -       -       -       728        -      -       -        -       -        690
Production '000 t.        -       -       -      141     168      155       140     171   100        61      90       112
2b. Corn (lhard)      Area/'000 ha              -        -       -       77      80       79       111     102   141      120    166         128
Yield kg/ha               -       -       -       -       -    1,165         -      -       -        -       -      1,108
Production '000 t.        -       -       -       81    102        92       121    101   153        131     203       142
2.  Corn (total)    Area/'000 ha              267    364    255    292          291      294       352    352   265    210         -
Yield kg/ha               -       -       -       -       -       697         -
Production '000 t.   175    228         129    222       270      205       261    272   253        192      -
3.  Rice (milled)   Area/'000 ha              111     114     112      92       87       103        57      91    85       93     122         90
Yield kg/ha               -       -       -       -       -       942        -      -        -      -        -      1,522
Production '000 t.   111    111          65      83      117       97        82    105   134    157        207        137
4.  Wheat             Area/'000 ha              65      80      79    100        76       80        76      56    47       56      70         61
Yield kg/ha               -       -       -       -       -    1,000         -      -       -        -       -        931
Productiolns '000 t.   63        79      83      94       81       80        68       51    45      55       65        57
FIBRES
5.  Abaca             Area/'OOO ha              -        -      -        2        2        2         2       3      7       7       8          5
Yield kg/ha               -       -       -       -       -    2,000          -     -        -       -       -      1,260
Production '000 t.        -       -       -       4        4        4          5       4      7       8      10          7
6.  Cotton (seed    Area/'000 ha               24      24      21      22         9       20         8      14    23       43      37         25
cotton)    Yield kg/ha                -       -       -       -       -       800         -      -       -       -       -         848
Production '000 t.    18         16      14      24        8       16         11      12    20       33      30         21
SOURCE:  Ministry of Agricultute and Livestock, Quito.
January,  1977                                                                                                                               m >c
0
-h,



ECUADOR
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Crop Areas, Yields and Production
Average                                             Average
PRODUCTS                   UNITS              1966   1967   1968   1969   1970   1966-70   1971   1972   1973   1974   1975   1971-75
TUBERS AND ROOTS
7.  Cassava           Area/'000 ha             28      27      27      35      35         30       37      41      54      54      43          46
Yield kg/ha              -       -       -       -       -    10,633        -       -        -       -       -      11,910
Production '000 t.   276    323    234    390    371              319      383    277      741    741    597           548
8.  Potatos           Area/'OOO ha             44      48      49      41      47        '46       53      38      44      48      39          44
Yield kg/ha              -       -       -       -       -      9,804       -       -       -        -       -      11,955
Production '000 t.   347        399    511      457    542        451      681    473    539    438    499             526
9.  Sweet Potatoes  Area/'OOO ha                3       2       2        3      3          3        2       3       2       2       3           2
Yield kg/ha              -       -       -       -       -      3,000       -       -       -        -       -       5,000
Production '000 t.        8       8       7      11      10         9        7        9       8       8      14         10
PULSES
10. Beans             Area/'OOO ha             82      79      86      85      82        83        67      62      66      50      63          62
Yield kg/ha              -       -       -       -       -        458       -       -       -        -       -         445
Production '000 t.    36         38      35      38      41        38       30      26      32       24      26          28
11. Broad Beans       Area/'000 ha             35      34      34      21      24         29       23      13      17      17      19          18
Yield kg/ha              -       -       -       -       -        586       -       -       -       -        -          771
Production '000 t.    21         20      20      11      15        17       15       -9     12       12      16          13
12. Lentils           Area/'OOO ha              3       3       2       2       2          2        3       2       4       4       4           3
Yield kg/ha              -       -       -       -       -        383       -       -       -       -        -         480
Production '000 t.        1       1       1       1       1         1        1       1        2       2       2           2
13. Iupins (edible) Area/'000 ba                3       3       3       3       4          3        3       3       2       2       1           2
Yield                    -       -       -       -       -        845       -       -       -       -        -          700
Production '000 t.        3       2       3       1       3         3        2       2       1        1       1           1
14. Peas              Area/'000 ha            31       31      41      23      30        31        23      17      16      13      17          17
Yield kg/ha              -       -       -       -       -        581       -       -       -       -        -         588
Production             18       18       22      11      21        18       14       9       9        7      10          10
SOURCE:  Hinistry of Agriculture and Livestock, Quito.
January, 1977                                                                                                                                   M
0



ECUADOR
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Crop Areas, Yields and Production
Average                                            Average
PRODUCTS                 UNITS                1966   1967   1968   1969   1970   1966-70   1971   1972   1973   1974   1975    1971-75
OIL SEEDS
15.  African Palm   Area/'OOO ha                -       -       -       -       -        -         7       8       9       9      11          9
Yield kg/ha               -       -      -       -       -                   -       -       -       -       -     1,489
Production '000 t.       -       -       -       -       -        -         12     15       13     13      14         13
16.  Castor Beans   Area/'000 ha               24      22      16      23      16       20        31      26      46      40       3         29
Yield kg/ha               -       -      -       -       -   1,000           -       -       -       -       -     1,090
Production '000 t.    25        23       9      24      17       20        35      23      52      45        3        32
17.  Peanuts          Area/'000 ha             15      12      14       6       6      11         10      12      15      15      16         14
Yield kg/ha               -       -      -       -       -      711          -       -       -       -       -       776
Production '000 t.    12          9      6       5       5        7         10      11      13      13      11        12
18.  Sesame           Area/'OOO ha              2       2       3       2       3        2         2       3       1       1       3          2
Yield kg/ha               -       -      -       -       -      771          -       -       -       -       -       900
Production '000 t.        2       1      2       2       2        2          2       2       1       1       3         2
19.  Soybeauis        Area/'OOO ha              -       -       I       I       I        1         1       1       1       2       9          3
Yield kg/ha               -       -      -       -       -      948          -       -       -       -       -     1,333
Production '000 t.        -      -        1      1       1         1         1       1       2       3      12         4
OTIIER
20.  Pyrethrum        Area/'OOO ha              8       9       9       4       3        7         3       2       1       1       1          2
Yield kg/ha               -       -      -       -       -      394          -       -       -       -       -       500
Production '000 t.        3      4       4       2       1        3          1       1       1       1       1          1
21.  Tea              Area/'OOO ha              -       -       -       1       1        1         2       2       2       2       1          2
Yield kg/ha               -       -      -       -       -      684          -       -       -       -       -     4,300
Production '000 t.        -      -       -       1       1        1          4       8       9      14       8          9
22.  Tobacco          Area/'OOO ha              1       2       3       2       2        2         2       1       1       2       1          1
Yield kg/ha               -       -      -       -       -      818          -       -       -       -       -     1,000
Production '000 t.        2       1      1       1       2         2         2       1       1       2       1          1
SOURCE:  Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock, Quito.                                                                                 0  b
January, 1977                                                                                                                          0     >c
0



ECUADOR
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Crop Areas, Yields and Production
Average                                           Average
PRODUCTS                 UNITS               1966   1967   1968   1969   1970   1966-70   1971   1972   1973   1974   1975   1971-75
RAIN EXPORT CROPS
23a.  Banana (Total)Area/'O0O  ha             187    203    195    190    190         194       181    171    162    160    125          160
Yield kg/ha              -       -      -       -       -   17,691         -       -      -       -       -    19,225
Production '000 t.  2,744  2,937  3,920  3,870  3,688   3,432    3,512  3,296  3,203  2,800  2,569    3,076
23b. Banana
(Export type)'/ Area/'OO0  ha          164    160    157    148    124         151       I1I    101       93     92      23        84
Yield kg/ha              -       -       -      -       -   13,517         -       -      -       -       -
Production '000 t.  1,965  1,812  2,068  2,260  2,098   2,041    2,093  2,088  2,070  2,315               -
24.  Cacao           Area/'O0O               n.a.   n.a.   n.a.    228    228         228      21.9    218    213    213    230          217
Yield kg/ha              -       -       -      -       -       224        -       -      -       -       -        297
Production '000 t.   n.a.   n.a.   n.a.         48      54       51        49     67      62      70      74        64
25.  Coffee          Area/'OOO ha             218    208    191    215    215         209      215    221    227    212    231           221
Yield kg/ha              -       -       -      -       -       306        -      -       -       -       -
Production '000 t.       74      66      63     56      60       64        59      58     52      61      76        61
26.  Cania de Azucar Area/'000 ha             113    108    122   n.a.   n.a.        114      n.a.      88      89      94    115         97
Yield kg/ha              -       -      -       -       -    76,202        -      -       -       -       -     63,30'
Production '000 t.  9,004  7,528  9,529   n.a.   n.a.    8,687             -   5,576   5,477  5,786 7,723         6,141
I/ National Banana Program, Cuayaquil.
SOURCE:  Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock, Quito.                                                                                m
January,  1977                                                                                                                           m iX
0



ANNEX 3
Page 1
ECUADOR
Agricultural Credit Project
The Banking System and Agricultural Credit
The Monetary Board
1.        The Monetary Board is the highest monetary policy body in Ecuador
and, in this capacity, it regulates the volume and distribution of credit in
the supervised market. The President of the Monetary Board is a representative
of the President of the Republic; members are the Ministers of Finance; of
Industry, Commerce and Integration; and of Agriculture. The President of
the National Planning Board, the Bank Superintendent and the Manager of the
Central Bank act as advisors, and three representatives of the private sector
participate in discussions, but have no vote in the decisions of the Board.
The Central Bank
2.        The Central Bank is principally responsible for the issue of money
and the exercise of some of the measures of monetary control. As of
December 31, 1974, its total assets amounted S/ 21,595 million, including
S/ 6,986 million of claims on the public sector (Central Government and offi-
cial financial institutions). The volume of credit extended by the Central
Bank in the period 1970-74 is estimated below. The figures do not include
rediscount operations; the "other" category includes the public sector.
Central Bank-Volume of Credit
(in S/ million)
Year           Commerce      Agriculture      Industry      Other        Total
1970               797           215            905          661         2,578
1971               728            159           970          507         2,363
1972              1159            109           789          489         2,546
1973              1111            124           627          367         2,229
1974              1492            89          1,090          642         3,313
Source:   Banco Central del Ecuador.
3.        The Central Bank administers the Fondos Financieros, which consist
of six funds with local resources and two with foreign resources from USAID
and IBRD loans. The resources of these funds are used by the Central Bank
to rediscount loans made by commercial and development banks to eligible



ANNEX 3
Page 2
borrowers under the provisions of each fund. Normally, the intermediary lends
up to 90% of the cost of the project at 9% and rediscounts 80% of the value of
the loan at 3%; exceptionally, under IDA Credit 222-EC, the intermediary
lends at 12% for loans above SI 625,000 and rediscounts at 7% the equivalent
of 70% and 75% of the value of the loan for milk cattle and meat cattle
projects, respectively. To bridge the period between the full commitment of
Credit 222-EC resources and the availability of resources under the proposed
project, the Government provided up to US$4 million (equivalent) to be avail-
able for sublending under the same terms and conditions as Credit 222-EC.
4.        Two of the eight funds of the Fondos Financieros are aimed at assist-
ing small-scale and artisan industries, namely the Fondo Financiero Industrial
and the USAID Technical and Credit Assistance to Small Industry Program. The
former has worked relatively well; during 1975, the Ecuadorian Government
increased its resources from SI 200 million to St 400 million. The latter
has not worked too well because of administrative complexities and at the
end of December 1975 was terminated. In November 1975 the Minister of Industry
announced the creation of the National Center for the Promotion of Small and
Artisan Industry (CENAPIA) which, among other things, will supervise the use of
the resources of the Fondos Financieros and provide technical assistance in the
areas of accounting, industrial engineering, and product design and marketing.
The Commercial Banks
5.        There  are 20 national and four foreign commercial banks operating
in Ecuador (May 1976). As of December 31, 1974, their combined liabilities
stood at S/ 22,904 million, classified as follows: 1/
Amount
(in S/ million)           % of Total
Deposits                          12,239                   54
Bonds                              2,738                   12
Letters of Credit                  3,469                   15
Other Obligations                  3,039                   13
Equity                             1,419                    6
Source:   Banco Central del Ecuador, 1974-No. XLVIII-560.
6.        The percentage distribution of credit extended by the commercial
banks in the period 1970-74 according to main sectors is given below. Recent
measures of commercial portfolio ceiling and directed investment are expected
to change the traditional mix of beneficiaries.
1/   The data refer to the 18 national and four foreign commercial banks
operating at that date.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
Percentage of Distribution of Credit Supplied by Banking
System by Economic Activity, 1970 through 1975 /1
Activity                  1970     1971      1972      1973      1974     1975
Commerce                     56.6     59.7      59.9      59.4      52.4      50.4
Industry                     18.9     19.4      18.5      18.4      19.9      19.5
Agriculture                  14.1      12.3     12.5      14.2      17.6       16.6
Other                        10.4       8.6      9.1       8.0      10.1       13.5
Total                 100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0         100.0
/1   Exclusive of credit supplied by the Central Bank of Ecuador to other
banks. The source does not indicate the content of the "other" category,
which has shown considerable growth; this may include, however, construc-
tion activities.
Source:   Central Bank of Ecuador.
7.        The total volume of credit (defined as the value of credit ope-
rations in each year) extended by the banking system and by CV-CFN and COFIEC
in the period 1970-74 is shown in the following table. Except for CV-CFN,
available statistics make no distinction between short and long-term credit,
although it may be reasonably assumed that Banco Nacional de Fomento (BNF),
CV-CFN and COFIEC are the major sources of the long-term financing. It is
estimated that during 1974, only about 15% of total credit extended by the
banking system, CV-CFN and COFIEC had terms over one year. This no doubt
reflects the predominantly commercial orientation of the business sector in
Ecuador. Overall, the commercial banks dominated the scene. Their share of
total credit went from about 68% in 1970 to 72% in 1973. However, during 1974
it dropped to about 62%, due partly to the restrictions placed on overall
portfolio growth and partly to the emerging importance of Banco Nacional de
Fomento and CV-CFN. The unfreezing during 1975 of certain portions of the
portfolio of the commercial banks combined with incentives under the Fondo
Financieros mechanism may again change their relative position in the future.



ANNEX 3
Page 4
Volume of Credit Extended by Source
(in S/ million)
Non-Bank
Banking System                        Intermediaries       Total
Central     Commercial   Banco Nacional
Year     Bank /1        Banks         de Fomento          CV-CFN   COFIEC
1970      2,578        8,054             678               145      359      11,814
1971      2,363        9,079             763               410      444      13,059
1972      2,546       10,542             808               302      633      14,831
1973      2,229       12,888           1,508               363      831      17,819
1974      3,313       15,668           3,640            1,266    1,306       25,193
/1   Credit to commercial banks and BNF excluded.
Source:   Memoria del Gerente General del Banco Central del Ecuador, 1973-1974;
operating reports of CV-CFN and COFIEC.
8.        As shown in paragraph 6, the volume of bank credit which flowed to
the agricultural sector between 1970 and 1975 has expanded relatively rapidly.
The channels of institutional credit to the sector are the Government's
BNF and the commercial banks. Loans to the agricultural sector in 1975,
amounting to US$186 million, represented about 17% of total bank credit, well
above the 13% average for 1971-73. This 1975 figure represents a tripling from
the US$60 million reported in 1971 (an expansion rate of over 30% p.a.).
During this period, credit for livestock approximately quintupled while crop
lending slightly more than doubled; by 1975, lending was almost evenly split
between the crop and livestock sectors. As institutional credit is available
to only about 7% of the farms, in addition to or in lieu of tapping such
sources, many farmers utilize a considerable but unquantified volume of non-
institutional credit available from suppliers or money-lenders. While con-
siderably more expensive than institutional credit--rates charged range upwards
of 18 to 20% p.a. and usually for relatively short periods--farmers can avoid
mortgaging land or having to submit to the procedures generally adopted by
banks for the granting of credit.
9.        The monetary authorities require that private banks maintain 20% of
their portfolio as loans to the agricultural sector (25% in the case of
foreign-owned private banks) or else the banks must hold 4% interest-bearing
national bonds (paragraph 26 below). In view of the legal maximum interest
rate for lending in the sector (9%), compared to 12% for industrial and
commercial loans, low profitability of such operations has given rise to such
a sectorial portfolio requirement. The recently approved regulation assigning
progressive commissions for medium- and long-term lending, raising the maximum
effective rate to as high as 13.5%, is a salutory move (see para 27 for a
more detailed discussion).



ANNEX 3
Page 5
Banco Nacional de Fomento (BNF)
10.       The leading supplier of agricultural credit is the BNF.  As of the
end of 1975, the BNF had a net worth of S/ 1,990 million (US$79.6 million).
Its total assets amounted to S/ 9,730 million (US$389.2 million), including
a loan portfolio of S/ 5,990 million (US$239.6 million) and an investment
portfolio of S/ 535 million (US$21.4 million). The Bank has its head office
in Quito and 53 agencies throughout the country. It has a staff of 2,051
of whom 20% work at the head office, 9% in the Guayaquil branch and 6% in
the Quito branch office. Inspectors (credit technicians) number 248, of
which 122 have university level training. The excessive ratio of loans per
technician hampers providing adequate farm planning, credit analysis and
technical assistance. In 1975, loans made by the BNF represented nearly 69%
of the total institutional credit extended to the agricultural sector. This
represents a considerable increase over the average of 36% during the 1970-
72 period. In 1975, crop loans - largely in rice and cotton - represented 58%
of the total; livestock loans, 33%; and the remainder was for machinery and in-
frastructure.
11.       Major problems for BNF agricultural lending operations derive from
the inadequate preparation of farm loan requests. This failing has become
especially severe with the large expansion in the number of loan requests pro-
cessed in recent years. Furthermore, the BNF has been seriously debilitated,
both financially and administratively, by its involvement in recent years in
such activities as purchasing (and milling) of rice, fertilizer and tractors.
It is now in the process of divesting itself of these activities and of reor-
ganizing and reforming its procedures.
12.       These reforms are all the more urgent, since BNF's accounting
and internal control procedures have been inadequate. BNF is presently
restructuring its organization and improving its procedures with the
assistance of consultants employed under an Inter-American Development
Bank loan.
Cooperative Bank
13.       The Cooperative Bank (Banco de Cooperativas - BC) was formed in 1964
by a group of cooperatives and presently has 320 shareholders, all cooper-
atives. The principal objective of the bank is to promote the development of
its shareholders through the provision of short-, medium- and long-term loans.
In 1975, it was empowered to carry on all banking activities, and it now
provides credit to non-cooperative borrowers as well. It can make equity
investments, but only in coperative organizations. BC's operations are
governed by its charter of 1975, the general banking laws, and regulations of
the Central Bank.
14.       The head office of BC is in Quito.  It has a branch in Guayaquil and
an office in Sucua, in the Oriente. Of the total staff of 47, 27 are in Quito,



ANNEX 3
Page 6
18 are in Guayaquil, and two are in Sucua. There are five technicians who
evaluate loan applications: three in Quito, one in Guayaquil, and one in
Sucua.
15.       Loans committed increased from 90 for S/ 41 million in 1971 to
184 for SI 94 million in 1975, or about 100% in number and 130% in amount.
Thus, the average loan size increased from S/ 455,000 in 1971 to SI 510,000
in 1975, or somewhat more than 10%. In terms of 1975 sucres, loan commitments
rose about 35% from S/ 69 million to S/. 94 milion, but average loan size
decreased about 35%, from SI 770,000 to SI 510,000. The proportion of loans
renewed to total loans committed is less than 5%.
16.       About 5% of commitment was short term (less than one year) in 1975,
63% was medium term (one to five years) and 32% was long term (over five
years). In terms of loan size, about 3% of loans was under S| 100,000, 11%
was S/ 100,000 to S/ 500,000, 16% was SI 500,000 to S/ I million, and 70% was
over SI 1 million. 1/
17.       The regional distribution of loan commitments in 1975 was 57% for
the Sierra, 30% for the Costa, and 13% for the Oriente. According to purpose,
34 loans (18%) for S/ 39 million (42%) were granted for agriculture; 39 (21%),
amounting to S/ 28 million (30%), for consumption; 9 (5%), amounting to SI 7
million (7%), for services; 85 (46%), amounting to S/ 3 million (3%), for
commerce; and 17 (10%), amounting to S/ 17 million (18%), for miscellaneous.
18.       The loan portfolio at the end of 1975 represented 81% of total
assets. From the end of 1971 to the end of 1975, it increased from S/ 40
million to S/ 132 million, or 230%. In terms of 1975 sucres, it increased
about 95%, from S/ 68 million to SI 132 million. The portfolio not yet due
was distributed among production (47%), consumption (29%), services (22%),
and commerce (2%).
19.       Arrears amounted to 8% of the loan portfolio at the end of 1975,
about the same level as during the previous four years. This figure is about
half that of BNF, for example, but it is still too high. At the end of 1975,
somewhat more than 40% of arrears were less than 90 days overdue, 30% were
90 days to one year overdue, and less than 30% were more than one year over-
due. Arrears overdue by more than a year represented about 2% of the loan
portfolio. Write-offs of bad debts against reserves amounted to S/ 261,000
in 1973, S/ 49,000 in 1974, and S/ 290,000 in 1975. BC follows the Central
Bank regulation of writing off accounts overdue by more than five years.
1/   The figures in this paragraph are estimates.



ANNEX 3
Page 7
Results of Operation
20.       Net income is low but it increased from 0.7% of loan portfolio in
1971 to 2.3% in 1973 before falling again to 1.3% in 1975. It also varied
in relation to equity, rising from 2.1% in 1971 to 7.0% in 1973, then
declining to 4.9% in 1975. Nevertheless, if appropriate provision for bad
debts had been properly charged against income, BC's income may well have
been negative over the entire period.
21.       Interest and commissions received and paid showed parallel rising
trends, with the result that the gross spread was about the same, at five
percentage points, at the beginning and end of the period. Administrative
expenses decreased from 5.8% in 1971 to 4.0% in 1975, although the latter
figure is still quite high.
22.       BC can make an important contribution to the small farmer component
of the proposed project. However, it will need strong assistance from the
Project Unit in order to continue its improvement of subproject appraisal and
supervision. In addition, the project could support BC's efforts to raise the
efficiency of its operations by financing items such as vehicles, accounting
equipment, and technical assistance. Perhaps an appropriate initial study
would focus on the accounting, auditing and statistics systems. It would
result in the production of information which would give a more accurate
indication of BC's operations and position, and would provide a basis for
further organization and management studies.
COFIEC
23.       The private development finance corporation - Compania Financiera
Ecuatoriana de Desarrollo (COFIEC) - was created in 1966 and, like its public
counterpart (CV-CFN), one of its principal functions in its initial stages
was to channel external resources to private sector investment. Among its
original shareholders was the IFC. COFIEC mainly invests in and lends
to large and medium-sized industry. Its portfolio at the end of 1974
amounted to S| 1,248 million, with equity investments representing a mere
2%; project loans, 49%; and combined short-term operations, mostly guarantees
and letters of credit, 49%.



ANNEX 3
Page 8
24.       The structure of COFIEC lending is as follows:
COFIEC - Volume of Credit
(in SI million)
Year    Manufacturing      Agriculture /1       Construction      Others      Total
1966         47.8                /2                  /2             10.0       57.8
1967        111.3                 5.8                11.1           12.9      141.0
1968        137.6                29.8                 3.3           47.6      218.3
1969        209.0                55.4                48.3           57.7      370.4
1970        198.5                38.4                49.4           72.5      358.9
1971        229.0                30.5                63.7          121.3      444.4
1972        366.7                44.5               108.8          113.4      633.4
1973        439.1                51.5               202.7          137.2      830.5
1974        752.1                99.6               268.9          184.9   1,305.5
/1   Includes livestock and fishing.
/2   Included under "others".
Source:   COFIEC.
Fondo Nacional de Desarrollo
25.       Although kept in an account of the Central Bank, the resources of
the Fondo Nacional de Desarrollo (FONADE) are not administered by the Central
Bank. Allocation of available funds is made by an inter-ministerial com-
mission. The resources of FONADE come from that portion of the Government's
tax receipts on oil exports in excess of US$7.42 per barrel. By the end of
1974, the fund had been given S/ 3,342 million and had disbursed S/ 2,313
million. In order of importance, SI 536 million was allocated for the
construction of the state petroleum refinery, S/ 505 million for emergency
works, SI 502 million for project financing at BNF, SI 250 million for project
financing at CV-CFN, S/ 200 million for discounting purposes at the Central
Bank under the Fondos Financieros' mechanism and the remaining S/ 320 million
for projects of various ministries and other development agencies.
Measures Affecting the Flow of Resources in Ecuador
26.       The principal monetary instruments which directly or indirectly
affect the flow of resources are legal reserve requirements, minimum capital
requirements, portfolio ceilings, directed investments, open market operations,
advance import deposit requirements, and interest and rediscount rates. To
assist certain sectors, in particular the small entrepreneurs, farmers and



ANNEX 3
Page 9
artisans, the local and foreign commercial banks are required to invest 20%
and 25%, respectively, of their portfolio in loans which qualify under the
Fondos Financieros mechanism. Banks which fail to reach the prescribed levels
must make up the difference by purchasing 4% Government Development Bonds, a
rather unattractive alternative. Effective January 1975, another measure
obliges the banks to relend the minimum of 80% of their deposits in the
provinces where they originate. In 1974, about 80% of the banks' deposits had
originated in the Quito/Guayaquil areas whereas 87.6% of their portfolio
covered loans to Quito/Guayaquil accounts.
27.       The future interest of the banking system in medium- and long-term
lending for crop and livestock activities will depend on changes in the
interest rate structure which would make those loans at least as attractive as
short-term lending. Ecuadorian monetary authorities have recognized this
situation and on November 9, 1976 the Monetary Board issued Resolution No.
927-76, which introduced a graduated structure of allowable commission charges
on medium- and long-term lending. According to the new regulations, both the
banking system and DFCs are allowed to charge, in addition to the (unchanged)
interest rate for agricultural lending, the following maximum commissions on
new contracts:
Commission on:
Loans financed         Loans financed with
Original final maturity               with bonds              other resouces
More than 3 years and up to 5 years           2.5%                      2.0%
More than 5 years and up to 8 years           3.5%                      3.0%
More than 8 years                             4.5%                      4.0%
The new interest and commission structure represents a major step toward pro-
viding both the public and private lending institutions with a reasonable
effective interest rate spread, especially with its differentiation between
short, medium- and long-term operations. Most lending is anticipated to be
at the maximum maturity period (more than eight years) under this project.



ANNEX 3
ECUADOR                            Table 1
Page 1
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Interest and Rediscount Rates
(nominal annual rates in percent)
Before   Before   Since
Jan.'75 Aug.'76 Aug.'76
I.   CREDIT RATES
A. Central Bank
1. To Commercial Banks
a.  Discount rate                                           8         8         8
b. Agricultural, fisheries and artisan
credits (redisc.)                                    8        6         6
c.  Industrial credits (redisc.)                            8         7         7
d.  Commercial credits (redisc.)                            8        10        10
e.  Special advances                                        5         7         7
f.  Advances to cover reserve requirements                 10        12        12
2. To National Development Bank (BNF) and Cooperative
Banks for Rediscounts and advances
1/
a.  Agricultural, fisheries and artisan credits             4         3         3
b.  Small-scale industry   2/                               7         3         3
c.  Commercial credits                                      8        10       10
3. To Public Sector Finance Corporation
a.  Industrial rediscounts and advances                     -         7        7
b.  Rediscounts FOPEX  3/                                   -         4        4
4. To Private Sector Finance Corporation
,a.  Rediscounts and advances                               9         8         8
5. To Financial Institutions through Fondos Financieros
a.  General rediscounts                                     -        3         3
b.  Rediscounts under Livestock Development Program 4/  -             7        7
6. To Private Individuals
a.  Direct credits and discounts                           12       12        12
1/ Including rediscounts of credits to Empresa Nacional de Almacenamiento
y Comercializacion (ENAC).
2/ Regulation 755 of January 1975 set this rate at 4%; however, regulation
781 of July 1975 set it at 3% and extended it to commercial banks.
3/ Fondo de Promocion de Exportaciones.
4/ Including private Financieras.



ANNEX 3
Table 1
Page 2
Before   Before   Since
Jan.'75 Aug.'76 Aug.'76
7. To Private Individuals through Fondos Financieros
a.  Agricultural, fisheries, artisans                           -         7         7
b. Industry for purchase of agricultural raw
materials                                                -         7         7
c.  Other industrial credit                                     -         8         8
d.  Advance for future exports                                   6        6         6
e.  Reliquidation after export failure                          12       12        12
8. To Public Sector
a. Central Government                                            3        3         3
b. Others                                                        5        5         5
B.  Commercial Banks  1/
1.  Ordinary loans                                             12        12        12
2.  World Bank DFC loans  2/                                   13        13        13
3.  Bond financial loans   3/                                  14        14        14
4.  Overdue loans                                              14        14        14
5.  CV-CFN through FOPEX                                                  8         8
6.  CV-CFN on rediscount of credits to small-scale and
artisan industries:
Commercial  Banks                                            -         5         5
BNF                                                          -         3         3
7. Letters of Credit and guarantee of foreign loans
(commission)                                               4        4         4
C.   National Development Bank and Cooperative Banks
1.  Agricultural credit (max.)                                       8        9         9
2.  Small-scale and artisan industries  (max.)                      10        9         9
3.  Commercial credits (max.)                                      12        12        12
4.  ENAC                                                            -         4         4
D.   Fondos Financieros   4/
1.  Credits under Livestock Development Program  5/                 -        12        12
2.  Other lending operations                                        -         9         9
1/ Including private Financieras.
2/ Including 1% inspection commission.
3/ Including 2% commission on bond issue.
4/ Commercial and Development Banks have access to this mechanism.
5/ For credits of more than S/ 625,000 (222-EC).



ANNEX 3
Table 1
Page 3
Before   Before   Since
Jan.'75 Aug.'76 Aug.'76
E. Commissions
1.  On foreign guarantees  and letters of credit               4         4         4
2. On loans (on balance outstanding for the
indicated period)
(a)  Less than 3 years                                     -         -        0
(b)  More than 3 years but less than 5 years               -         -        2
(c)  More than 5 years but less than 8 years               -         -        3
(d)  More than 8 years                                     -         -        4
II.    DEPOSIT RATES
A. Pass book savings
1.  Commercial banks                                           6         6         6
2. Savings and Mortgage banks
B. Deposits with Commercial Banks
1.  31-180 days, maximum interest                               7        7         7
2.  181-360 days, maximum interest                             8         8         8
3.  Over 360 days, maximum interest                            9         9         9
C. Deposits with Savings and Mortgage banks
1.  31-180 days, maximum interest                              8         8         8
2.  181-360 days, maximum interest                             9         9         9
3.  Over 360 days, maximum interest                           10        10        10
D. Government Bonds, Cedulas Hipotecarias, and
securities issued by stock companies  1/                      12        12        12
Source: Monetary Board Resolutions.
1/ May be sold at discount for higher effective yield.
January, 1977



ANNEX 3
Table I
Page 4
ECUADOR
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Effective Interest Rates, Resulting from
New Commissions
Loan maturity,          Loans financed              Loans financed with
Years              with bonds  1/              other resources
1                     14                           12.0
2                     14                           12.0
3                     14                           12.0
4                     15.7                         13.7
5                     15.7                         13.7
6                     15.8                         13.8
7                     15.8                         13.8
8                     15.9                         13.9
9                     16.0                         14.0
10                     16.0                         14.0
11                     16.1                         14.1
12                     16.1                         14.1
13                     16.2                         14.2
1/ No bonds of less than 5 years have been issued.
January, 1977.



ECUADOR
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Beef Ranch, 50 ha
Investment Costs
Units          Unit         Total Cost             Investment by Year        Total Cost   Foreign
per           Cost           Per Farm            1          2          3    per farm   Exchange
Farm           --------------------- S/ 000 ------------------------           US$   x   %   US$
Pasture
New (ha)                        9             4.0             36.0              -         12.0     24.0    1,140  19   -    -
Renovated (ha)                 18             0.7             12.6             4.2         4.2       4.2      504   7   -    -
Fencing
New (km)                      1.2            15.0             18.0             6.0         6.0      6.0       720   9  40   288
Renovated                     0.5             6.0              3.0             3.0           -         -      120   2  40    96
Water Supply
Trough and pipe                 1             6.0              6.0             6.0           -         -      240   3  20    48
Farm Structures
Corral                        0.5            10.0              5.0             5.0           -         -      200   3  20    40
Building improvements           1           25.0              25.0            25.0           -         -   1,000  13  30   400
Equipment
Sundry (Veterinary & tools)                                    5.0             5.0           -         -      200   3  85   170
Breeding Stock
Bulls                           1           25.0              25.0              -           25.0       -   1,000  13  30   300
Heifers                         5            8.0              40.0            24.0          16.0       -   1,600  21  30   480
175.6            78.2          6=77   IW2    6,724  87  26 1,822
Other
Physical Contingencies                                        17.4            7.8            5.8      3.8    996  13  26   182
Total                                                     193.0           86.0           69.0    38.0  _7720 100  26 2,004
January, 1977                                                                                                                     |



ANNEX 4(a)
ECUADOR                                                 Table 2
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Beef Ranch, 50 ha
Herd Development Projection
Before           - ________--Year------
Herd Composition         Development   1           2         3          4         5         6         7          8         9        10-15
Bulls                       1         1         1         1         2          2         2         2         2          2         2
Cows                       20        23        25        27        29        32         34        37        37         37        37
Heifers (2-3 years)         5         5         6         8         9          8         9         8         8          8         8
Heifers 1-2 years)          5         6         8         9        10        12         13        14        15         15        15
Calves (weaners)           13        17        20        22        25        27         28        30        32         32        32
Steers (1-2 years)          6         7         9        10        11        12         13        13        14         15        15
Steers 2-3 years)           5         6         7         9        10        11         12        13        13         14        14
Steers (3-4 years)          5         5         6         7         6          5         4         3        -          -         -
Total Animals              60        70        82        93       102       109        115       120       121        123       123
Total Animal Units (AU) 47           53        62        71        77         82        87        90        89         91         91
Mortality
Adults                      3         2         2         3          3         3         4         4          4          4         4
Sales
Bulls                       -         -         1         -          -         _         1         _          1          _         1
Cows                        3         3         3         3               4         4         4          4               7         7
Heifers                     -         -         -         -          1         2         3          4         8          7         7
Steers (2-3 years)          -         -         -         3          5         7         9        13         13         14        14
Steers (3-4 years)          5         5         6         7          6         5         4         3 _         _         _
Total                       8         8        10        13        16         18        21         24        26         28        29
Purchases
Bulls                       -         -         1         _          1         -         1          _         1           _         1
Heifers                     -         3         2         -          -         -         -          -                    -          -
Technical Coefficients
Weaning rate %             55        60        65        70         70        70        70         70        70          70        70
Mortality rate % adults  5            4          3         3         3         3          3         3         3           3
Cow culling rate %         12        12        13        12         15        14        16         15        14          19        19
Carrying capacity       .
AU/ha            -      1.1        1.3       1.4       1.4       1.5        1.6       1.7       1.8        1.8        1.8         1.8
Pasture area ha            41        41        44        50         50        50        50        50         50         50         50
Total beef output OOO'kg 3.0          3.0       3.9        4.9       6.1       7.1        8.1      50        5          11.1        11.1
Beef output Kg/ha          72        72        90         98       121       141       163        194       199        223        223



ECUADOR
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Beef Ranch, 50 ha
Sales and Operating Costs
(SI 000)_
year
Unit         Before         1       2       3      4       5        6       7       3        9     10-15
Unit    Price         Development
Kg      S/
Sales
Bulls                         640       9,000                       -       9      -       -       -       4.5    4.5    4.5       4-5      4-5
Cows                          380       5,000             15       15      15     15      20      20      25     25      25       35       35
Heifers                        360      8,000              -        -       -       -      8      16      24      32     64       56       56
Steers (2-3 years)            400       6,000              -        -       -     18      30      42      54     78      78       84       84
Steers (3-4 years)            365       5,500 1/          27.5    27.5   33       38.5   33       30      24     18       -        -        -
Total sales                                               42.5    42.5   57       71.5   91    108    131.5  157.5  171.5   179.5   179.5 g/
Operating Costs
Labor - owner 2/                                           9.1    13.0   15.0   17.0   18.2   18.2   18.2   18.2   18.2    18.2    18.2
casual 3/                                         -       -       -      -        -       -       3.0    5.0    7.0        9.0     9.0
Maintenance - pasture 4/                                   -                5      10     15      25      25      25      25       25       25
Fences and water 5/                                     2.2      2.2    2.2    2.2    2.7    3.3    4.2    4.2    4.2           4.2      4.2
Construction 6/                                         1.0      1.0    1.0    1.0    1.5    2.0    2.5    2.5    2.5            2.5     2.5
Animal health 7F                                           2.3      6.9    8.1    9.2   10.0   10.7   11.3   11.7   11.8           11.8    11.8
Bull replacements 8/                                       5.0       -      -      -      12.5   12.5   12.5   12.5   12.5         12.5    12.5
Miscellaneous 10%                                          2.0      2.3    3.3    3.9    6.0    7.2    7.7    7.9    8.9            8.3      8.3
Total operating costs                                     21.6    25.4   34.6   43.3   65.9   78.9   84.4   87.0   90.1            91.5    91.5
Net operating income                                      20.9    17.1   22.4   28.2   25.1   29.1   57.1   70.5   81.4            88.0    88.0
1/ From year 5, S/6,000 per head.
2/ Before development 0.5 labor unit, increasing to 1 labor unit in year 4.
3/ S/50 per day.
4/ Before development maintenance by owner, once a year cleaning; at full development
pastures cleaned twice a year, cost S/500 per hectare.
5/ 7.5% of value.
6/ 5% of value.
7/ Before development S/50 per AU; from year 1, S/130 per AU.
8/ After development S/25,000 per head.
d /  Not including incremental herd value S/306,500.
,4
                                                                                                                                                            1 0



ECUADOR
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Beef Farm, 50 ha
Cash Flow Projection
(S/ '000)
Before      ------------------------------------------------------Year-------------------------------------------------------
Development      1         2        3         4        5        6         7         8        9         10        11       12       13-15
Cash Inflow:
Sales                                  42.5        42.5      57.0      71.5      91.0    108.0    131.5    157.5    171.5    171.5    179.5    179.5    179.5    179.5
Long term loan (90%)                      -         68.8     55.2      30.4        -         -                  -         _         :         _                  _         _
Total                                                                                                              _____
Total                               42.5       111.3    112.2    101.9       91.0    108.0    131.5    157.5    171.5    171.5    179.5    179.5    179.5    17,
Cash Outflow:
Operating expenses
excluding owner's salary             12.5        14.4      19.6      26.3      47.7     60.7      66.2      68.8      71.1      73.3      73.3      73.3      73.3     73.3
Investment                                -        86.0      69.0      38.0        -        -         -         -         -         -         -        -         -         -
Debt Service:
Interest (14%)                            _         4.8      13.5      19.5      21.6     21.6      21.6      19.6      17.3       14.7      11.7     8.3       4.4        _
Principal                                 -           -        -         -         -        -       14.4      16.4      18.7       21.3      24.3    27.7      31.6        -
>   Total                            12.5      105.2    102.1       83.8      69.3     82.3    102.2    104.8    107.1         109.3    109.3   109.3    109.3         73.3
Balance after debt service                30.0         6.1      10.1     18.1      21.7      25.7      29.3     52.7      64_4       62.2      70.2    70.2       70.2     106.2      X x
Financial Rate of Return - overall 197.
- to owner 26%



ANNEX 4(b)
Table 1
ECUADOR
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Dairy Farm, 50 ha
Investment Costs
Units     Unit        Cost              Investment bY Year               Total Cost Foreign
per      Cost      per Farm            1           2            3        per farm          g
Category                   Farm       S/       S/ 000            S/ 000      S/ 000      S/ 000    US$    %          U-
Pasture
New                             30 ha    6,000         180               60          60           60   7,200   19  60 4,320
Fencing
New                              4.0 km. 10,000         40               10          15           15   1,600    4  40   640
Renovation                       1.5 km. 4,000           6                2           2            2     240    1  30    72
Water Supply
Well and pump                    0.7    15,000          10               10                              400    1  70   280
Pipe (km)                        0.8    15,000          12                6           3            3     480    1  70   336
Troughs                          4        1,000          4                2           1            1     160   0.4 20    32
Farm Structures
Corral                            .3    60,000          20               20           -            -     800    2  20   160
Milking parlor                   1.0    50,000          50              25          25             -   2,000    5  70 1,400
Calf house                       0.5    40,000          20                          20             -     800    2  30   240
Building improvements             .3   180,000          60              20          40             -   2,400    6  40   960
Roading (km)                     0.5    80,000          40              20           20            -   1,600    4  20   320
Irrigation canal (km)            1.4    10,000          14                7           7            -     560    1  20   112
Machinery and Equipment
Tractor and implements             .1   400,000         40              40            -            -   1,600    4  80 1,280
Milking machine                   .1   200,000          20                            20           -     800    2  80   640
Miscellaneous equipment                                 20               10           5            5     800    2  70   560
Breeding Stock
Bulls                            2       25,000         50              25            -           25   2,000    5  20   400
Heifers                         15       18,000        270               90          90           go  10,800   28  20 2,160
34,240  87.4 41 13,912
Others
Physical contingencies (10%)                            86              35          31           20   3,440    9  41  1,410
Project preparation   (2.5%)                            24              24            -            -     960    2  20    192
Total                                               966             406         339           221 38,640  98.4 40 15,514
November 1976



ANNEY. 4(b)
ECUADOR
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Dairy Farm, 50 ha
Herd Development Projection
Before          -------------------       Year ----------------
Development        1        2         3         4         5         6         7-15
Herd Composition
Bulls                                                   2               2        2         2        3          3        3           3
Cows                                                    45             47       50        52        57        61        67         71
Heifers (2-3 years)                                      7              7        7        12        13        15        15         15
Heifers, (1-2 years)                                    8               8       12        14        15        16       15          16
Calves (births)                                        34              38      40        44        48        52        57          60
Total                                          96            102      111       124       136       147       157        165
Total AU                                       62             64       71        80        88        95       100        105
Mortality
Cows and heifers                                        3               3        2         3         2         3         2          3
Calves                                                  3               3        2         2         2         2         2          3
Sales
Bulls                                                                   1        -         1         -         1         1          1
Cows                                                    5               8        8         7         7         7         9         13
Calves - heifer (I year)                                7               5        6         6        7         10       11          12
- bull (1 week)                                 16             18       19        21        23        25        28         29
Total                                          28             32       33        35        37        43        49         55
Purchases
Bulls                                                   -               1        -         1         1         1        1           1
Hleifers                                                                5        5         5
Total                                           _              6        5         6         1         1         1          1
Technical Coefficients
Calving rate %                                         75              80       80       85        85        85        85         85
Mortality rate % calves                                10               8        6         5         5        5         5          5
adults                                4              3        3         3         3         3         3          3
Cow culling tate 7.-                                    11             17       16        15        12        11       13         18
Carrying capecitv AUih.                                  1.2            1.3      1.4       1.6       1.7       1.9       2.0        2.1
Carrying in iilk %                                     65              68      70        70        70        70        70         70
Average no. cows in milk/day                            29             32       35        36       40        43        47         50
Average milk produced/cow/day, liters                    7.5            8        8.5       9.5      10        10.5     10.5       10.5
Total milk Production '000 liters                      79.4            93.4   108.6    138.3    146.0    164.8    180.1          191.6
Milk production/ha/year. '000 liters                    1.6             1.9     2.2       2.8       2.        3.3       3.6        3.8
Calf milk consumption-  '000 liters                     5.8             6.5      6.8      7.6       8.3       9.0       9.7       10.4
Milk sold '000 liters                                  73.6            86.9   101.8    130.7    137.7    155.8    170.4          181.2
360 liters per female calf.
November 1976



ANNEX 4 (b)
ECUADOR                                                             Table 3
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Dairy Farm, 50 ha
Sales and Operating Costs
(S/ 000)
Unit
Price       Before                     - - - - - - - - - - - -  Year - - _ - - - - - - - _
Unit           Si      Develooment            1         2          3         4         5          6        7-15
Sales
Cull cows                                      800 lb       5,000          25               40         40        35        35         35        45         65
Cull bulls                                   1,200 lb       8,000           8                8          -         8          -         8          8         8
Fem.ale calves                                 350 lb       5,0001/        35               25        30         30        56         80        88         96
Male calves                                     80 lb         500           8                9          9.5      10.5       11.5      12.5      14         14.5
Cattle sales                                                             76               82        79.5       83.5    102.5      135.5      155.      183.5
Milk sales                                  litre           4.2        309.1             365.0    497.6    548.9    578.3    654.4           715.7    761.5
Total sales                                                            385.1             447.0     577.1    632.4    680.8    789.9          870.7     945.0
Operating Costs
Labor
Manager 2/                                                              40                50        60         60        60        60         60        60
Cowhands 3/                                                              38               38        38         38        57        57         57        57
Milkers   /                                                              14.4             14.4      19.2       19.2      19.2       19.2      24.0      24.0
Casual 5/                                                                17.5             21        24.5       28        28         28        28        28
Technical assistance 6/                                                  -                12        12         12        12         12        12         12
Pasture renewal 7/                                                       11                -         -          -        60        60         60        60
Maintenance - pasture  /                                                 -                 -        16         32        48         64        64        64
fences  q/                                                1                1         1          1         2         3.5        4.5       4.5
water supply  IO/                                         1                1          1         1         1.3        1.5       2.0        2.5
construction  15/                                         5                5         5          5         6          7         9         10
machinery 121                                             5                5          7         8        10         12        12         12
vehicle    3 /                                           16               17        18         19        20         20        20        20
tractor hire 14/                                        25                27        30         33        35         37        40        40
Animal health 15/                                                         3               12.6      14.2       15.8      17.6       18.8      20         20.8
Supplements   16/                                                        28.3             31.4      34.1       35.5      39.3      42.4       46.2      49.2
Bull replacement                                                         10                -         -          -        25        25         25        25
Total operating costs                                                       215,2            235.4    280.0       307.5    440.4    467.4        483.7      489.0
Net operating income                                                        169.9            211.6    297.1       324.9      240.4     322.5    387.0    456.0
1/  S/8,000 from year 4.
2/  Increasing from S/3,300 up to S/5,000 per month.
3/  S/1,250 per month:  before development, 2 menl year 4 on, 3 men.
4/  S/400 per month:  before development, 3 milkers; year 2, 4 milkers; year 6, 5 milkers.
5/  S/35 per day:  before development 500 man-days, increasing to 800 man-days from year 3 on.
6/ S/500 per visit.
7/  Before development, 5 ha per year, seed S/1,800/ha, fertilizer s/400/ha; year 1-3 investment costs.
8/  From year 4, annual maintenance of 400 kg superphosphate per year.
9/  7.5% of value.
10/  57. of value.
11/  5X of value.
12/  10% of value.
13/  S/4 per km.
14/  S/200 per hour.
15/  S/200 per AU.
16/  Female calves 100 kg per head; cows 300 kg per head; cost S/2.73 per kg.
Incremental herd value s/687,000.
November, 1976.



ECUADOR
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Dairy Farm, 50 ha
Cash Flow Projection
(S/ '000)
Before- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -   Y E A R  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
Development         1       2       3       4        5       6        7       8        9      10       11      12      13-15
Cash Inflow
Sales                             385.1          447.0   507.1   632.4   680.8   789.9   870.7   944.5   944.5   944.5   944.5   944.5   944.5   944.5
Long-term loan (80%)                -            324.8   271.2   176.8      -        -       -                         -       -                -       -
Total                       385.1          771.8   778.3   809.2   680.8   789.9   870.7   944.5   944.5   944.5   944.5   944.5   944.5   944.5
Cash Outflow
Operating Expenses
excluding owner's (manager)
salary                          175.2          185.4   220.0   247.5   380.4   407.4   423.7   429.0   429.0   429.0   429.0   429.0   429.0   429.0
Investment                           -           406.0   339.0   221.0      -        -       -        -       -        -       -        -       -        -
Debt Service
Interest (14%)                      _             22.7    64.5    95.8   108.2   101.5    93.8    85.1    75.1    63.7    50.8    36.0    19.2
Principal                            -              -       -       _      48.0    54.8    62.4    71.2    81.1    92.5   105.5   120.2   137.0
Total                       175.2          614.1   623.5   564.3   536.6   563.7   579.9   585.3   585.2   585.2   585.3   585.2   585.2   429.0
Balance after debt service           209.9          157.7   154.8   244.9   144.2   226.2   290.8   359.2   359.3   362.0   359.2   359.3   359.3   515.5
Financial Rate of Return - overall   227                                          lb
- to owner  40%                                           f
4II4



AMNEX 4(c)
Table 1
ECUADOR
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Dairy Farm, 10 ha (6 ha in pasture)
Investment Costs
Units       Unit        Cost           Investment by Year          Total Cost  Foreign
Category                         per        Cost    per farm         1          2         3         per farm   Exchange
Farm         S/          S/         S/          S/        S/       US$    %
Pasture                                          I/
New                            6 ha      4,100    24,600        8,200       8,200      8,200      984  33    60    590
Fencing
New                            0.4 km   lo,ooo       4,ooo      2,000       2,000                 160   5    40      64
Water Supply
Trough  and pipe              1          3,000      3,000                  3,000                 120   4    20       24
Building                            2
Cow yard improvement          5 m         600       3,000                  3,000                 120   4    20      24
Builling improvement          1         5,000       5,000                  2,500      2,500      200   7    40      80
Breeding Stock
Heifer in calf                1        12,000      12,000     12,000                             480  16    20      96
Heifer (2 year old)           2         8,000      16,000      8,000       8,ooo                 640  22    20    128
Subtotal                                              67,600      30'200     26,700    10,700   2,704  91    37  1,006
Physical Contingencies  (10%)                          6,800       3,000      2,700      1,100      272   9    37    101
TOTAL                                       74,400     33,200      29,400    11,800    2,976 100    37 .1,107
/  Pasture sown following cropping.
January, 1977



ANNEX 4(e)
Table 2
ECUADOR
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Dairy FBrm, 10 ha (6 ha in pasture)
Herd DeVelopment ProJectiOn
-efore                     Year -----------
Before                                         45671
Herd Composition                      Development       1         2          3          4           5          6         7-15
Cows in production                     2           3         4          4          4           5          5          5
Cows dry                                           2         2          2          2           2           2         2
Heifers (2-3 years)                  0-1           1         1          1          2           2          2          2
Heifers (1-2 years)                   1-0I1                  1          2          2           2           2         2
Calves females                         1                    2          2          2           2          2          2
Calves males                           1           2         2          2           2          3           3         3
Total aninals                          7          3-0       12         13         14          16          16        16
Total animal units (AU)                5           7         9          9         10          11.        11         1L
Carrying capacity (AU)                 6           7         9         10         11          11         11         11
Sales
Cull ca                               0-1-         3- 1      11                    1           1           2         2
Male ealves (1 yr)                     1           2          2         2           2          2           3         3
Total                                 1-2  I        3        3          3           3          3           5         5
Purchases
Heifer in calf                        -            1         - 
Heifer (2 years)                      _            1         1
Technical Coefficients
Weaning rate 0%                       50          6o        66         66         66          70          70        70
Cow culling rate %                    13          20        17         17         17          14          12        25
Carrying capacity AU/ha                1.0         1.2       1.5        1.7         1.8        1.8         1.8       1.8
Milk production/cow/day, (liters)           5           5.5       6          6.5         7          7           8         8
Total milk production,(liters)          3,650       6,023     8,760      9,49O     10,220      12,775      14,600    14,600
Milk Production/ha/year,(liters)          608       1,004      11460     1,502       1,703      2,129       2,453     2,433
Calf milk (liters) Z                      720       1,080     1,440      1,440      1,440       1,800      1,800      1,800
House milk (liters)                       730       1,460     1,460      1,460      1 460       1,460      1,460      1,1460
Milk sales                              2,200       3,483     5,860      6,590      7,320       9,515      11,340    11,340
/  Alternate years.
/  360 liters per calf.
November, 1976



AMUE 4(c)
Ta-ble 3
ECUADOR
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Dairy Farm 10 ha (6 ha in pasture)
Sal-es and- Operati-tr Co0ts
(S/ 000)
Unit      Unit       Before                                 year______________
PritcUnt Development        1        2       3        4       5       6     7-15
Sales                                                      ---------------------------- 000' S/ -----------------------
Cull cows                  360 kg     4,800             2.4       4.8     4.8      4.8      4.8     4.8    9,.6     9.6
Male calves (1 year)       160 kg     2,400             2.4       4.8     4.8      4.8      4.8     4.8    7.2      7.9
Cattle sales                                         4.8        9.6     9.6      9.6     9.6      9.6   16.8    16.8
Milk sales               liter           4            8.8      14.0    23.6    26.4    29.2    38.0   45.2    45.2
Total sales                                            13.6      23.6    33.2    36.o    38.8    47.6   62.0    62.0
Operating Costs
Labor '/-family                                        8.0        9.0    10.0    12.0    14.0    16.0   16.0    16.0
Maintenance-pasture   2
Seeds and cultivation-/                                Q.8                  -   -   -       - -  -          5.0     5.0
Fertilizer  31                                           -         -      3.2      6.4      9.6     9.6    9.6      9.6
Fences and watP  4-                                     0.5       0.5     o.6      0.7      0.7     0.8    o.8      0.8
Constructions  0! 0.4                                             o.4      o.4     0.5    o05       o.6    o.6      o.6
Supplements  6/                                        o.6        0.8     3-1      3.2     3.0      6.5    6.5      6.5
Animal 1ealthZ7/                                       0.3        1.4      1.8     1.8      2.0     2.2    2.2       2.2
Bull services                                          0.5        0.      1.2      1.2      1.2     1.5    1.5    15
Miscellaneous (5%)                                     o.6       o-X    1.0        1.3      1.6     1.9    2.1       2.1
Total Operating oosts                                 11.7       13.7    21.3    27.1    32.6    39-1   44-3    44-3
Net operating income                                   1.9        9.9    11.9      8.9     6.2      8.5   17.7    17.7
/ Before development 0.5 labor unit;  increasing to 1 labor unit in year 5.
8/ Years 1-3 investment cost, 5 year pasture life.
3/  New pasture  annually starting with new pasture 400 kg/ha of superphosphate or 200 kg of 18.46.n mixture plus 20 kg
4/ 5% of value.                                                  sulphurlha.  Superphosphate S/4,000/f ton.
5% of value.
Calves 90 kg concentrate per head: milking cows years 2 and 3, 0.5 kg per head;  year 4, 0.7 kg/head;  year 5,
on 1 kg per head/dav.5 Cost Sf3.0 ner k
j   Before development s/SO per AU; atter dCvelopment SI 200 per AU (siinerals S/ 50, medicines s/ 150)
I/ S/ 150 per service.
Incremental herd value S/ 75,000
November, 1976



ANNEX 4(c)
ECUADOR                                                                  Table 4
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Dairy Farm, 10 na kb ha in pasture)
Cash Flow Projection
(S/ '000)
Before      ------------------------------------------------- Year -------------------------
Development      1         2       3        4       5        6       7        8       9        10       11        12        13-15
Cash Inflow:
Sales                         13.6         23.6     33.2    36.0    38.8    47.6    62.0    62.0    62.0    62.0         62.0      62.0     62.0        62.0
Long-term loan (90%)                       29.9    ,26.      1  0.-
Total                   13.6         53.5     59.7    46.6    38.8    47.6    62.0    62.0    62.0    62.0         62.0      62.0     62.0        62.0
Cash Outflow:
Operating expenses
excluding family labor       3.7          4.6     11.3    15.1    18.6    23.1    28.3    28.3    28.3    28.3         28.3      28.3     28.3        28.3
Investment                                 33.2     29.4    11.8       -        -       -        -       -
Debt Service:
Interest (11%)                              1.7      4.8      6.7     7.4      7.4     7.4      6.6     5.8      4.9      3.8       2.7       1.4         -
principal                                    _        _       _        -       _       6.9     7.6      8.4     9.4      10.4      11.5     12.8         -
Total                    3.7         39.5     45.5    33.6    26.0    30.5    42.6    42,5    42.5    42.6         42.5      42.5     42.5        28.3
Balance after debt service       9.9         14.0      14.2    13.0    12.8    17.1    19.4    19.5    19.5    19.4         19.5     19.5      19.5        33.7
Financial Rate of Return - overall 20%
May, 1977



ANNEX 4(d)
ECUADOR                                        Table I
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Sheep Farm, 40 ha
Investment Costs
Units            Cost       Investment by Year  'tTotal
Category                             per    Unit      per       1        2         -- ost per    Foreign
Farm    Cost    Farm                 2              Farm      Exchange
S/     ----- -___-/. '000_________  Us    X   %   4US$
rasture:
New -                                      9 ha  3,600   32.4        10.8    10.8    10.8  1,296 25  58   752
Fencing:
New                                        2 km 10,000   20.0       10,%      -       10-0    800 15  40   320
Water Supply:
Well and pump                              1    10,000   10.0        10.0      -          -    400  8  70   280
Constructions:
Houses                                     1    18,000   18.0        18.0     -           -    720 14  40   288
Sheep shed and yard  extensions            1    13,200   13.2         9.2     4.0        -    528 10  40   211
Equipment:
Sundry tools                               1      3,000    3.0        3.0     -          -    120  2  85   102
Breeding stock
Rams                                       3        800    2.4       1.6      -         0.8    96  2  -    --
Ewes                                      35        600   21.0        6.0     6.0       9.0   840 16  -    --
Physical Contingencies 10%                                   12.0       6.9      2.1      3.0   480 10  41   197
Total Investment Costs                                132.0      75.5    22.9       33.6 5,280 100 41 2,150
1/ Pasture sown following cropping.
November, 1976



ECUADOR                               ANNEX 4(d)
Table 2
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Sheep Farm, 40 ha
Flock Development
eor  -------------Years------------
Before
Development      1       2       3      4       5       6       7     8-15
Herd Composition
Rams                                   2           3       2       3      3       4       4      4       4
Ewes (mixed ages)                     50          60      71     94    103    114    120    125    125
Ewes (1-2 years)                      13          14      21     27      34      42      36     31      31
Wethers (1-2 years)                   15          15      21     28      35      46      53     60      60
Lambs                                 31          44      59      73     97    110    125    125    125
Total                             111         136    174    225    272    316    338    345    345
Total sheep units (SU)             80          92    115    152    175    206    213    220    220
Mortality
Adults                                 9           8       8     10      11      13      13     15      15
Sales
Cull rams                                          I       1      -       2       -       1      1       1
Cull ewes                              9           9      10     10      12      16     21      24      25
Ewes (1-2 years)                       -           -       -      -       -       4      24     26      26
Wethers (1-2 years)                   13          14      14     20      27      34      45     51      60
Total                              22          24     25      30      41      54     91    102    112
Purchases
Rams                                   -           2       -      1       2       1       1      1       1
Ewes                                   -          10      10     15       -       -       -      -       -
Technical Coefficients
Weaning rate  %                       50          60      70     75      80      80      80     80      80
Mortality rate  X                      8           6       5       5      5       5       5      5       5
Ewe cplling rate  %                   14          14      14     11      12      16     18      20      20
Carrying capacity SU/ha                2.0         2.3    2.9    3.8    4.3    5.1    5.3    5.5    5.5
Wool yield kg per SU                   1.0         1.5    2.0    2.5    3.0    3.5    3.5    3.5    3.5
Total wool yield kg                80         138    230    380    525    721    745    770    770
November, 1976



ECUADOR                                                         ANNEX 4(d)
Table 3
AGRICULTURAL CREDIr PROJECT
Sheep Farm, 40 ha
Sales and nperating Costs
Unit       Before          -----------------------Years---------------------------------
Unit    Price    Development        1        2         3      4         5      6         7      8-15
Kg      S/      _--______________----_________ S/ 000   ---------------------___________-------
Sales
Cull rams                                   40     600           -            0.6      0.6       -      0.6       -      0.6       0.6       0.6
Cull ewes                                   35     600           5.4          5.4      6.0       6.0    6.0       7.9    9.6      12.6      15.0
Ewes (1-2 years)                            30      700          -            -        -         -      -         2.8   16.8      18.2      18.2
Wethers (1-2 years)                         30      600          7.8          8.4      8.4      12.0   16.2      20.4   27.0      30.6      36.0
Wool                                                 30          2.4          4.1      6.9      11.4   15.7      21.6   22.4      23.1      23.1
Total                                                        15.6         18.5     21.9      29.4   38.5      52.7   76.4      85.1      92.9
Labor 1/                                                        6.0           7.0      8.0      10.0   12.0      16.4   16.4      16.4      16.4
Maintenance - Pasture 2/                                                      _ -                -      10.8     10.8   10.8      10.8      10.8
Fences and water 3/                              -             -         -        -        .3        .7     .9      1.2       1.5
Construction 4/                                  1.0           1.0       1.0      1.0    1.3       1.7    2.0       2.1       2.8
Animal health 5/                                                1.6           2.8       3.4      4.6    5.2       6.2    6.4        6.6      6.6
Ram replacements 6/                                             -             -         -        -       1.4        .7     .7        .7        .7
Miscellaneous (5%)                                                .4            .5       .6        .8    1.5      1.8    1.9        1.9       1.9
Total operating costs                                           9.0          11.3      13.0     16.4   32.5      38.3   39.1       39.7      40.7
Net operating income                                            6.6           7.2       8.9     13.0   60.0       14.4   37.3      45.4      52.2
1/  S/45 per day.
2/  Pasture renewal program following cropping:  years 1-3 investment cost.
3/ 5% of value.
4/ 5% of value.
5/ S/30 per annual unit.
6/ S/700 per head.
Incremental flock value S/102,100.
November, 1976



ECUADOR
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Sheep Farm, 40 ha
Cash Flow Projection
(S/ '000)
efore --- ---------- ---------- ---------- --------- ----Years    ------------ -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Before
Development  1         2         3        4         5        6         7        8         9       10         11       12       13-15
Cash Irflow:
Sales                             15.6      18.5      21.9     29.4      39.7     54.4      79.4     86.9      92.9     92.9      92.9      92.9     92.9      92.9
Long-term  loan (90)               -       69.5      20.6     28.7        -        _                                                                           -
Total                          15.6      88.0      42.5     58.1      39.7     54.4     79.4      86.9     92.9      92.9      92.9     92.9      !92.9     92.9
Cash Outflow:
Operating expenses
excluding owner's wage           3.0       4.3       5.0      6.4     20.5      21.9     22.7      23.3     24.3      24.3      24.3     24.3      24.3     24.3
Investment                          -       77.2      22.9     31.9        -           -      -         -             -             -         -        -         -
Debt Service:
Interest (11%)                       -       3,8       8.8      11.5     13.1     13.1      13.1     11.7      10.3      8.6       6.8      4.8       2.5        -
principal                           _          -   -         -             -         -      12.1     13.5      15,0     16.6      18.4     20,5      22.7         _
Total                           3.0      85.3      36.7     49.8      33.6     35.0      47.9     48.5      49.6     49.5      49.5     49.6      49.5      24.3
Balance                        12.6        2.7      5.8      8.3       6.1      19.4     31.4     38.4      43,3     43.4      43.4     43.3      43.4      68.6
Financial Rate of Return    - overall 18%
-  to owner 41%
May, 1977



ECUADOR
AGRICULTURAL CRFDIT PROJECT
Small Farm Crop Intensification Model
Investment_Costs
Units per      Unit       Cost       US Dollar    % of         Foreign Exchange
Category                            Farm          Cost    per Farm    Equivalent   Total              Component
(S/)     (S/ )                                   x            US$
On-farm irrigation works:                                        12,000           480         22        30            144
Lined ditches                            200 m         20       4,000
Drainage ditches                         100 m         10       1,000
Interior roads                           100 m         50       5,000
Structures and misc.                                            2,000
Contract Cultivation!/                       4 ha    1,750        7,000          280          13        20             56
Building Improvements                       20 m2       800      16,000          640          29        40            256
Incremental Production Inputsr2                                  20,000          800          36        49            389
Improved seeds                                                  2,100           84                   50              42
Fertilizers                                                     5,200          208                    80            166
Pesticides                                                      2,400           96                    80             77
Tools and harvest inputs                                        2,700          108                    80             86
Hand labor                                                      5,400          216                    -              -
Miscellaneous                                                   2,200            88                   20             18
Total                                                            55,000        2,200                    38            845
1/ Includes land clearing, land levelling and land preparation
(Maize and oilseeds; S/   1,500 per ha; rice and vegetables, S/  2,000 per ha).
2/ Maize, S/ 3,500 per ha; oilseeds, S/ 4,500 per ha; vegetables, S/ 7,000 per ha;
rice, SI 5,000 per ha.
January, 1977
rri



ECUADOR
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Small Farm Crop Intensification Model
Production Costs and Incremental Net Production Value
Area                           Yield                                Cross Value of Production
Crop Production Pattern           Before          Full            Before          Full            Prices         Before            Full
on a 4-ha Farm             Development   Development        Development   Development       S/ m ton      Development       Development
 -     _ -  ha - - - - - -             m ton/ha - - - -                       - - - - - - 5/  - - - - - -
Maize (sorghum)                      1.2             1.0              1.0            2.5           3,500          4,200              8,750
Oilseeds                             0.3            1.5               0.8            1.4           8,500          2,040             17,850
Vegetables                           0.2            1.0               6.0            9.0           4,000          4,800             36,000
Rice (milled)                        1.8             1.5              1.5            3.0           5,500         14,850             24,750
Fallow and brush land                0.5              -                -              -             -              -                  _
Total physical                   4.0            4.0                                             -25,890                        87,350
Cropped area                         3.5            5.0
Cropping intensity %                87.5          125.0
Production Cost                  Net Value of Production
Before          Full                 Before           Full                       Net
Development   Development            Development   Development              Incremental Value
SI  - - - - - -          - - - - -  SI  - - - - - -             - - -  SI  - - -
Maize (sorghum)                    3,240           7,000                   960           1,750                       790
Oilseeds                             900         12,000                  1,140          5,850                      4,710
Vegetables                         2,400         20,000                  2,400         16,000                     13,600
Rice                               8,640         15,000                  6,210           9,750                     3,540
Fallow and brush land               -               -                     -               - 
Total                                       54,000                 10,710         33.350                    22,640
Production Costs per ha                                Maize           Oilseeds            Vegetables           Rice                 Total
- - - - - - - - -  - - -S/ /ha - -
Hand labor                                             2,250             2,700                7,200             4,500
Farm inputs and supplies                               4,000             4,400               11,500             4,600
Miscellaneous                                            750                900               1,300               900
At Full Development:                              7.         000                        20,000           10,000                45,000
Before Development:                               2,7000                                                  4,800                 22,500
November, 1976
rlM
X P



ECUADOR
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Small Farm Crop Intensification Model
Cash Flow Projection
(S/ 000)
Before          - - - - -                                Y E A R   - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Development       1         2         3        4         5         6         7         8         9       10
Cash Inflow
Loan  1/                                           -         27,000   22,500       -         -         -         -         -        -         -         -
Sales 2/                                       25,890       41,255   71,985   87,350   87,350                                    87,350   87,350   873505
Total                                 25,890       68,255   94,485   87,350   8       0   8         8                   87,350   87,350   87,350
Cash Outflow
Investments and Replacements 3/                    -        30,000   25,000        -         -         -      3,000    2,500        -         -         -
Production Costs 4/                            15,180       43,200   54,000   54,000   54,000   54,000   54,000   54,000   54,000   54,000   54,000
Debt Service
Interest (11%)                                  -          1,490    4,210    5,450    5,450    4,570    3,600    2,530    1,320             -         -
Principal                                                     -        -         -           _         8,820     9,790    10,870   12,060   _
Total                                 15,180       74,690   83,210   59,450               67,390   70,390   69,900   67,380   54,000   54,000
Balance after Debt Service                        10,710       (6,435)  11,275   27,900   19,950   19,960   16,960   17,450   19,970   33,350   33,350
Financial Rate of Return - overall   26%
- to owner  47%
1/ Loan represents 90% of investments.
2/  Sales:  First year equivalent to 25% of increment of sales at full development:   61,460 x 0.25 = 15,365 + 25,890 = 41,255.
Second year equivalent to 75% of increment of sales at full development:  61,460 x 0.75 = 46,095 + 25,890 = 71,985.                                  Z
All other years equivalent to sales at full development.                                                                                           5 9
3/  Investments would take place during first and second years.  Replacements equivalent to 10% of investments  during sixth and seventh years.   X x
4/  Production costs:  First year equivalent to 80% of total costs,  All other years equivalent to 100% of one year's full production.                          W
May, 1977



ANNEX 5
Page 1
ECUADOR
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Tropical Crop/Pasture
Specialist for the Oriente Research Program
1.   Establishment of proper coordination with INIAP.
2.   Identification of lands suitable for crops, pasture/livestock and
forestry (preferably with the aid of aerial mosaics).
3.   Study of different crops:  annual and perennial on identified lands
suitable for crops, including macro and micro element requirements
(two or three representative sites).
4.   Study of different grass-legume mixtures or identified lands
suitable for pasture development, including macro and micro
element requirements (two or three representative sites).
5.   Study and proper management of lands suitable for permanent
forestry production (one or two sites).
6.   On the job training of counterpart local agricultural staff in
identification of lands suitable for crops, pasture and forestry
as well as in carrying on field trials, analyses and evaluation
of results, decisions on alternatives and formulation of
recommendations.
7.   Study of grazing system, assessment of results and preparation of
recommendations.
8.   Dissemination of research findings through extension offices,
publications, lectures, audio-visual aids, radio and television.
January 1977



ANNEX 5
Page 2
ECUADOR
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Plant Nutrition Specialist for
Sierra Research Program in Interandean and Paramo Zones
1.   Identification of soil deficiencies in various soil types of the
country.
2.   Determination of optimum doses of phosphorus for establishment and
maintenance of improved pastures.
3.   Study of different grass-legume mixtures in various regions.
4.   Investigation for early deterioration of pastures.
5.   Identification of soil types for successful growth of alfalfa.
6.   Training local agricultural officers in field fertilizer trials and
the analysis of obtained results.
7.   Evaluating the impact of increased fertilizer usage on pasture
production and the economy of the country.
8.   Dissemination of research findings through extension officers, through
publications of trial results, lectures, radio talks, and so forth.
9.   Correlation of field fertilizer responses with soil and plant tests.
10. Study of the potential of winter and summer fodder crops.
January 1977



ECUADOR
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Technical Assistance and Training Costs
Y  E  A  R S
1         2           3          4        5                Total               Foreign Exchange
- - - - - - -  S/ 000- - -  - - - -  - - -         S/   000   US$,000          %        US$,000
Activities
Research and training, Sierra               1,500      1,500      1,500        -         -         4,500        180         100          180
Research and training, Oriente              1,500      1,500      1,500        -         -         4,500        180         100          180
Financial advisory work                     1,000      1,000      1,000      1,500    1,500        6,000        240          100         240
Preparation of bookkeeping manual             500        500        500        -         -         1,500         60          80           48
Agricultural extension                      1,000      1,000      1,000      1,000    1,000        5,000        200         100          200
Pilot areas surveying                         200        200        -                                400         16          10            1.6
Preparation of farm plans                     300        300        300        300       300       1,500         60          60           36
Cooperative Bank consultants                3,000      3,250        -          -         -         6,250        250           80         200
Short term consultants                        500        500        500        500       500       2,500        100         100          100
Sub-total                             9,500      9,750      6,300      3,300    3,300       32,150       1,286          92       1,185.6
Procurement
Construction , Oriente                        100         50         50        -         -           200           8          20           1.6
Equipment, Oriente                            165         90         45        -                     300         12           60           7.2
"1     Sierra                            575          50         50        -                     675         27          60           16.2
Machinery, Sierra                             150         -          -         -                     150           6          70           4.2
Laboratory, Sierra                             80         -          -         -                       80          3.2        70           2.2
Vehicles                                    1,050        400         -         -                   1,450         58           90          52.2
Audio visual aids                             100         30         20        -                     150           6          70           4.2
Office equipment and supplies                  50         40         30         20        10         150           6          60            3.6
Sub-total                             2,270        660         195         20        10       3,155        126.2         72          91.4
Scholarships                                    -          375        375        -         -            750         30         100           30
Sub-total                                             375        375                              750         30          100           30
Total                                  11,770    10,785        6,870      3,320    3,310       36,055      1,442.2         91       1,307
Personnel                                    - - - - - - - - - - numbers - - - - - - - - -
Pasture specialist                            1          1          I          -         _
Soil fertility specialist                     1          1          1          -         -
Senior financial analyst                      1          1          1          1         1
extension officer                     1          1          1           1         1
Short-term consultants                        2          2          2          2          2
Cooperative Bank consultants                  a consulting tirm
Notes:  1.  Pasture, soil fertility, senior financial analyst and senior extension officer at US$60,000/year, each.
2.  Short-term consultants:  US$100,000 for the life of the project.
3.  Consulting firm:  US$250,000.
November, 1976



ECUADOR
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Farm Investment Costs by Category
Beef                     Small        Sheep        Crop
Item                                 Ranches      Dairies      Dairies      Ranches       Farms        Total        %
 - - - - - - - - - - - S/ O000 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Pastures and fencing                  55,680       45,200       17,160        2,620                   120,660       27
Breeding stock                        52,000       64,000       16,800        1,170                   133,970       30
Farm structures                       24,000       40,800        4,800        1,560      16,000        87,160       19
Water supply or irrigation             4,800        5,200        1,800          500      12,000        24,300        5
Machinery and equipment                4,000       16,000                       150                    20,150        4
Land clearing and preparation                                                             7,000         7,000        2
Incremental Inputs                                                                       17,800        17,800        4
Other                                 13,920       22,000        4,080          600       2,200        42,800        9
Total                                154,400      193,200       44,640        6,600      55,000       453,840      100
January, 1977



ECUADOR
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Project Cash Flow - Central Bank
(S/ 000)
Project Year                                                     1         2        3         4         5         6         7         8         9         10        11        12        13         14
INFLOWS
World Bank Loanl/                                           35,178   69,977   96,020   57,788   15,314
Participating Bank Repayments
Small Farmer Loans2/                                          140      664    1,758    4,002    6,663   11,236   12,497   14,278   13,189   10,262    4,182    4,396               3,765     2,363
Other Loans                                                1,541    6,741   15,513   26,846   35,512   44,717   48,882   53,353   54,848   56,551    58,198   60,102   47,123   25,975
Cooperatives and Cooperative Bank Loan Debt Service             140       240       974      974       974       974       974       974        974       974       974       974      -         -
TOTAL INFLOWS                                          36,999   77,622  114,265   89,610   58,463   56,927   62,353   68,605   69,011   67,787   63,354   65,472   50,888   28,338
OUTFLOWS
Loans Rediscounted
Small Farmer Loans                                         5,617    15,336   28,440   16,521    2,077
Other Loans                                               34,240   79,300  113,575   70,060   16,875
Research, Training and Technical Assistance               11,800   10,800    6,900    3,300    3,300
Administration (Central Bank)3/                                 100       350       750    1,150    1,350    1,275       1,125   1,975          825       675       525       375       225        75
Sub-Total
Debt Service - Bank Loan
Commitment Charge (0.75%) and Interest (8.2%)              3,575    7,450   13,650   19,850   22,950   23,231   20,400  17,850            15,300   12,750    10,200    7,650    5,100    2,550
Principal                                                                                                   30,436   30,436  30,436    30,436   30,436   30.436   30,436   30,436   30,790
TOTAL OUTFLOWS                                        55,332  113,236  163,315  110,881   46,552   54,942   51,961  50,261            46,561   43,861   41,161   38,461   35,761   33,415
Surplus (Deficit) of Year /                                (18,333) (35,614) (49,050) (21,271)  11,911         1,985    10,392  18,344       22,450   23,926   22,193   27,011   15,127    (5,077)
Cumulative Balance                                                    (53,947)(102,997)(124,268)(112,357)(110,372)  (99,980)(81,636)   (59,186) (35,260) (13,067)  13,944   29,071   23,994
1/  The amount of the loan, and the rest of the figures in the cash flow, are based on the costs before price contingencies and assume the following phasing of credit operations
Estisated Number of Loans
Year 1    YeAr 2    Year 3    Total
Beef Ranches           100        150        150        400
Dairies                 50         75         75        200
Small Dairies           50        100        150        300
Sheep Ranches           10         15         25         50
Crop Farms             150        300        550      1,000
Small Industries        10         15         25         50
Professionals            5          5                    10
375        660        975      2,010
2/ Loans for small dairies, sheep ranches and crop farms.
3/  Equal to 1/2% of outstanding balance on subloans.
4/ Includes financing part of subloans.



LCUAOOR
AG775ICL11RAL CREDIT PROJECI
Project Cash_FowP=r~iptn   Os
(S/ 000)
I ovect Year                                      1.          2          3          4           5          6                     8           9          10         t1 12                   3         14
IPF7,0WS
Small Farmer Loans
Rdsncus-t.6                                  5,617      15,336    28,440    16,521        2,077        -          - -                   -                                             - 
Repaymsents   Interest                          345      1,627      4,302      7,045      8,046      7,777       6,790      5,601      4,135      2,724       1,610      1,178         699        274
Principal                        -          -           -        1,193 ~    3708       8.952     I0,801     1           12,776     10,162      3,916       4,349      3866       2 491
Subtotal                                5,962     16,963    32,742      24,759    13,831       16,729     17,591     18,921     16,911      12,886      5,526       5,527      4,565      2,765
Other Loans
Rediscounted                                34,240    79,300    Ul3,575       70,060     16,875        -          -                     -           -          -           -          -          -
Repsy.rents - Interest                       3,128      13,501    31,091    47,806    55,163        55,210    52,012        47,760   42,308      36,091    29,006       10,983      ll,896      4,355
Principal                       -           117        249      4,278    10_868                  3822.7   43259 37 457 30                                64.943    53,844    31,098
Subtstair                              37,368    92,918   144,915   122,144    82,906          78,077     82,371      86,687   86,690    86,688    86,307         85,926    65,740    35,453
Total Inflws                          43,330    109,881   177 657   146.903                              9 9, 962  l05,60B                   9,57                                       4 91,833    _1_4 5 3   37,28
ODTFLOWS
Small Farmer Loans
Disb-rsementa                                6,240      17,039     31,599     18,356      2,306        -          -           -          -                                 ---
Repayments to CB - Interest                     140        664      1,758      2,928      3,326      3,179       2,776       2,290    1,691        1,116        658         482        286        113
Principal                _           -          -         1,074      _3,337     8,057      9,721       11,988   11,498        9,146      3,54       3,914        ,,,       2,250
-f7,703 T-,5     2235                             123,497 ___  3  98 ___             ___         .-,-       ___         3  7        _
Subtotal                                6,380    17,703    33,357       33,358       8,971     11,236     12,497       14,278   13,189      10,262      4,182       4,396      3,765       2,363
Other Loans
Disbursements                               42,988   101,788   148,020    91,280    22,380                  -           -          -          -           -          -                -           -
Repay,ments to C8 - interest                  1,541      6,651     15,322    23,568    27,184    27,195    25,618           23,524   20,839       17,779    14,289       10,337      5,858       2,145
- Principal                 -            90        191      3,278      8,328                             29 829   34 009    38 772    4~3909    49.765    41,265    23 830
Subtotal                               44,529   108,529   163,533   11.,l26    57,992    44,712           48,882      53,353   54,848    56,551    58,198    60,102    47,123             25,975
Total Outflows                         50,909   126,232   196,890   10,484   66863             55,953    61,379       67,631   68,037       66,813    62,380       64,498     50888       28,338
BALANCES M-FURL ADMINISSRATIVZ EXPENISES
Smlall Farmer Loans                           (   418) (    740) (    615)    2,401          4,860      5,493      5,094       4,643      3,722      2,624       1,344      1,131         8D0        402
Other Loons                                   ( 7,161) ( 15,611) ( 18,618)    4,018    25,014          33,360    33,489        33,334   31,842      30,137    28,109       25,824    18,617        9,478
All Loans                                     (  ,519) t 16,351)   1 39,233)    6,419    29,874       38,853    38,583        37.977    35,564     32,761    29,453       26,955    19,417        9,880
ADMInISTRAT IVE EXPZNSES1 
Small Farmer Loans                                650      1,850      3.600       2,650      1,400      1,650      1,750       1,900      1,700       1,300        550         550        450        300
Other Loans                                     3,500      8,750     13,700      11.200      7,100      6,300      6.600       6,900      6.900       6,900      6,900      6,900       5,250      2,850
All Loans                                       4,150    10,600      17,300      13,850      8,500      7,950      8,350       8,800      8,600      8,200       7,450       7,450      5,700      3,150
BALANCES AFTER ADISPNISTRATIVE EXPEZ%3E9.Z/
Small Farmer Loans                            7 1,068)  ( 2,590)  ( 4,215)  (   249)    3,460           3,843      3,344       2,743      2,022       1,324        794         581        350        102
Other Loans                                   (10,661)  (24,361)  (32,318)  ( 7,182)   17,914          27,060    26,889       26,434     24,942      23,Z37    21,209       18,924    13,367       6,628
All Loans                                     (11,729)  (26,951)  (36,533)  ( 7,431)   Z1,374          30,903    30,233       29,177    26,964       24,561    22,003       19,505    13,717       6,730
1/  Administrative expenses (including bad debts) have been calculated as followso
(a)  In respect of small farmer loans, 10% of trsnsactions (disbursements ,ade. re.p.ynts received)  in each ye,r; the total of these ecpenses represents roughly 4%
uf tthe average ,wntstanding balances.
(b)  as is (a) above, except that the percentages are 7-1/27  and 34, respectively.
2/  The balances, after imputed administrative expenses, indicate rates of return on the sarticiparing banks' own fonds of:
(a)  19.17 on asall farmer loans.
(b)  18.87, on other loans.
(C)  18.84 oserail,



ANNEX 9
ECUADOR
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Disbursements                       Undrawn
Bank Fiscal Year                      During            Cummulative    Balance
and Quarter                          Quarter           Disbursements   of Loan
------------------US$     000-----------------
1978
December 31, 1977                        -                   -           15,500
March 31, 1978                          250                 250          15,250
June 30, 1978                           500                 750          14,750
1979
September 30, 1978                      500               1,250          14,250
December 31, 1978                       500               1,750          13,750
March 31, 1979                          750               2,500          13,000
June 30, 1979                           750               3,250          12,250
1980
September 30, 1979                    1,000               4,250         11,250
December 31, 1979                     1,000               5,250          10,250
March 31, 1980                        1,250               6,500           9,000
June 30, 1980                         1,250               7,750           7,750
1981
September 30, 1980                    1,250               9,000          6,500
December 31, 1980                     1,250              10,250          5,250
March 31, 1981                        1,000              11,250          4,250
June 30, 1981                         1,000              12,250          3,250
1982
September 30, 1981                      750             13,000           2,500
December 31, 1981                       750             13,750           1,750
March 31, 1982                          500             14,250           1,250
June 30, 1982                          500              14,750             750
1983
September 30, 1982                     500              15,250             250
December 31, 1982                       250             15,500
January, 1977



ANNEX 10
Page 1
ECUADOR
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return
1.        The economic rate of return of the project was calculated on the
basis of the models presented in Annex 4. (The incremental volume of output
owing to the Project is in Table 1.) Key computations and adjustments were
as follows:
(a) the prices of investment and operating cost items in constant
mid-1976 prices were assumed to remain unchanged throughout
the life of the project;
(b) the prices for rice, soybeans and maize were recalculated
according to the projections of the Bank's Economic Analysis
and Projections Department (in EPD memo of November 23, 1976).
The beef and wool prices were assumed to move according to
those same projections. For vegetables and milk, farmgate
prices as used in the financial analysis were assumed to move
in line with the general inflation rate so that they would not
change in constant terms. All incremental production is
intended to supply the domestic market, in some cases substi-
tuting for imports, and no export of output is foreseen. The
resulting prices appear in Table 2. The notable difference
between the economic and financial prices for rice owes in
part to the use of a more conservative price in the financial
analysis than the Government-decreed US$264 per m tons (milled).
These disparities reflect the difficulty of forecasting the
adjustment of current financial prices to long-term world
market price projections. In general, the financial prices
and results have thus been treated conservatively.
(c) incremental herd values were credited to the project at the
end of the life of the investments (in 15 years);
(d) costs of fertilizers were readjusted according to the fer-
tilizer price projections reported in the memo cited in (b);
(e) the estimated incremental costs of administrative and technical
assistance services provided by the Project Unit, MAG and the
participating banks were charged to the project;



ANNEX 10
Page 2
(f) there are no duties on imports of agricultural inputs or
foodstuffs and the official rate of exchange applies to these
transactions;
(g) the tax laws permit generous deductions for real estate taxes
and income taxes on farms where investment in farm development
occurs; as these items do not appear in the financial calcula-
tions, no adjustment was made for them;
(h) no shadow wage rate was applied; the sensitivity analysis,
however, includes the result of assuming an economic wage
rate equal to 80% of the financial wage rate;
(i) no shadow exchange rate was applied, in view of the country's
favorable trade balance in recent years, the calculated standard
conversion factor near one during this period, and the Government's
policy of free convertibility of the sucre;
(j) the economic rate of return on the small rural industry
component was not calculated, as this is essentially a line
of credit for developing these activities. Nevertheless, a
mission review of prefeasibility studies typical of the firms
likely to be financed under the project suggests a rate of
return in excess of 20%.
2.        The economic rate of return for the project, together with indi-
cations of its sensitivity to cost overruns or output shortfalls, are shown
below:
Rate of Return %
As estimated                                           20
Operating Costs
Up 10%                                             17
Up 15%                                              16
Investment Costs
Up 10%                                             19
Up 15%                                              18
Production
Down 10%                                           15
Down 15%                                            13
Operating labor costed at
80% of the financial rate                           21
January 1977



ECUADOR
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Incremental Project Output
Item                              1          2           3            4         5Y E A R S  6             7           8              9           10          11-15
Crops (metric tons)
Maize                          49.5       246         670.5     1,124       1,300        1,300       1,300         1,300         1,300        1,300        1,300
Oilseeds                       34.5       243         753.5     1,475       1,860        1,860       1,860        1,860          1,860        1,860        1,860
Vegetables                    292.5    1,462.5    3,997.5       6,727.5    7,800         7,800       7,800         7,800         7,800        7,800        7,800
Rice (milled)                  67.5       237.5       822.5     1,452.5    ],700          1,700      1,700         1,700         1,700        1,700        1,700
Livestock Products
Cattle (metric tons,
liveweight)           76.27      370.18      978.43    1,779.23   2,689.57    3,709.98   4,978.09    6,162.1            7,080.25    7,500.25       7,860.25
Milk ( 000 liters)            937.3    3,495.6    8,502.9    13,295.5   17,661           21,326      25,620       28,147.5      29,010       29,010        29,010
Mutton (kg,  slaughtered)   650         2,025       5,650      11,250       22,450       42,375      68,025       97,725       114,250      124,500       124,500
Wool (kg)                     580       2,370      6,700       12,700      20,585        27,390      32,900       33,875        34,500       34,500        34,500
January, 1977
CDX



ANNEX 10
Table 2
ECUADOR
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Producer Prices Used in the Economic and Financial Analysis
Economic Analysis                     Financial
Item                               1978    1979    1980    1985              Analysis
US$/metric ton (Constant 1976 US$)       (US$/metric ton)
Crops
Maizeel/                          127     129      128      128                 140
Oilseeds (soybeans)!/             248     254      262      326                 340
Vegetables                        160     160      160      160                 160
Rice (milled)!/                   295     326      360      360                 220
Livestock Products
Cattle (liveweight)2/            806      812      822      830                600
Milk (,000 liters)                168     168      168      168                 168
Mutton (carcass)                  880     880      880      880                880
Wool                            1,335   1,444   1,447   1,446                1,200
1/ IBRD Report No. 814/76, Price Prospects for Major Primary Commodities, June
1976, and memo of H. Hughes of November 23, 1976.
2/ -Domestic price indexed per the world price projected for this product in the
reports cited above.
January, 1977



ANNEX 10
Table 3
ECUADOR
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return Calculation
(S/ Million)
Net
Incremental Costs                     Incremental        Incremental
Year       Investment       Operating       Other-Y    Total           Benefits           Benefits
1            35.8             6.2          30.5         72.5             7.3            - 65.2
2            86.1            22.6          30.8        139.5            31.6            -107.9
3           149.4            52.7          28.1       230.2             83.3            -146.9
4            95.4            83.2          24.6       203.2            140.4            - 62.8
5            35.9           115.3          24.6        175.8           186.6              10.8
6             0.4           147.5           10.0       157.9           223.6              65.7
7             1.3           160.0          10.0       171.3            268.5              97.2
8             2.4           166.3          10.0       178.7            308.4             129.7
9             1.4           170.8           10.0       182.2           331.5             149.3
10             -             171.5          10.0        181.5           340.4             158.9
11             0.5           172.8           5.0        178.3           347.9             169.6
12             1.3           172.8           5.0        179.1           347.9             168.8
1.3            2.4           172.8           5.0        180.2           347.9             167.7
14             1.4           172.8           5.0        179.2           347.9             168.7
15             -             172.8           5.0        177.8           758.1             580.3
1/ Includes costs of Project Executive Unit and imputed costs of participating banks.
January, 1977



IBRD - 12618
,               -z 81;0!N   |  :; rl \ 0 1 0 'A'  <70                                                75100'                                           7h00                DECEMBER 1976
/ - 0                                                 _r,<ECUADOR
0O0 .                                                                                       g                                              :'O  l  A Ctbe  a  _9       NATIONAL CAPITAL
0     PROVINCIAL CAPITALS
N                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MAIN ROADS
SECONDARY ROADS
RAILVVAYS
R-                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~PROVINCIAL BOUNDARIES
-      - _ n   _    -- INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
4  Porroyo~~~~~~~~~~~~c  ~~Py
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~S T A   ''ZS   
(.j~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~n                                                                                                                                                                                      2'00'
Mt,nglosalto         ial 
l1 )     1 0 tf    i n!<4
Ile~~~~~,
Cat-h                                                                                                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4'00'
r~ ~  ~ ~~P            E      R     U  _8           \                                                                               R    w     UW                                                                   M     R C,
Cehco  tS~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~20                                        ITIp                        ?
t ':; 0 ,1     \              7                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~KILOMETERS                                                                         . 
hnzply  r   .  n   o   -sn   rr th,smpt ut< 9z-
81pO ~~~~~~~~~~~-       7900 ~~~~~~~~~~77.00'                                                                          75'00'              W-rld B-k nd it,ffilafes.             1   W0.ir'U     ; 



