Document of
FILE COPY                       The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2098-EC
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
FOR AN
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
June 1, 1977
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoriztion.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Sucre (SI.)
US$1 = S/. 25
SI.1 = US$0.04
S/.1,000 = US$40.0
S/.1,000,000 = US$40,000.00
Fiscal Year: January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Page 1 of 2
ECUADOR
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                   The Republic of Ecuador
Amount:                     US$15.5 million
Terms:                      Repayable in 14 years, including 5 years of grace
at 8.2% per annum.
Relending Terms:            US$10.0 million equivalent of the loan proceeds
would be onlent to farmers, ranchers, agricul-
tural consultants and small industries to be
repaid in 8-12 years including 3-5 years of
grace, at a minimum of 11Z for small farmers
and a minimum of 14% per annum for others.
Project Description:        The project would provide credit for:
(a) Livestock development, including pasture im-
provement and renewal, fencing and other
infrastructure, machinery and equipment and
breeding stock, for beef cattle ranches
primarily in the Costa and Oriente and dairy
and sheep farms primarily in the Sierra;
(b) The development of crop farms in selected
areas covering a variety of on-farm invest-
ments, depending on the area; such as:
irrigation canals and pumps; land clearing
and development; building (including home)
improvements; storage facilities; rehabil-
itation of permanent crops, incremental
inputs for annual crops;
(c) Small local industries, principally in the
areas covered by (b) above, involving, for
example, processing of meat, poultry, vege-
tables oil, balanced feed and wood products;
and
(d) The development of agricultural consulting
services.
This document has retricted distrlbution and may be used by recipients only In the performance
of their official duti. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Page 2 of 2
In addition to credit, other components of the
project would be: applied research with parti-
cular emphasis on farm development in the Oriente
and Paramo and on pasture development; technical
assistance, to improve the administration and
accounts of the Cooperative Bank and of selected
cooperatives; and technical assistance for the
Project Executive Unit.
Estimated
Disbursements:
(US$ million)
Bank Fiscal Year         Annual         Cumulative
1978                0.75              0.75
1979                2.5               3.25
1980                4.5               7.75
1981                4.5              12.25
1982                2.5              14.75
1983                0.75             15.5
Procurement
Arrangements:              Capital items would be purchased locally from
commercial suppliers since bulk purchase would be
impeded by the wide geographic distribution and
five-year implementation plan.
All vehicles and equipment for project adminis-
tration would be procured on the basis of local
competitive bidding in accordance with proce-
dures acceptable to the Bank.
Consultants:                 Consultants would be engaged (i) to assist improv-
ing the administration and accounts of the
Cooperative Bank and of selected cooperatives;
(ii) assist the Project Executive Unit in finan-
cial management and supervision of credit to
small farmers; (iii) conduct applied research for
development of a mixed farming system in the
Oriente, and (iv) oversee pasture improvement
research in the Sierra.
Rate of Return:              Estimated 20% (economic) for the agricultural and
livestock component, and 20% for the small indus-
tries component.
Appraisal Report:            No. 1499-EC dated May 23, 1977
LAC Projects Department



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
FOR AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Ecuador for the equivalent of US$15.5 million to help
finance an agricultural credit project. The loan would have a term of 14
years, including five years of grace, with interest at 8.2% per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        A report entitled "Current Economic Position and Prospects of
Ecuador" (No. 1382-EC), based on the findings of an economic mission which
visited Ecuador in August/September 1976 and in March 1977, was distributed to
the Executive Directors on April 1, 1977. Annex I summarizes the main economic
and social indicators.
3.        Until the emergence of petroleum as a major source of export earnings
Ecuador depended mainly on agriculture. Its major exports were bananas,
coffee, cocoa and sugar. Non-traditional exports, even though they increased
rapidly during the 1960s, only represented a small fraction of total export
earnings. Ecuador's manufacturing sector has been dynamic, growing at an
average annual rate of 8.7% during 1965-75. It consists mainly of small
private firms in a great variety of industries. Petroleum exports began in
1972, and they now make up half of total exports. Nevertheless, petroleum
exports only average about US$75 per person -- about one-tenth the per capita
exports of Venezuela. Ecuador is the smallest exporter in OPEC. In spite of
petroleum exports, Ecuador is one of the poorest countries in Latin America,
with one of the fastest rates of population growth. Only Haiti, Bolivia,
Honduras and El Salvador have lower GNP per capita (1976 Bank Atlas figures).
Likewise, Ecuador is among the six Latin American and Caribbean countries with
the lowest protein consumption per head; the same is true for its consumption
of energy per head.
4.        The recent petroleum boom has improved the country's balance-of-
payments and fiscal situations and has enabled the Government to expand
public investment substantially. Ecuador's longer run development prospects
have been greatly strengthened by the petroleum revenues. The main problem
of economic management in the years ahead will be to maintain a reasonable
balance between the country's petroleum output and exports, on the one hand,
and the absorptive capacity of the economy (and, particularly, of the public
sector), on the other. Until now this balance has been fairly well main-
tained, and the inflationary problems of 1974 and 1975 have come under better
control in 1976. The fiscal and balance-of-payments problems attending
1/   Identical to Part I of the President's Report dated May 6, 1977, for the
Ecuador Fifth Highways Project.



- 2 -
the decline in petroleum earnings of late 1974-75 due to changes in petroleum
pricing and pipeline disruptions, have also largely been resolved through a
combination of prudent fiscal and monetary policies and the resolution of
outstanding issues between the Government and private oil companies.
5.        Petroleum policies will have a decisive influence on the country's
growth prospects. The main problem is that crude reserves are now being
extracted by conventional methods faster than they are being replaced, owing
to the virtual absence of exploration and development activity. A resumption
of such activity on a substantial scale is warranted by the size of the in
situ reserves. The main responsibility for carrying out a petroleum develop-
ment program is CEPE's (the State Petroleum Corporation), which recently
acquired the assets of Gulf Oil and now controls 62.5% of the Texaco/CEPE
Consortium which produces all of Ecuador's petroleum exports. The Govern-
ment has recently decided to step up investment in petroleum exploration and
development, so as to increase production. To this effect, CEPE will receive
a larger share of petroleum revenue than in the recent past for investment,
and private petroleum enterprises will be encouraged to invest. These
policies could lead to an increase in petroleum production from about 66
million ton/year (1973-76 average) to about 86 million ton/year within two
years. Prospects for natural gas development in the Gulf of Guayaquil may be
good, and further exploration is warranted.
6.        Ecuador has enough fertile land to expand agricultural and livestock
output at reasonable cost. Over the years agriculture has been the most
important source of employment, and improvements in the standard of living of
the majority of lower income Ecuadorians will hinge on increased agricultural
production and efforts at incorporating farmers more fully into the market
economy. Prospects for industrial development are favorable and have been
enhanced by better availability of medium-term credit (due partly to the
introduction of more realistic interest rates in 1976) and by improvements in
physical infrastructure (transport, electricity power, water).
7.        While in the past Ecuador suffered from a lack of development
projects, project preparation has improved considerably in the public sector,
partly as a result of the creation of a National Preinvestment Fund (FONAPRE)
supported by petroleum revenues and external financing institutions. The
Government's record in the allocation of petroleum revenues is encouraging
since they have been largely devoted to economic and social development
projects. Out of 1976 petroleum exports of US$565 million (net of barter
arrangements with Venezuela), US$480 million accrued to the public sector.
The National Development Fund (FONADE) created to channel petroleum revenues
into social and economic development projects absorbed US$152 million, and
the next largest recipients were the Central Government, the armed forces,
the national power authority, and CEPE. The balance went mainly to the
National Housing Bank, the Ministries of Labor, Education and Health, as well
as the universities. The past allocation of petroleum revenues suggests that
the Government will continue to give priority to economic and social projects.



- 3 -
8.        Public investment has increased from 5-6% of GDP in the early 1970s
to 9% in 1976, while GDP was growing at a rapid rate. If petroleum production
rises from its 1976 level of 65.9 million barrels to about 90 million barrels
by the early 1980s, Ecuador should be able to command the financial resources
required for a further increase in public investment. The growth of public
investment, particularly in petroleum, electric energy, agriculture and rural
development, transport, industry, health and education, should encourage the
further development of the economy, particularly manufacturing, agriculture
and construction. Ecuador's public investment effort will require continuing
support from external financing institutions. Such assistance is also needed
to help finance the substantial balance of payments deficit which would
accompany higher levels of public investment. It should include an appro-
priate blend of financial assistance from international institutions and of
borrowing at commercial terms from other external sources. This would enable
Ecuador to receive the external resources required to finance its investment
program while limiting the increase in the country's debt service ratio from
its 1976 level of near 7% to about 12% by the early 1980s.
9.        The prudent fiscal and monetary policies pursued during 1975 and
1976 have been reflected in a significant reduction in inflation and in a
substantial increase in foreign reserves (during 1976 these increased by
US$189 million to US$515 million, equivalent to nearly five months imports).
The 1977 budget confirms that the Government intends to continue to pursue
prudent fiscal and monetary policies, thus reinforcing Ecuador's credit-
worthiness for further lending on Bank terms.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ECUADOR
10.       Starting with the first loan in 1954, the Bank and IDA have made
eighteen loans and six credits to Ecuador totaling US$230.8 million, net
of cancellations. On April 30, 1977, the Bank and IDA held about US$186.5
million including about US$113.7 million not yet disbursed. IFC has made
six loans and investment commitments in Ecuador, two in a large textile
company, three in a development finance company, and one in a sugar mill,
amounting to US$9.4 million of which, as of April 30, 1977, US$3.1 million
has been repaid, sold, terminated or cancelled. IFC is currently examining
other investment prospects. Execution of Bank Group financed projects has, on
the whole, been satisfactory, even though it has not been free of difficulties
often caused by the insufficiency of the country's managerial and technical
resources--a constraint that still is a major obstacle for Ecuador's economic
and social development. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans,
IDA credits and IFC investments as of April 30, 1977 and notes on the exe-
cution of ongoing projects.
11.       Bank and IDA lending were originally concentrated in transportation
and power, where there were--and still are--substantial deficiencies to be
overcome. At the end of 1976, these two sectors accounted, respectively, for



- 4 -
about 42% and 7.3% of total past lending. Most of the lending for trans-
portation was to improve the road network of the country, although two
loans were made to help finance port facilities in Guayaquil. Lending for
power has been concentrated in improving generation and distribution facili-
ties in Quito. The first livestock development loan (FY67) marked the begin-
ning of a diversification of lending; since then, the Bank and IDA have made
seven more loans and credits for agriculture and fisheries, three loans to
support industrial development through development finance companies, one loan
and one credit for education, one loan for water supply, one loan for improved
seeds production and one loan to assist Ecuador in the preparation of rural
development projects. Bank/IDA assistance for the directly productive and
social sectors has grown to about 50.6% of total lending.
12.       External development financing has also been provided by IDB and AID
and, to a lesser extent, by other bilateral sources. External financing by
sector and by source through December 31, 1976 is summarized below:
Other
Bilateral
IBRD          IDA        IDB       US /1      Sources /1
Lending 1954-64        54.0          8.0      35.3        62.7         0.2 /2
Lending 1964-76       140.5         28.9     349.8        73.0        96.5 /3
Transport           44.0           -       65.1          -          0.8
Power                 -           6.8      92.7         6.2        67.2
Education            4.0          5.1       4.1        5.3           -
Health and
Sanitation       23.2            -       49.3        9.5          4.8
Agriculture and
Fisheries         15.3         17.0      64.6       29.1           -
Industry            54.0           -       53.8        7.8          8.7
Urban Development     -            -       14.4         -            -
Other                 -            -        5.8       15.1         15.0
194.5         36.9     385.1       135.7        96.7
/1    Includes official export credits.
/2    Statistics on lending during this period were probably incomplete.
/3    Through December 31, 1975 only.
IDB is the largest single lender, having extended most of its loans to Ecuador
from the Fund for Special Operations, which has normally carried a 2% interest
rate, a ten-year grace period, and repayment terms of up to 40 years. It is
likely that IDB will remain the major development lender in the immediate
future, although its terms have become less concessionary than in the past.



Meanwhile, no new AID commitments have been made since FY73. There were in
calendar year 1975 over US$205 million of new commitments of external finance,
including those from international institutions, suppliers, commercial banks
and some bilateral sources. Education, health and other socially oriented
activities, as well as agricultural development, have been receiving increas-
ing attention from the external lending agencies in recent years. IDB, AID and
the Bank Group have coordinated their efforts in these fields to assure the
most effective use of all available resources.
13.       Bank lending is aimed at supporting the Government priorities out-
lined in Part I above. This objective is to be met by emphasizing projects
that will help strengthen the institutional framework for development policy--
including project planning, preparation and implementation--in agriculture
and rural development, transportation and other high priority activities.
The Bank is undertaking institution-building efforts in these fields, which
should yield tangible benefits for Ecuador. Considering the extreme poverty
in which most of the Ecuadorian population still lives, the current Bank
program includes substantial support for integrated rural development projects
and important assistance for the development of the country's agricultural
potential. All projects programmed for this sector include sizable technical
assistance components, as a major part of the overall institution building
effort referred to above. Projects in the agricultural sector planned for the
next two years include an oil palm project, an irrigation project and two
rural development projects.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
14.       Agriculture is the most important sector of the Ecuadorian economy
in terms of output and employment (54% of the labor force), and second only
to oil as a source of foreign exchange earnings. It has a large growth
potential, but it is also the sector with the most serious institutional and
social problems, and the one with the lowest growth from the early 1960s up
until 1973. Over much of that period, agricultural production lagged behind
the needs of the expanding population. Food production per capita showed
barely any increase in the early 1970s. The overall annual rate of agricul-
tural growth averaged only some 4% in the 1970-73 period. Since other sectors
grew faster at the same time, this trend increased the difference between
rural and urban income levels, and has also widened the gap between the demand
and supply of foodstuffs. This resulted in some shortages, inflationary
pressures and increased food imports. Partly because of the low growth rate
of agricultural production, and also because of the skewed distribution of
farm land in Ecuador, the poorer half of the rural population are outside the
market economy and have low income levels.
15.       Ecuador's agricultural potential is large enough to permit a pro-
nounced reversal of the disappointing trends referred to above. The country
is endowed with the resources needed for a varied and far greater output.



- 6 -
There are sizable areas of uncultivated land that could be developed for
agriculture and livestock. Some events of the past decade--the remarkably
fast transfer of banana production from the Gros Michel to the Cavendish
variety; the return of rice to the array of traditional exports; and the
recent increases in cocoa, oilseed and sugar yields--all suggest a promising
capability for achieving greater agricultural output. This potential, however,
will not be easily realized. Over 40% of the unexploited arable land and
grassland of Ecuador is in the eastern Amazon area of the Oriente which is
largely isolated and uninhabited. Another one-third of the potential addi-
tional agricultural land is in the Andean highlands where erosion and popu-
lation pressures have constrained growth possibilities. The remainder is in
the coastal zone whose areas with the best soils suffer from flooding and
insufficient drainage.  Furthermore, agricultural production in Ecuador has
risen in the past by the extension of cultivated area rather than by the
adoption of improved techniques.   The agricultural sector has operated largely
without the support of extension services, credit storage and marketing
facilities, improved seeds and other inputs.   Technological progress in
Ecuador's agriculture--particularly in small farms--has, therefore, been very
slow and average yields are low.
16.       The Government is aware of these inadequacies and has taken some
actions to overcome them. Since 1974, the Government has raised producer
prices, increased the flow of credit, reduced import duties on agricultural
inputs, and reduced sales taxes on intermediate and capital goods used in
farming to offset their rising costs. Producer support prices were increased
for rice, meat, milk, sugar, wheat and oilseeds to counter the deterioration
of farmers' terms of trade. The Monetary Board made loans to agriculture more
profitable for the commercial banks than those to industry and to t-be-commer-
cial sectors, while also obliging commercial banks to maintain 20% of tPreir
portfolios in loans to farmers. As a result, the supply of credit to the
sector increased from about US$60 million in 1971 to US$186 million in 1975.
Moreover, a Seeds Corporation was formed in 1973 to promote the production of
certified seed. Mainly as a result of these policies, the annual growth rate
of agricultural production increased to an average of about 7% in the 1974-76
period. In addition, the Government has also expressed its intention to
allocate a higher share of total public expenditure to agriculture and rural
development, and prepared plans for reorganization of extension services.
17.       These policies are already achieving some success.   However, they
still need substantial reinforcement. Agricultural program planning and
execution have been mostly on a piecemeal basis. Policies affecting commodity
prices have been uncertain, thus failing to provide adequate assurances to
farmers. At the same time price supports have in some instances exceeded
international levels, thus leading to costly effects for the Government
budget. Government involvement in the marketing of farm inputs and agri-
cultural products has generally been unsuccessful. The physical infra-
structure required to get farm produce to markets-especially feeder roads--is
still very limited, and the marketing system neither provides strong incen-
tives to farmers nor facilities for efficient handling, and distribution.



- 7 -
And, in spite of recent government efforts, credit to the agriculture sector
is still insufficient. It was estimated in 1974 that only about 7% of
Ecuador's farmers had access to institutional credit. Moreover, agriculture
credit is largely oriented towards the development of the livestock sub-sector,
and a few selected crops--mainly rice and cotton. It is necessary, therefore,
to increase overall credit availabilities for this sector; to diversify its
utilization, including specific plans for other crops and for integral farm
development; and to provide it to small farmers, who up to now have had little
access to the use of banking facilities.   To achieve these objectives, it will
also be necessary to improve the institutions now operating in the field--
mainly the National Development Bank (BNF)--and to increase medium- and long-
term lending to agriculture from private banks and the Cooperative Bank.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
18.       The proposed project was prepared by the Ecuadorian Ministry of
Agriculture under the direction of the executive unit responsible for adminis-
tering the Third Livestock Project (Credit 222), with the assistance of the
Bank. It was appraised in September/October 1976 by a Bank mission. Nego-
tiations were held from April 26 to May 6, 1977, at which time the Republic
of Ecuador was represented by a delegation led by Mr. T. Granizo, Director,
Credit 222 Project Unit. It included also representatives of the Central
Bank, the Ministry of Agriculture, the National Center for the Promotion of
Small and Artisan Industry, the Ministry of Finance, and the National Develop-
ment Bank (BNF). An Appraisal Report entitled "Appraisal of Agricultural
Credit Project - Ecuador" 1499-EC is being circulated separately.
19.       The three previous Bank Group projects in this field (the First,
Second and Third Livestock Development Projects in 1967, 1970 and 1971 re-
spectively -- Loan 501-EC and Credits 173EC and 222-EC) have helped develop
Ecuador's livestock industry over the last 10 years.   They provided sub-
stantial credit and intensive technical assistance to a relatively small
group of progressive ranchers, achieving significant technical improvements
in project ranches, and substantial increases in pasture yields and herd
sizes. The projects have been well managed and implemented. According to
the Operations Evaluation Department review of the first two projects, 1/
they achieved their main objectives -- improving productivity in participa-
ting farms, and increasing national beef production by roughly 10%. The
economic rate of return, however, although still satisfactory (12%), was
below the estimate at appraisal because of higher investment costs and
lower beef prices relative to input costs. The Report also noted other
deficiencies including: (a) the low sanitary standards of slaughterhouses
1/   Project Performance Audit Report, dated October 21, 1975.



- 8 -
processing project output; (b) the provision of subsidized interest rates to
medium sized and large producers; and (c) the capital-intensive nature of the
sub-projects. Assurances have been obtained on stricter enforcement of health
standards. Interest rates have been raised, and the subsidy element for larger
farmers has been eliminated (see para 35). The capital intensive nature of
past lending has been brought to the attention of the Ecuadorian authorities
and they agree with the desirability of reducing infrastructure components, as
indicated in their new investment models. In addition, a supervision mission
found in October 1976 that the accounting and audit arrangements of BNF and
other participating banks had been inadequate under Credit 222. In order to
remedy this situation, summary project accounts for 1975, certified by the
Superintendent of Banks, were submitted to the Bank in February 1977, and
similar statements for 1976 are expected to be received in June 1977. Moreover,
the Central Bank and the Superintendent of Banks are now proceeding with a
review of Credit 222 accounts of BNF and other participating banks during the
final stage of execution of that project. These actions, and the assurances
received in connection with the proposed project (see paragraph 32), should
serve to avoid the repetition of such deficiencies in the future. Moreover,
as a result of these projects, a national organization--the executive unit
administering these projects--has been established which represents Ecuador's
most accomplished entity for the direction of supervised agricultural credit
and related technical assistance. This experience has been an important
consideration i4 the design of the proposed project. It is likely that during
the execution of such project, the Unit will gradual'ly acquire roader responsi-
bilities within the Agricultural Ministry for related activities.
20.       Encouraged by the results referred to above, the Government decided
in late 1975 to maintain the Project Unit's work beyond the execution of the
Third Livestock Project; to finance its program until new Bank funds could be
obtained and to broaden its scope substantially. It requested further Bank
assistance to (a) continue the development program for livestock production
that had been executed under the earlier projects; (b) include the development
of several important crops in the program; (c) place greater emphasis than
before on lending to small producers; (d) include in the program some coverage
of small industries in rural areas; and (e) bring to bear on the sector the
skills of Ecuador's growing number of agricultural science graduates. The
proposed project would, therefore, provide credit for these purposes. In a
coordinated approach, the Government would reorganize the extension services,
with a view to substantially increasing its assistance to small farmers.
Other components of the project also directed toward the same objectives would
be: applied research, with particular emphasis on farm development in the
Oriente and the Paramo 1/ areas, on pasture development, and on beef/milk
production on the coast; and technical assistance, to improve the administra-
tion and accounts of the Cooperative Bank and of selected cooperatives;
further strengthen the Project Unit and help the National Center for the
Promotion of Small and Artisan Industry (CENAPIA) to carry out its program
in the project area.
21.       The proposed project would provide medium- and long-term investment
credit for:
1/   Areas at altitudes of 3,000 m and above.



- 9 -
(a) livestock development, including pastures improvement and
renewal, fencing and other infrastructure, machinery and
equipment and breeding stock, for beef cattle ranches
primarily in the Costa and Oriente and dairy and sheep
farms primarily in the Sierra;
(b) the development of crop farms in selected areas covering
a variety of on-farm investment such as: irrigation
canals and pumps; land clearing and development; building
(including home) improvements; storage facilities; reha-
bilitation of permanent crops, and incremental inputs for
annual crops;
(c) small local agroindustries, principally in the areas
covered by (b) above, involving, for example, processing
of meat, poultry and vegetables, vegetable oil, balanced
feeds, and wood products; and
(d) the development of consulting services for commercial
agriculture.
22.       The proposed project would provide financing for some 2,000 loans to
farmers throughout Ecuador whose principal sources of income are the ranches
and farms to be improved. It is anticipated that these farmers will be
engaged in producing--in addition to beef and dairy--maize, oilseeds, vege-
tables, rice, mutton and wool. The project would seek to increase the access
of small farmers to the benefits of institutional credit. In order to ensure
that access, it has been agreed that 30% of agricultural lending under the
project would be earmarked for small farmers. The proposed project, moreover,
would create additional non-agricultural employment opportunities in poor
rural areas.
23.       A separate component of the project would provide a line of credit
for small agroindustries in rural areas. These would include such enterprises
as slaughterhouses and cold storage facilities; sausage manufacture; hides and
skins processing; spinning and weaving; chicken packing; canneries; peanut
packaging plants; oil mills; production of animal feedstuffs; and wood pro-
cessing. Preliminary studies of market prospects and of the availability of
raw materials in different localities have already been prepared or are
underway. Total investments for each enterprise would range from about
US$50,000 equivalent to about US$200,000, and would average about US$125,000.
The number of persons employed in each enterprise would range from about 10 to
30 and would average about 20. The investment cost per job created would
average about US$6,000.
24.       In conjunction with the greater credit availability, the project
plan also contemplates expanded access by small farmers to improved extension
services support. In Ecuador, such service has hitherto been organized along
crop lines and extension personnel have been limited to transmitting single
"technological packages". This has proved to be inadequate, given the
generally diversified production of Ecuadorian farms. The Government appre-
ciates the problem and is planning a reorganization of the service and a



- 10 -
change in its orientation, to concentrate extension work on the farm as an
integral operation. This plan involves the relocation of Ministry of Agri-
culture professional and technical staff from provincial capitals to more
dispersed locations in rural areas, and the establishment of new local service
centers which would include marketing and storage facilities. In addition,
extension agents would no longer also be responsible for other matters such as
distribution of inputs and statistical and administrative work. In view of
this new policy, the project envisages the coordination of the provision of
credit to small farmers with the support to be offered to them by the reorga-
nized extension service. Both would concentrate on the most important crops
in each locality. This coordination should also promote the rapid adoption of
husbandry practices which could yield quick and substantial economic returns.
25.       In view of the potentially important results that should emerge from
coordinating the work of the Project Unit and the extension service, it has
been agreed that the Government: (a) would ensure that the extension service
would concentrate on the functions referred to in the previous paragraph;
(b) would have the extension service collaborate fully with the Project Unit;
and (c) would concentrate these efforts on selected farmers (Section 3.08 of
the Loan Agreement). In order to enable the extension service to meet these
demands, the project envisages that the service be freed of its past obliga-
tions to large-scale farmers. Under the project, the larger borrowers may
be required, at the discretion of participating banks to engage professional
services (costing around US$500 equivalent a year) to help in, or to review
regularly, the extension of their ranch or farm plans during the investment
period. Such services would now be financed through subloans to these larger
farmers. These arrangements would also enable the project unit to concentrate
most of its work in its assistance to small farmers. To facilitate this
change, the program includes a small pilot component to stimulate the devel-
opment of agricultural consultant services. Qualified agricultural graduates
would be eligible to borrow up to US$15,000, for topographical, soil, labora-
tory, office and rural transportation equipment under the project. This
should assist in the expansion of these services, which had been provided
without charge to all borrowers under Credit 222.
26.       The project would also support selective applied research programs
of -the National Agricultural Research Institute (INIAP).  A demonstration
research unit would be established in the Oriente's tropical forest area. The
area has been traditionally farmed under a slash/burn/shifting cultivation
system. With increasing colonization, the resting phase under regenerated
bush is so shortened that soil fertility rapidly deteriorates, thus seriously
reducing crop yields. An internationally recruited agronomist, with expe-
rience under similar conditions, including livestock production, would be
appointed mainly for assisting this new research unit. For about three years,
he would conduct applied research toward developing a mixed farming system
giving sustained yields through the better integration of crops, animals and
forestry. He would train local staff to continue the program and to advise
local farmers. In addition, one-third of his time would be devoted to
assisting the pasture/animal production research and training programs at the
existing Pichilingue Experimental Station in the Costa.



- 11 -
27.       The pasture research program initiated under the Third Livestock
Project in the Sierra and Paramo regions would also be strengthened. The
project's main objectives in this regard include: (a) a reduction in the use
of nitrogenous fertilizer; (b) a lengthening of the utilization period of
improved pastures, which now have to be replaced after five years; and (c) the
development of more satisfactory pasture improvement methods in the Paramo
region. An internationally recruited specialist would be employed for about
three years to assist in the execution of this research program. He would
train two teams in trial techniques for the two different zones to continue
field trials in those areas for at least five years.
28.       It has been agreed that the two specialists would have qualifi-
cations acceptable to the Bank, and would be recruited on terms and conditions
also acceptable to the Bank (Section 3.07(a) of the Loan Agreement). Assur-
ances have been obtained that the project director would continue to serve as
a member of INIAP's research planning committee for supervision of the afore-
mentioned research (Part BI of Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement).
Project Execution
29.       The proceeds of the loan would be channelled through the Central
Bank of Ecuador, acting as the Government's fiscal agent, which would make
these funds available to participating banks under the arrangements described
below (see para. 37). However, the principal responsibility for administering
the project would be that of the Project Unit which has directed the execution
of earlier Bank-financed projects. The Unit serves under the policy direction
of a technical executive committee, chaired by the Under Secretary of the
Ministry of Agriculture, and formed also by officials of the same Ministry and
of the Central Bank. The Unit, partly through its supervision of technicians
of the participating banks, has introduced better lending policies and pro-
cedures than were previously used; established farm plans as a basis for
systematic analysis of loan requests; and set up an improved delivery system
for agricultural farm credit. It has also provided valuable training to
farmers and, through the farm visits of its staff, has also contributed to the
solution of specific production problems. The Unit provided more technical
assistance than that offered through the Bank's other livestock projects in
Latin America.
30.       Under the proposed project, the Project Unit would be expanded and
strengthened, technically and financially. For this purpose, it has been
agreed that the Unit will employ a specialist to supervise credit to small
farmers in coordination with the expanded activities of the extension service
referred to in para. 24 above. A second specialist will be hired by the
Unit to improve projections and assessments of financial results. The terms
of reference for the work of those two advisors; their qualifications and
experience; and, should they be expatriates, the terms and conditions of their
appointments, would be acceptable to the Bank. The two positions would be
filled by December 31, 1977 or, in the case of the financial specialist, at
such later date as may be mutually agreed (Section 3.06(b) of and Part B3 of
Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement).



- 12 -
31.       The existing institutional arrangements for the operation of the
Project Unit would be maintained. The Unit would thus continue to have
operational autonomy and to exercise considerable control. The Project
Director would continue to approve farm development plans and, on the basis of
those plans, to determine the eligibility of sub-loans under the project. The
Unit would also approve disbursement requests submitted by the participating
banks, and would define the technical standards to be followed by those banks
in the supervision of sub-borrowers, and in the analysis of results of
sub-projects. During the second year of implementation of the proposed loan,
however, the Unit's relationship with the participating banks may be altered.
The BNF and other participating banks have already obtained considerable
experience with the type of supervised credit pioneered under the previous
pr6jects. Moreover, in the case of BNF, a new management team is now taking
steps, described below, which should substantially improve BNF's organization
and operational procedures. On these accounts, the authority to approve farm
development plans, and the sub-loans related to them might be transferred to
the participating banks during their second year of operation under the
project, subject to the agreement of the Bank (Part B2 of Schedule 5 to the
Loan Agreement). Participating banks receiving this authority would be
subject to the same free limit--US$100,000 equivalent--as the Project Unit,
and would then also be required to furnish copies of their audited balance
sheets to the Bank (Part C4 of Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement). The Project
Unit would in any case maintain all the other functions referred to above.
32.       The aforementioned transfer of authority is particularly signif-
icant in the case of BNF. This institution--which is the largest Ecuadorian
bank and the main source of medium- and long-term credit for agriculture--has
been affected by administrative and financial problems during recent years.
The new BNF management appointed last October by the Government has already
started the implementation of a comprehensive administrative reform, with the
assistance of management consultants. BNF is transferring to other public and
private entities most of its non-banking activities--which had been the main
source of recent financial losses. It has also informed the Bank that it is
modernizing its accounting system and that it intends to appoint, within the
next two months, an internationally known auditing firm. Assurances have been
received that BNF, and all other participating banks, will provide each year,
during the execution of the proposed project, an audited report of their oper-
ations under such project, prepared by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank (Part C2 of Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement). These agreement and the
corrective measures adopted in connection with Credit-222 (see paragraph 19);
should facilitate BNF's participation under the proposed loan; improve finan-
cial accountability of all banks, and provide the basis for the possible trans-
fer of authority referred to above.
33.       CENAPIA would be responsible for the execution of the small indus-
tries component. It would identify suitable sub-projects and borrowers;
assist the borrowers in the preparation of feasibility studies, investment
plans and loan requests; approve sub-loans; supervise statistical and account-
ing data and analyze the results of the sub-projects. Over the period of the
project, it is expected that some 50 enterprises, providing employment to
about 1,000 people, would be financed. There is a strong demand for this



- 13 -
type of credit and the number of operations is considered to be within
CENAPIA's technical capacity. It has been agreed that the Government and the
Bank would consult on the appointment of CENAPIA's Executive Director (Section
3.09(b) of the Loan Agreement). It is also planned that BNF's substantial
credit operations in this field would be appraised by the Bank shortly. This
would enable the Bank to determine whether a similar delegation of lending
authority can be made to this institution (or other participating banks) for
agroindustry sub-projects, apart from the review cited above regarding agri-
cultural sub-loans.
Project Costs and Financing
34.'      The overall cost of the project is estimated at US$36.0 million
equivalent, including price contingencies of US$10.0 million, with a foreign
exchange component of US$15.5 million. The proposed Bank loan would cover
the estimated foreign exchange requirement, or 43% of total project costs.
The Government and the Ecuadorian banking system would finance US$14.4 mil-
lion or 40% of total project costs; and the balance of US$6.1 million, or 17%
of project costs, would be borne by the sub-borrowers. The amounts of the
respective contributions of the Government and the participating banks would
be US$8.7 million and US$5.7 million. Costs have been estimated at early 1977
prices with price contingencies estimated at 8% per year. The cost per
man-month of technical assistance is estimated at US$5,000. The technical
assistance to the Cooperative Bank and selected cooperatives (US$200,000)
would be passed on under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. The
Government would bear the foreign exchange risk of the Bank loan. For its
services, the Central Bank would charge the participating banks 1/2%. The
Project Unit will be financed by the Government.
On-Lending Arrangements
35.       Credit would be channeled through any established bank or financial
institution that has signed with the Central Bank a subsidiary loan agreement
satisfactory to the Bank (Section 3.05 of the Loan Agreement). Several private
banks are expected to participate in the project as a result of recent changes
in interest rate policy. Until the end of 1976, there was limited interest
on the part of the banking system in medium- and long-term lending. The then
prevailing interest rates encouraged a concentration on short-term lending and
the average spreads for loans to agriculture were less attractive to private
banks than those attainable for construction, commerce and industry. Recog-
nizing this situation, on November 9, 1976 the Government enacted new regula-
tions to permit commission charges on medium- and long-term lending.
Ecuadorian banks are now allowed to charge, in addition to the basic interest
rates for agricultural lending, a commission ranging from 2% on loans of three
to five years to 4% on loans of more than eight years. Within this framework,
the Government has committed itself to effective interest rates under the
proposed project of not less than 11% for small farmers and 14% for larger
farmers and other sub-borrowers (Part A2 of Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement).
These rates are likely to be positive over the long term if, as expected, the
anti-inflationary policies adopted since 1975 continue to be successful.
(Inflation rates have been brought down from 23% in 1974 to 14.5% in 1975 and
11% in 1976.) The new rates also constitute a substantial improvement over



- 14 -
the previous situation in which larger farmers borrowed at 12% under Credit 222
while small scale agricultural credits were granted at 9% interest.
36.       For the purpose of determining the rate of interest, a small farmer
would be defined as one with assets of less than US$20,000 equivalent, exclud-
ing the value of housing, but including land and all other assets owned by
the farmers. It is expected that only the loans for crop farms, small dairies
and sheep farms--including those granted to cooperatives whose individual
members would qualify within the small farmers group--would qualify for the
lower rates of interest. Loans for small farmers would cover up to 90% of
investment costs, with the remaining 10% contributed by the beneficiary.
The maximum loan to any beneficiary would be US$12,000 equivalent. As noted
above, 30% of all agricultural credit would be earmarked for loans to small
farmers. Other loans for livestock and agricultural operations would be to
(a) individuals whose principal source of income also is the ranch or farm
to be improved; and (b) cooperatives whose soundness of management, operations
and financial position were judged suitable by the participating bank and by
the Project Director. Their loans would cover up to 80% of investment costs.
The free limit of US$100,000 equivalent--cumulative to any sub-borrower--
established under Credit 222-EC would continue to apply; loans above the free
limit would continue to be submitted to the Bank for approval and their total
would not exceed 20% of lending for agriculture. Loans to small agroindustries
would cover up to 80% of investment costs. The maximum loan amount (cumulative)
to any single enterprise would be US$200,000 equivalent. The first three sub-
loans requests and all subsequent loans to small agroindustries exceeding
US$150,000 equivalent would be submitted to the Bank for approval, together
with the supporting feasibility studies, investment plans and financial
projections. The terms of sub-loans from the participating banks are mostly
expected to vary between 8 and 12 years, with 3 to 5 years grace periods.
37.       Participating banks would be able to rediscount with the Central
Bank up to 90% of the sub-loans made to small farmers. Other sub-loans would
be rediscounted as follows: up to 80% for all agroindustries subloans, and
for other sub-loans of up to US$50,000 equivalent; up to 75% for sub-loans
of between US$50,000 equivalent and $100,000 equivalent; and up to 70% for
other sub-loans of over $100,000 equivalent. It was agreed that the spreads
for participating banks would be in all cases between 3% and 6%. However,
it was also agreed that, to avert subsidies to participating banks for loans
to borrowers other than small farmers, the rediscounting rate charged by the
Central Bank in those cases would be no lower than 8.7%, i.e. the sum of the
Bank loan interest rate and the Central Bank commission (ref. para. 34).
Therefore, to obtain the maximum allowable spread (6%) in loans to borrowers
other than small farmers, the participating banks would have to raise to
14.7% the interest rate charged in those loans. It was also agreed that these
on-lending policies would be reviewed periodically with the Bank, and would
not be altered prior to the closing date of the proposed loan without the
Bank's concurrence. Moreover, assurances were obtained that participating
banks would provide adequate short-term loans and working capital to meet
the needs of beneficiaries.



- 15 -
Procurement and Disbursements
38.       Bulk purchasing would not be feasible in view of the fact that the
farm and ranch development sublending program would be executed over a five
year period, and be widely distributed. Capital items would, therefore, be
purchased locally from commercial suppliers, who maintain adequate stocks and
whose margins are in an acceptable range. Vehicles and equipment for project
administration would be procured through local competitive bidding, according
to procedures acceptable to the Bank. The individual experts and consultants
to be employed under the project would have qualifications also acceptable to
the Bank, as would be the procedures used in obtaining their services. Loan
funds would be disbursed over a five-year period for:   (a) 50% of the amount of
the sub-loans disbursed by participating banks; and (b) 90% of the total cost
of the technical services, research and training components. The schedule
of estimated disbursements is contained in the Loan and Project Summary.
Benefit and Risks
39.       The benefits of the project are expected to be reflected in the
incremental output of agricultural products and derivatives. The increase
in output anticipated as a result of the project is estimated to be valued at
US$12.0 million a year, and is expected to consist mainly of maize, oilseeds,
vegetables, rice, milk, beef, mutton and wool. Based upon the expected
yield increases, the economic rate of return of the agricultural and livestock
components is estimated at 20%. If a shadow wage equivalent to 80% of market
wages were employed, in light of underemployment and unemployment levels
prevailing in rural areas, the rate of return would reach 21%. In addition,
there is an important difference from the approach of the previous projects
in which technical success was achieved by channeling credit and technical
assistance to a relatively small number of commercial producers. Those
projects also were based on the application of relatively capital-intensive
technologies, limiting their applicability to medium- and large ranchers. By
contrast, this project is aimed at ensuring a greater availability of insti-
tutional credit to a significant number of small-scale farmers, thereby
contributing to a more favorable distribution of income in Ecuador.   It is
expected that the project will reach about 1,500 rural families classified
as small farmers, most of whom have income levels well below the national
average.
40.       Since the small industries component constitutes a line of credit,
no calculation of the economic rate of return has been possible. Tentative
estimates of the financial results of enterprises of the type to be financed,
calculated from illustrative profiles, however, indicate rates of return in
the order of 20%. The direct employment generated by subprojects of this
component, tentatively estimated at about 1,000 people, would contribute to
expanding incomes in rural areas.
41.       The assurances given by the Government that it would link the proposed
project with the improvements in the extension service indicate that the execu-
tion of this project would serve to raise the standards of this service and to



- 16 -
increase its contributions to agricultural development. This coordination
with the extension service would also minimize the risks associated with lend-
ing to small farmers. The experience of previous projects and the known demand
for credit suggest that there are no special risks related to the livestock
component. The expansion of livestock and crop production does not entail any
ecological risks. Moreover, assurances were obtained that government standards
in health and hygiene applicable to slaughter facilities would be strictly
enforced (Section 4.03 of the Loan Agreement).
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
42.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Ecuador and the
Bank, the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii)
of the Articles of Agreement, and the Text of a draft resolution approving
the proposed loan are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
43.       Conditions of effectiveness are that contractual arrangements have
been made between the Government and the Central Bank (see para. 29) and that
a subsidiary loan agreement satisfactory to the Bank has been made with at
least one participating bank (Section 5.01 of the Loan Agreement). Other
special conditions of the loan are listed in Section III of Annex III along
with the timetable of key events. Otherwise the draft Agreement conforms
to the normal pattern for loans for agricultural credit projects.
44.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
45.       1 recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
June 1, 1977



ATJIIU I
Page 1 of 4 pagea
TAtLE SA
ECUADOR            - SOCIL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (THOU KNZI
--- --------CUAOR                                                        REFERENCE COaLNTRIES (19701
TOTAL      283.6                                    MOST RECENT
AGRIC.        .                      1960      1970   ESTiMATE         ALGERIA       PERU    VENEZUELA I
_- - - _- - - - - - - - -- -  -  _-- -   -  -  -- __  _ - _-- _-  -  - ___- - --_
GNP PER CAPITA tUS$1                  220.0     330.0     550.0             520.0       520.0     1440.0
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
_______________________________
POPULATILON IID-YR, MILLION)          4.3       6.0       7.1              13.4       13.3        10.3
POPULATION DENSITY
PFR SQUARE KM.                     15.0      21.0      25.0               6.0        10.0       11.0
PER SO. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND        ..        ..        .               30.0       46.0 /a
VITAL STATIS'ICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (#THOU, AVi        46.3      45.0      41.8              50.0       42.9       42.1
CRUnF DEATH RATE I/THOU,AVI         16.9      12.0       9.5              18.4       14.7        8.7
INFANT MORTALITY RaAE (/THOU)     100.0 /a   76.6 /a   70.2                 .       65.L Jb     49.3 /a
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH fYRS)      51.0      57.2      59.6              50.7       53.4       63.0
CROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               ..       3.3       3.2               3.5        2.9        2.9
POPULATICN GROWTH RATE (2)
'TOTAL                               3.0        3.3       3.5               2.9        2.8        3.4
URBAN                                5.0 /b    4.1 /b    5.6               7.0        4.7 /c     4.7
URBAN POPULATION (R CF TOTAL)         36.0 /lac  38.3 La  41.6              45.4       52.5       75.7
AGr STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                     45.0/ / c 47.6 /a   46.1               47.2 ]     45.0 44 47.1 A
15 TO 64 YEARS                     51.8 A    49.5 E    51.2               46.4       51.g1b     50.5
65 YEARS AND OVER                   3.2 /7C 2.9 La 2.7                     4.4 j      3.1        2.4
AGE DFPENOENCY RATIO                  0.9 /a c   1 o /8    1.                1.1         .9  b     i.O4 a
ECONOMIC DEPENOENCY RATIO              1.7 Me    I a       i.a               2.6 la 1.5 T.d        1.6 lb
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCFPTOPS (CUMULATIVE, THOUI           .      14.2     107.9                ..         ..       67.0
USEPS It nF MARRIED WOMEN)            .         ..       6.3
EMPLOYMFNT
TtlTAL LAROR FORCE (THOUSAND)       1Aoo0.Ota  1700.0   1900.0            2600.0o  b 4306.0/b   3100.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE 151        57. o.c   5*.0        ..              so. o    b  45.0E     22.0
UNEMPLOYED It OF LABOR FrPCEI            .        ..        ..              15.0_       5.0/e      6.0
INCCME CISTRIBUTION
I OF PRIVATE INCOME RECtO RY-
HIGHEST  St OF HOUSFHOLDS             ..        .          --
HIGHEST 20R OF HOUSEHOLDS             ..        ..        ..
LOWEST  203 OF HOUSFHOLDS            ..         ..        ..
LOWEST  403 OF HOUSFHOLDS             ..        ..        ..
OISTq IBlJTION OF LAND OWKFNSHIP
T OWNEO BY TOP 101 OF OWNEPS           ..         ..        ..
I OWNED BY SMALLEST 102 OWNERS          ..        ..        ..
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN               ..     2870.0    2110.0            7690.0     1920.0     1080.0
POPULATION PER RUPSING PERSON          ..         ..    2820.0 /b         2400.0 /c  3200.0      520.0
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED          520.0tc d 430.0     470.0 7i;         330.0      470.0      310.0
PFP CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALOEIES tr OF RFCuiFeFNTSI         81.0      89.0      91.0              71.0       98.0      100.0
PROTEIN (GRAAMS PER DAY)           46.0      49.0      47.0 /c            45.0       62.0       62.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       24.1)      22.0        .                9.0 Id    24.0       32.0
DEATH RATE (ITHOU) AGEs 1-4           21.!      14.6        ..              12.0         . .   .   5.4
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                     83.0       95.0      96.0 /b           75.0      107.0      IO.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                   12.0      26.0      25.0 7b            11.0       35.0       41.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(tFIRST ANO SFCCND LEVEL)          12.0       12.0      12.0              15.0       12.0       11.0
VOCATIONAL ENPOLLMENT
It OF SECONDARYI                   29.0      29.0       30.0 1k           20.0       19.0/f
ADULT LITERACY qATE (3)                 ..      68.0      69.0 Lb           26.0         ..       71.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBANI              2.1 L c                                2.8 /a.e
OCCUPIEC DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER 3II I                                       58.0 /d   2       77.0 /a
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
It OF ALL DWELLINGS)               32.0 /c     ..      41.0               34.0 La
RURAL OWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (tI                   6.0LJ      ..       8.0 /e           12.0 in
CCNSUMPTI ON
RADIO RECEIVERS tPER THOU POP I      41.0      279.0        ..              52.0      134.0      164.0
PASSENGER CARS IPER THOU POPI         2.0       5.0       5.0 Ic            10.0       17.0       55.0
ELECTPICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)         89.0     156.0      183.0             138.0      407.0     1229.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)             2.0        2.3       3.8               0.01       3.6        8.0
SEE NOTES AND OEFINITICNS ON REVERSE



Page2 of 4 pes.
ileas. othereise noted, data f.m 1960 ref.r to eny 7yea bets.e 1959 and 1961, for 1970 between 1968 end 1970, end for HMet Reaent EatiMate betweene
1973 end 1975.
an Venesuel. has been selected as en Objectiwe country bacesa of its experience in ecoemlo dewelopnot ba..ed en petro,laun eporta.
UA     1960    /a Rmclsdfmg no-adie Indin jungle population;        Lb  1950-62;     /c  1962;   -L- Qowecrnent hospital eastablisbeeto.
1970    /a  Zolading ncmdic Indian tribes;        /b  1962-70;    Le   Ratio of popul.tion -nder 15 end 65 and owr to total labor foece;
Id mnose recipient.
xosT RRcwr SSTD(ATR'     /a  Ratio of population under IS and 63 and ovr to total labor forms;        /b   1972;    /c  1969-71 average;
/d  Percetage of occupied housaes not coneacted to public -eter supplies;        Ia  1976.
A1ZRIA        1970    Li1966;    . ./k Excluding military personnel in barracks and 274,663 nationaIs abroad of wh-       229,020 are econoicelly enti-e;
also excluding 1,200,000 eminty occupied in agriculture;      Li Including nidvlves;       /d  1964-66;    L.   Total, urban end
rrl.cI
PNU    1970    Ia  1968;     -b  Excluding Indian jungle population;     Ic   1961-70;    Id  Ratio of population under 15 end 65 and over to
total labor force;     /g  Urban only;     If  Including eveing school..
VIIIZUKI.6    1970    /a Egadding Indian jungle population;        /b  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and owar to total labor forc..
110, ienuary 21, 1977
DEFmINTONS 0F SOCIAL. INDIC'ATORS
___d_Ar____tho__k_2                                                                 PopulatIon par nurs ing Person - Population divided by number of practicing
Total1   Total surface sesa coxp,teing lad area and intend watoro.                   nobtand female graduate nurses. "trained' or "'certifled" nurses,. and
=1ri. -Moat recent estissate of agricultural area used tempcr-ily oc                  auxiliary personnel with training or asperienc..
pernenently for crops, pastures. market & bitchen gerdnen or to lie              Population  i,. hospital bed - Population divided by number of hospital bede
fallow.                                                                            avilbl     in pubic. and pri-cte gene.ral and specialiced hospital and
rehabilitation centers; occludes nursing bo..es an d establislhnents for
CliP PI' "aI'l ("SI) - GNiP per capita estimate.se atcrrent market prices,          cutdial and prevetive cave.
calcul.atd bY c-    covrion nthod As World Bank Atlas (1973-75 basis);           P.r .-pit. supply of celories (7 of renuirementa) - Computed iron enrgy
1960, 1970 and   97  data                                                          equivalent of net fund supplies avilable in country per capita per day;
availa.ble suPPl ion cunPr i  doo-tic production, iports l.ss espOrts,
Powuation anvta       stiics                                                         an   chnges in sok; not supplies occlude animal food, sends, quan.ti-
Poplto     ad-r     ilo)- As of July first,        if not available,                 tie  usd inoo     prcesngad los.es in distribution; requiremets
avrage of ten end-year estimates; 1960, 1970 and 1975 data,                       were etimated by FAO ba...d on physiological ..sed. for normal activity
and health considering environmental temperature, body weights, age and
Puoula~tliod,n do y - per  quar b    -Mi-year pepulation par square kilo-             sadistributions of population, and allowing 107. for waste at hous.-
ester  00 hecares )f tota  area,d                                           hold love..!P      o
PoPulation density - por square ke of aeric. land - Cuoputed as above for          Per c.Pit. upyo       protein (grass per day) - Protein content of per
agricultural land only.                                                             cspita net supply of food Per day; net supply of food is defined as
above; requirments for all countrieo establiohed by USDA tconoic
Vital statistics                                                                      Research Service. provide for a ninimu    allowa.nce of 60 gras  of total
Crude birllh rats per thou   d. average - Annual live birth. Per thousand             protein per day, and 20 gr-v   of a-nial and pulse protein, of which
of "Id-ya     ousion;tenyear arithnstric --eeges        -ding in 1960 and           10 cr-. should ho animal protein; these standarde are lower than those
1970, end fiv-year avrage ending in 1975 for nOnt recent estimate.                  ci 75 tra-s of total protein and 23 grnoe of animal protein as an
Crude deeth rete par thous..d. evere. - Annual deaths per thousand of mid-           aeveragv for the world, proposed by TAD in the Third World Fond Survey.
ye-  population; ten-year aritheatic aversans ending in 1960 snd 1970 and         Pe   aiapoeneply iron animal and pulse - Protein supply of food
fieya   avrage eding in 1975 for cost recent esiat.dr 'ivetrnaiaaadpussi                                            esprdy
Infant mortalItyrt      /thou) - Annua  deaths of infants under one year of        Death rote (/thou) .eon  1-4 - Annalc deaths per thousand In age group
age per th...an   live biths.                                                       1-4 yeuro, to children in this age group; suggested as an indicator of
Life expetancy at birthbiyre) - Av-regs number of years of life remaining            oalc-tritio.n
ate birth; usually five-year -vragas ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975 for
develo1PingucountrIes.                                                            Education
Gros rpoution rats - Av-rgs nuber of lien daughters              oanvi             Adjuste,d e..nrolmnt rai   -piryschool - icrolleent of all ages ae
hear in her mornal repreducttc    peeled if she esPerlences present.ige1-          percontag   of primaryt. sc ro-aepopulation; includes children aged
specific fertiit    rate;usall      iv-srvrao          enngn1906-1years but adjusetd for different lengths of primary education;
1970 and1975   o   dvopin     cone.for -outr iso                                                    ith universal edcto,crol.tnyeceed 1007.
Population  rowth rate 17.) - total - ComPound annual growth rates of mid-            sinc  some..  pupile are below or shov  the official school Age.-
year populatios for 1950-60, 1960-70 AMd    970-75.                              AdJusted enrollment ratio -    .econdary school - Cnputed an above;
Population growth rate (7. - urban - Csputed like growth rate of total                aecondary education requires at In-et four Years of approved primary
population; different d.finitiens of urban areas nay affect cnp-ra-                 instruction; Provides general, voctional or teac.her training
bility of data amon   countries.                                                    instruction  for pupils of 12 to 17 years of 0gm; correspondence
urban population (7. Of tota1l - Ratio of urban to total population;                  courses are generally sec luded.
dlfferest definitions of urban areas may affect com parability of datb            Years of schooling provided (first and second levele) - Total year. of
erg cou ntriss.                                                                     shoclieg; at secndr      level    vctional instruction ney be par-
AR.   tur.  ~.nt)- Childrse (0-14 yer),wrking-age 115-64 yeses),               It,ally or cmltel      neclude."
adrtired     rysaeend ovrJ       pas   . pcntagee of mid-year population.     Voainl       nomnlty17 of seconday)        Voostiona1 institutions include
ARe dependeny ratio - hatio of Ppoplation under 15 and 65 and over to                 technical, induetrial or other programs which operate independently or
those of age   15 through 64.                                                      astdepartmens    f eecndary.icetitu tlons
iconomic d.12-,ey ratio - Rtio of population undmr 15 and 65 and oymr             Adult literacy rte (7.)- Literate adults (able to read and write) as
to the labor frce in age=grupf 15-64 years.,                                       percentage of total adult population aged 15 yeace snd over.
Penio oannma  ammter  (cmultive, thou) - Cumultion conke     of
acce ptors of birth-control dsvica under auspices of national fall7               Reusing
planning progrma sioc   inception.                                                Personsa pr room (urb..) - Avorage number of per.ona per roo     in
Penily ol_nine - users (7. of married women) - Perc...tagss of married                occupied conventional dwellings in urban areas; dwellings exclud.
womn of child-.baring age (15-M      er)4   h   s  birth-control devices            non-permanent structures and uncc.upied parts.
to all married woe    In easn age group.                                         OccuPied d.allinsne without Ppied water (7. - Occupied conve ntional
E.pl.y,-t                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~dw-llingo In urban and rural areas without insids or outside piped
T.t.laboren                                                                           watetosad  -eec1y.ti.pro.,icuigr facIlItie  as percentage of all otcupied dwellings.
Toal lao    oc    tosn)-tooial                ciepros          nldn                 cest      lcrct       7  faldelss           - COnventional dwellings with
ared,forces and.unemPloyd but excluding h.... iv.e, students, etc.;               electricity in liigqatr             prcent of total d-e11inge in urban
definitions invrous counries arent comparable.                                     and rural ar.ea.
Labor force in aericuLture (7.) - Agricultural labor force. (in farming ,           Rural dmIlino connected to electricity (7. - Computed -as above for
foety, hunting and fishing) as percentage of total labor force,                 rural dwellings Only.
Unelo,e (7   f labor force) - Unemployed are usually defined as persone
who are able and willIng to tak e aJob, out Of e Job on a given day,
remained out of a job,n and seeking week for a spmcified minimu    period         Raiorcevrs (pee thou pop) - All types of es...ivers for radio broad-
not exceding one weak; may not b.e coparable between countries due to               casts to general public per thousand of population; excludes unlicensed
differet.definitions ofcop loyed and source of data, e.g., employ-                 ree.ielvrs in countrisa and in years when rgistiration of radio.e. a
sentoff ce eatisIc   - aPIs survys, compulsory unemployment insurance,        in effect; data for rce.nt years may not bs comparable sinc     most
Incom- distribution - Psrcentags of private income (both in cash and kind)            cousntriecas bper hou pop)sng -  asnecr         oprise motr cers .sat-
received by richest 51, richest 207.. poorest 207., and poorset 407. of             ing lens than. eigtht p-ene; eacludes_ enblances, hear... and military
hocushods.                                                                          vehicle..
El:,tic,lItyP(kwh/cr par cap) - Annual c-nsumption of Industrial, ten-
Dietribution of Land ownership - Percentagme of land owned by wsa1thist               mrciat, public andppriva.te electricity in kilowtt hour. per capita;
107. and poorest 10.o    adonr,gene.rally basd on production data, without allowance forI lessee in
grids but allowing for imports and em     t  o   lctricity.
Hsalth end Nutrition                                                                 esrnt(geprca)-Pr cpit                   annual conaumption in kilograms
Population per physician - Population divided by nuber of practicing                  estimated from dumestic prodction Plus net imports of newsprint.
phyeici.ne qualified from a -dic.1 school at university level.



Annex I
page 3 of 4
Aemw           Projected                      ~~~~~~197l*-  1976 -          L171*    1975     1980
Average  lgr.)  -Pojected                                    97-      191
NATIONAL ACCOUM1                   1970                                      itz72_
At 1970-72 Prices & Exchangte Rates                      Average Anua Growth Bates            As Percent of GUY
Gross Domestic Product             1,692     x,4taOs    ,'044                .i,406                      10.1       6.5                100.0    914.8   94.4
Gains from Terms of TraLde (+)          -      136       207                   203                        -         -__                           5.2    5.6
Gross Domestic Income              1,9        ,624     2,851                 3,609                       11.6       6.1                100o.0   100.0, 10070
Import (incl. nyS)                   384       650       653                   7 75                      14.1       4.3                 22.7    24.8    21.5
Exports    "  (izwort caowity)        296      586       699                   766                       18.6       2.3               .17.5      22.3   21.2
Resource Gap                           UV        W~VT2                                                                                           T24      T
Consumption Expemdituree            1,368    1,958     2,123                 2,567                        9.3       4.8                 80.9     74.5   71.2
Investment    "  (toocl. stocks)     410       732       662                 1,051                       15.6      11.4                 24.2     27.9   29.1
Domestic Savings                      322      668       728                 1,042                       20.0       9.4                 19.0     25.5   28.8
National Savings                      265      600       692                 1,109                       22.7      12.5                *15.7     22.9   30.7
MERHAEIDISE TRADE                            Annual Data at Current Prices                                                             As Percent of Total.
Imports
Capital goods                       108      467       425                   728                       44.2      14.4                 34.7    40.9    39.0
Puels & intermediate goods         162      572       646                   922                       37.1       9.3                 52.1     50.1   49.4
ipj~p~on goods                  41       103       136                  216                        2Jj       12.                 13.2      9.0    11.6
Toa0       ebijrs(ef             73T        Tl       T77U7                 rUw                         384       11.5                I.0T    =00.0   100.0
Exports
Primar-y produicts                 249       950     1,229                 1,681                       39.8       8.1                 94.0    93.8    92.4
Mlanufcture   gOds                   16       63        67                   139                       40.9      20.0                  6 0      6.2    7.6
Totfal Merch. Imxports (f oh)      2IT     r1T       rTVS                  173W                        39.8       8.9               T=U       mrn    1owr
Merchandise Trade Indices'                      Aeage 1970-72 -100
Export Price Index                 10        28        7                    337
Import Price Index                 100       183       195                  248
Terms of Trade Index               100       130       142                  136
Exports Volume Index               100       198       236                  259
VALUJE ADDED) BY SECTOR             Ax~umal Data at 1.970-72 Prices and Exchange Rates             Average Annual Growth Rates         As Percent of Total
Agriculture                        425       516      546                   639                       5.0        4.0                 25.1     20.7    18.7
Industry snd Mining                441      739       733                 1,032                      13.8        8.9                 26.1     29.7    30.4
Service                            826    1.233     1.365                 1.735                      10.5        6.2                 48.8     49.6    50.9
Total                            1,69-2    2,488    2,644                 3,406                      101         65100.0                     100.0   100.0
PUBLIC FINANCE                                                                                                                           As Percent of GDP
(C-entral Go-vernment)
Current Receipts                   205       432      478                   654                       20.5       8.1                 12.1     17.4    19.2
Current Expenditures               181       299      328                   422                       13.4       6.5                 10.7     12.0    12.4
Buodgetsry Savings                  24       133      150                   232                       53.4      11.5                  1.4      5.3     6.8
Other Pablic Sector                  -         -         - 
Public Sector Investment            83       212      241                   361                       26.4      10.6                  4.9      8.5    10.6
197 7-8 1
CURRENT EXCPENDITURE D)ETAILS                   Actual                   Est.                 DEITAIL ON PUBLIC SECTOR
As % Total Current Expend.)              197_1*   1975                 19Z6                 INVESTMEN   PROGRA[M pe   cosait-    US$ Mle,       1 of Total
Education                                 23        26                   28                 ment e)
Other Social Services                      4         8                    9                 Social Sectots                          142,0           3
Agriculture                                2        10                   11                 Agriculture                             407.3          10.7
Other Economic Services                   13        14                   15                 Industry                                354.1           9.4
Administration and Defense                24        32                   29                 Petroleum                               531.3          14.0
Other                                     34        10                    8                 Power                                   645.0          17.0
Total Cuirrent Expenditures              100       100                  100                 Transport 6 corsunications              472.0          12.4
___________ __________ ___________ __________ ___________ __________ __________ O ther                      1  243   9        32.8
Total Expenditures fl                 3s795tT         TTU"
SELECTED) INDICATORS                                                     197 1-                FINANCIE,
Average ICON  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~   ~   ~   ~   ~~~~26Total Public Secter Inveistment
Import Elasticity                                                       1.34                    (Disbursements)                    4,0-69           1000
Merginal Domestic Savings Rate                                          0.47                    Publid Sector Savings              3,197             78.7
Marginal National Savings Rate                                          0.4"                    Net External Borrowing                872            21.3
Ai Excludes US$505.7 million financial investment.
IABOR PORCE AND                                  Total Labor Force                                  Value Added Per Worke (175            Prices & Exc. Rates)
OUTPUT PER WORKER                  In Millions         %of Total            19b2 -75           In U.S.Dbollars      Pecn     fAerege
a19  2      1975          1975                Annual                 1975                   1975
Growth Rate. 
Agriculture                                  0.9         47.4                                       1,025                     48
Induistry                                    0.3         15.8                                       3,864                    181
Service                                      0.7         36.8                  -2                      3                     132
Total                             1.4         19        100.0                  2.4                  2,140                    100
not applicable         -nil or negligible
not available         --less then half the
smallest unit shown



BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTEAL ASSISTANCE AND DEBT
(amounts in millons of U.S. doUlars at current prices)
Actual                      Eatimted           Projected              Avg. Annuat
Average                             1976                1980                Grovth Rate
1970-72        17975                                                         1976-SO
SUlKAl BULANCE OF PAYDTS
Exports (icl. NFS)                                          296        1,073                1,363              1,905                     8.7
Dmorts (incl. NF)                                           384        1.192                1.277              1.932                    10.9
Resource Bal.ance ki-N)                                     -88          -119                  86                -27
Net Factor Services                                         -44           -78                 -76               -118                    11.6
Workers' Remittance                                            -            -                   -                   -
Current Transfers (net)                                      16            29                  21                 25                     4.5
Balance on Current JAccounts                               -115          -168                  31               -120
Private Direct Investrant                                   110            41                  20                 40                    18.9
Official Capital Orants                                       -             -                   -                   -                    -
Public M      Loans
Disburslents                                               68           140                 298                299
-R apa3'nta                                                -37          -44                  -67               -124                    16.6
ett D31                                                                    96                 231                 175                   -6.7
Other IffLT Ioans
DLabursenrrts                                             3.6          2.4                 3.0                 -
-Repan-ta    -                                             3.4          5.3                 5.0                  -
Net Disburements                                            0.2         -2.9                -2.0                  -
Capital Transactions n.e.i.                                 0.3       -23.8                  -91                -16                       12       1973                             V 6
Chaige in Net Reserves                                       -27          58                -189                 -79
DEBT & DEBT SERVICE
CITABI AND LOAN  GO 3   NI rS                                                                                 Public Debt Out. & Disbr.     302      328       324        430          660
Ofi cial orants & Urant-like              I972        1973         1974        1975                        Interest on Public Debt         10       15        17         17           25
Repayments on Public Debt       27       31        77          32          67
Public LWT Loans                                                                                           Total Public Debt Service       37       46        94          49          92
IBRD                                      -          20          23            4                         Other Debt Service (net)                  ''
7DA                                       7           6            -           -                         Total Debt Service (net)                            -'
Other                                     -           3            -           4
Other Multilateral                       11          33           86          33                       Darden on lOport bzrning (p  )
Governments                              36           8            3          67
Suppliers                                 5           19           1          10                         Public Debt Service           10.1      7.3       7.6         4.6         6.8
Financial Institutions                   54          21           1S          87                         Total Debt Service
Bonds                                     1           -            _           -                          DS+Direct Ihest. Inc.          *.
Public Loans n.e.i.                       -
Total Public HhT. Loans         1    4                                   1        0   S 1 31            Average Terms of Public Debt
Actual Debt Outstanding on Dec. 31. 1975                      Iot. as % Prior Year DO&D     4.4       4.9       5.2        5.3          5.8
bITRAL    DM                                     Disbursed Only               Peccent                        Amort. as , Prior Teer DD&D   11.9      10.2      23.5        9.9         15.6
World Bank                                          43.U                       IU.0
IDA                                                 28.4                        6.6                      IERD Debt Out. & Disbursed
Other HSltilateral                                   59.8                       13.9                          as % Public Debt OSD        11.4     10.9      11.5        10.0         8.2
Govorments                                          119.8                       27.9                       "  as % Public Debt Service   12.2      10.9       6.4       12.0          8.7
&wnmliers                                            59.9                       13.9
Financial Inetitutiona                              105.6                       24.6                     IDA Debt Out. & Disbursed
Bonds                                                 2.3                        0.5                         as % Public Debt O&D         3.9       5.4       6.6         6.6         4.9
Public Debts n.e.i                                   10.8                        2.5                       , as % Public Debt Service       -
Tbtal Public IedLT Debt                            429.5                       100.0
Other K&LT Debts
Short-twe    Debt (disb. only)
not applicable                                                    e  staff estirate
not available                                                     - nil or negligible
... not available separately                                          --  less than half the
but included in total                                                amllest unit shown                                                                                                        0,
April 1977



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 5
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ECUADOR
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as at April 30, 1977)
Loan or                                                  -------US$ million--
Credit     Fiscal                                       Amount (less cancellations)
Number      Year      Borrower        Purpose           Bank       IDA   Undisbursed
9 loans and 2 credits fully disbursed                   65.5        9.5         -
124        1968     Ecuador          Education            -        5.1       0.7
555        1968     Ecuador          Fisheries          4.6          -       1.0
222        1970     Ecuador          Agriculture          -       10.0       3.4
286        1972     Ecuador          Power                -        6.8       1.3
930        1973     Ecuador          DFC               20.0          -       3.9
425        1973     Ecuador          Irrigation           -        5.5       1.3
1030        1974     Empresa          Water Supply      23.2          -      22.6
Municipal de
Agua Potable
de Guayaquil
1157        1975     Ecuador          Education          4.0          -       3.8
1229        1976     Ecuador          Seeds              3.0          -       3.0
1230        1976     Ecuador          Technical          4.0          -       4.0
Assistance
1231        1976     Ecuador          Highways          10.5          -      10.5
1255        1976     Guayaquil        Ports             33.5          -      32.5
Port Authority
1359 /a     1977     Ecuador          DFC               26.0          -      26.0
Total                                      194.3      36.9      113.7
of which has been repaid                  46.2       0.3
Total now outstanding                      148.1      36.6
Amount sold                         1.8
of which has been repaid          1.8
Total now held by Bank and IDA /b          148.1      36.6
Total undisbursed                          107.3       6.4      113.7
/a   Not yet effective.
/b   Prior to exchange adjustments.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 5
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as at April 30, 1977)
Type of      Amount in US$ Million
Final Year                                        Business     Loan   Equity   Total
1966 & 1972   La Internacional, S.A.             Textiles       3.7     0.3     4.0
1969          Ecuatoriana de Desarrollo, S.A.
1973 & 1975   Compania Financiera (COFIEC)       DFC             -      0.4     0.4
1976          Sociedad Agricola e Industrial     Sugar Mill     5.0       -     5.0
San Carlos, S.A.
Total gross commitments                           8.7     0.7     9.4
Less cancellations, terminations
repayments and sales                          2.6     0.5     3.1
Total commitments now held by IFC                 6.1     0.2     6.3
Total undisbursed                                 2.0      _      2.0



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 5
C.   PROJECT IN EXECUTION 1/
Credit No. 124-EC - Education Project: US$5.1 million Credit of June 27, 1968;
Effective Date: August 30, 1968; Closing Date: December 31,
1976.
The project is behind schedule because of recurrent difficulties in
the staffing and direction of the project unit, and because of shortages in
counterpart funds. The bulk of the project schools are now in operation al-
though substantial work still remains to be completed on foundation and roof
structures, and on the installation of services. The Association has deferred
action on a possible extension of the Closing Date pending the Government's
preparation of a detailed program for satisfactory completion of all project
schools.
Loan No. 555-EC - Fisheries Project; US$5.3 million Loan of September 5, 1968;
Effective Date: September 4, 1969; Closing Date: May 1,
1977
This project had a slow start owing mainly to institutional problems
and less than anticipated demand for the fishing vessels included in the
project. A feasibility study, financed under this loan, recommended the
construction of fishing harbor and industrial facilities at two locations.
The Bank has agreed to finance the detailed design of facilities at Manta.
Additional facilities would be considered by the Bank depending on the
findings of additional marketing studies, also to be financed out of this
loan. An extension of the Closing Date is currently being discussed with the
Ministry of Natural Resources.
Credit No. 222-EC - Third Livestock Development Project; US$10 million Credit
of December 10, 1970; Effective Date: September 30, 1971,
Closing Date: June 30, 1977
The credit is nearly fully committed. The main objectives of the
project are being met, and the demand for investments for subloans for beef
and dairy development is good but additional time is required in order to have
the participating banks complete the processing of sub-loan disbursements and
comply with the Credit Agreement's accounting covenants. The Closing Date was
extended to June 30, 1977 for this reason, and it is likely that the Credit
will be fully disbursed by the end of 1977.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution and, in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknessess in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 5
Credit No. 286-EC - Third Power Project; US$6.8 million Credit of February 15,
1972; Effective Date: December 15, 1972; Closing Date:
June 30, 1977.
The major part of the project has been completed satisfactorily.
The remaining item--two substations--should be finished by the end of 1977.
The beneficiary, Empresa Electrica de Quito, has increased tariffs twice
recently; approved new organizational statutes; contracted an asset re-
valuation study; and obtained a settlement of the outstanding debts of Munici-
pality of Quito. On the basis of these actions, the Association agreed to
extend the Closing Date in order to complete the project.
Credit 425-EC - Milagro Irrigation Project; US$5.5 million Credit of August 17,
1973; Effective Date: January 17, 1974; Closing Date:
August 31, 1979.
Progress during the past years was good; disbursements are ahead of
schedule. Almost all the irrigation and drainage canals have been completed;
most of the heavy equipment has been delivered. The on-farm development work
has been delayed by difficulties in preparing land titles.
Loan 930-EC - Second Development Finance Companies Project; US$20.0 million
Loan of August 17, 1973; Effective Dates: COFIEC February 27,
1974; CFN March 4, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
The project is proceeding according to schedule, and the loan is now
entirely committed.
Loan 1030-EC - Guayaquil and Guayas Province Water Supply Project; US$23.2
million Loan of July 23, 1974; Effective Date: January 29,
1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1978.
Disbursements have been slow, owing to construction delays and
changes in management and engineering consultants. Government intervention
has partly rectified the situation with a tariff increase and other remedial
measures. However, long-term financial problems have yet to be solved. The
procurement practices of the Water Supply Company have caused the emergence of
some difficulties which have been resolved recently.
Loan 1157-EC - Vocational Training Project; US$4.0 million Loan of September 3,
1975; Effective Date: November 24, 1975; Closing Date:
September 30, 1978.
Project implementation has been proceeding satisfactorily with some
technical and financial difficulties. Design work for the Guayaquil and
Quito centers may be interrupted, however, because of the failure to complete
site surveys and tests.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 5
Loan 1229-EC - Seeds Project; US$3 million Loan of May 24, 1976; Effective
Date: October 20, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
The national seeds council and project unit are established, and the
project director has been appointed. Candidates have been identified for the
two consultants postions. Procurement is now underway on the equipping of the
seed processing plant to be built on the coast, and similar activity is
scheduled to begin soon for the related civil works.
Loan 1230-EC - Technical Assistance Project; US$4.0 million Loan of May 24,
1976; Effective Date: October 20, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
The project has been proceeding slowly with the establishment of the
national rural development planning unit and appointment of its local staff,
in addition to the hiring of the first expert. Candidates for other positions
have recently been identified and agreed upon. The preparation of the project
in Tungurahua province is underway, and a team of consultants will shortly
initiate work on the Guayas Basin project.
Loan 1231-EC - Fourth Highway Project; US$10.5 million Loan of May 24, 1976;
Effective Date: October 13, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1979.
Bids for the civil works component of the project have been opened
on April 18 and are being evaluated. Consultants were invited in March 1977
to submit proposals for the various technical assistance programs included in
the project. MOP is interviewing candidates for the position of overall
coordinator. Consultants to carry out an agricultural development study, to
be financed under this loan, have been selected.
Loan 1255-EC - Second Guayaquil Port Project; US$33.5 million Loan of May 24,
1976; Effective Date:  March 11, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
After complex and protracted negotiations, the main civil works con-
tract was signed on February 11, 1977. Some critical engineering aspects will
require additional design work but, in the meantime, dredging has already
started. Cofinancing arrangements for US$10 million with a private inter-
national bank were concluded on March 11, 1977.



ANNEX III
ECUADOR
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
I.   Timetable of Key Events
(a) Identification Mission: September 1975.
(b) Preparation by: The Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock in
cooperation with the Bank.
(c) Appraisal Mission: October 1976.
(d) Negotiations: April 26 - May 6, 1977.
(e) Planned date of effectiveness: September 1, 1977.
II. Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
III. Special Conditions
The Bank has obtained assurances that:
1.   Relending terms would be as specified in para. 35.    Credit and
rediscounting terms and conditions would be reviewed periodically
and would not be altered without the Bank's concurrence prior to
the closing date of the loan (para. 37).
2.   Participating banks would provide adequate short-term loans and
working capital to project beneficiaries and the Central Bank
would provide rediscount facilities for both long- and short-term
loans (para. 37).
3.   The Project Executive Unit would have adequate operational
autonomy and any change in its location within the public
service would be made after consultation with the Bank and on
terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank; and the Unit's
relationship with participating banks would be reviewed midway
through the commitment period (para. 31).
4.   Supporting technical assistance to farmers through the pro-
vision of MAG extension services would be as specified in
para. 25.



ao                                    79500                                 77!00                                 75 00                                 73 O'           DECEMBER 1976
-~~                     ECUADOR
 $ ! < w NATIONAN                                                                                                                                       CAP IAL
Cto~  A                                                                                      0 PROVNCA CAP TALS
TOWNS
MAIN ROADS
l.laq-d                                                                                                      I CON|  A Y ROAS R
Xi                                             J7R iVETRSe;X\
Ic                                                   R N. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~______PROVINCIAL BOUNDARIES
-    INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
0.-             G                                                                                                                                  C A                              20000 
TlCAbundte hf 0srcS5anC            AMERICA
A Z li~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
8100                            79*0*                                  7 00                                  700'           cocA BeP o-  ,o4ILLLsee



