FILE COPY
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use
Report No. 84-ET
APPRAISAL OF AN AGRICULTURAL
MINIMUM PACKAGE PROJECT
ETHIOPIA
May 14, 1973
Eastern Africa Regional Office
Oicultural Projects Division
This report was prepared for oMcial use only by the Banik Group. It rnay not be publ4hed, quoted
or cited without Bank Group authorizatiQo. The Bank Group does not accept repponsibilty for the
accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRE2CY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit    =    Ethiopian Dollar (Eth$)
Eth$1.00              US$o.48
Eth$l million         US$483,092
Eth.02.07             US$1.00
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric aystem
1 quintal (ql)   =  100 kg  =  0.1 ton
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AIDB      - Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank
AIMS      - Agricultural Inputs and Marketing Services
CADU      -  Chilalo Agricultural Development Unit
EPID      -  Extension and Project Implementation Department
FAO       - Food Agriculture Organization
IAR       - Institute of Agricultural Research
MP        - Minimum Package
SIDA      -  Swedish International Development Agency
UNDP      - United Nations Development Programne
USAID     - United States Agency for International Development
WADU      - Wolamo Agricultural Development Unit
FISCAL YEAR
July 8 - July 7



ETHIOPIA
AGRICULTURAL MINIITUM PACKAGE PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY  AND  CONCLUSIONS   .....                     .................               i
I.      INTRODUCTION  .................................                                        1
II.      BACKGROUND  ...................................                                        2
A.      General  .................................                                    2
B.      The  Agricultural  Sector  ....                      .............             2
Main  Features   .........................                                 2
Grain  Production  and  Marketing                       ........           3
Land  Tenure  ...........................                                  4
The  Use  of  Inputs  .....................                                5
Credit  and  Cooperatives   ....                   ...........             5
Extension  Services   ....................                                 6
III.       THE  MINIMUM  PACKAGE  PROGRAM  ..................                                     6
General  ...............................                                   6
The  Highlands  .........................                                  7
The  MP  Areas   ..........................                                7
Farm  Inputs  and  Credit  ....                    ............            8
Program  Administration  ....                     ............             8
IV.      ThE  PROJECT  ..................................                                       9
A.      General  Description  .....................                                   9
B.      Detailed  Features   .......................                                 10
Farm  Inputs  ...........................                                10
Credit  ................................                                 11
Rural  Roads  ...........................                                11
Funds  for  Marketing  Credit  ....                    ........          12
Administrative, Extension and
Support  Services   ....................                              12
C.      Project  Cost  ............................                                  15
D.      Financing  ...............................                                   16
E.      Procurement   .............................                                  17
F.      Disbursements  ...........................                                   17
G.      Accounts  and  Audit  ......................                                 18
V.      ORGANIZATION  AND  MANAGEMIENT  ..................                                   18
A.      Administration  ..........................                                   18
B.      Staffing  ........                ........................                   19



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)                                    Page No.
VI.   PRODUCTION, PRICES AND FARMER BENEFITS           20
A.   Yields and Production .......... ....       20
B. Markets and Prices .21
C.   Farmer Benefits ....................        22
D.   Government Budget and
Foreign Exchange ....     .............  23
VII.   BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ....     ..........   24
VIII.   RECOMMENDATIONS ......      ...................  25
ANNEXES
1.   General Agricultural Statistics
Table I - Agriculture in the Economy
Table 2 - Main Features of Agricultural Sector, 1970
Table 3 - Composition of Crop Production
2.   The Grain Market
Table  1 - Estimated Composition of Market Dependent
Population, 1970
Table  2 - Cereal Consumption by Market Dependent
Population, 1970-90 First Projection
Table  3 - Cereal Consumption by Market Dependent
Population, 1970-90 Second Projection
Table  4 - Cereal Supply and Demand, 1970-90
Table  5 - Cereal Wholesale Prices on the Addis Ababa
Market, 1962-71
Table  6 - Monthly Wholesale Price Relatives on the
Addis Ababa Market, 1962-71
Table  7 - Estimated 1970 "Normal" Wholesale &
Farmgate Prices
Table  8 - Estimated Marketing Costs
Table  9 - Assumed Producer Price Development for
Major Cereals
Table 10 - Parity Prices - Imported Soft Wheat
Table 11 - Parity Prices - Maize (Exported in Bulk)
3.   Seed Supply
4.   Credit and Supply of Inputs
Table 1 - AIDB Cash Flows from Project



ANNEXES (Cont'd)
5.   Minimum Package Program
Table 1 - Areas where MP Program Underway
6.   Farmers' Participation, Adoption of Inputs and
Incremental Output
7.   Rural Roads
Table 1 - Estimated Requirements for each Rural Road
Construction Unit
8.   Function of the Evaluation Unit in the MP Program
9.   Project Costs
Table  1 - Summary of Project Costs by Years
Table  2 - Summary of NP Program Costs
Table  3 - EPID Costs - Headquarters
Table  4 - EPID Costs - Observation Areas
Table  5 - EPID Costs - Demonstration Areas
Table  6 - EPID Costs - MP Areas
Table  7 - Cooperative Development Department Costs
Table  8 - Cost of Farm-to-Highway Roads
Table  9 - Cost of Penetration Roads
Table 10 - Costs and Quantities of Inputs - Fertilizer
Table 11 - Build-up of Fertilizer Prices
Table 12 - Costs and Quantities of Inputs - Improved Seeds
Table 13 - Costs and Quantities of Inputs - Improved Harrows
Table 14 - Costs and Quantities of Inputs - On-Farm Storage
Table 15 - Costs and Quantities of Inputs - Miscellaneous
10.   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements of IDA Credit
11.   Yields, Production and Farmers' Income
Table  1 - Area under Crops and Number of Holdings
by Province
Table  2 - Frequency Distribution of Holdings by Size
Table  3 - Participating Farmers and Cropped Area per Farm
Table  4 - Build-up of Area Fertilized per Farmer
Table  5 - Build-up of Area Fertilized in One NP Area
Table  6 - Yields, Costs and Revenue per ha at Full Development
Table  7 - Farm Models
Table  8 - Farmers' Annual Net Cash Income
12.   Budgetary Implications
Table 1 - Government Cash Flow



ANNEXES (Cont'd)
13.   Foreign Exchange Implications
Table 1 - Foreign Exchange Costs and
Export Value of Output
Table 2 - Foreign Exchange Implications
Assuming One-Half of Cereal
Defficiency Imported
14.   Economic Rate of Return
Table 1 - Economic Rate of Return Calculations
CHART:  Organization of Extension and Project Implementation
Department
MAPS: Minimum Package Areas as of November, 1972
(IBRD 10231)
Rainfed Agricultural Development and GraTn
Storage Programs (IBRD 10232)
Major Food Crop Economies (IBRD 10233)



EThIOPIA
APPRAISAL OF AGRICULTURAL MINIMUM PACKAGE PROJECr
SU"4ARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises an Agricultural Project in Ethiopia which is
part of the Minimum Package (MP) Program started in 1971. An IDA credit of
US$21 million is proposed. The Agricultural Minimum Package Project reflects
Government's agricultural strategy and is designed to raise production and
incomes of the small farmers in the highlands by enabling them to increase
their output of cereal crops through the introduction of simple innovations
and extension service, together with short-term credit. The basic units of
the Program are NP areas developed along the adjoining main roads; these con-
tain, on average, about 10,000 farm families, of whom 65% are expected to
participate over a nine-year period. This would be the eighth agricultural
development project in Ethiopia assisted by Bank Group financing.
ii.       The MP Program is based on experience gained from more intensive
development schemes - including the IDA-financed Wolamo Agricultural Develop-
ment Unit - whose impact are, however, limited by the relatively high costs
and substantial trained manpower requirements. By concentrating on a few
proven innovations, such as fertilizer, improved seeds and some farm imple-
ments, the minimum package approach reduces these constraints. By providing
credit, it helps farmers escape from the cycle of borrowing at very high
rates of interest; by encouraging the gradual development of cooperatives,
with adequate supporting services, it strengthens their bargaining power.
iii.      The Project would cover a three-year segment (mid-1973 to mid-1976)
of the ongoing MP Program. At the outset of the Project there are expected
to be about 28 established MP areas. During the Project, a further 30 MP
areas would be opened, while the foundations would be laid, by observation
and demonstration, for another 30 between 1977 and 1979. By 1980 some
400,000 farm families are expected to benefit from the Program. The Project
would include: (a) the incremental requirements over the Project period of
fertilizer and other farm inputs and permanent working capital required for
the provision of fertilizers through the Agricultural Industrial Development
Bank (AIDB); (b) the construction of rural roads serving the MP areas; (c)
funds for marketing credit; (d) the extension and support services required
for administration, training and research; and (e) funds for project prepara-
tion and planning. Credit would be extended to participating farmers for the
purchase of inputs.
iv.       The executing agency would be the Extension and Project Implementa-
tion Department (EPID) of the Ministry of Agriculture, and the credit channel
would be AIDB which would also be responsible for the procurement of inputs.
The development and support of cooperatives would be the responsibility of
EPID and the Cooperative Development Department of the Ministry of National



- ii -
Community Development and Social Affairs. The Project would provide strength-
ened management and additional staff for both organizations. The recruitment
of properly trained extension agents and experienced supervisors would be of
critical importance to EPID, and would be facilitated by the extension of
training institutions provided under the Third IDA Education Project recently
negotiated.
v.        Improvements in the grain marketing system are badly needed and
the Government is arranging for the preparation of a national grain stor-
age and marketing project, with assistance from the Bank; meanwhile the Proj-
ect includes some provision for marketing credit. The majority of small
farmers in Ethiopia are tenants, whose willingness to make improvements is
influenced by their lack of security of tenure. Land reform legislation is
now before Parliament. Three months in advance of each fiscal year, Govern-
ment would submit detailed plans and financial forecasts for the MP Program
for the following year, along with land tenure arrangement in new MP areas
to enable IDA to make a judgment of the suitability of each new area for
development.
vi.       Total Project cost during the three-year period would be US$28.9
million of which 43% would be foreign exchange. The proposed IDA credit of
US$21 million would finance US$10.1 million (or 82%) of the foreign exchange
costs and US$10.9 million (or 66%) of local costs. About 40 man-years of
technical assistance, representing some US$2.2 million equivalent, would be
provided by the Swedish International Development Agency. Government and
participating farmers would finance the balance. The Government would on-
lend funds for farmer credit to AIDB at 7-1/4% for a term not exceeding 15
years.
vii.      Procurement of imported fertilizers, equipment, and motor vehicles
would be by international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank/IDA
guidelines; orders of less than US$30,000 would be purchased following Gov-
ernment procurement procedures which are satisfactory. Construction of EPID
headquarters would be by competitive bidding on the basis of a local adver-
tisement; other small buildings, offices and stores would be constructed by
local contract or force account because of their remoteness and scattered
nature. Roads would be constructed by special units set up in the Imperial
Highway Authority for this purpose until establishment of an organization in
Government with responsibility for rural roads. Procurement of all other
items required by the Project would follow EPID procurement procedures.
viii.     The value of the annual incremental output of grains under the Pro-
gram would be of the order of US$16 million by 1980, rising gradually to over
US$26 million by 1990. An owner-operator cultivating one ha could raise his
net cash income from subsistence to some Eth$80, while a 3 ha farmer could
double his present net income of Eth$150. The additional demand for ferti-
lizer and other inputs would lead to annual foreign exchange costs of about
US$7 million at full development. The foreign exchange value of the total
incremental output would then be about US$21 million a year. The Program
would result in increased Government recurrent expenditure reaching Eth$12



- iii -
million annually after 1985; this compares with total Government outlays for
agriculture of Eth$40 million in 1971/72. The economic return is estimated
at about 15%.
ix.       The nature of the Project and the scarcity of data mean that the
projections in this report are illustrative rather than predictive. They
would be updated annually and gradually improve as experience is gained.
The uncertainties and the limited experience with the MP Program exposes
the Project to some risk. It is, however, justified by the potential benefits
and the fact that the MP Program offers the best means available of raising
a substantial part of the rural population above subsistence level. The
Project is suitable for an IDA credit of US$21 million.



I



ETIIOPIA
APPRAISAL OF LN AGRICULTURAL MINIMUM PACKAGE PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01      Since the mid-sixties when the first significant agricultural de-
velopment schemes were undertaken in Ethiopia, the main emphasis has been
on comprehensive projects designed to develop a limited area through the
intensive application of a number of inputs. Important among such projects
have been the Chilalo Agricultural Development Unit (CADU) established with
assistance from the Swedish International Development Agency (SIDA) and the
Wolamo Agriculture Development Unit (WADU) assisted by IDA (Map, IBRD 10232).
The impact of these and similar projects has necessarily been limited by
their high cost and trained manpower requirements; their benefits have however
included considerable experience and technical knowledge in assisting small
farmers and, since 1967, this has been furthered by a Danish Government
financed FAO fertilizer trial program.
1.02      Based on this experience and in response to the need to increase
food production and reach more peasant farmers over large areas, Government
in 1971 initiated its experimental Minimum Package (HP) Program. Under this
Program the Ministry of Agriculture through its Extension and Project Imple-
mentation Department (EPID) is introducing throughout the highlands a few
proven technical innovations, notably the application of fertilizer and im-
proved seeds, in association with farmer credit. In 1971 the Bank's agricul-
ture sector mission to Ethiopia 1/ endorsed the appropriateness of the MP
approach. The proposed Project would support Ethiopia by helping to finance
three years of the NP Program.
1.03      This would be the Bank Group's eighth lending for agricultural
development in Ethiopia since 1969. Six IDA assisted projects have been
approved: the WADU Project, the Humera Agricultural Development Project,
the Addis Ababa Dairy Development Project, the Coffee Processing Project,
the Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank Project, and the Second
Livestock Project. Performance under the on-going projects has been satis-
factory. A seventh project, the Armibara Irrigation Project, has been
negotiated.
1.04      The proposed Project was prepared by EPID with assistance of the
Bank's Permanent Mission in Eastern Africa and a pre-appraisal mission which
visited Ethiopia in June 1972. This report is based on the findings of an
appraisal mission which visited Ethiopia in July/August 1972, comprising
Messrs. F.M. Crowe, F.D.T. Reid, E.P. Riezebos, W.B. Stolber and E. Zimmer-
Vorhaus (IDA), and P. Calkin (consultant). The proposal for a study of the
impact of rural roads was prepared by the Research Division of the Bank's
Transportation Projects Department.
1/   Report No. Pa-143a dated January 15, 1973.



- 2 -
II. BACKGROUND
A. General
2
2.01      Ethiopia, with an area of about 1.2 million km , and lying on an
elevated plateau broken by the Rift Valley, has a wide range of ecological
and climatic conditions. Rainfall increases from 250 mm in the northeast
near the Red Sea to over 2,000 mm in the mountainous plateau region of the
southwest. About 10% of the land is under crops, about 28% is taken up by
grazing, and the remainder is open bush and scrub, woodland, and areas not
suitable for plant or livestock production.
2.02      The population is about 25 million and increasing at about 2
to 2.5% per year. Over 90% of the people live in rural areas - some 85% in
the highlands, the country's main agricultural area - but urban population
is climbing rapidly by about 7% a year. Gross Domestic Product (GDP) has
been growing at about 4.8% a year, and in 1970 totalled US$2.0 billion. Per
capita income is US$76 a year, one of the lowest in the world. The economy
is based on subsistence agriculture.
2.03      In 197-, exports were valued at US$190 million, of which agricul-
ture accounted for over 90%. Coffee provides some 58% of export earnings,
Twith oilseeds and cakes, pulses, hides and skins accounting for most of the
remainder. The trade deficit has averaged between US$30 and US$40 million
in recent years, but capital inflows have enabled the country to avoid serious
balance of payments difficulties.
2.04      Ethiopia's transport facilities are poorly developed; most of the
country is still remote from modern means of communications and relies pre-
dominantly on animal transport. Considerable progress has been made in
recent years in expanding the nation's road network, and in late 1971 there
were about 8,000 km. of all-season roads and about 15,000 km of dry-weather
roads.
2.05      Few secondary and feeder roads serve the rural population; perhaps
as many as three-quarters of the country's farms are more than half a day's
walk from any road. This means that transport difficulties and high cost
almost oblice farmers to sell goods brought to market regardless of the price
offered.
B. The Agricultural Sector
Main Features (Annex 1)
2.06      Agriculture provides 90% of employment, but only about 58% of GDP.
Over the period 1961-69, production increased by 1.8% a year, falling short



-3-
of both population and GDP growth. Cereals account for almost half of crop
production, and coffee for about 15%.  There is a large livestock population
including an estimated 26 million cattle.  Only about 25% of agricultural
production is marketed.
2.07      In its report to the Consultative Group for Ethiopia in April 1971,
the Government stated that "more than any other sector, agriculture maximizes
the use of Ethiopia's abundant resources," and went on to suggest that invest-
ment and development policies should be directed to this sector. Despite
this, public outlays for agriculture have been small and in 1971/72 amounted
to only Eth$40 million (US$19.3), or about 6% of the total (some Eth$650 mil-
lion); about Eth$28 million (US$13.5' was for capital expenditure and the
remaining for recurrent costs.
Grain Production and Marketing (Amnex 2)
2.08      Ethiopia has moved from surplus to deficit in grains since the
middle 1940's, and, over the last decade, has had to import wheat and flour.
Local grain prices have been above import parity. Grain production (mainly
teff 1/, barley, sorghum, maize and wheat), estimated at about 4 million
tons in 1970, fluctuates widely from year to year. A good 1971/72 harvest
resulted in sharp price declines and probably temporary self-sufficiency at
present low consumption levels, but overall deficiencies can be expected in
most years for some time. Grain consumption per capita is greatest among
the market-dependent population, particularly the fast-growing urban popu-
lation.
2.09      The Ethiopian grain market handles some three-quarters of a mil-
lion tons annually. It is characterized by inefficiency and price instabil-
ity, with wide regional price difference and severe seasonal and annual
fluctuations. There are a number of reasons:
(a) The absence of a national market, due partly to poor communica-
tions between market centers;
(b) Severe pressure on prices immediately after the harvest. This
is due in part to the lack of storage facilities and in part to
the lack of farmer and trader credit. Small farmers, who have
usually had to borrow on onerous terms in order to see themselves
through the year, must sell their output to repay debts;
(c) The absence of sound marketing practices such as reliable
qxuality determination, enforcement of standard weights and
measures, and adequate hygiene and phytosanitary controls; and
(d)  Fragmentation of the market with numerous merchants, traders
and brokers, and limited price competition. The largest
1/   Teff (Eragrostis Abyssinica):  a short annual grass whose tiny seed is
used to prepare an unleavened bread.



-4-
trader, the parastatal Ethiopian Grain Corporation, handles
less than 1.5% of the domestically marketed supply, excluding
im?orts.
2.10      The Ministry of Commerce and Industry and the Ministry of Agricul-
ture have prime responsibility for grain marketing, the former through the
Grain Board (a regulatory body) and Grain Corporation, and the latter through
its Planning and Programm'Lng Unit and Economic Research Division. These or-
ganizations have, however, so far had little impact. TIe Government acknowl-
edges the urgent need for an efficient marketing system and has approached
the Bank for assistance i n preparing a suitable project (scheduled for ap-
praisal in early 1974).  The creation of an efficient marketing system is
fundamental to the long-term success of the Program; meanwhile the Project
includes some provision for marketing credit (para 4.11).
Land Tenure
2.11      In addition to a significant amount of Government-owned land,
there are two main categories of land ownership:  individually-owned and
communally-owned.  The former dominates in the southern provinces while the
latter prevails throughout the north. While individually-owned holdings
vary considerably in size, most are less than 2 ha; the majority of farmers
under communal tenure operate ho'ldings of less than I ha. There is no reg-
istration of deeds or tit'Les and, as a result, land transactions are cumber-
some and disputes are numerous.
2.12      !.ore than half the total cultivated area, both individually and
communally-owned, is farmed by tenants who, as a group, comprise more than
half the rural population. This has had an inhibiting effect on agricul-
tural development as there are a number of factors which lessen any incen-
tive tenant farmers might have .o invest in improvements or to undertake
innovative practices: rent-s are usually paid in kind and are high, amount-
ing to one-third to one-half of the crop; tenants are seldom compensated
for permanent improvements such as erosion control or improved storage; and
security of tenure is inadequate. Landlords can, and apparently do evict
without justification and at short notice.
2.13      While the Government recognizes the need for tenure change, land
reform measures have proved difficult to promulgate. Parliament has twice
reJected tenancy legislation but is now considering a third bill. It provides
for (a) rents to be limited to one-third of production, or to one-half where
the landlord prov_des services) (b) the sharing of the cost of cash inputs
between landlord and tenants; (c) improved security of tenancy with two years'
notice of evicton in most cases; (d) compensation for permanent improvements
at eviction; and Ce) tenancy tribunals to resolve disputes before involving
local courts.  WTuhile legislation is an important factor in agricultural reform,
effective implemcntation will take some years. The annual review of plans
and. f@.ia.ncial forecasts (para 4.04) would provide details of land tenure
arran-ements in eac5  of the MP areas scheduled to be opened under the Project.



2.14      Communal and sharecropping systems of land tenure aggravate the
problem of soil conservation, particularly in the highlands. The increas-
ing intensity of farming over many centuries has resulted in the progres-
sive shortening of fallow periods, the clearing and cultivation of all but
the most precipitous slopes, almost total removal of tree cover, and the
degradation of soil structure resulting in declining crop yields and live-
stock productivity. Government appreciates the importance of the problem
and in 1970 created a Soil Conservation Division in the Ministry of Agri-
culture which has started small conservation schemes. While solution of
this problem is beyond the scope of the present Project, provision is made
to educate participants in the MP Program on proper soil conservation methods
(para. 4.14(g)).
The Use of Inputs
2.15      Despite increased expenditure on agricultural inputs, which doubled
between 1964 and 1967, the vast majority of Ethiopian farmers continue to use
traditional methods and tools. Fertilizer imports have increased signifi-
cantly, from about 1,300 tons in 1966 to about 24,000 tons in 1971, largely
in response to technical assistance and Government-sponsored programs. Seed
imports have also grown from about 100 tons in 1966 to about 400 tons in 1970.
These have been supplemented by improved seed being developed by the Insti-
tute of Agricultural Research or that produced under several comprehensive
development schemes, notably CADU and the Ministry of National Community
Development project at Awasa (Annex 3). Pesticides are rarely used - only
Eth$3 million (US$1.5 million) in 1970 - except on cotton. The exemption
of agricultural tractors and fuel from taxes and duties has encouraged some
mechanization, particularly for rainfed or irrigated crops in the northwestern
border areas and the Awasa Valley; in 1971 there were about 2,500 tractors
operating in these areas. The Association has discussed this policy with
Government and it is currently under review. In some instances where there
were no appropriate land tenure arrangements this has resulted in the eviction
of tenants at short notice. Because, however, of the shortage of extension
services and inadequate credit facilities, improved inputs have reached rela-
tively few farmers.
Credit and Cooperatives
2.16      At the end of 1970, commercial banks had loans outstanding to agri-
culture of Eth$13 million (US$6.3 million) on medium and long-term, and
Eth$28 million (US$ 14 million) on short-term, together equivalent to about
one-half of 1% of the gross output of the agricultural sector in that year.
Farmers traditionally borrow from traders and others at short-term interest
rates that are often as high as 10% a month or more.
2.17      In 1970, Government established the Agricultural and Industrial
Development Bank (AIDB) (Annex 4) as a development institution mainly de-
signed to meet the financial needs of the larger industrial, commercial and
agricultural enterprises. Within well defined policies, it may make loans
(including short-term) and equity investments in virtually any commercially
viable development scheme and it has established a nucleus of well qualified



-6-
staff. Since 1971, AIDB has been responsible for the procurement of the
fertilizer requirements of EPID, and in 1972 it formed a subsidiary company,
Agricultural Inputs and Marketing Services (AIMS), to supply credit and inputs
to small farmers and with a view eventually to operating grain storage facil-
ities. AIMS has only a token staff and its operations are dependent on and
closely integrated with those of AIDB. Its future role both in relation to
grain marketing and the wider supply of small farmer credit will require
careful definition in the near future; to assist in this, the IDA Credit
for the AIDB proJ ect includes financing for a constltancy study of a national
agrictultural credit program.
2.18      Extension of credit to farmers is complicated by a lack of rural
roads, by the systems of land tenure and by the very limited development of
agricultural cooDeratives. In 1971, there were only 36 registered agricul-
tural cooperatives, mostly in the marketing field, with 11,500 members and
an annual turnover of Eth$4.4 million (US$2.2 million). The Cooperative
Development Department in the Ministry of National Community Development is
charged with the regulation and support of cooperatives. Activities in-
clude promotion, registration, supervision, audit, arbitration and training.
The Department's policy has been to proceed cautiously in the promotion of
cooperatives, a caution which is well justified in view of its limited
resources of trained manpower. However, in the long term, cooperatives
will be of critical importance in giving small farmers access to credit as
well as to the future of the Program as a whole.
Extension Services
2.19      Until 1971, the extension services of the Ministry of Agriculture
consisted of about 120 trained extension staff. Funds were inadequate,
research information was limited and there were no credit facilities for
peasant farmers. In 1971, the Extension and Project Implementation Depart-
ment (EPID) (paras 3.10-3.12) was created and assumed responsibility for
extension services throughout the country. It now employs over 250 exten-
sion staff in MP areas.
III. THE MINIMUM PACKAGE PROGRAM
General
3.01      The objective of the MP Program (Annex 5) is to raise production
and the incomes of small farmers quickly over a wide area, with a minimum
reliance on scarce resources, while building the foundations for future
development.  Under the Program, extension agents, assisted by mogl farmers,
advise in the use of simple inputs or innovations -_ftizer,  mpro-v-L
seed and storage - and make them available in conjunction with credit through
marketing centers. The MP Program is being extended in selected areas through-
out the highlands, which cover about half the country and contain 80% of the
population.



-7-
The Highlands
3.02      The highlands are divided into three ecological zones.  The northern
highlands are the driest, with rainfall between 600 and 800 mm and, with
broken topography, present particular problems of soil and water conserva-
tion. The western highlands, with an annual rainfall of over 1,400 mm, have
the highest agricultural potential; they are heavily incised by river gorges,
between which lie large rolling plateaus.  The central and southern highlands
have a varied topography, from extremley rocky terrain to wide flat plateaus
and rolling hills; rainfall is between 800 and 1,400 mm.
3.03      The central highlands are intensely cultivated by subsistence
farmers, with commercial farming in the less densely settled areas in the
Rift Valley and in the northwest. About 70% of the cropped area is under
cereals (teff 23%, wheat 8%, barley 15%, sorghum 13%, and maize 11%), the
rest is mainly under oil seeds and pulses. (Map, IBRD 10233) Only about
half of the farmers own their land; a large portion are tenant farmers,
cultivating land owned by absentee landlords. North of Addis Ababa, communal
ownership with individual cultivation rights dominates, giving some security;
in the areas of individual ownership, mainly south of the capital, tenants
have little security.
3.04      On the better drained sloping areas in the south, soils are mainly
red, reddish brown clays and clay loams of excellent inherent fertility.
Of good permeability, they are partly leached and have suffered consider-
able erosion. In the flat plateaus and valley bottoms soils are grey to
black clay, generally of high nutrient status, but with cropping potential
limited by poor internal drainage.
The MP Areas
3.05      The basic unit of the MP Program is the NP area, which typically
contains about 10,000 families and extends 5 km on either side of a 75 km
stretch of all-weather road. The area is divided into five sub-areas, each
with a market center and 1 ha trial and demonstration plot. The market
center provides a base for market assistants and extension agents, storage
for inputs and grain, and a focal point for farmers.
3.06      The development of an MP area has three phases.  After a prelim-
inary survey, an observation area in the cereal-growing region and adjoin-
ing an all-weather road is selected for one or two years' detailed study,
including tests of fertilizer and other inputs. If suitable, it becomes
a demonstration area. Fertilizer is then distributed to model farmers, who
are selected from sub-areas containing about 100 farm families each. If
within a year other farmers have shown sufficient interest, the area becomes
an MP area and additional staff are posted to it. About 18 MP areas had been
established by mid-1972 and the Program envisages that about 10 new areas
will be opened each year until 1979.



-8-
Farm Inputs and Credit
3.07      In the early years of the MP Program, only a few proven inputs
are introduced in order to keep the required extension services to a mini-
mum, Emphasis is placed on fertilizer (diammonium phosphate and urea) and
improved seeds, because they are easy to introduce and have been shown to
give favorable results. A few improved implements are also available.
Other innovations, such as improved on-farm storage, are being gradually
introduced as they are tested and proved, and as farmers gain experience.
3.08      Credit for inputs, extended only to farmers with holdings of less
than 20 ha, is at an interest rate of 1% per month for 9 months, with a 25%
down payment. Credit in the first year is restricted to Eth$200 but may be
increased to Eth$400 in the second and subsequent years for farmers with
good repayment records.
3.09      Credit may be suspended throughout a sub-area if the repayment
rate is unsatisfactory. Experience to date under both the comprehensive
projects and the H? Program has been that most small farmers accept repay-
ment obligations, given effective control and debt collection procedures.
As of August 1972, 11% of MP credits from the previous season were outstand-
ing, but of this 60% was in respect of one MP area where a previous credit
program had been loosely administered. Delays in the other areas were due
to the sharp fall in cereal prices and crop failure.
Program Administration
3.10      Tne NP program is administered by EPID.  Most of the senior posts
in EPID are filled by expatriates provided by SIDA, with Ethiopian counter-
parts, and some by FAO. EPID is also responsible for the comprehensive de-
velopment projects which are testing new innovations and producing improved
seed for use in the NP areas.
3.11      The Department has three divisions:  (a) Common Services, which
provides accounting, staff and general administrative services; (b) Liaison,
which supervises the comprehensive projects and coordinates the exchange of
agricultural information; and (c) Extension, which has main responsibility
for the 14 Program.  (See attached Chart.)  The field staff of the Extension
Division are responsible to the Head of the Division, through regional coor-
dinators, for the operation of observation, demonstration and MP areas. Each
MP area has an area supervisor who has responsible to him, in each of the
sub-areas, an extension agent supported by a market assistant. In addition
to its field staff, the Extension Division is establishing technical and ad-
visory -rouns in agronomy, marketing and credit, cooperatives, animal hus-
bandry, home economics, training, soil conservation, farm storage and project
evaluation.



-9-
3.12      EPID has agreements with AIDB for the supply of inputs and credit,
and, until cooperatives are established, would act as agent for AIDB in the
provision of inputs, processing credit applications, keeping the accounts
and collecting repayments. EPID staff advise and assist farmers in the
formation of cooperatives and collaborate in the field with the Cooperative
Development Department.
3.13      Progress in the existing MP areas has been satisfactory.  During
the two years of operations 9 new areas were opened annually; 3,600 farmers
received credit in the first year, 12,000 in the second. Repayments of
credit were on the whole satisfactory, and the target rate of adoption of
innovations was exceeded (by 100% in the first year and 50% in the second).
All indications are that participating farmers have benefitted substantially.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. General Description
4.01      The Project would comprise a three-year segment (1973/4-1975/6) of
the Minimum Package Program. It would provide agricultural inputs, infra-
structure requirements and related extension and administrative support
services to small farmers in the Ethiopian highlands in an effort to increase
the production of cereals. It would include the incremental requirements of
inputs for the MP program (both for existing MP areas and for about 30 new
MP areas expected to be initiated over the Project period at the rate of 10
each year) as well as the total other needs of the Program (Map, IBRD 10231).
It would be executed by EPID with technical assistance from SIDA. Credit
would be channelled through AIDB using EPID's field staff as agents.
4.02      Specifically, the Project would include:
(a)  The incremental requirements over the Project period of
fertilizer and other inputs (i.e., those necessary to
satisfy the needs of farmers new to the Program and the
increased needs of farmers already participating) and
permanent working capital required to finance fertilizer
through AIDB;
(b)  The construction of farm-to-highway roads serving existing
MP areas and of penetration roads to open up new areas for
future development;
(c)  The total extension and support services required (i.e.,
those needed not only to support the 30 new MP areas to
be established over the Project period but also to give
continued assistance to the MP areas already in operation
and to identify and prepare areas for future MP development);



- 10,-
(d) Consultant and technical services for further project
preparation and planning; and
(e) The provision of credit to enable market centers and
cooperatives to make advances to farmers against grain
delivery pending final sale.
4.03      The ieP areas vary considerably in ecological conditions, crops
grown, land tenure arrangements, access to markets, and population density
and dietary habits, all of which affect the response of individual farmers
to the Program. For the purpose of forecasting the required inputs under
the Project, as well as the expected production, financial and economic
effects of the Program, the variables were identified (i.e., the distribution
of farm holdings by size, the areas under different crops and their yields,
the rates at which farmers join the Program and adopt different innovations)
and a model MP area was constructed based on national averages, the experience
of the Program to date and of the comprehensive development programs.  Annex
6 details expected farmer participation, adoption of inputs and incremental
output.
4.04      The projections resulting from the model are essentially illustra-
tive, and individual MP areas are likely to vary considerably from the model.
On the basis of experience, the projections will be updated and refined each
year, and will form the basis of annual plans and financial forecasts for the
Program. During negotiations, it was agreed that three months in advance of
each fiscal year Government would submit to the Association for its review
and approval, plans and financial forecasts for the NP Program for the follow-
ing year. This would include details of land tenure arrangements in the new
MP areas (para 2.13) to enable IDA to make a judgement of the suitability of
each new area for development.
B.  Detailed Features
Farm Inputs
4.05      Under the Project, the incremental inputs for increasing cereal
crop production would be provided. Their purchase by small farmers would be
made possible through the extension of credit on reasonable terms. Fertilizer
would continue to be the major input, and eventually would be provided to
about 50% of all farm lands under cereals. In view of the time lag between
purchase of farm inputs (particularly fertilizers), their distribution and
sale and loan recovery, permanent working capital is required and has been
provided to AIDB for this purpose. Two seed multiplication farms would be
operated by EP'D under the Project to ensure a supply of improved seed. It
is assumed that the use of improved seeds for maize, wheat and teff would
lag one or two years behind fertilizer application, but eventually would
cover about 40% of the total area cultivated under cereals.  Construction
of improved farm storage units would increase to 30% of participating farmers



- 11 -
in year 12. Use of these along with pesticides is expected to reduce grain
losses to 10%. (These are presently estimated at about one-fifth of the crop).
A few improved implements including the mould board plow and spike-tooth harrow
developed at CADU would also be available.
Credit
4.06      The Project would provide credit to participating farmers follow-
ing the present practices outlined in paragraphs 3.08 and 3.09; down payments
would continue to be 25%. To emphasize the mutual responsibility of farmers
for the repayment of credit, whenever the repayment rate in a sub-area falls
below 90%, AIDB in consultation with the Association would consider the sus-
pension of credit facilities. They would take into account local crop lailure
and other relevant factors.
Rural Roads (Annex 7)
4.07      To facilitate extension work, reduce transport costs between farms
and market centers, and encourage farmers' participation in the Program, the
Project would include the construction of farm-to-highway roads in MP areas.
They would be mainly used for crop movements in the dry season, but would
also be capable of taking four-wheel drive vehicles in all but the wettest
conditions. The roads would be built to minimum standards and gravelled
selectively in weak areas with locally available materials at an average
cost of about Eth$8,000 (US$3,900) per km. On the assumption that, begin-
ning in the fourth year of its operation, each MP area requires about 10 km
of such roads each year, about 550 km would be constructed. This would be
phased over the three years of the Project period, building up from about
6% in the first year, to 24% in the second year, and with the balance of 70%
in the third year.
4.08      The Project would also provide for the construction of about 600
km of penetration roads to ensure that the Program is not delayed for lack
of suitable roads along which new MP areas could be established. These
roads would be of similar general standard as the farm-to-highway roads,
but gravelled and costing about Eth$12,000 (US$5,800) per km. Tne annual
maintenance of both types of road is estimated to cost about Eth$500 (US$240)
per km. As the cost would be difficult to isolate from capital expenditure
and during the Project period would be minimal in view of the phasing of the
construction program, maintenance would be included in the Project. Assur-
ances were obtained during negotiations that responsibility for future main-
tenance would be assumed by the new rural roads organization (para 4.09).
4.09      No organization presently exists for the planning, construction
and maintenance of low standard roads serving rural areas such as those to
be constructed under the Project. The Government is aware of the importance
of rural roads to economic development, however, and it has recently commis-
sioned a study to determine what organization should be given overall respon-
sibility in this area; the results of the study are awaited. Funds are



- 12 -
provided under the Bank Group's Fifth Highway Project to finance the services
of two experts to assist the Government in implementing its recommendations.
Since actual establishment of the new organization would require careful
planning and technical expertise, it is unlikely to be operational before
the end of 1975.  (Appraisal of a project to assist in its implementation is
presently scheduled for 1974). In the interim the Imperial Highway
Authority (IHA) would be responsible for rural road development. Under its
direction, five construction units responsible for the construction and main-
tenance of roads in MP areas would be gradually established under the Project.
Estimates are that each unit would include two bulldozers and two concrete
mixers as well as a grader, roller and loader. The unit would carry out its
own minor repairs; major repairs would be undertaken by local suppliers of
equipment. Each unit would have a civil engineer and a plant operator/
instructor. The units would eventually be absorbed by the newly-established
rural roads organization, which would then assume a'll responsibility (includ-
ing maintenance) for roads in IT areas. These arrangements were discussed
and agreed upon during negotiations.
4.10      The Bank Group's research program includes various studies on the
impact of rural roads on economic development.  As part of this work, the
Institute of Development Research at the Haile Selassie I University in
Addis Ababa is under contract to study the Agaro-Chira road being constructed
under the Fifth Highway project. The Project would include baseline surveys
by the Institute of rural roads constructed in two MP areas and subsequent
follow-up survevs and evaluation of benefits in all three study areas, thus
assisting in the preparation of future rural road development schemes.
Fund for Marketiri Credit
4.11      Grain prices are normally depressed immediately after harvest and
farmers find difficulty in obtaining ready markets at reasonable prices for
their produce. A fund for marketing credit would be established to provide
loans to market centers and cooperatives which would permit payment of
advances to farmers against delivery of their crop. Pending sale when prices
are favorable, the crop would be held in stores provided under the Project.
This would be supplementary to the marketing project now under preparation.
Assurances were obtained that before introducing advance payments on crops,
full details of the scheme would be submitted to IDA for its approval.
Administrative, Extension and Support Services
4.12      The Project would provide administrative, technical and extension
services required to support the MP Program. These would include the total
administration and extension services of EPID and, to the extent they meet
the incremental needs of the Program, services provided by other agencies:
the Cooperative Developmenz: Department of the Ministry of National Community
Development, the 5Sol Conservation Division of the Ministry of Agriculture,
and the Institute of Agricultural Research (IAR).



- 13 -
4.13      EPID's administrative staff would comprise 50 professionals with
responsibility for supervision, accounting, procurement, and personnel man-
agement, with about 30 secretaries, clerks and messengers.  By the end of
the Project period (in mid-1976) the EPID extension services employed in
NP areas would include about 900 supervisors, agents, assistant agents, and
marketing assistants (including home economics staff) with 190 trainees.
The EPID training school at CADU would be enlarged to provide regular in-
service training of all field staff. Other training would be provided by ex-
isting institutions (para 5.05). Extension staff would be engaged in estab-
lishing new MP areas, in providing advisory services to the growing number
of farmers participating in ongoing MP areas and in the selection of new
observation/demonstration areas. The Project would also provide for vehicles
and equipment to support this work, and for the construction of necessary
administrative buildings, including a headquarters building for EPID, offices
and stores for farm inputs and grain.
4.14      The technical services, including local and expatriate EPID staff
to be provided under the Project, would include:
(a) Agronomy. A team of six agronomists at EPID headquarters
would liaise with the IAR and provide technical advice
and guidance to EPID's extension staff.
(b)  AnImal Husbandry.  While EPID could not for some time
undertake a large scale animal husbandry program, a team
of four experts would be provided to plan livestock im-
provements suitable for the MP Program. Pilot operations
with existing field staff would be conducted and the unit
would cooperate with the Livestock and Meat Board and Live-
stock Division of the Ministry of Agriculture. 1/
(c)  Credit and Marketing.  A team of nine experts in EPID would
assist the extension staff in the establishment of market
centers, the training of marketing assistants, the super-
vision of grain storage and handling operations, the dis-
semination of all forms of market intelligence and would
advise the extension staff on credit procedures.  Pending
the grain storage and marketing project, t'he team would
plan and supervise the scheme to provide advance payments
on crops (para 4.11). In cooperation with the Economic
Research Division of the Ministry of Agriculture, they
would also undertake market studies of consumption output
and price patterns and trends in planned and existing MP
areas.
1/   The Second Ethiopian Livestock Project would provide 48 primary and 6
terminal markets, stockroutes, transport vehicles and slaughter facili-
ties in selected areas.



- 14 -
(d)  Home Economics.  A team of three home economics specialists
in E?ID would give advice to farmers' wives in a few selected
MP areas.
(e)  ProJect Evaluation.  A Project evaluation unit would be
established at EPID headquarters to evaluate the Program and
other projects for which EPID is responsible.  The unit would
work in consultation with the Institute of Development Research
(para 4. F0) which would be responsible for studying the impact
of rural road development. The exact procedures and guidelines
(Annex 8) to be employed for Project evaluation are being
discussed with Government.
(f) Cooperative Promootion. As the Cooperative Development Depart-
ment has limited staff and facilities, accounting consultants
acceptab'le to the Association would be engaged by EPID, as re-
quired, to design a simple bookkeeping system for market centers
and Pro,ect cooperatives. During negotiations an assurance to
thls effect was obtained.  In addition, the Department would
provide support to the NP Program so that cooperatives can
be formed in MP areas to take over credit-related functions
from EPID. The Department would recruit three inspectors and
10 cooDerative assistants annually and EPID would employ six
experts under the Pro4ect.
(g)  Soil Conservat4cu.  'nder the Project four soil conservation
survey teams, each composed of five specialists, would be es-
tablished in the Soil Conservation Division to work fulltime
in MP areas.  They would produce conservation plans, intro-
duce new techniques on demonstration plots and model farmers'
fields, and supervise farmers carrying out conservation works.
(h)  Field Trials.  The Project includes funds to cover the cost
of services to the TP Program provided by the IAR.  The
Institute would help and advise on demonstrations on model
farms and on EPID's trial and demonstration fields, and
would carry out the subsequent analysis and interpretation
of data.  It would also establish experimental sites of
about , ha each in areas with ecological conditions differing
from those within existing NP areas.
(i) Project Preparation and Planning. Consultant and technical
services would be provided to assist Government in the plan-
ning of its agricultural programs and the preparation of fu-
ture agricultural projects.



- 15 -
C. Project Cost (Annex 9)
4.15      The total cost of the Project is estimated at US$28.9 million, with
a foreign exchange component of about US$12.3 million or 43%. The estimated
costs are summarized below:
--  Eth$ million----    -----US$ million       Foreign
Local  Foreign  Total  Local Foreign  Total Exchange
Farm Inputs                    2.97    3.18      6.15  1.43   1.53       2.96   52%
Permanent Working
Capital to AIDB               0.84    1.03      1.87  0.41   0.49       0.90   55%
Rural Roads
Construction and maintenance 3.59    8.37    11.96  1.73   4.03          5.76   70%
Road study                     0.23      -       0.23  0.11    -         0.11    -
3.82    8.37    12.19  1.84   4.03        5.87   69%
Fund for Marketing Credit    1.70        -        1.70  0.82    -        0.82    -
Extension and
Support Services
Salaries                     11.20    3.80    15.00  5.40   1.83        7.23   25%
Other operating costs         7.32    2.13      9.45  3.53   1.02       4.55   22%
Equipment & vehicles          0.68    1.31       1.99  0.33   0.63      0.96   66%
Buildings                     2.02    0.50      2.52  0.77   0.24       1.21   20%
21.22    7.74    28.96 10.23   3.27    13.95   23%
Project Preparation
and Planning                   -       2.07     2.07   -       1.00      1.00  100%
Sub-total                    30.55   22.39    52.94 14.73  10.77    25.50   42%
Contingencies                  3.78    3.16       6.95  1.83   1.48       3.32   45%
TOTAL              34.33   25.55    59.88 16.56  12.31    28.87   43%
Costs are given in 1972 prices and have been adjusted to reflect recent cur-
rency realignments.  The estimates include average cumulative contingencies
of about 5% annually. Taxes and duties account for about 2% of total costs.



- 16 -
D. Financing
4.16      The financing of Project costs would be shared in the following
amounts and proportions:
------------------US$ million---------------------
Farmers      Govt.            SIDA        IDA     Total
Farm Inputs               0.75          -                         2.21      2.96
Permanent Working
Capital to AIDB          -          0.20             -          0.7C     0.90
Rural Roads                -           1.47            -          4.40     5.87
Fund for Marketing Credit -            0.10             -         0.72      0.82
Extension. and Support
Services                 -           2.79          2.17         8.99    13.95
Project Preparation
and Planning             -            -              -          1.00      1.00
Unallocated                -           0.29            -          2.98      3.37
0.75        4.95           2.17        21.00    28.87
Foreign costs              -            -            2.17        10.14    12.31
Local costs               0.75         4.95           -          10.86    16.56
4.17      The IDA credit of US$21 million would be on standard terms to the
Government and would finance about 82% of the foreign costs and about 66%
of local costs, or 73% of total Project costs. The percentage of IDA
financing is considered appropriate in the context of Ethiopia's need for
foreign exchange. The contribution of SIDA (US$2.17 million equivalent)
represents about 8% of total Project costs, and assumes that SIDA's tech-
nical assistance to EPID would continue throughout the Project period. The
Association has discussed with SIDA the extension of its technical assistance
agreement with EPID which expires approximately one year prior to Project
completion, on Julv 7, 1975. This matter will be reviewed by the Board of
SIDA later this year. The farmers' contribution to Project costs, amounting
to about 3% of the total, US$0.75 million, represents the down payment from
those farmers purchasing agricu.tural inputs on credit, and assumes that some
participating farm.ers would pay in full. Funds for farmer credit will be on
lent to AIDB at 7-1/4% for a term not exceeding 15 years (the rate at which
AIDB currently borrows from Government).  The signing of a subsidiary loan
agreement between Government and AIDB would be a condition of effectiveness of
the Credit.



- 17 -
E. Procurement
4.18      Imported fertilizer (US$2.8 million), road construction equipment
(US$2.7 million) and extension equipment and motor vehicles (US$0.9 million)
would be procured by international competitive bidding in accordance with
Bank/IDA Guidelines. During negotiations, an assurance was obtained that
orders for fertilizer, equipment and vehicles would be grouped whenever pos-
sible to allow for international competition. Those orders of Less than
US$30,000 would follow Government procurement procedures. Construction of
EPID's headquarters building (US$0.2 million) would be by competitive bid-
ding on the basis of local advertisement; construction of other buildings
and of roads, which in view of their small size, remoteness and scattered
nature would not attract foreign contractors, would be by local contract or
force account. Farm implements (US$100,000) would be locally advertised and
procured over a neriod of three years in accordance with Government procedures,
which are satisfactory. Improved seeds not obtainable locally (US$90,000)
would, in view of the special nature of seed required, be imported directly
from Kenya. Appropriate assurances that these procedures would be followed
were obtained during negotiations. Assurances were also obtained that draft
tender documents for all contracts exceeding US$30,000 would be submitted to
IDA for approval before invitations are issued, and that bid analysis and
recommendations for award would be sent to IDA for comment before award.
F. Disbursements
4.19      Disbursement of funds from the Credit account would be on the
following basis:
(a)  100% of foreign costs and 50% of local costs of imported
incremental farm inputs, permanent working capital related
to purchase of fertilizers, road construction equipment;
(b)  75%. of total expenditure for locally procured farm inputs,
cost of road construction, construction of buildings, equip-
ment and vehicles and the cost of EPID and other support
services except for those financed by SIDA;
(c)  100% of total expenditure for the rural road study; and
(d)  100% of foreign expenditure or 75% of total expenditure
for project preparation and planning consultants.
Disbursement on all items would be made against import documents and appropriate
records of expenditure certified by the Project Director and the Chief Accountant



- 18 -
who would prepare the claims. The estimated schedule of disbursements is shown
in Annex 10. Any funds remaining on the Credit account upon completion of the
Project would be used, at the Association's discretion, for the continuing
development of the MP Program.
G. Accounts and Audit
4.20      EPID has a double entry accounting system operated by an accountant
provided by SIDA. The accounts of AIDB are satisfactory and well maintained.
Accounting systems for the Cooperative Development Department and other
Government departments associated with the Project are satisfactory.
4.21      The accounts of EPID and AIDB are presently audited by a private
firm of auditors and those of the Cooperative Development Department by the
Government Auditor-General. During negotiations assurances were obtained
from Government that the accounts of EPID and AIDB would continue to be
audited by independent auditors acceptable to IDA, and that such audited
accounts would be submitted to IDA annually no later than six months after
the closing of the financial year.
V.  ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Administration
5.01      Overall responsibility for Project execution would rest with EPID
which would continue to be responsible for the MP Program (Chapter III).
Specifically it would administer and supervise the Program, provide extension
and technical services in MP areas, arrange for the supply of farm inputs,
act as AIDB's agent in the field for the supply of farmer credit, and monitor
progress of the Prolect and Program. Pending Government's proposals for
administering the fund for marketing credit, (para 4.11) this responsibility
would also rest with EPID.
5.02      EPID would coordinate the work of institutions with responsibility
for specific services:
(a) AIDB would purchase and deliver agricultural inputs
and provide credit to farmers (para. 4.01);
(b)  Once established, the agency given responsibility for
rural roads would construct and maintain roads in MP
areas- in the meantime, this responsibility would be
assumed by I A (para. 4.09);



- 19 -
(c) CADU would provide in-service training facilities for
marketing staff (para. 4.13);
(d) Institute of Development Research would carry out the
rural road study (para. 4.14(e));
(e)  Cooperative Development Department would encourage the
formation of cooperatives in MP areas and provide the
necessary administrative services for these to operate
efficiently (para. 4.14(f));
(f) Soil Conservation Division would plan conservation works
required in MP areas and instruct farmers in the use of
sound soil conservation practices (para. 4.14(g)); and
(g) IAR would provide research and seed development services
(para. 4.14(h)).
EPID would also collaborate with the Livestock and Meat Board, the Dairy
Development Agency, the Grain Board, the Grain Corporation and the
Ethiopian Standards Institute in connection with services these agencies
render to the NP areas.
5.03      The head of EPID, a Minister of State, working through his deputies
(one expatriate, one Ethiopian), would be responsible for the Project. It is
the Government's intention to use the existing interministerial committee to
coordinate EPID's work with other Government authorities. The committee is
comprised of: Minister of Agriculture (Chairman); Ministers of Finance, of In-
terior, of Land and Administration, of National Community Development and
Social Affairs, and of Public Works and Water Resources; Head of the Plan-
ning Commission (in the Prime Minister's office); and a representative from
the Prime Minister's office. Other members would be co-opted as required.
B. Staffing
5.04      EPID.  Senior Ethiopian staff would fill the posts of Deputy Di-
rector, the heads of the Liaison and Extension Divisions and the chief ac-
countant. A number of senior posts (some 14) would continue to be filled
by SIDA (para. 4.17) including: a second Deputy Director, head of the Com-
mon Services Division (finance controller), assistant head of the Extension
Division (senior agronomist), assistant head of the Liaison Division (senior
economist), and senior specialists within the evaluation, agronomic, animal
husbandry, credit and marketing, cooperative promotion, and accounting groups.
Each expatriate would have a local counterpart. It was agreed during negotia-
tions that the Association would be consulted before appointments were made
to the posts of deputy head of EPID, the heads of the Extension and Common
Services Divisions and the chief accountant.



- 20 -
5.05      EPID's incremental field staff requirements include (a) 15-20 area
supervisors, normally graduates from Alemaya College (25% of output); (b)
40-70 extension agents - diplomates from Ambo and Jimma agricultural
schools (about half of output); (c) 45-65 assistant agents - initially
from Bako Mission Agricultural School but later from the three training
schools to be established under the Third IDA Education Project; and (d)
65-75 marketing assistants from Awasa Cooperative Training School and
EPID's training school (para. 4.13).
5.06      AIDB.  Staffing of ALDB is adequate to support the Project.
AIMS, on the other hand, is a comparatively new organization and for the
present will be dependent on AIDB for support staff. Its future role would
be defined by the consultancy study on agricultural credit (para. 2.17).
5.07      Cooperat.ve Development Department, and Soil Conservation Division
(paras. 2.18, 4.14 (f) and (g)). The additional staff required to support
the MP Program would be recruited locally.
5.08      Road Construction Units:  One civil engineer and one plant operator/
instructor would be required for each of the five projected rural road con-
struction units (para. 4.09).
VI. PRODUCIION, PRICES AND FARNER BENEFITS
A. Yields and Production (Annex 11)
6.01      Four years of trials under the country-wide FAO fertilizer program,
results from the Institute of Agriculture Research, and two years of EPID's
country-wide tests and demonstration, have shown that the introduction of
simple, proved inputs such as those included under the MP Program bring about
substantial increases in grain yields. The use of fertilizer, improved seeds
and improved harrow is estimated to increase yields as follows.
Production (quintals/ha)
Wheat    Teff    Maize       Sorghum
Without improved inputs                        9.0       7.0     15.0       12.0
With fertilizer                               13.8      11.8     26.0       22.0
With fertilizer and improved seed             16.8      14.8     36.0        -
With fertilizer, improved seed & harrow    19.6          -        -         26.8
6.02      In translating irmproved yields into production increases for the
purpose of estimazing Project benefits, it has been assumed that farmers would
increase the proportion of land devoted to cereals from 70% to 75% but that
the total cultivated area would remain the same.  (Although the use of ferti-
lizer would, in fact, allow the reduction of land kept fallow.)  Given these
assumptions the ;n-cremental production of grain from the MP Program is expected



- 21 -
to increase from 62,000 ton in 1975 through 309,000 ton in 1981 to 427,000
ton in 1987. Projecting present trends of a 2% annual increase, the gross
national production in 1975 would increase from 6.3 million ton to 8.1 million
ton in 1987. Incremental production of the MP Program would thus rise from
1% of gross national production in 1975 to 5% in 1987. The residual effects
of fertilizer on unfertilized crops such as barley, pulses and legumes, have
not been taken into account.
B. Markets and Prices (Annex 2)
6.03      There is no national grain market in Ethiopia (para 2.09); poor
communications and marked regional disparities have resulted in a number of
semi-autonomous markets scattered throughout the country, of which Addis
Ababa 1/ is the largest. These have contributed to wide regional price dif-
ferences and severe price fluctuations. Incremental production will there-
fore be confronted with a wide variety of demand/cost conditions as it comes
on the market. Since 1946 cereal exports have declined sharply and imports
of wheat and flour have risen. A cereal deficiency of between 300,000 and
400,000 tons is projected by 1980.
6.04      Future cereal production is not expected to meet total national
demands. However, as production rises, there is expected to be some decline
in prices which would particularly affect coarse grains (maize, sorghum).
Farmers will react by growing more wheat and over the long term the effects
would not be a serious factor.
I/ Prices in this market were used in estimating producer prices for major
cereals.



- 22 -
C. Farmer Benefits
6.05      The following table, based on projections under the model, illus-
trates the expected increases in farmer income under the Program. More de-
tails are shown in Annex 11, Tables 6, 7, and 8.
Output and Cost per Hectare of Cereal
on Four Representative Farms ,
(with and without innovations)-
Farm A      Farm B      Farm C      Farm D
Breakdown of Cereal Area (%)
Teff                                 50          15          30          30
Barley                               25          25          20            5
Wheat                                10           -          20            5
Sorghum                              15          25           15         20
Maize                                 -          35           15          40
Gross Output Value (Eth$)
Without                             126         122          127         130
With                                250         255         273         289
Incremental                         125         133         137         159
Cash Cost of Production (E-h$)
Without (no debt service)            10          10          10           10
With (including debt service)        53          71          63           80
Incremental                          43          61          53          70
Net Output Value (Eth$)/2
Without                             116         112         117          120
With                                197         184         210         209
Incremental                          81          73          83          89
Note:      Farm A is representative of farms in Begemdir, Cojam, Welo and
Tigre provinces.
Farm B is representative of farms in Sidamo, Gemu-Gofa and
Hararge provinces.
Farm C is representative of farms in Shewa province.
Farm D is representative of farms in Wellega, Kefa and Illubabor
provinces.
/1   Based on present prices; for effect of projected price decreases see
Annex 11, Tables 6, 7 and 8.
/2   Before home consumption.



- 23 -
6.06      At current prices, farmers can substantially increase their in-
comes by adopting innovations. The income of sharecropping tenants would
be between one-half and two-thirds of the above, assuming that landlords -
to their own benefit - share the cost of inputs. Grain prices would have
to fall by about 60% before the increased cost of inputs would exceed
the expected benefits. There is, therefore, little risk that grain prices
would fall sufficiently to jeopardize the success of the Program. To the
extent, however, that individual NP areas deviate from the assumptions made
under the model, the effect of price fluctuations will vary. Consideration
was given to the introduction, under the Project, of a price support program
to minimize the effect of price fluctuations. However, the element of risk
in the short-term is not considered so serious as to require special, and
necessarily limited improvements pending the introduction of a comprehensive
market project planned for 1975. The fund for marketing credit would, however,
go some way toward stabilizing prices. (para 4.11).
6.07      Farmers net incomes would also be increased by the reduction of
farmers' dependency on high interest loans. The impact could be substantial.
As an example, interest on a loan of Eth$35 for, say, six months at 10% a
month would be Eth$21, largely offsetting the average farmer's cash income.
While the savings to the farmer would be largely at the expense of the money-
lender/ grain trader, the overall income situation of the grain traders would
not necessarily deteriorate because of the larger volume of output.
D. Government Budget and Foreign Exchange (Annex 12 and 13)
6.08      The implications of the MP Program for the Ethiopian Government's
budget have been projected up to 1992. Government revenues from the MP Pro-
gram will arise mainly from (a) taxes on the inputs for the Project, (b) taxes
on the incremental net output and (c) the margin on the interest on the loan
to AIDB.
6.09      The MP Program would result in a substantial increase in recurrent
Government expenditure (mainly in respect of staff salaries and road mainte-
nance) which would not be matched by incremental revenues. The resulting
deficit is projected to reach a maximum of about Eth$25 million (US$12.1 mil-
lion) in the mid-seventies, leveling off to about Eth$12 million (US$5.8
million) per year after 1985. This compares with total public outlays for
agriculture in 1971/72 of Eth$40 million (US$19.3 million), amounting to
only 6% of total Government expenditure. Although further external assis-
tance may be anticipated for the continued financing of the NP Program,
Ethiopia will in due course be faced with significant increases in budgetary
demands to pay for it, entailing the need to increase revenues and/or reallo-
cate existing resources. It is considered that the additional funds required
should be within the capacity of Government.
6.10      Interpretations of the Program's net foreign exchange impact depend
on assumptions concerning the foreign exchange benefits of incremental cereal



- 24 -
production. Gross foreign exchange costs will rise rapidly from about US$2.5
million in 1974 to a stable level of about US$9.6 million annually from 1983
onwards. Supply and demand projections for the more desirable food grains
(wheat and teff) show an increasing shortfall which will only partially be
met by incremental MP production. If therefore it is assumed that the total
incremental output of grains would replace imports, the gross foreign ex-
change value would amount to US$1.8 million in 1974, increasing to about US$19
million annually after 1985. It would be realistic to assume that one half
of Ethiopia's cereal deficiency would be imported. In such circumstances,
with the Program the net foreign exchange savings in 1980 would be US$1.3
million and US$5.3 million in 1985.
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
7.01      Benefits have been calculated for the MP Program as a whole through
the mid-1980's, as it would not be possible to calculate separately the bene-
fits attributable to the three-year segment financed by the Project. The
main benefits of the Program would result from improved grain yields on some
600,000 small operator-owned and tenant farms, and from reduced storage losses
on about 150,000 such farms. The Program is designed to raise farmer incomes.
At present grain prices and if all available inputs are adopted, an owner-
operator cultivating 1 ha could raise his net cash income from subsistence
to some Eth$80 (US$39) within two or three years. On a 3 ha farm he could
double his present net cash income of Eth$150 (US$72). In the case of ten-
nants, these benefits would be shared with their iandlords. However, although
the landlord would receive some benefit from the Program, the income effects
would be concentrated on the least favored segment of the population. In
addition to the more intensive use of farm labor, there would also be employ-
ment effects arising out of the road construction program.
7.02      Other benefits that are not quantifiable include:
(a)  Psychological effect of the Project on the whole agricul-
tural sector, in particular the demonstration effect on
other farmers;
(b)  Establishment of a nationwide extension service and rural
road services; and
(c)  Development of cooperatives and a small farmer credit
system.
7.03      The Project faces some risks:  EPID has limited experience on
which to base its planned rapid expansion; a rural roads organization needs
to be established; the market system must be improved; and present land
tenure arrangements are unsatisfactory. It is unlikely, however, that
any one of the risks would of itself jeopardize the Project. In view of



- 25 -
the potential benefits and the fact that the NP Program offers the best
means available of raising a substantial part of the rural population above
subsistence level, the risks are considered worth taking.
7.04      The economic return of the MP Program (Annex 14), of which the
Project finances a three-year segment, is estimated at 15%. 1/ An increase
of 20% in the cost of inputs would lower the return to 10%, while an in-
crease of 10% in grain prices would raise it to 20%; a combination of these
two factors would give an economic return of 16%.
VIII. RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached on the following prin-
cipal points:
(a) EPID would submit for IDA's approval, at least three months
in advance of each financial year, the plans and financial
forecasts for the Minimum Package Program for the next year
together with updated long-term projections, and details of
land tenure arrangements in each new MP area (para. 4.04);
(b)  Construction and maintenance of rural roads in MP areas
would be undertaken by IHA until the creation of an or-
ganization with this specific responsibility; IHA would
also ensure that the road construction units established
under the Project would employ suitably qualified engineers
to oversee road construction and maintenance and would
obtain prior approval from the Association of road design
standards (paras. 4.08 and 4.09);
(c) Before introducing advance payments on crops, full details
of the scheme would be submitted to the Association for its
approval (para 4.11);
(d) Procurement of fertilizers, equipment and vehicles in orders
exceeding $30,000 would be by international competitive
bidding procedures in accordance with IDA guidelines;
orders for these items would be grouped whenever possible to
allow for international competition; EPID headquarters build-
ing would be constructed after competitive bidding on the
basis of local advertisement; other buildings would be
constructed following Government procurement procedures;
roads would be constructed by force account. Other items
required by the Project would be procured following Gov-
ernment procedures (para. 4.18);
1/   Assuming incremental family labor at zero cost.



- 26 -
(e)  The Association would be consulted before appointments were
made to the posts of deputy head of EPID, heads of the
Extension and Common Services Divisions and chief accountant.
(para. 5.04).
8.02      Condition of effectiveness would be the signature of a subsidiary
loan agreement between Government and AIDB (para. 4.17).
8.03      The Project is suitable for an IDA Credit of US$21 million to the
Imperial Ethiopian Government.



ANNEX 1
Table 1
ETHIOPIA
AGRICULTURAL MINIMUM PACKARGE PROJECT
Agriculture in the Economy
1967          1970
Agricultural GDP (Eth$ million)               1,58           1,858 5/
as % of total GDP                           6 Ll/         5
Agricultural Labor Force (millions)                              9.5
as % of total Labor Force                                 85
Agricultural Exports (Eth$ million)             246            286
as % of total Exports                       97            93
Agricultural Imports (Eth$ million)              39             42
as % of total Imports                       10.9           10
Agricultural Trade Balanice (Eth$ million)      207            244
Public Sector Investment in Agriculture
(Eth$ million)                    312 
as % of total Public Sector Investment                    1ly
2/  1961
2/   1969
3/   1968-73
source:  IBRD Report No. PA-143a, Agricultural Sector Survey,
January 15, 1973
February, 1973



ANNEX 1
Table- 2
ETHIOPIA
AGRICULTURAL MINIMUM PACKAGE PhDJECT
:tin Features of Agricultural Sector, 1970
Total Land Area (million ha)                               122
Agricultural Area                                         79
Crop land                                               10.3
Cereals                                                  7,3
Number of Farms (millions)                                 3.0
Less than 5 ha (%)                                        99
Less than 1 ha (%)                                        68
Value Agricultural Output (Eth$ million)                 1,887
Livestock Products                                       55
Crops                                                  1,340
Cereals                                                  642
Fertilizer Use
Quanti,y (tons)                                       13,50o
Value (Eth$ million)                                     2.2
Farm Machinery
Tractors (number)                                      2,500
Sources:  IBRD Report No. 143a, Agricultural Sector Survey, January 15, 197,
National Sample Survey Reports
February 1973



ANNEX 1
Table 3
ETHIOPIA
AURICULTURAL MINIMUM PACKAGE PR) JECT
Composition of Crop Production
Quantity(tons'000)   Value(Eth$million)    Value
1967      1970        1967       1970        L970
Cereals                    3,538      3,868       590.7     6J44.0        48.0
Teff                       986      1,030       197.1     206.0         15.4
Wheat                       503       556       100.5      111.2         8.3
Barley                      753       819       l05.4     1J4.7          8.5
Maize                      656        726        91.8      101.7         7.6
Sorghum                    628        727        94.2      109.1         8.1
Other                       12         10         1.7        1.3          .1
Coffee                       150        164       179.4      196.7        lh 7
Enrsete                      449        477        26.9       28.6         2.1
Oilseeds                      368       44lh8      83.3      102.9         7.7
Pulses                       501        543        91.2       98.9         7.4
Vegetables                  L459        496        50.8       5L.8         h.1
Industrial Crops              879     1,162        46.o       64.4         L.8
Straw                       n.a.       n.a.        74.0       76.3         5.7
Other                         163       180        67.4       73.3         5.5
Total                                           1,209.7   1,339.9        100.0
Source: IBRD Agricultural Sector Survey, January 15, 1973
February 1973






ANNEX 2
Page 1
ETHIOPIA
AGRICULTURAL MINIMUM PACKAGE PROJECT
The Grain Market
Characteristics
1.        There is no national grain market in Ethiopia.  Poor communications,
combined with marked changes in population densities, production conditions
and dietary habits even over relatively short distances, have resulted in a
number of semi-autonomous markets. These naturally give rise to wide regional
price differences and contribute to the severe price fluctuations characteristic
of thin markets.
2.        The internal marketing system consists of numerous merchants, traders,
agents and brokers. The largest of these is the parastatal Ethiopian Grain
Corporation (para 11). The system is very fragmented; even the Corporation
handles less than 1.5% of the domestically marketed supply (excluding imports).
The fragmentation is accompanied by a lack of adequate financing, which en-
courages wide seasonal and inter-seasonal price fluctuations. The consequent
price instability is detrimental to both producer and consumer.
3.        There is no overall market intelligence system.  Inadequate data
make estimates of supply and demand quite unreliable. The problems posed by
the size and nature of the country are compounded by the variations in the
cereal intake of market dependent consumers. Nevertheless, there is consid-
erable evidence that the more important merchants are well informed of price
movements in major market centers. Such information does not reach the
majority of farmers, who are thus open to exploitation.
4.        These market imperfections are further compounded by a lack of
credit for the smaller farmers. Outside minimum package and comprehensive
development areas, credit is available only at annual rates of interest which
may range from 100% to 200%, except to those who can meet stringent collateral
requirements (200% against short-term loans in the case of the Commercial Bank
of Ethiopia). The need to borrow for food or traditional festivals before the
harvest contributes to market "flooding" after the harvest as crops are sold
in order to repay debts. t/
5.        While little can be done to change such factors as varying popula-
tion densities, production conditions and dietary habits, improvements are
1/ Given the general price instability described above, the physical
distribution of grain appears to be reasonably efficient and some three-
quarters of a million tonsare moved annually from producer to consumers.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
possible in such areas as: (a) the extension of the financial and other
resources available to the larger traders, including the Ethiopian Grain
Corporation; (b) the spread of market information; and (c) the extension of
credit availability.
Size
6.        In 1970 the market dependent population was probably about 4.7
million (Table 1), with the greatest single concentration in Addis Ababa (0.8
million); of the remaining urban population of 1.4 million, only Asmara (0.2
million) is capable of exerting a significant "pull" effect. The balance of
the market dependent population is scattered over the country, with the
largest concentrations probably in the major cash crop areas. The rates of
population and income growth of this market are estimated 1/ to be 4.2% and
4.0% per annum respectively.
7.        It is to this sector of the economy that participants in the MP
Program must look to for the disposal of the greater part of their incremental
production. Recent sharp falls in prices indicate, however, that demand is
inelastic in the short term, although there may be significant cross elasticities
between cereal types and varieties.
8.        The remainder of the population is at or near subsistence level with
no income growth in real terms. Participation in the market is probably
mainly confined to exchange between types of grain (i.e., teff exchanged for
millet) the difference in value being taken in cash or kind.
Government Activity
9.        The Ministry of Commerce and Industry and the Ministry of Agri-
culture have prime responsibility for grain marketing: the former through
the Grain Board and Grain Corporation and the latter through its Planning and
Programming Unit and Economic Research Division. The Ethiopian Standards
Institute is responsible for the enforcement of weights and measures legislation.
10.       The Grain Board, created in 1950, performs an overall regulatory
function in regard to domestic purchase and sale as well as export of agri-
cultural products. It operates a small inspection service which up to now
has been confined to produce intended for export. Expansion of this service
to "all main points" in the marketing system is planned for 1972/73. The
Grain Board is also involved in the production, distribution and sale of seed
and advises the Standards Institute in regard to the establishment of quality
standards. The Grain Board is funded through inspection fees.
11.       The Grain Corporation was created in 1960 with limited liability;
its object (as amended in 1964) is "to encourage increased production of
1/ Estimate based on Central Statistical Office, Ethiopia, CSO Statistical
Bulletin Nos. 6 and 9; Government's Third 5-Year Plan; and IBRD Agricultural
Sector Survey.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
agricultural products...by stabilizing the market, improving the quality...
and exporting agricultural products." Although its charter provides that the
Corporation "shall have all the powers necessary for the achievement of its
objective...," it has not had the financial and managerial resources needed
to make it a significant force in the market. Never intended to have
monopolistic powers, but rather to have sufficient trading ability to in-
fluence the market, the Corporation has made genuine efforts to carry out a
stabilizing role, but has not made effective contact at farm level. Its
status is now that of a trader/speculator operating with public funds. Greater
policy and financial support from Government is needed.
12.       The Grain Corporation's Planning Unit is expanding its existing
radio network to include all provincial capitals and many of the more im-
portant dispersed centers of production and marketing. This will facilitate
the collection and dissemination of market information. Its Economic Re-
search Division has completed (with USAID assistance) the collection of infor-
mation for a national grain marketing study which is now being drafted. It
is also running a continuous survey of the Mercato market in Addis Ababa;
this may be regarded as the first step towards the establishment of a formal
market intelligence system. The Standards Institute has not had the resources
to enable it to carry out its regulatory functions; it has, however, wide
powers of delegation.
13.       The experiences of the comprehensive projects have given the Exten-
sion and Project Implementation Department (EPID) of the Ministry of Agri-
culture a significant appreciation of marketing problems; this awareness is
reflected in the proposed Minimum Package Program.
14.       Government is conscious of the limitations of what is presently
being done, and of the fact that there is virtually no direct Government action
in the rural grain market. In view of the dependence of the Minimum Package
Program (and of agricultural development generally) on improvements in the
marketing system, it has approached the Bank for assistance in an overall
market study and the preparation of a marketing and storage project.
Marketing Practices
15.       The initial assembly and local redistribution of grain are carried
out by numerous small traders and agents acting either on their own account
or on behalf of larger merchants. Markets are held weekly in most rural
centers and daily in urban areas. Most grain is purchased over a platform
scale, but occasionally a volume measure is used. There does not seem to be
much price competition between traders, although there is little evidence of
overt collusion. Quality is determined visually and assessment varies, some-
times considerably, between traders. Standards of grain cleanliness, purity
and hygiene are low. 1/
1/ The Grain Board estimates that Eth$14 million is "lost" annually through
transportation of foreign matters in grain.



ANNEX 2
Page 4
16.       At every stage poor marketing practices reduce the return to the
farmer and increase the ultimate cost to the consumer:
(a) The failure to enforce standard weights and measures
invalidates almost all price information. Overweighing at
purchase and underweighing at sale is common; differences
of over 20% have been discovered between buying and selling
measures of common description and ownership; 1/
(b)  The lack of accurate price and market information outside
the merchant/trader network further reduces the already
weak bargaining position of the small farmers;
(c) Shortage of capital and the onerous credit terms which
they themselves have to meet, limit the traders' ability
to accumulate grain, thereby creating artifically depressed
prices on days when offerings are heavy;
(d) Lack of hygiene and phytosanitary controls in traders' stores
results in extremely high losses, further widening the gap
between farm gate and wholesale prices; and
(e) Farm to market transportation difficulties almost oblige
farmers to sell produce brought to market, regardless of price.
17.       For these reasons, plus the lack of credit and low quality of farm
and household storage, farmers usually have to sell when prices are lowest
and even then do not realize the full value of their production. Moreover,
the absence of an obviously fair price structure removes most of the farmers'
incentive to bring well-graded, clean produce to market.
Demand
18.       There is little reliable information about the cereal intake of either
the market dependent or the subsistence population. It is generally accepted
that teff and wheat (or wheat products) are generally most in demand, but
consumption patterns vary between different regions and income levels. Two
series of demand projections have been made, both starting from the same base
and distinguishing between the market dependent population (estimated at 4.7
million in 1970) and the subsistence population (estimated at 20.0 million in
1970).
19.       The first projection is based on the per capita demand projections
shown in Table 2. Per capita disposable income for the market dependent
population is projected to increase by 4% per annum, resulting in an increase
of cereal intake from 165 kg in 1970 to a saturation level of 190 kg by 1990,
1/ Experience at WADU



ANNEX 2
Page 5
with changes in the relative importance of each type of grain. Wheat and,
for some time, teff are expected to be the most desirable, while per capita
intake of barley, maize and sorghum are assumed to decline slightly. The
market dependent population is expected to grow at an annual rate of 4.2%, of
which about half is natural increase and the remainder represents subsistence
population entering the market economy (e.g. through the MP program).
20.       The subsistence population is expected to grow by only 2.1% per
annum versus a total population growth of 2.5% per annum. The average
subsistence levels for this group may be expected to remain the same 1/, as
will the level and composition of per capita cereal intake at 150 kg.
21.       Table 2 shows projected per capita and total demand by type of
cereal, under the above assumptions. The results are to be interpreted as
indicating minimum demand: (a) the saturation level of 190 kg of cereals per
capita for the market dependent population assumes that non-cereal foods will
be available to make up adequate diets (i.e., if such foods were not available,
per capita cereal intake might be higher); and (b) the projected differential
in the demographic growth rates of the two groups of population is an extra-
polation of past trends, but might be larger if rural development were to
pick up faster.
22.       In tile second projection (Table 3), no saturation level has been
assumed and per capita demand for the market dependent population has been
projected exponentially, using constant and largely positive income elas-
ticities of demand for all types of cereals. 2/ The results are to be inter-
preted as indicating maximum demand for this group of population. Assumptions
for demand by the subsistence population are as given in the first projection.
23.       Various other projections of national average consumption have been
considered. FAQ 3/ indicates 163.4 kg for 1970,rising to between 170.1 and
175.0 in 1980. USAID 4/ projects an average of 150.69 kg for 1973. EPID 5/
postulates an availability of 183.92 kg for 1970 with demand rising to 224.63
1/ Actually, a small income gain for this group is expected, but this is
accounted for by the differential in demographic growth rates between the
two groups of population.
2/ Elasticity coefficients used are roughly in line with those in projections
by RPTI) Ard PAn.  Towever, F"T" and '"Al used these in estimating demand by
total population, and not separately for the market dependent population.
3/ "Agricultural Commodity Projections," 1970-80, FAO, Rome 1971.
4/ "Food Production and Utilization," W.G. Eichberger, USAID, Addis Ababa 1966.
5/ EPID Publication No. 6, July 1972.



ANNEX 2
Page 6
kg in 1985. Other (unpublished) studies reveal much lower figures, while the
Planning Unit estimates maximum likely consumption at 160 kg for Northern and
central provinces.  Consumption is less in southern provinces where ensete
edulis (false, or dumb banana) reduces the relative importance of cereals in
the diet. All figures are on a net basis.
24.       The weighted average of the consumption figures (152.85 kg) used as
a basis for the projections is somewhat below that used by FAO, and consid-
erably less than that used by EPID. There is evidence that both organizations
have seriously underestimated storage losses, which are unlikely to be less
than 25% of total production. The average consumption is, however, rather
higher than that projected by USAID and the two components (165 and 150 kg)
were agreed to be "realistic" by the Ethiopian Nutrition Institute in discus-
sions with the mission.
25.       It must be emphasized that the projections set out in Tables 2
and 3 are based, unavoidably, on data which are less than adequate for the
purpose. Not enough is known about consumption habits or the effects and
cross effects of income and price upon demand for different cereals. The
collection of information from which to derive income and price elasticities
of demand should be an early objective of the Central Statistical Office and
the Economic Research Division.
Supply
26.       Since Droduction figures have tended to be derived from population
and consumption estimates rather than based upon field observations, quanti-
fication of present and future supply/demand relationships is hazardous.
27.       The trend since 1946 has been undeniable:  cereal exports have
declined sharply and imports, particularly of wheat and flour, have risen.
Therefore, the rate of production growth must have been below that of market
demand, and over time has probably not exceeded an average of 2.1%. This
figure has been used in projecting possible supply/demand imbalances through
1990.
28.       In the effort to 4nd1cate the increasing supply/demand gap in
which miarketed :Lncremental MP production may expect to find a market, no
allowance has seen made for the impact of comprehensive development projects,
nor for the inevitable response from commercial farmers (both of which have
been taken into account In estimating future price trends).  Table 4 shows a
totas cereal deficiency by 1980 of 331,000 tons under the minimum demand pro-
-lection and 413,500 tons under the maximum projection. Some 266,000 tons of
this gap would be filled by rrrketed incremental output of the Minimum Package
Progrmn.  By 1990 the deficiency would be 813,000 tons and, 1,231,000 tons,
respectively, of which 432,000 tons would be filled by the MP. Shifts in
demand patterns for indiv4dual cereals are expected to lead, through changes
in relative prices,to changes in comparative advantages for different cereals
and hence to roughly parallel changes in output patterns in MP areas.



ANNEX 2
Page 7
29.       It must be noted that demand for the two cereals which show the
greatest response to proposed innovations (maize and sorghum) is expected
to grow least in relation to the overall increase in demand. A continuing
market and agronomic research program will, therefore, be necessary to
ensure that economically attractive alternative crops are developed for that
land which is released for commercial production through the increase in
yields of essentially subsistence crops. Substantial price declines following
over-production normally have a serious effect on emergent commercial pro-
ducers. This point should be carefully considered at all stages of planning
and execution if the projected adoption and production rates are not to be
severly jeopardized.
Cereal Prices
30.       There are no reliable time series data for farm gate prices.  The
only series on cereal prices relates to monthly wholesale market quotations
for Addis Ababa, and these have been used in assessing producer prices. Table
5 shows simple average wholesale prices for 1962-1971 along with annual changes.
Table 6 gives the monthly prices for the same period as percentages of the
unweighted annual average price. Data supplied by the Grain Corporation have
been used, single lowest and highest quotations being omitted.
31.       From these data, theoretical "normal" wholesale prices have been
calculated for 1970 (Table 7). These are substantially lower than actual
1970 prices and except for wheat and maize (presently Eth$19.93 and Eth$11.81
respectively) are very close to the average prices for the first seven months
of 1972. The "normal" price for wheat is probably slightly inflated due to
the relatively high proportion of imported wheat sold in Addis Ababa over the
1962-1971 period. The current price for maize reaffirms the short, term in-
elasticity of demand for this cereal in Addis Ababa.
32.       Transport, wholesale and local trader margins have been deducted
from these prices to arrive at farm gate prices. The average distance of
the minimum package areas from Addis Ababa is estimated at 300 km, and the
average transport cost based on a 1971-72 survey is Eth$0.08/ton-km, or
Eth$2.40 per quintal. Wholesalers' margin is estimated at 20%, local traders'
at a flat Eth$0.50 per quintal and farmers' transport at Eth$0.20 per quintal.
Reductions in marketing costs through improved competition have been conser-
vatively estimated for 1975 and 1980, as have savings in local transport
(Table 8). No allowance has been made for reduction in road transport rates.
33.       It must be emphasized that the derived producer prices are "model"
ones; that is, they relate only to Addis Ababa. The market conditions in-
fluencing prices for individual MP areas will, of course, vary considerably.
For example, growth rates for the urban (largely market dependent) population
vary from 0.0% to +22.8%, and the effects on increased local demand will
have to be taken into account in planning the selection of new areas.



ANNEX 2
Page 8
34.       Future price developments are a matter for conjecture, particularly
as the recent decline has been due to an increase in marketed suDply inde-
pendent of the MP Program. The part of the increase attributable to uncon-
trollable factors (e.g., the weather) as opposed to an increase in planted
area cannot be assessed and, in any event, the present absence of an effective
stabilizing agency results in magnified seasonal price movements. Current
prices cannot, therefore, be taken as a guide for the future. They do underline
the need not only for an improved market structure, but also for flexibility of
approach within the Project and the early compilation of a national production
and marketing plan.
35.       Over the long term the floor prices for marketed production will
be determined by cost of production or export value, whichever is the higher.
Production costs are critical for maize. Various estimates have been made 1/
which range from Eth$5.25 to Eth$22.31 per quintal; even the lowest is con-
siderably above projected export prices for conventional destinations.
36.       Domestic cereal prices in Ethiopia have little relationship to
those ruling in world markets, mainly due to the different purposes for
which the products are used; the prices of sorghum and barley are similarly
influenced in neighboring markets where Ethiopia enjoys a geographic advan-
tage over most competing suppliers. It is consequently assumed that these
crops will continue to command a premium over maize. Therefore, in the short
term when surpluses due to MP production are not expected, price levels are
unlikely to alter materially and production costs, particularly for maize,
will be of greater significance than world market prices.
37.       Movements over the longer term will be influenced by increased
relative demand for wheat, the possible development of other uses for barley,
maize and sorghum and by possibilities for crop diversification. Production
from the program is never expected to meet more than 25% of total market
demand: relative price movements are therefore, likely to depend more on cir-
cumstances outside the Project areas. This further underlines the need for
a flexible approach to crop coverage in MP areas.
38.       Wheat prices are projected to stabilize somewhat below import parity
and those of maize, sorghum and barley, at or a little above costs of produc-
tion.  On this basis, exports cannot be considered.  Teff prices are expected
to retain a reasonable consonance with those for wheat. Because of relative
pressures through production costs, savings in marketing costs are liable to
accrue more to the farmer than to the consumer.
39.       With this in view, and assuming that the sector presently supplying
the market (but outside MP areas) maintains past growth rates, no violent
price changes are anticipated. There is, however, likely to be a gradual
decline in wholesale prices, partially offset by greater marketing efficiency.
1/   Experience Tncorporated:  "Production and Marketing of Feed Grains in
Ethiopia," Phase 1, p. 12.



ANNEX 2
Page 9
Substantial inter-seasonal fluctuations are liable to occur during early years,
as happened during 1971-72, but these will be dampened by an improved marketing
structure. A major reduction of costs and/or a substantial alteration in
exchange rates would appear to be necessary if exports are to be achieved.
40.       Estimated price developments are shown in Table 9; import and export
parity prices for wheat and maize, respectively, are illustrated in Tables
10 and 11.
Marketing and the Minimum Package Program
41.       Incremental production from the Project is unlikely to exceed 25%
of incremental market requirements. The incomes of participating farmers,
therefore, could be affected at least as much by changes in marketing practices
and by the level of commercial farmers' output as by the innovations adopted
in the MP areas. The progress of the MP Program must, if its benefits are to
be fully realized, be matched by an early development of the infrastructure
and organizations needed for an efficient national grain market.
42.       It is envisaged that this could be carried out under a separate
marketing and storage project. Bank assistance has already been requested for
the preparation of such a project; it would be an essential complement to the
TP Program. Subject to the results of further investigation and preparation,
its obi2ctives should probably include:
(a)  Development of an efficient information service (including
crop estimation) and broad pricing policy;
(b)  Enforcement of existing weights and measures legislation;
(c)  Introduction of a simple grading system and related price
incentives;
(d)  The improvement of market storage in rural areas;
(e)  Provision of grain-cleaning facilities;
(f)  Integration of complementary activities carried out by
different parastatal organizations with a view to:
(i) developing a parallel marketing channel to stimulate
and improve efficiency on the part of small merchants;
(ii) providing ready outlets for farmers' produce, possibly
through a floor price system (this would depend on the
evolution of the information service); and
(iii)  providing a marketing structure on which MP market centers
could depend.



ANNEX 2
Page 10
(g) Development of an overall production and marketing plan; and
(h) Provision of technical systems.
43.       The development of cooperatives (which would be included in the
Project) should help overcome the lack of bargaining power of individual
farmers by encouraging the assembly of larger amounts of cereals in one
place (the marketing center). The effectiveness of associations or coopera-
tives in marketing depends on both management ability and the caliber of the
information available to such management. Participating farmers will be
extremely vulnerable to market pressures outside their control and it will
be some time before cooperative managers have both the knowledge and the ex-
perierice to be able to understand and anticipate these pressures. They will
also have to be sufficiently respected to convince the members of the reasons
for the marketing actions proposed.
44.       Until substantial reserves of cash and experience have been accumu-
lated, no cooperative or marketing association is in a position to 'run' the
market, even when a good intelligence system exists. The relatively experienced
marketing management of CADU has so far accumulated 10,700 tons of wheat that
can only be sold at a substantial loss, while cooperative management at WADU
is faced with a similar situation on two other commodities. It is therefore
of the utmost importance that producers in NP areas should have direct access
to an alternative, or parallel marketing channel (e.g. a revitalized and re-
organized grain corporation) where an assured, fairly priced and constant out-
let may be found.
45.       Grain Corporation silos and stores are well situated in relation to
most MP areas; some are presently unused and all are under-utilized. A close
working relationship between EPID and the (reorganized) Grain Corporation could
be of considerable benefit to both organizations and the country as a whole.
Summary
46.       The lack of a national grain market in Ethionia has given rise to wide
regional price differences and severe price fluctuations; lack of credit and
adequate storage facilities for the smaller farmer have further compounded
market imperfections. Current prices are not, therefore, a valid indication
of future trends. There is likely, however, to be a gradual decline in whole-
sale prices, which would be partially offset by greater market efficiency.
The rate of production growth has been below that of market demand, and it is
in this increasing supply/demand gap that incremental MP production may be ex-
pected to find a market. This incremental production is unlikely to exceed
25% of total market demand, and relative price movements will therefore pro-
bably depend on circumstances outside the MP areas. The progress of the MP
Program must, if its benefits are to be fully realized, be matched by the
development of the infrastructure and organizations needed for an efficient
national grain market. The development of cooperatives is seen as an important
step in the integration of the farmer in a more centralized market structure.
A separate marketing and storage project would also be an essential complement
to the MP Program.
February 1973



ANNEX 2
Table 1
ETHIOPIA
AGRICULTURAL MINIMUM PACKAGE PROJECT
Estimated Composition of Market Dependent Population 1970
Population
) ~~Market
Total       Dependent      %      % Rate of Growth
URBAN:           -     ___ 000lOOO---
Addis Ababa             796.8        788.8        99            7.0
Asmara                  219.8        217.6        99            7.6
Other Urban           1,276.1      1,212.3        95            6.2
RURAL
Agricultural         209983.1      1,049.2        5             2.1
Non-Agricultural    _1,434-7    1,434.7          100            2.1
224.70.~  2,702.   ___Weighted
44702.6                     19 Average    4.2
Sources: CSO Statistioal Bulletins Nos. 6 and 9,
SRI Report No. 16 Marketing of Grains and Pulses in Ethiopia and
Discussions with Ministry of Agriculture ERD and PPU.
February 1973



F,THIOPIA
AGJICULTURAL M11INDfIM ?ACKAG23 PROJECT
lereal Con=u3rption by Miarket Dependent Poolllation 1970-1990
First Pr
Consumption                        Consumption
Year   Population    Per Capita   veat   Te-ff   Barley   3orghum  1aize        Total-
( 000)                                 - - - 000 tons) -
1970     4,700         165.0       117.5  352.5   117.5   117.5         70.5      775.5
71     4,897         167.2       128.8   374.2   121.5   121.5    73.0          818.8
72     5,104         169.3       140.9  396.6   125.6    125.6    75.6          864.1
73     5,317         171.3       153.7  419.5   129.7    129.7        78.2      910.9
74     5,541         173.2       166.8  443.3   134.4   134.4    80.9           959.6
75    5,773          175.0       180.7   467.5    139.1    139.1    83.7    1,010.4
76     6,016         176.7       195.6  492.7   144.1   i44.1        86.6    1,063.0
77     6,269         178.3       210.7   518.4   149.5   149.5       89.6    1,117.7
78    6,532          179.8       226.7   544.8   155.1   155.1    92.7   1,174.4
79     6,806         181.2       243.7  571.7    161.0   161.0       96.0    1,233.3
1980     7,092         182.5       261.0  599.3   167.0    167.0    100.0    1,294.3
81     7,390         183.7       279.3   627.4   173.7   173.7    103.5   1,357.5
82    7,700          384.8       298.8  656.1   181.2   181.2   107.8   1,423.0
83    8,024          185.8       318.5  685.2   187.8   187.8    111.5   1,490.8
84     8,361         186,7       339.5  714.8   195.2   195.2   116.2   1,561.0
85     8,712         187.5       361.5  744.9   203.0    203.0    121.1   1,633.5
86     9,078         188.2       384.0   775.2   211.5   211.5    126.2   1,708.4
87    9,459          188.8       407.7  805.9   224.4   224.)4   131,5    1,785.9
88    9,856          189,3       432.7  836.8   229.7    229.7    137.0    1,865.8
89    10,270         189.7       459.1   867.8   239.3    239.3   142.8   1,948.3
1990    109702         190.0       487.0  898.9   249.3   249.3   148.8    2,033.3
!Note: May _not _add due t-o roundi.ng.
Ass=-iptions:
(a) ~iverage 1'70 per capita consptnion 1      k;.C X  as follows: wheat 25.0; teff 75.0;
barley, 2S.0; sorghua" anid ot!her cereals, 25.0; malze 1-.0.                                       ro
(b) Income elasticities of cidlannd: --heat 0.7, -teff C.4,  arley, maize,  iorghw  0.3 declining
var- ably -w-ith income  id tb                            y z.
May 2, 1973



ETHIOPIA
AGFR1CULTURAL MINIMUM PACKAGE PROJECT
Cereal Consuimotion by Market DeeDendent Population, 1970-1299
Second Prcjection
Consuim tion                          Con smttion
Year      Po pulation   Per Ca ita   Wheat           T            Barley      Sqh _        Maize        Total
(OOOF r ig )                     -('000 tons) -
1970        4,700        165.0        117.5          352.5        117.5        117.5         70.5          775.5
1971        4,897        167.7        125.9          373.2        123.9        123.9         74.3          821.2
1972        5,104        170.4        134.8          395.1        130.7        130.7         78.4          869.7
1973        5,317        173.2        144 .4         418.3        137.8        137.8         82.7          921.0
1974        5,541        176.0        154.7          442.8        145.3        145.3         87.2          975.3
1975        5,773        178.9        165.7          468.8        153.2        153.2         91.9        1,032.8
1976        6,016        181.8        177.5          496.4        161.5        161.5         96.9        1,093.8
1977        6,269        184.8        190.2          525.5        170.4        170.4        102.2        1,158.7
1978        6,532        187.8        203.7          556.3        179.6        179.6        107.8        1,227.0
1979        6,806        191.0        218.2          589.0        189.4        189.4        113.7        1,299.7
1981        7,092        194.1        233.7          623.6        199.8        199.8        119.8        1,376.7
1981        7,390        197.3        250.4          660.2        210.6        210.6        126.4        1,458.2
1982        7,700        200.6        268.2          698.9        222.1        222.1        133.3        1,544.6
1983        8,024        203.9        287.3          739.9        234.2        234.2        140.5        1,636.1
1984        8,361        207.4        307.8          783.4        247.0        247.0        148.2        1,733.4
1985        8,712        210.8        329.7          829.4        260.5        260.5        156.3        1,836.4
1986        9,078        214.4        353.3          878.1        274.8        274.8        164.7        1,945.7
1987        9,459        218.0        378.6          929.6        289.8        289.8        173.6        2,061.4
1988        9,856        221.6        405.7          984.2        305.6        305.6        182.9        2,184.0
1989       10,270        225.3        434.7        1,042.1        322.1        322.1        192.9        2,313.9
1990       10,702        229.1        465.8        1,103.1        339.7        339.7        203.2        2,451.5
Notes  (a)  Consumption figures based on average 1970 consumption, 165 kg/capita, as follows: wheat 25.0;
teff, 75.0; barley, 25.0; maize, 15.0; sorghum and other cereals, 25.0.
(b)  Growth of population 4.2% p.a.
(c)  Growth of income 4.0% p.a.
(d)  Income elasticities of demand: wheat 0.7; teff, 0.4; barley, maize, sorghum, 0.3
Weighted average, 0.406.
(e) No allowance has been made for price changes
May 2, 1973



ETHIOPIA
1GRICUJLTURAL MINIMUM PACKAGE PROJECT
Projected Cereal Supply and Demuand 1970-1990
('000 tons)
Gross 2s Balance                Seed, Other 31                     Market4/  Market5/  Surplus            Surplus         MPP              Net Surplus       Net Surplus
Gross I'       Subsistence    Gross            Use, Store      Net                Demand    Demand   (Deficiency)    (Deficiency)    Incremental    (Deficiency)             (Deficiency)
Production    Requirement    Production    Losses              Availability          (1)        (2)          (1)              (2)         Production           (l)
1970        5,662.0         4,511.3          1,150.7         33.5%             765.2           775.5      775 .5     ( 10.3)          ( 10.3)            -              ( 10.3)            ( 10.3)
71       5,781.0          4,606.0         1,175.0                           781.4            818.8      821.2      ( 37.4)          ( 39.8)            3.3           ( 34.1)            ( 36.5)
72       5,902.3          4,702.8         1,199.5                           797.7            864.1      869.7      ( 66.4)          ( 72.0)            6.9           ( 59.5)             ( 65.1)
73       6,026.2          4,801.5         1,224.7                           814.4            910.9      921.0      ( 96.5)          (106.6)           17.9           ( 78.6)             ( 88.7)
74       6,152.8          4,902.3         1,250.5           ,                831.6           959.6      975.3      (128.0)          (143.7)           25.6            (102.4)            (1'8.1)
75       6,282.0          5,005.3         1,276.7                           849.0          1,010.4   1,032.8       (161.4)          (183.8)           62.0           ( 99.4)             (121.8)
76       6,413.9          5,110.4         1,303.5          32%              886.4          1,063.0   1,093.8       (176.6)          (207.4)           93.8           ( 82.8)             (113.6)
77       6,548.6          5,217.7         1,330.9           j               905.0          1,117.7   1,158.7       (212.7)          (253.7)          132.0              80.7             (121.7)
78       6,686.1          5,327.2         1,358.9           ,               924.1          1,174.4   1,227.0       (250.3)          (302.9)          174.6               75 .7           (128.3)
79       6,826.6          5,439.1         1,387.5           ,                943.5         1,233.3   1,299.7       (289.8)          (356.2)          220.0            ( 69.8)            (136.2)
1980        6,969.9         5,553.4          1,416.5                           963.2         1,294.3   1,376.7        (331.1)         (413.5)          265.8            ( 65.3)            (147.7)
81       7,116.3          5,669.9          1,446.4         31%               998.0         1,357.5   1,458.2       (359.5)          (460.2)          309.1            ( 50.3)            (151.1)
82       7,265.7          5,789.0         1,476.7           j             1,018.9          1,423.0   1,544.6       (404.1)          (525.7)          346 .2           ( 57 9)            (179.5)
83       7,418.3          5,910.7          1,507.6                        1,040.2          1,490.8   1,636.1       (450.6)          (595.9)          376.2            ( 74.4)            (219.7)
84       7,574.1          6,034.7          1,539.4                        1,062.2          1,561.0   1,733.4       (498.8)          (671.2)          397.2            (101.6)            (274.0)
85       7,733.1          6,161.5          1,571.6          j             1,084.4          1,633.5   1,836.4        (549.1)         (752.8)          411.9            (137.2)            (340.1)
86       7,895.5          6,290.8          1,604.7         30%            1,123.3          1,708.4   1,945.7        (585.1)         (822.4)          421.7            (163.4)            (400.7)
87       8,061.3          6,423.0          1,638.3                        1,146.8          1,785.9   2,061.4        (639.1)         (914.6)          427.2            (211.9)            (487.4)
88       8,230.6          6,557.9          1,672.7                        1,170.9          1,865.8   2,184.0        (694.9)        (1,013.1)         429.8            (265.1)            (583. 3)
89       8,403.5          6,695.6          1,707.9                        1,195.5          1,948.3   2,313.9        (752.8)        (1,118.4)         431.1            (321.7)            (687.3)
1990        8,579.9         6,836.2          1,743.7                         1,220.6         2,033.2   2,451.5        (812.6)        (1,230.9)          431.8           (380.8)            (799.1)
1/   Estimated to continue growing at 2.1% per annum. Excludes MPP incremental production.
2/   150 kg per capita plus 33.5% loss, seed and other use.
3/   Assuming gradual decline.
41   From Table 2.
5/   From Table 3.
February 1973



ANNEX 2
Table 5
ETHIOPIA
AGRICULTURAL MINDMUM PACKAGE PROJECT
Cereal Wholesale Prices on the Addis Ababa Market. 1962- 1971
Te,ff       Wheat        Barley      Sorghum      Maize
Year              (brown)     (white)
------              ---_Eth$/Quintal-------------
1962               25.31       19.89        14.16        14.50       13.53
1963              24.27        18.50        12.99        14.21       13.15
1964               26.25       20.5-        15.50        21.15       14.24
1965               29.89       25.05        19.13        21.89       15.75
1966               29.63       23.18        15.80        24.94       18.55
1967               25.55       22.93        15.56        19.96       13.54
1968               25.94       24.o4        14.40        15.26       12.42
1969               28.11       22.87        15.17        20.45       13.56
1970               37.28       31.71        22.52        28.67       21.17
1971              33.03        26.72        22.03        25.83       20.38
Av. 1962-71        28.53       23.54        16.73        20.69        15.63
----------% Change from Previous Year--------------
1963               -4.1        -7.0         -8.3         -2.0        -2.8
1964               +8.2       +10.9        +19.3        +48.8        +8.3
1965              +13.9       +22.1        +23.4         +3.5       +1o.6
1966               -0.9        -7.5        -17.4        +13.9       +17.8
1967              -13.8        -1.1         -1.5        -20.0       -27.0
1968               +1.5        +4.8         -7.5        -23.5        -8.3
1969               +8.4        -4.9         +5.3        +34.0        +9.2
1970             +32.6        +38.7        +48.5        +40.2       +56.1
1971             -11.4        -15.7         -2.2         -9.9        -3.7
1963-71            +3.8        +4.5         +6.6         +9.4        +6.7
Source:  Ethiopian Grain Corporation.
February 1973



ETHIOPIA
AGRICULTURAL MINIMUM PACKAGE PROJECT
Monthly Wholesale Price Relatives on the Addis Ababa Market, 1962-1971
Annual
Jan.   Feb.   Mar.   Apr    May    June   July   Aug.   Sept.  Oct.   Nov.   Dec.          Average
Brown teff     94      93     94     97      97    101    105    107    105    104    101        93         100
White wheat    96      96     96      97    100    100    103    104    105    105    103        93         100
Barley         94      93     95      96     97    101    102    lo5    log    107       96    102          100
Sorghum        87      92     92     94      97    101    101    107    109    108    107        97         100
Maize          91      92     95      96    101    103    108    113    112    102        93     87         100
Source:  Ethiopian Grain CorDoration
Feburary 1973
!ii



ANIFX 2
Table' 7
ETHIOPIA
AQRIOULTUL MIIMUK PACKAGE PROJECT
Bsti#ated 1970 'Normal' 'wholesale and Fargate Prices
tEth$/Quintal)
Whole-                  locaFarm-
1970        salers     Tranaport    Traders                   gate
CaonoitSy           N'ormal ? P-riGe  mrin  Charges     Mrin       Transport    Price
Brown Teff         27.50        5.50         2.40        0.50        0.20         18.90
White Wheat        24.00         4.80        2.40        0.50        0.-2         16.10
Sorghum            19.50        3.90         2.40        0.50        0.20         12.50
Barley             15.50        3.10         2.40        0.50        0.20          9.30
Maize              14.00        2.80         2.40        0.50        0.20          8.10
February 1973



ANNEX 2
Table-8
ETHIOPIA
AGRICULTURAL. MINIMUM PACKAGE PROJECT
Estimated Marketing Costs
------- Eth$/Quintal -Whole-
Local                 saler
Trader                 (% of
(Market                Wholesale
Year     Transport   Center)   Transport   price)                    Total
1970       0.20        0.50        2.40        20       3.10 + 20% of wholesale price
1975       0.10        0.10        2.40        20       2.60 + 20% of wholesale price
1980       0.10        0.10        2.40        15       2.60 + 15% of wholesale price
February 1973



ANNEX 2
Table 9
ETHIOPIA
AGRICULTURAL MINDIUM PACKAGE PRDJECT
Assumed-Producer Price Development for Najor Cereals
(Eth$/Quintal)
Teff           dheat
Year             (Brown)        (dhite)        Barley        Sorghum         Maize
1971              18.30          16.10          9.30          12.50          8.10
1972              18.60          16.00          9.10          12.50          7.90
1973              18.85          16.15          9.00          12.50          8.10
1974              19.10          16.25          9.00          12.00          8.20
1975              19.10          16.25          9.00          12.00          8.10
1976              19.10          16.25          8.85          12.00          8.00
1977              19.10          16.25          8.60          11.75          7.85
1978              19.10          16.25          8.45          11.50          7.70
1979              19.10          16.25          8.30          11.25          7.50
1980              19.10          16.25          8.15          11.00          7.30
1981              18.95          16.25          8.oo          10.50          7.10
1982              18.80          16.10          7.85          10.00          6.90
1983              18.65          16.00          7.70           9.50          6.70
1984              18.50          16.00          7.50           9.00          6.50
1985 ff.          18.50          16.00          7.50           8.50          6.50
February 1973



ANNEX 2
Table 10
ETHIOPIA
AGRICULTURAL MINIMUM PACKAGE PROJECT
Parity Prices
Imported Soft uheat
Eth$/m ton
Cost: fob  N. America 1/                             126.50
Add:
Freight and Insurance                                42.50
Cost,  cif Assab                                     169.00
Add:
Port charges, stevedoring           11.00
Bagging v                            2.00
Cost of Bag9                        10.00            23.00
Cost, ExAssab                                      192.00
Add:
Transport to Addis                  40.00
Importers Overhead 4/               45.00           85.00
Cost, Delivered Addis                               277.00
Less:
Transport from Addis 5/             24.00
Wholesalers margin  -               45.00           69.00
Value at Market Center                             208.00
Less:
Cost of Bags                        10.00
Storage                              4.00
Local Transport                      1.50           15.50
Equivalent Value Farm Gate                           192.50
i/Based on projected fob price of US$55.00 (US$1   Eth$2.30)
2/Bagged in hold, or on quay using "Atlanta" method.
5/Sound, second hand.
i/Basis Ethiopian Grain Center (EGC) overhead 1969/70
T/Assuming market centers average 300 km from Addis.
s/Basis average farmer 10 km from trade center on farm to
highway road.
May 2, 1973



ETHIOPIA
AGRICULTURAL MINIMUM PACKAGE PROJECT
Parity Prices: Maize (Exported in Bulk)
(&th$/m ton cif)
1975                                   1980
North Sea             Israel           North Sea              Israel
VALUE CIF t/                                  138.00              144.9o              154.10              161.00
Less:  Freight Z/                              39.10               35.00               39.10               35.00
Insurance & Camaission  4/ 4135                                                  4.62                .83
VALUE FOB                                      94.76              105.55              110.38              121.17
Less:  Stevedoring and P/Charges               11.00               11.00               11.00               11.00
Grain Board Fee                          3.00                3.00                3.00                3.00
Fumigation                               2.00                2.00                2.00                2.00
VALUE IELIVERED PORT                           78.76               89.55               94.38              105.17
Less:  Turnover Tax (2%)                        1.57                1.79                1.89               42.10
Transport 2l                            20.00               20.00               20.00               20.00
Marketing Overheads  /                  10.00               10.00               10.00               10.00
Storage Y                                                   J4QQ                 . 40LM              4.oo
VALUE AT MARKETING CENTER                      43-19               53.76               58.49               69.07
Less: Local Transport                           1.50                1.50                1.50                1.50
Cost of New Bags                        15.00               15.00               15.00               15.00
26.69              37.26               41.99               52.57
Add:   Resale Value of Bags                    10.00               10.00               10.00               10.00
VALUE: FARM GATE                                                   ____                                    62.57
1/  Based on projected fob price No 3 U.S. Yellow Corn at US$55.00 and US$62.00. (US$1 - Eth$2.30). (Source IBRD).
g/ Assumed constant at about current levels.
2/ 3% of cif value.
LI Basis 400 km.                                                                                                       -3.
Exporting organization, e.g. Ethiopian Grain Center (EGC).
S$ Includes all relevant costs at trade center.
Price projections from IBRD Economics Department Trade Policies ard Export Projections Division Aug. 24, 1.972.
Mav 2. 1973






ANNEX 3
Page 1
ETIIOPIA
AGRICULTURAL MINIMUM PACKAGE PROJECT
Seed Supply
Present Production
1.        There is at present no regulated seed industry in Ethiopia, nor is
there seed legislation or compulsory seed certification and testing. Cereal
breeding is, however, carried out at the following research stations or plant
institutions in different provinces:
(a) Institute of Agriculture Research, Holetta - barley,
wheat, teff;
(b) Debre Zeit Agriculture experiment station - wheat, teff,
sorghum;
(c)  Ethio-German agriculture experiment station, Bako - maize,
sorghum, teff, wheat and barley;
(d) Paradise experiment station, Asmara - wheat, barley, sorghum,
millet, teff;
(e) College of Agriculture, Alemaya - sorghum, millet, wheat,
barley and teff;
(f) Chilalo Agriculture Development Unit (CADU), Kulumsa
Station, Arussi - wheat, barley, maize, oilseeds and
pulses;
(g)  Awasa Station (Ministry of National Community Development) -
pepper, wheat, oilseeds, vegetables, pulses.
2.        The stations listed from (a) to (d) belong to the Institute of
Agricultural Research (IAR), which also coordinates the wrk of the other
stations.
3.        The Institute publishes an annual Seed Inventory of recommended
varieties which in 1972/73 lists eight improved varieties for wheat, 5 for
barley, 3 for teff, 5 for maize and 2 for sorghum.
4.        There is no organized system of seed distribution.  The stations
sell seed either through development projects such as CADU, WADU and Bako
or directly to commercial farmers. Seed processing facilities are available
at the Holetta, Bako and Awasa Stations, but capacity for cleaning and stor-
age is limited to 300 to 500 ton/year. CADU is installing a seed cleaning
mill at Kulumsa Station with 4 ton/hour capacity and storage for 6,000 ton.



ANNEX 3
Page 2
Seed testing at provincial level is carried out at CADU's Kulumsa Station,
Debre Zeit, Holetta, Bako, Alemaya and Awasa.
Government Action
5.        At Governmentts request, FAO has prepared proposals for the organi-
zation, regulation and control of a national seed industry (FAQ report
No. TA 3092 of 1972). The report includes a draft seed law, and ordinances
for a national list of varieties, for seed certification and for quality
standards.
6.        Government further ordered (with USAID assistance) a study on the
detailed aspects of seed production from a consulting firm, Experience Inc.
of Minneapolis, USA. Another consulting firm, Agriconsult of Malmo, Sweden,
financed by SIDA, has studied the seed requirements of and possible seed supply
for the Minimum Package Program in detail. Both consultants have already sub-
mitted their drafts to Government.
7.        As a result of the Government's systematic approach to the problem,
the basic work- done by IAR and other development projects, and the existence
of a considerable number of commercial farms with improved agricultural
practices, the expectation is that by 1976 a regulated and controlled seed
industry will have been developed in Ethiopia.
Interinm PlanminR
8.        Until then, the stations listed above will continue to produce seed
for sale to farmers. The present production for sale, which can be consider-
ably expanded, compares with Pro-ect needs as follows:
Wheat    Teff    Hybrid    Synthetic
M.faize   Maize
Total Prociuction of Stations
in 19720? {tons)            360      36      ---     88---------
Projects Seec& Requirements (tons)
y19 XQ   7        14          6
1:>,8z  13t  8     38         24
1K'                    958       58       84         78
1976                   471      i00       154       103
The Project provides funds for EPID to take over and operate two Government
farms in northern Ethiopia for seed multiplication.  These farms have been
selected and estimates of the cost of the equipment for production, processing
and storage have been made.  The estimated costs of production and marketing
will be covered by the seed prices assumed under the Project. Imports of hybrid
maize from Kenya will continue until local production (which has been started



ANNEX 3
Page 3
successfully by the Awasa Station) meets demands. The existing facilities,
togethler with those provided under the Project, should be sufficient to pro-
duce, process and test the Project's seed requirements for the next 4 - 5
years.
9.        Commercial seed firms have expressed interest in seed multiplication.
The task of developing new cereal varieties will remain with IAR for the imme-
diate future. IAR is adequately staffed for this purpose. The Project pro-
vides funds for IAR's research in areas which are not yet fully covered by
research stations, mainly in northern Ethiopia. IAP maintains close coopera-
tion with the International Maize and Wheat Improvement Center in Mexico,
as well as with the Kitale maize breeding station and Njoro wheat breeding
station in Kenya. Cooperation with the newly founded international Crop
Research Institute for Semi-Arid Tropics in Hydrabad, India, will be sought
when this Institute begins operations.
February 1973






ANNEX 4
Page 1
ETHIOPIA
AGRICULTURAL MINIMUM PACKAGE PROJECT
Credit and Supply of Inputs
1.        Agreements have been signed between the Ministry of Agriculture
and the Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank (AIDB) and its sub-
sidiary the Agricultural Inputs and Marketing Services (AIMS) for the pro-
curement and distribution of inputs and the provision of credit for the
Minimum Package Program.
AIDB - AIMS
2.        AIDB was recently appraised for an IDA credit by the Agriculture
Projects and Development Finance Companies Departments. AIDB was establi-
shed in November 1970, as a share company, under the Ethiopian Commercial
Code with an authorized capital of Eth$100 million. Initial paid-up share
capital was Eth$50,000, which was increased in May 1971, to Eth$35 million
following the completion of the valuation of its loan and equity portfolio
taken over fremn the Development Bank of Ethiopia, the Ethiopian Investment
Corporation, and the Ministry of Finance. Government or its nominees are
the sole sharEholders. The Chairman of AIDB's Board is the Minister of
Finance. Other members include the Minister of Agriculture, the Governor
of the National Bank of Ethiopia and the Managing Director of AIDB.
3.        The Bank has four main departments.  Agriculture is the largest
with two divisions, one for appraisal and the other for supervision and
follow-up. The smaller Industrial Department is similarly organized. The
two other departments are the Finance and Bank Department and the Evaluation
and Research Department.
4.        Partly through its ability to offer competitive salaries, AIDB
has been able to build up in a short period a nucleus of well-qualified
and enthusiastic staff, many of whom, however, have little previous invest-
ment or banking experience. AIDB's Board and the Managing Director propose
to appoint internationally recruited advisers where suitably qualified and
experienced Ethiopians are not available.
5.        In August 1971, AIDB published a statement of policy emphasizing
AIDB's intention to operate on a commercial basis, to charge interest rates
adequate to meet its costs, and to provide for reserves and a profit margin,
while maintaining a sound balance between the maturities of its own obli-
gations and those of the loans it finances; its debt/equity ratio limit is
set at 3:1. AIDB may make loans (including short-term), equity investments
and guarantees for projects in the public and private sectors. The state-
ment sets out policies regarding lending contributions, security require-
ments, interest rates, procurement and appraisal procedures. It provides
AIDB with a generally satisfactory basis for project financing.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
6.        In general, AIDB does not provide more than 50% of the total cost
of any project to be financed or take more than 30% of the equity in a
company. Collateral in the range of 125-200% is normally required in the
form of mortgages, but this can be substantially reduced, particularly for
short-term crop financing. Maturities are conservative and within the life
of the assets financed; generally, they are limited to 10 years and for
farm machinery five years. AIDB normally requires procurement by inter-
national competitive bidding to the extent feasible. Although AIDB has been
relatively cautious in financing long-term development, its short-term lend-
ing to direct borrowers, particularly commercial farmers, has not always
been related to incremental needs.
7.        Assurances were obtained during the negotiations on the Development
Finance Companies (DFC) Credit to AIDB that AIDB's policies would be modi-
fied to give more emphasis to medium and long-term lending, to base short-
term credit on incremental development requirements, and to bring its in-
terest rates in line with those of the commercial banks.
8.        The Decree which established AIDB provided that for the four years
1970-74 Government would allocate to it one-half of the annual profits of
the National Bank of Ethiopia in the form of additional equity. This is
expected to average Eth$6 million annually, although Eth$7.75 million was
in fact allocated in 1970. Unlike its predecessors which had to depend on
annual and unreliable budget allocations, AIDB has been assured of a sub-
stantial inflow of local currency in its early years.
9.        Apart from its share capital and retained earnings, AIDB's other
source of local currency is deposits, these amounted to over Eth$10 million
in the provisional balance sheet as of July 7, 1972. The balance sheets as
of July 1971 and (provisional) 1972 indicate:
(a) Satisfactory ratios of current assets to current
liabilities:
(i) 1.40:1, 1971
(ii) 2.67:1, 1972
(b) Ratios of Long-term debt and guarantees to equity which
leave ample room for further borrowing:
(i)  0.50:1.  1971
(ii) 0.31:1, 1972
(c)  That total assets increased from Eth$81.5 million in
1971 to Eth$94 million in 1972.
Foreign borrowings, other than from the World Bank Group, are from USAID
and Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau.



ANNEX 4
Page 3
10.       AIDB's provisional income statement for the year ended July 7,
1972 shows profits before taxes of Eth$2.2 million - equivalent to 2.5% of
total assets on an annual basis. The low level of profitability (which is,
however, rising) is due to the poor dividend and interest return on the
portfolio taken over by AIDB on its formation.
11.       Agricultural Inputs and Marketing Services (AIMS) was established
in 1972 as a share company under the Commercial Code. It is a subsidiary
of AIDB, which holds over 90% of its shares. The main purposes for which
the company was established are set out in its Memorandum of Association:
(a) Import, procure, market, distribute and sell
agricultural inputs such as fettilizers, seeds,
pesticides, herbicides and implements;
(b) Provide operational facilities to farmers and
agricultural cooperatives;
(c) Provide cooperatives, agricultural development
projects and individual farmers with agricultural
inputs on credit; and
(d) Provide warehouse for storing cereals.
12.       As of mid-1972, AIMS was still in the process of being set up.  A
general manager with previous experience in banking had been appointed.
Some clerical staff, but no other management staff were in post. Policy
guidelines were in course of preparation. It is clear that for some time
to come AIMS will have to rely heavily on its parent AIDB for management
support.
Agreement on Supply of Inputs
13.       Under the agreement with the Ministry of Agriculture, AIDB/AIMS
undertakes to procure the necessary inputs for the farmers in the minimum
package areas. EPID gives an estimate of the quantities required but the
final decision rests with the AIDB. AIDB/AIMS also undertakes to deliver
the supplies to the marketing centers. The prices, which are set jointly
by EPID and AIDB, may differ from one area to another due to variations in
transport cost.  The prices give full coverage of all cost and presently
include a mark-up of 5% as a precaution against bad debts. At present the
distribution costs of the market centers are absorbed under the EPID budget.
In order to avoid a price increase when the centers are converted to co-
operative societies, EPID charges a fee designed to cover distribution
costs.



ANNEX 4
Page 4
Credit Agreement
14.       In the provision of credit EPID acts as an agent of AIDB within
the ME areas and with the following restrictions:
(a) Loans can only be given in kind and for the following
inputs: seed, fertilizers, herbicides, pesticides,
tools, farm implements, and building materials for
storage facilities.
(b)  Credit is presently granted for at most 75% of the
total cost of the inputs.
(c) Only farmers with holdings of 20 hectares or less
qualify.
(d) Loans shall have a duration of less than one year.
(e) A written agreement shall be made and loans shall
be secured by the personal guarantee of two persons
of good repute in the region.
(f) Farmers will be charged a rate of 1% per month for
9 months.
(g) If 90% of the borrowers in any sub-area (model farmer
area) have not repayed their loans in full within
two months after the due date, no further credit
operations shall be undertaken in the area. No
farmer with outstanding debt will be eligible for
a new loan.
The Ministry of Finance has agreed to reimburse AIDB for any amount above
5% that is overdue three months after the due date.
15.       Loan applications are reviewed by extension agents with the help
of model farmers who ascertain that the farmer in question lives within the
sub-area. After the application has been approved and the farmer and his
guarantors have signed the necessary documents, the farmer collects the
supplies at the marketing center in his area. Repayments are made to the
marketing center, which retains all documents (with copies at EPID head-
quarters). The farmers are trained in the procedures and operations of
the centers, which in due course are to be converted to Cooperative Soci-
eties. The society would then deal directly with AIDB/AIMS. EPID would
continue to supervise activities and provide supporting staff until the
volume of business has reached sufficient magnitude for the society to
employ its own staff.



ANNEX 4
Page 5
16.       There is little experience in Ethiopia with providing credit to
small farmers against their crops. The institutional framework is lacking,
and the absence of proper grading of grains would make it impracticable
to administer such a system. An important task of the proposed national
grain storage and marketing project would be to introduce the improvements
which would make such a system possible.
Financial Impact on AIDB
17.       The cash flow projection set out in Table 1 of this Annex shows
the financial impact of the Minimum Package Program on AIDB/AIMS. Charges
and other transactions between the two which are not relevant to the Program
have been ignored.
April 30, 1973






ETHIOPIA
AGRICULTURAL HIIRTJM PACKAGE PROJECT
_IDB/AIMS Cash Flow from the Progrswse
(Eth$ '000)
1973/74   1974/75   1975/76   1976/777  197717.8   1978179   1979180   1980Q/1   1981/82   1982/83   1983/84   198485   1985/86   1986/87   1987188   1988189   1989190   1990/91
INFLWR
Loans from GovIyyment for -
Farm inputs -              2        1,045     1,581      1,985       -          -         -          -         -          -         -          -                    _         _          _          _                    _
Permanent Working Capital -           623       624        623       -          -         -          -         -          -         -          -         -          -         -          -          -         -
Casb deposits on inpus-/                403       710      1,077     1,500     1,961      2,448     2,929      3,379     3,742      4,070     4,246      4,217      4,509     4,523      4,528     4,528      4,515      4,494
Farmers' repayments -                           1,319      2,323     3,522     4,905      6,416     8,006      9,579    11,050    12,237    13,309    13,873    13,789    14,744    14,789    14,809    14,805    14,764
Total Inflow                      2,071      4 231i    6008       5,022       6,866      8,864    10,935    12 958    14.792    16.307    17.555    18-090    18,298    19,267    19.317    19.337    19,320    2_258
WTFLOW
Purchase of inputs                    1,613     2,841     4,308      6,000     7,847      9,793    11,717    13,517    14,969    16,280    16,974    16,868    18,036    18,091    18,114    18,111    18,060    17,985
Loan service 5      6/                  148       299       470        470       470        470      1,005     1,004     1,005      1,004      1,005     1,004      1,005     1,004      1,005        -         -
Operating expenses -                    250       300       350        400       450        500       550        600       650        700        750       800        850       900        950      1,000     1,000      1,000
Total Otflow                     2,011      3.440     5,128      6,870     8.767    10.763    13 272    15.121    16.624    17,984    18,729    18,672    19,891    19,995    20,069    19,111    19.060    18,985
CASH SURPLUS V.                          60       791       880    (1,848)   (1,901)   (1,899)   (2,337)   (2,163)   (1,832)   (1,677)   (1,174)          (582)   (1,593)       (728)     (752)       226       260        273
CU5IIULATIVF                             60       854      1,734      fl.      2,015    (3,914)   (6,251)   (8,hlh)  (10,246)  (11,923)  (13,097)  (13,679)  (15,272)  (16,000)  (16,752)  (16,52t)  t16,266)  (15,993)
1,  Total cost of inputs (Annex 9, Table 1), less farmers 257 deposit.
i/  Estimated additional funds required to enable AIDE to order fertilizer without receiving all repayments due frem  farmers on previous credits.
N/  257. of total costs of inputs.
4/  9 months term at 17. per month; interest and principal repayable contemporaneously on maturity.  Including charges for EPID's services (AYmex 9, Table 11).
5/  Interest only for six years followed by nine equal annual instalments combining principal and interest.
i   Estimated AIDB/AIKS administrative costs of operating the programe.
7,  Despite the  annual cash surpluses shown at the end of each of the first three years, there are in fact cash shortages in certain months
during each year. As these cash requirements are for ordering fertilizer, they are mainly foreign exchange requirements, hence the permanent
working capital provided above.
?by 8, 1973
- a






A NNEX 5
Page 1
ETHIOPIA
AGRICULTURAL MINIMUM PACKAGE PROJECT
Minimum Package Program
Evolution of the Concept
1.        Past efforts to develop peasant farming have had a negligible effect;
this has been due to lack of innovations, absence of supporting services (such
as supply of inputs, credit and marketing) and lack of supervision of the
extension service. It was decided in 1967 to focus development on areas of
high potential and to use an integrated package approach. The first projects
launched, Chilalo Agricultural Development Unit (CADU) and Wolamo Agricultural
Development Unit (WADU), were of a comprehensive nature emphiasizing a variety
of innovations and including a wide spectrum of activities. Both projects
have demonstrated methods whereby peasant farmers can be made to adopt new
techniques rapidly.
2.        Simultaneously with the establishment of CADU, a fertilizer project
was initiated under the FAO - Freedom From Hunger Campaign. This project
demonstrated convincingly that the use of fertilizer would give substantial
benefits in many parts of Ethiopia if applied to cereals.
3.        These comprehensive projects were too expensive to attain a broader
geographical coverage in a reasonable period of time. It was thus necessary
to define an initial minimum effort which would have an impact on peasant
farming. The Minimum Package (MP) approach encompasses several well-co-
ordinated activities: demonstration of locally tested innovations, supply
of the recommended inputs, credit for their procurement and instruction in
their use. The effort initially concentrates on certain crops (food grains)
and certain innovations (fertilizer, improved seed). The approach may gradu-
ally grow more comprehensive in terms of innovations, commodities and activi-
ties. The comprehensive projects are intended to act as spearheads in this
process.
Organization and Management
4.        The Extension and Project Implementation Department (EPID) within
the Ministry of Agriculture was established in 1971 and given the responsi-
bility for implementing the MP as well as Comprehensive Package Projects.
The Department enjoys considerable autonomy. It employs its staff on contract
and has its own accounting and procurement service. It uses advanced budget-
ing and cost accounting methods. EPID employs in headquarters a group of
specialists concerned with research, staff training, supervision, planning
and evaluation.



ANNEX 5
Page 2
Implementation Principles
5.        A Minimum Package area has roughly 10,000 farmers.  Tt s headed
by a supervisor (university graduate) and has five extension districts,
initially with one agent in each.  The agent cultivates a central 1 ha field
for demonstration and trial purposes and establishes about 20 'ocal demonstra-
tions with the selected model farmers.  The latter are elected from sub-areas
containing about 100 farm families each.
6.        Each extension district also contains a marketing center for the
distribution of inputs and the credit operations (see Annex 4). The Center
is staffed by a foreman (a 10th Grader, who is given special training,
presently 6 weeks). The marketing center will eventually be converted to a
cooPerative society.
Selection of Areas - Stage of Development
7.        In order to prepare for the launching of a Minimum Package area,
surveys of local farming conditions and field experiments are conducted during
a period of about two years (observation stage).  In the third year the inno-
vatlons are demonstrated more widely, their acceptance tested and preparatiors
for launching the MP Program undertaken (demonstration stage).  The Minimum
Package approach was launched in 1971 and there are now 18 Minimum Package
areas, 12 Demonstration areas and 42 Observation areas (see Table 1).  Thus
far, all areas are situated along existing all-weather roads.
Tne Model le Area
8.        The Minimum Package areas vary considerably in ecological conditions,
land tenure arrangements, access to market, population density, etc. Although
projects for the next three years will be selected from existing Demonstration
and Observation areas, there is no way of telling which areas will be selected
or wfhen they will be selected.  After 1975 the Minimum Package areas will be
based on Observation areas which are not yet in the Program. For the produc-
tion, financial and economic projections, therefore, a Model Minimum Package
area has been constructed on the basis of the average characteristics of
existing areas (holding size, areas under different crops, etc.). Experience
as to adoption rates and yields has been drawn from ongoing comprehensive
proiects and the FAO fertilizer prograr..
Planning and Evaluation
9.        The calculations resulting from this model are essentially illustra-
tive, they need to be updated each year on the basis of experience and actual
e.pansion pIans.  For this purpose EPID compiles an annual work program as
a basis for its budget proposals, followed up by cost accounting and quarterly
perrormance reports from the Minimum Package areas. Crop sampling is also
uadertaken in all areas.
February %-,



Table I
ETHIOPIA
A(CULtL MINIMUI PACKAGE PROJECT
Areas .wheve i4lnm Paakaee Proeran Underwa,
Yrovice                                    Area"                                                  Province                                   Area1
i221                            IZZiW7                                                                           1972
1. Eritrea            12 agents                        12 agents2/                                7. She"             AP Bako                           MP Bako
Tullu Bolo                        Tullu BobO
2. Begemdir           NP Gondar                        MP Gondar                                                         Shashemene                        Shashemene
DA Woreta                          Woreta                                                       TA AAb                               Abro -
CA Dabat                         DA Dabat                                                       DA Holetta                           Holetta
Gebre Berhan                      Nazreth
3. Tigre              MP &adaselassie                  NP Badaselassie                                               CGS Debre Zeit                     DA Debre Berhan
GA Mekele                           Axum-Adua             -ojo                                                                       Chancho
OA Axunm                         DA Nekele                                                        lbazreth                           Butajira
Adua                             Adigrat                                                        Butajira                       OA Indibir
Adigrat                       OA Maychew                                                        Wolkite                           Sendaba
Wukro                            Shiraro                                                        Chancho                           Sheno
Maychew                                                                                      OA Akaki                             Robi
Fiche                             l4olale
4s. Goam             MNP Finiote Selam                 NP Pinote Sela                                                    Gorf'a                             Mehal Neida
DA Gilgel Abay                      Gilgel Abay                                                    Sendafi
OA Dangla                        DA LumanAe-Dejen                                                  hehal Meda
Injibara                     OA Debre Karcos                                                    Polale
Debre Marcos                     Bichena                                                        Robi
CCS Luuae
o. Illubabor       OA Bedele                          GA Bedele
5.  Welo              NP Fak-Woldia                    NP Raik-Woldia                                                    Burwms                         OA Hurumu
OA Alasiata                      DA Kombolcha                                                      Netu                              Metu
Kombolcha                    OA Korem                                                           Gore                              Gore
Kutaber                                                        Oa0bela                           Gambela
6. Wellega            IV (Bako; See Sheva)              MP (Bako; See Sheva)                                                                                 Tepi
GA Digga                            Digga                                   9. Kefa            biP Asendabo                       MP Asendabo
OA Girbi                         GA Wayo                                                        TA Jimma                              Jimma
Wayo                          GA Gimbi                                                       OA lgaro                          OA Agaro
Desbi Polo                                                     Seku                              Hizan Teferi
Sasiga
Billa                                  10. Arussi           No activity (CADU)
h'erna
11.  HIrarge        NF ersa                            M  Kersea
OA Asbe Teferi                    GA Asbe Tefoi
Gelease
Bedessa                        OA Bedessa
HAlmA                             Gelemso
Deder                             aeder
Kombolch.                         Ko.,oloha
babile
Jijiga                            Jijiga
12. Gema Gofa       OA Chencha                         DA Chencha
Gidole                         OA Gidole
Glante                            Lante
Bako
Kelem
Note; MP - MiniuLm package area
TA  - Training area (1971 only)                                                             13. Sidamo           MP (Shashemene; See Shewa)        NP (Shasheulne; Sze Shewe>
DA  - DemDnstration area                                                                                         OA Dila                           (A Dila
OA  - Observation area                                                                                              Kibre Mengist                     Yirba Aida
CCS - Continued Credit Scheme (from FAD fertilizer program)                                                                                           Agere Selam
Bore
]/ Still operating on the pre-MP approach.                                                                             CCS Bodeti                        CCS Bodeti
ll.  Bale             DA Dodola                         My Adaba
kdaba                             Robi
February  1973                                                                                                             Roli                              0;rc






erHIOPIA
AGRICULTURAL hlNl!Sll PACKAGE FhOJECI
P..er., Participatioo. Adoptioo of Iop.t. *nd I-eaw.t.l OUtDUt
Uit                1971               1972             1973               1974              1975            ,976               1977               1978             1979              1980              1981
MF                                                  No.                 9                18                28                38                48           /    S8                68                 78                88                88                8e
erwer,s partOi.patinog                              000                 4.7              13.6              30.0              57.7              17.3             148.1             206.4             270.1              333.7             396.7             434.7
Area fertilird                                     '0O0 h.              4.8               9.8              26.3              52.3              90.1             134.3             183.3              235.6             289.5             342.0             388.5
of whtch: und.r tiprod .*ed.                                            0.5               1.2               1.9               4.3              1O.5              21.6              38.7              61.6              89.2              120.1             152.7
ooder ilpro.od harrow.                                         -                0.5               1.0               2.6               5.2               9.0              13.4              18.1              23.6              28.9              34.2
Average *r-. fertilired per farwer                  h.                  1.0               0.7               0.9               0.9               0.9               0.9               0.9                0.9               0.9               0.9               0.9
Net I-ereontal eutput:  he.t                    '000 ..to..             0.3               0.7               2.0               4.7               9.2              15.4               22.1              29.5              37.4              45.4              52.9
teff                      ..                   0.8               1.6               4.2               8.2              14.4              22.0              31.0              41.3              52.4               63.P              74.6
"iew                                           1.2               2.5               6.3              12.4              21.3              31.7              45.0              60.0               76.2              92.6             108.5
.orgh-                                         1.0               2.1               5.4              10.3              17.1              24.7              33.9              43.8              54.0               64.0              73.1
Total                      "                   3.3               6.9              17.9              35.6              62.0              93.8             132.0              174.6             220.0             265.8             309.1
F.r.g.t. VOl" of n t
increr  ntol output:   wheat                  Eth$ 000                 45               116               330               785             1 493             2 510             3,586             4,791              6,080             7 379             8.594
teff                                           149               299               785             1.561             2,745             4,208             5,929             7.886            10,007            12.182             14,144
94               199               507             1,016             1,723            2,537              3,515             4,622             5,714             6,761             7,701
Sorghun                                        129               262.....2.~L.,    - .8.6          1 917             7 n5              2960              IS43              Sn016              .n77              7.045             7.676
TotZl                                          417               876             2,291             4,579             8,018            12,  5           17,033             22,335            27,878            33,367            38.115
Reduction In 1 t gorge lo...                                             -                 -                  3                12               34                75                139               231               355               523                745
Tot.1 i.ren.t.1 9l010                                                   417               876             2,294             4,591             8,052            12.290             17,172            22.566            28.233            33.890            38,860
Unit               1982               1983             1984               1985              1986              1987               1908             1989               1990             1991          1992  & after
MPI  res. in oper.tion                            No.                  88                88                88                 88               88                88                 88                88                88                88                88
P. r,re perticip.ting                            000                  501.7             536.7             559.7             572.7             578.7             578.7              578.7             578.7             578.7             578.7             578.7
Arte  fertill ed                                 000 ho               426.0             453.0             468.0             477.0             482.0             484.0              484.0             484.0             484.0             484.0             484.0
of which! under i.ptrovd ..d.                                       181.8             217.4             245.4             268.2             285.3             296.6              303.4             307.2             308.9             309.6             309.8
ood.r ifpretvd h.rro..                                    1 38.9             42.6              45.3              46.8              47.7              48.2              48.4              48,4              48.'               48.4              48.4
Averogo ore. f.rtillied per farwer                  ho                   0.8               0.8               0.8               0.8               0.8               0.8               0.8               0.8               0.8                0.8               0.8
Net i-wreeotatl ootpot: wheat                   '000 ..tooo             09.3              64.5              68.2              70.7              72.3              73.2              73.6              73 8              73.9               73.9              73.9
teff                      "                    4.1              92.1              97.9             10.4              105.5             107.5             108.5             109.1              109.4             109.6             109.6
*-aie.                                       122.4             133.9             142.3              148.2            152.2             154.4              155.5             156.6             156.3             156.3             156.3
.orghu-                                       80.4              85.7              88.8              90.6              91.7              92.1              92.2               92.2              92.2              92.2              92.2
Total                                        346.2             376.2              397.2            411.9             421.7             427.2              429.8             431.1             431.8             432.0              432.0
F.-rgate vat.o of oot
iorr.o,oetol outpot:   wheat                  gth4000               9,553            10,326            10,909            11,306            11,567            11,712             11.774            11,804            11,817            11,821            11,821
teff                       C                15,820            17.173            18,119            18,941            19.520            19.885            20,080             20,191            20,246            20,269            20,276
waire                                        8,443             8,971             9,247              9,630             9.890            10,038            10.106            10,142            10,157            10.162             10.162
sorghb                                       8,036             8,142             7,992             7,704             7,792             7,830              7.833             7.833             7.833             7.833 73  33
T.t.1                                       41.852            44.612            46,267            47,581            48.769             49,465            49.793            49,970            50.053            50.085             50.092
Reduction in  torrge loose.                                            1,032             1,376             1.733             2,079             2,401             2,693             2,953             3,167              3,325             3,411             3.411
Tot.1 i-nrewe.t.l value                                              42,884             45,888            48,000            49,660            51,170            52,158            52.746            53,137             53,378            53,496            53.503
F1br.ary, 1973






ANNEX 7
Page 1
ETHIOPIA
AGRICULTURAL MINIMUM PACKNGE PROJECT
Rural Roads
Introduction
1.        Farm-to-market transport is one of the principal costs to the
Ethiopian farmer. Throughout large areas produce is transported by pack
animals over dirt trails at very high cost; this tends to inhibit farmers
from producing for the market. Where truck transport has been made possible
through the provision of low standard, dry-weather roads, substantial freight
cost savings have been achieved and noticeable agricultural development has
taken place in the immediate vicinity.
2.        The Program calls for the construction and maintenance of low-class
roads to serve agricultural areas selected for minimum package development.
These roads will link groups of farms with existing main roads, thus facili-
tating both the transport of equipment and extension services to the farms
and the extraction of produce. Some roads will allow expansion around
existing MP areas while others will open up entirely new areas for develop-
ment.
3.        MP development has normally been confined to within 5 km of an
existing all-weather road. To allow for expansion of the Program from this
well-established nucleus, it is estimated that each MP area will require,
beginning in its fourth year of operation, about 10 km of new farm-to-
highway roads annually for about five years. Thus during the Project period
about 550 km of these roads would be built to serve existing MP areas. Fur-
thermore, to ensure that the Program is not delayed for lack of suitable roads
along which new MP areas can be established, penetration roads will begin to
be constructed in 1975. About 110 km are programmed in that year and about
500 km in the following year; i.e., a total of 610 km during the Project
period. The Project includes the construction and maintenance of these 1,160
km of roads.
Design Standards
4.        The roads to be constructed are basically designed to provide good
access to farming areas during the dry season, and minimum access during the
wet season.  10-ton trucks are likely to be used for crop extraction, which
takes place in the dry season after the harvest, and no problems of passage
are expected. The roads should also be passable for extension agents using
four-wheel drive vehicles in all but the wettest conditions. Because of the
low traffic volumes expected, most of it in the dry season, the roads do not



ANNEX 7
Page 2
need to be constructed to a high standard. It is therefore proposed that,
at least initially, Project roads be built to minimum, dry-weather standard,
comprising:
Clearing width    -   4.5 meters
Roadway width      -  10.0 meters
Maximum gradient  -    14%
In practice, this will mean a bulldozed or graded track following the ground
profile, with the central crown of the roadway surface being raised by using
material excavated from drainage ditches. Gravel, consisting of locally
available material, will be provided selectively in weak areas. Particular
attention will be paid to drainage, which must be good. The roads will be
further improved as required, particularly through the addition of more gravel
as traffic volumes increase with agricultural and other development.
Construction Technique
5.        Roads of this standard do not require highly sophisticated engi-
neering construction techniques or structures. The center line will be
cletermined by an experienced construction engineer on the basis of his
judgment of the most efficient alignment and location, and will be staked
out on the ground by him. Generally, roads will be located to follow water-
sheds or, in the case of hilly terrain, the contour, thus reducing the need
for excavation to an absolute minimum. Construction will be supervised
by the construction engineer who (as stated above) will need considerable
experience in constructing roads of this nature, since he will apply the
proposed standards as construction progresses on the basis of his judgment.
It is anticipated that no fill material will be required and that all basic
work can be accomplished by bulldozers or motor-graders and hand labor.
Drainage will consist of paved fords. These methods should pose no serious
problems and are ideally suited to labor intensive methods of construction.
The actual labor content of the construction unit will, however, vary from
area to area depending on its availability.
6.        As the exact location of the roads to be built is not yet known,
it is not possible to assess the extent of the work required, nor to determine
preeisc C03t estimates. However, cost estimates ranging between Eth$8,000
(US$3,500) and Eth$12,000 (US$5,250) per kilometer, depending on the class of
road, should serve as a reasonable basis until more information becomes avail-
able. The lower figure would apply to roads carrying light traffic and
requiring little or no excavation or gravel, and the higher figure to roads
in niore difficult terrain or requiring more gravel because of greater traffic
volumes.  Maintenance costs for both types of road are estimated at Eth$500
per kn annually.



ANNEX 7
Page 3
Execution
7.        To date, the Imperial Highway Authority (IHA) has confined itself to
the construction and maintenance of roads linking major population centers, i.e.$
those which comprise the main highway network. Rural roads have been largely
neglected. Construction and maintenance of roads serving specific agricul-
tural projects have been undertaken on a project-to-project basis by special
units established for this purpose. The Government, increasingly aware of
the importance of rural roads to economic development and of the desirability
of eliminating this fragmentation, has undertaken an investigation of the
problem with a view to making proposals for the planning, development, main-
tenance and financing of all low cost roads serving agricultural areas. The
results of the investigation are expected to be available early in 1973; funds
are provided under the Bank Group's Fifth Highway Project (Credit 332-ET) to
finance the services of expatriate experts to assist the Government in im-
plementing the recommendation of the study.
8.        The organization given responsibility for rural roads as a result
of the study would eventually take over responsibility for all low cost roads,
including those to be built under this Project; however, such an organization
could not be operational for several years. In the meantime, construction
units responsible to IHA would be established under the Project for the
construction and maintenance of the Project roads. The number of units
required to carry out the road program is unknown since the exact require-
ments in terms of length, location, terrain, traffic, etc. have not yet
been identified, but provision is made for up to five units. The estimated
manpower and equipment requirements for each unit are shown in Table 1 and
include mobile workshops and mechanics for field maintenance and minor re-
pairs, with major repairs to be carried out by local suppliers. The amount
of equipment actually purchased for each unit would be adjusted depending on
the availability of hand labor.
Rural Roads Study
9.        Ethiopia is not unique in its concern for the role of rural roads
in economic development; it is a problem which faces developing countries
the world over. Little is known about the potential impact of such roads.
Information on the supply and demand functions of the affected products
is seldom available, and not enough is known about the institutional arrange-
ments or complementary investments necessary to elicit the optimum results.
10.       As part of its research effort, the Bank Group is undertaking a
long-term study of the impact of agricultural feeder roads in a number of
developing countries. The development of areas influenced by the construction
of feeder roads is being monitored over several years with socioeconomic
surveys before, during, and after road construction. The observation of how
agricultural production responds to different investment patterns in trans-
portation and agriculture will help to identify and develop criteria for rural
road investments. One road selected for study under this research program is



ANNEX 7
Page 4
the Agara-Chira feeder road which is to be constructed wider the Fifth High-
way Project.  Some US$19,000 has been allocated from the Bank's research
budget for the baseline surveys being carried out by the Institute of Develop-
ment Research at the Eaile Selassie I University in Addis Ababa. Subject to
satisfactory completion of this survey in mid-1973, another US$100,000 is
included in the present project to allow the Institute to follow up its work
on this road and to undertake similar surveys and follow-up studies on two
roads serving NP areas.
April 30, 1973



ANNEX 7
Table 1
ETHIOPIA
AGRICULTURAL MINIMUM PACKAGE PROJECT
atiniate6l Re!%irements for each Rural Road Construction Unit
Unit            Total
I. EQUIPIENT:  No.    Typ                             Price          cif Cost
2 bulldozers (125 HP)             -5.o               90.0
1 motorgrader (125 HP)              4o.0             40.0
1 roller (6-8 ton)                   14.0            14.0
t loader (1 m3)                     35.0             35.0
2  concrete mixers (7/8 cap)          4.0             8.0
3 water trailers (1,000 1)            2.5             7.5
2 water pusnps (5 cm)                 1.0             2.0
1 air compressor                     5.0              5.0
t  workshop trailer                 20.0             20.0
4  4-iwheel drive vehicles            5.0            20.0
1 fuel tanks (10,000 1)              5.0              5.0
4  trucks (5 ton)                    14.o            56.o
2 wheeled tractors (60 HP)           10.0            20.0
1 stone crusher                     50.0             50.0
1 low-loader*                       40.o             40.0
tents                                              1.0
survey equipment                                   3.0
dnor tools                                         5.0
spare parts                                       50.5
Estimated equipment cost:                 472.0
II. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE:       1 Civil engineer
1 Plant operator/instructor
III. MANPOWER;      1 Superintendent of works (civil)
-=            1 Superintendent of works (mechanical)
3 Mechanics
1 Ilectrioian/welder
1 Storekeeper
2 Bulldozer operators
1 Hotorgrader operator
1 Roller driver
1 Loader operator
16 Drivers/stationery machine operators
2 Masos
2 Carpenters
4 Mechanic assistants
14 Labwrers
2 Chainnen
* One only, for use by all units.
May 2, 1973






ANNEX 8
Page 1
ETHIOPIA
Agricultural Minimum Package Project
Function of the Evaluation Unit in the Minimum Package Program
1.        The evaluation unit should perform four principal functions:
(1) Project monitoring for efficient and effective management;
(2) Identification of new activities (innovations) to be
included in later phases of the Program;
(3) Identification of new NP areas; and
(4) Assessment of benefits derived from the Project.
2.        To this effect, the terms of reference for the evaluation unit
should take account of the following:
(1)  Proiect Monitoring:  recording progress of the main components
of the Project such as: time spent on each activity, quantities
of inputs distributed, volume of credit extended and record of
repayments.
(2)  Identification of New Activities (Innovations):  feasibility
studies of prospective innovations.
(3)  Identifying New MP Areas:  appraising prospective I2 areas.
(4) Assessment of Incidence of Pro1ect Benefits: conducting baseline
and follow-up surveys involving important economic, socioeconomic,
and institutional variables such as the level of input use, crop
yields, farm incomes, consumption patterns, family customs, work
habits, education levels, land ownership and tenancy laws, health
and welfare, and social activities.
February 1973






ETHIOPIA
AGRICULTURAL HINtNUM  PACKAGE PROJECT
Summnary of ProJecot Costs by Years
(Eth$' o0
Foreign
--       Local Cost ------------          --------Foreign Exchange --------         ---------- Total Cost ----------   Exchange
1974     1975      1976      Total       1974       1975      1976     Total        1974      1975      1976      Total      Z
Farm Inputs
Fertilizer                                     524       755       872      2,151        646       932    1,080       2,658      1,170    1,687    1,952        4,809       55
Seeds                                           58       136       273        467         36        80       146        262         94       216       419         729      36
Harrows                                         26        44        63        133          7        11        16         34          33        55        79        167      20
Storage                                          5        13        25         43          5        12        22         39          10        25        47         82      48
Miscellaneous Supplies                          43        62        75        180         43        63        75        181          86       125       150        361      50
Sub-total                                656    1o010    1.308        2.974        737    1,098    1.339        3.174       1.393    2.108    2.647        6.148      52
Permanent working Capital for AtDB               450       225       166        841        550       275       204      1,029       1,000       500       370      1,870      55
Roads
Farm-to-Highway                                216       445       713      1,374        504    1,040    1,662        3,206         720    1,485    2,375       4,580       70
Penetration                                    _         396    1.817       2.213         -        924    4.238       5.162          -     1.320    6.055        7.375      70
216      841    2,530       3,587         504    1,964    5,900        8,368        720    2,805    8,430    11,955         70
Rural Road Study                                96        51        83        230         -         -        _          _            96        51        83        230       0
Sub-total                                312       892    2,613       3,817         504    1.964    5.900       8.368         816    2.856    8.513    12,185         70
Fund for Marketing Credit                        400       600       700      1,700          -         -         -          -         400       600       700      1,700       0
Extension & Support Services
EPID
Headquarters - investment                   349       169        52        570        263       123        40        426        612       292         92        996      43
- operating                1,758    1,806    1,612        5,176      1,622    1,667    1,318        4,607       3,380    3,473    2,930        9,783      48
Obs. Area    - investment                     6         6         6         18          3         3         3          9           9         9        9          27      33
- operating                  283       283       283        849           3         3         3          9        286       286       286        858       1
Dem. Areas   - investment                    46        46        46        138         91        91        91        273         137       137       137        411      66
- operating                  300       300       300        900         41        41         41        123        341       341       341      1,023      12
MP Areas      - investment                  182       188       201        571        748       748       815      2,311        930        936    1,016       2,882      80
- operating                2,888    3,727    4.550    11.165           276       378       484      1,138       3,164    4.105    5.034    12.303          4
Subtotal  - investment                   583      409       305      1.297      1.105        965       949      3.019      1688    1.374    1.254         4.316      70
Subtotal  - operating                 529    6,116    6.745    18,090           1,942    2,089    1.846         5.877      7.171    8.205    8.591    23,967         21
Coop. Dev. Dept.- investment                    20        20        15         55         45        45         50        140         65        65        65        195      72
- operating                   70       142       219        431          11        20        24         55         81       162       243        486      11
Sub-total                       90       162       234        486         56        65        74        195        146       227       308         681      29
Proiect Preparation and Planning                   -         -         -          -         765       765       542      2,072        765       765       542      2,072    100
Total before contingencies                   7.720    9.414   12.071    29.205         5.659    7,221   10.854    23.734    13.379   16.635   22,925    52.939              45
contingencies                                  647    1,174    1,961        3,782         441       899    1,823       3,163      1,088    2,073    3,784        6,945      45             1o
TOTAL PROJECT COST                           8,367   10,588   14,032    32,987         6,100    8,120   12,677    26,897    14,467   18,708   26,709    59,884              43
MAy 7, 1973



ETHIOPIA
AGRICULTU.AL HIIMUM PAi0AGg Ptt)JzCT
Swumatr  of MP Program Costs 1
(Eth$000)
-------- EPID ------------                         - Roads -------   -------------------           Inputs ----------------------
Obs.      Dem.      MP        Co-op.         Farm          Pene-                                                       Miscell-
H~.Q.     Areas     Areas    Areas    Dev.Dent.        ftshwav       tratign    Fertiliter       Seeds    Harrows    Storage    laneous           Total
1971                902        316        295        887        _             _            -              223           10        -           _           15          2,648
1972              1,486        295        552      1,760        -                          -              452           20         10         -           33         4,608
1973              2.679        295        478      2,476        -             -            -            1,204           28         18          2          81         7,261
1974              3,992        295        478      4,094       146            720          -            2,374           94         33         10         167        12,403
1975              3,765        295        478      5,041       227          1,485        1,320         4,061           216         55         25         292        17,260
1976              3,022        295        478      6,050       308          2,375        6,055         6,013           419         79         47         442        25,583
1977              2,910        143        478     7,097        449          3,315        6,305         8,206           668        102         77         621        30,371
1978              2,992         -         478      8,012       531          4,305        6,555        10,545           968        117        116         822        35,441
1979              2,571         -          -       8,884       612          4,625          805        12,958         1,313        128        161       1,035         33,092
1980              2,571         -          -       9,213       753          4,950          805         15,308        1,650        137        225       1,251        36,863
1981              2,571         -          -       9,466       834          5,200          805        17,412         1,997        144        305       1,455        40,189
1982              2,571         -          -       9,637       915          5,450          805        19,068         2,254        149        406       1,629        42,844
1983              2,571         -          -       8,892       915          4,900           805        20,277        2,655        149        508       1,770        43,442
1984              2,571         -          -       8,892       915          4,300          865        20,948         2,815        149        572       1,869        43,836
1985              2,571         -          -       8,892       915          3,650          80'5       21,351         3,061        148        615       1,938        43,946
1986              2,571         -          -       8,892       915          2,950          ;805        21,574        3,184        143        642       1,984        43,660
1987              2,571         -          -       8 892       915          2,200          805        21,664         3,262        140        660       2,010        43,119
1988              2,571         -           -      8,892       915          2,200          805         21,664        3,297        137        671       2,022        43,147
1989              2,571         -          -       8,892       915          2,200          805         21,664        3,313        144        661       2,032        43,197
1990              2,571         -          -       8,892       915          2,200          805         21,664        3,330        149        636       2,032        43,194
1991              2,571         -          -      8,892        915          2,200          805         21,664        3,330        149        585       2,032        43,143
1992 & After      2,571         -          -       8,892       915          2,200          805         21,664        3,330        149        510       2,032        43,068
1/  Excluding permanent working capital for ATD%, Fund for marketinig credit, and contingencies.
May 2, 1973



ANNRX 9
ETNIOPIA                                                                                                               Tbl. 3
AMLOULTMAL MM" PACYAOI PWJBCT
<Zth   0
Ft ... I Y.-                                                                             IDA Ei .... d Porld
fEdLas L-al             19TI            19T,              1973             1974            197 ,                            igr             197a             1979    Aft..
V                   a                        cost       tf..  C..t      W..  C..t        W..  C..t       Is.  C..t        S..  Cost       go.  C..t        No.  cost
220              200
Offi.. Sq.1poest                                                                                                21               24              69               12              12               12              12               15
to       2       14       5        so      a       80      8        tio     8       80      a       80       a       80      8       80       8       80
77            -                -                                 47               10
S..d N.ItLpli..Ii-                                                                                                                               40
AP lied . ..... b                                                                                                                                 76
S.pil M .. S_.t                                                                                                                                   so                                               so                               15
Total I-We'seto                                                                    14    m.-        71    Z_        104              612            292               9L               92             L39              I It'
op-Itfta c t.
O-,ioo   D.P.                  Eth.                            p-  V.4,    is         1        13      1        14      1        15      1       is       I       is      1       15      1        is      1       is      1        15
D.P. bt-ctm    Up.t.                                           75       1       75    .1          75      1       75       1       7s              75       1       75      1       75       1       75       1      -5
11,,d, Alth                                                                                       I        I       I       I                I
t :Sep.t.                                    13        -                                          3                3               3      I       13       1       13      1        13      1       13
tooPoet                                                70                                                 70       1       70              70       1       70              70       1       70
Et-.d.t, Ith.                                          10                                        I,        I0      1       10              10       I       io     11        10      1       lo      I       10
Li.i.-  Dlt.ioo   Need, Ith.                                                13                                 13      1        13      1       13       1       13      1       13       1       13      1       13      I        I
ftosooi.t, ftp.t.                                      7                70       1        70      1       70       1       70             -
E.--i.t, ath.                                          LO                                                                          I       10       1       20      1        10      I       10      I        10
Coses,P B.-L... Di.t.ios,  Need, Wat.                                        TS                        1        75      1       75       1       75       1      75
Asln-t Hod. Ith.                             to        1        7      1          8      I       10      1        10      I       10      1       13       1       13      1        13      1       13
,.   0,                                              -      -                         I        'o      '       'o       I       I       I       10       I       "       '       10       I       10
F...-  el offic.r, lttb.                     'I 02                              -10              12      i                1       102     1                I        I      I        12      I       12
Chief A..-tmt. Eth.                           I3                                 13      1       23       1       13      1       13      1        13      1                        13      1       13
AC Mtftt. Upst.                             60                                  bo      1       60       1       (10     1       60      1       60       1       bO      I        tlo
-d CI.,k..                      6        1        6      3        18       4       24      5       30       6       36      7       42       7       42      7       42       7       42
It -
lt.-I Adit-.. Nth.                           10                                          I       10      I        10      i       10      I        10      I       10      I        10      I       10
Ith.                                        6                                          2       12      4       24       6       36      7       42      7        42      7       42      7        42
C-hi... Eth.                                  5                                   5      1        5      1         5      1        5      1         5      1        5      1        5       I        s
proo-sooot offi.."  stb.                      8        2       12      2         12      1        8      1         8      1        8      1         a      1        8      1         8      1        8
lWilding Rp.,it..dsPt.
Eth-                                        8                                                   8      1        8       1        8      1        8       1        8      1        8       1        8
Stor. Ka"or. Eth.                             6        1        5      1          5               6      1         6      1        6      1         6      1        6      1         6      1        6
Chief S..r.tay, Eth.                                   1        7      1          9      1        9      1         9      1        9      I         "      I        '      I         '      I
S .... t-tes -d Typi.t., Zlh                 5        2        9      4        20       7       3r      8       40       I       Is      I       AS       I       &S      o       45       o       415
Offi.. Clerks, Nth.                            3                                         3        9      3         9      4       12      4        ip      5       15      5        is      5       is
H-h-., ith.                                   6                                          1        6       1        6      1        6      1         6      1        6      1         6      1        6
D,1-.  Stb.                                   2        4        8      6         12      a       16     10        20     10       20     10       20      10       20     10        20     to       20
to. , ztt.           IDA      7       14      7          4      9        5      1         5     10        6     lo         6     I,o        6     10        6     io   - 6
D1.1.1-    Used, Flth.                                            5        I        I      I          I      1       15      1        Ls              Is      I       is       1       15      1        is      I
A,:I:I-t R  d  Zspst.                               70                        1         70              70       1       70      1       70       1       70      1       70       1       70      1       70
A. Jsot B:.d: zth.                                   10                                -       .1                                                                                  I       10      I        10
Regissol Coordi.mt.m    Eth.                        to
St ... p  Sp.-Im., Eth.                                                      -5        -50      6       60      7        70      8       80      9        90     10      too    11        tio     12      M
8                                        .6       48      6        48      6       48      6        48     _6       48       6       48      6       48
Ag-oed. GI-P   Heed, B.P.t.                                                  70       1        70     -        -                -               -
M. .4 , Eth.                                            IS        -      -        1        15       1       is      1       15       i       15      1       is       I       is      1       15       1       15
AS""i*t -up.t.                                         65        2      130      2       130       2      130      2      130       1       65
Alp,ososda, Nth.                                        10        4       40      2        20       3       30      4       40       5       50      5       50       5       50      5       50       5       50
A.i-1 H..b-dty C-P   Re-d : E.Pat                                            70                                          1       70      1       70       1       70
Need  tth.                                      13                                         1        13      1       13      1        13      1       15      1        13      1       13      1        13
W-t. ztb.                                       10                      -I                 I       10       2       211     1       30      3        30      3        30      3       3-      3       N
C-41t -d M.,k.ti.5 GmV    Need. tth.                                         13                                          1       13      1       13       ,       15      1       13       1       13      1       13       1       13
X.-    L                                   65        1       65      L        65      1        65      1       65       1       65      1       65       1       65      1       65
Ewth.                         10       2        17      3        25      5        so      6       60      7       70       7       70      7        70      7       70      7        70
C.-Op P tt_  G-P   Head. Esp.t.                                             65                                          1       65      1       65       i       65      -                                -                -      -
Need - 'tb                                       15                                         1        13      1       13       1       13      1       1      1        13      1       13       1       13
zx"rt, Imp.t.                                    60                                                 6o       1       60      1       60       1       60      1        6       1       6
Repeft, Itb.                                     to                                         I        10      2       20      4       411      4       40      4        4101    1,      411     4       -40
E-     i.. G.e.P   Rod. Eth.                                           12                       112        6       1       12      1       12       1       .       I       .        i       i2      1        12      1       12
9-    Z."ftd.t. Eth.                               9                                         -1        9      2       18       3       27      3       27       3       27      3       LIT      3       27
u-    Semoel.t Ago.t, Stb.                         3        3       10      3        10
C-..It-t. - vArkti.4, zv.t.                                                 75                                          2                2      150      2      150              150
- A..-t-.y                                                      -                                                                 12D              120             -
S.b-T.t.1 P-#PP.I C-to                                                                    568              834              .357              11           1.664            1.314                               -T             807
Olh   C..t.
A..' -.4 K.1.1-soo.                                                                            14               25               36               10              10              10               10               10              10
Offi.. E.P-..s                                                                                 40               60               so              80               90              90              100             100              100
A-W  S-y Mop.                                                                                   3                5               10              to               10
S.t.-.1 Adit                                                                                   10               20               25              30               5              40               45              50               50
A..Iy.!t.f.f.S.il $.WI.                                                                         1               20               30              40               50              so               so              so               50
P.bI 1.   _                                                                                    J                30               N               40               so              50               50              50               50
V.ht-I. R-Mag                                                                 6       8        48     11        66     2D       M       25      150     25       ISO    25       150      25      iso    25       ISO     25       150
TM-1 -W P., Di.                                                                                55               86              Iso             190              210             200              200             200              I90
S, Iff T-10L.8                                                                                101              ISO              215             243              280             212              212             212              212
37              r                37              37               57              37
.d R .... rd,                                                                                                             200             200              200             100              100             100              100
Son  man.80"At                                                                                                                   77              77               77              77               TT              77               77
ML ... Iless-.                                                                                                 120              140             480              500             300              Soo             Soo              Soo
1-.rmc*                                                                                       -                .  .              70              80               90             100              110             120              120
ftb-"g*L Otbar C.4o.                                                                     120                SPI           1=              IA61             1.789            If6I6           Ij64%            1.656           IIW
Tow    O".4tig costs                                                            -188             1.415           !:!a  '          3,18Q            W2              !M               !A=             2,k-13
-4 OP ... ti.6 Cost.                                                       902             1,436            2,679           3,992            3,763           3,022            2.910           2,SS2            2,371
At.h ft-ts. fook..S.                                                                     406                669           1.206            1,835           1,710            1.355           1,3"             1,346           1-65?
Wil 23. 1973



ANNEX 9
Table 4
ETHIOPIA
AGRICULTURAL MINIMUM PACKAGE PROJECT
EPD Costs - Observation Areas (1973-fl) v
(Fth$ million)
Annual
Unit Cost            ,   Expenditures
(Eth$)        1971Z/       1972-76       1977
Investments
Office equipment                 300       0.013         0.002(5)        -
Horse and saddle                 200       0.009         0.001(5)        -
Farm equipment                 1,200        052          o.oo6(5)        -
Total Investments                           0.073         0.009           -
ODerating Costs
Agent                          4,800       0.168         0.192(40)    0.096(20)
Laborer                          6oo       0.021         0.024(40)    0.012(20)
Rent office and store            480       0.015         0.019(40)    0.010(20)
Other office costs               100         -           0.004(40)    0.002(20)
Farm Supplies                    375       0.011         0.011(40)    0.005(20)
Horse maintenance                200       0.009         o.0oo8(40)   o.oo4(20)
Travel and per diem              520       0.010         0.021(40)    0.011(20)
IMiscellaneous                   170       0-009         0.007(40)    0.003(20)
Total Operating Costs                       0.243         0.286        0.143
Total Investment and Operating Costs        0.316         0.295         0.143
Foreign exchange cost component2/            o.o25        o.oo6         0.002
t/ Observation costs of MP Areas started in 1971 and 1972 occurred in 1968-69 and
1969-70; these costs are not included here.
2 Actual cost.
a/ 47% of farm equipment, 16% of farm supplies and 40% of "other office costs."
February 1973



ANNEX 9
Table 5
ETHIOPIA
AGRICULTURAL MINIMUM PACKAGE PROJECT
EPID Costs - Demonstration Areas (19721/-78)
Unit Cost       -2 _   Expenditures
Eth$          1971-'     1972      1973-78
Investments
Office equipment           2,300         0.010    0.028(12)    0.023
Horse and saddle             200         0.003    0.002(12)    0.002
Farm equipment             1,200         0.040    0.014(12)    0.012
Vehicles                  10,000         o,o56    0.120(12)    0.100
Total Investmnents                         0.108    0.164         0.137
Foreign exchange
cost component 3/                       o.o65    o.log         0.091
Operating Costs
Supervisor                 8,000/year    0.053    0.096(12)    0.080(10)
Agent                      4,800  "      o.o64    0.101(24)    0.096(20)
Marketing assistant        3,000  "         -      0.036(u)    0.030(10)
Laborer                      600         0.012    0.023(48)    0.024(40)
Rent office and store      1,440  "      0.009    0.014(12)    0014(10o)
Other office cost            500  "        -      0.006(12)    o.0o5(10)
Farm supplies                950         0.009    0.011(12)    0.010(10)
Horse maintenance            200  "      0.003    0.005(24)    0.00o4(20)
Vehicle operation          5,000  "      0.030    0.060(12)    0.050(10)
Travel and per diem        1,850  "      0.oo6    0.023(12)    0.019(10)
Miscellaneous                990  "      0.002    0.012(12)    0.010(10)
Total Operating Costs /                    0.187    0.388         0.341
Foreign exchange
cost component 5/                      0.024    0.049         0.041
Total Investment
and Operating Costs v                     0.295    0.552         0.478
Foreign exchange
cost component                         o.o89    0.158         0.132
1/ Demonstration costs of MP areas started in 1971 occurred in 1970; these
costs have not been included here.
2/ Actual cost.
1/ 44% of office equipment, 47% of farm equipment, 75% of vehicles.
_/ Excluding farm input costs.
.  / 40% of office cost, 16% of farm supplies, 75% of vehicle operation.
Note: Figures in brackets show number of units in each year.
February 1973



ETHIOPIA
AQIICULCURAL MKD1M  PACKAGE P10J4T
EPID Costs - MP Areas
(Nt5$ uiluloos)
Unit Cost    Foreigo                                                                          E pendit.re In
_thSj      lchang   1971v   _  197-  2 _      1973         1974        1975         1976        1977         1970         1979        196v        1981         1982         1983 s,od 0o1l . years
M4. C. Store * d Offio           15,000          40%        -           -           -      0.075(45)   0.675(45)   0.750(50)   0.750(50)   0.750(50)   0.750(50)   0.750(50)   0.750(50)   O.rbu(50)
Office Eqeip.ent                  5,500          52   0.031(9)   0.050(9)    0.055(9)    0.055(9)    0.055(9)    0.055(9)    0.055(9)    0.055(9)    0.055(9)
Horse and Saddle                    200           -   0.005(25)  0.005(25)   0.010(50)   0.015(75)   0.020(100)  0.025(125)  0.030(150)  0.035(17b)  0.040(200)  0.045(225)  0.050(250)  0.050(250)  0.050(250)
Famn Equip-nt                     6,800         44%   0.053(9)   0.064(9)    0.O68(10)   0.068(10)   0.068(10)   0.068(10)   0.008(10)   O.u68(10)   0.068(10)              -            -           -  )         -
Vehicle,                         10,000          75%   0.007(1)   0.010(1)          -      0.100(10)   O.IO(10)   0.100(10)   0.200(20)   0.200(20)   0.200(20)   0.300(30)   05300(30)   0.300(30)   0.300(30)
Roe Econics                       1, 000         20%        _                  D.009(9)    0.009(9)    0.010(10)   0.010(10)   0.010(10)   0.010(10)   0.010(10)   0.010(10)   0.010(10)             -            -
Seed Multiplication                 750          50%     _-        _           0.021(28)   0.008(10)   0.008(10)   0.008(1O)   0.008(10)   0.008(10)   0.008(10)            -            -
Total Investment                                         0.096      0.126        0.t63       0.930        0.93b       1.016        1.121        1.126       1.131        1.105       1.110        1.100       0.350
Fo-Ign e-ch-0ge cOst co..p.o-c,                        0.044      0.051        0.072        0.748       0.744       o.815        0.890        0.890       0.890        0.90s        0.902       0.900        0.225
USit Cost    Foreign
Year       E..h-nye
Operating Costs
Sspervisor (top.)                52,000          100   0.150(3)   0.202(4)    0.052(1)
Supervisor (Eth.)                 8,000                0.048(6)   0.il2(14)   0.216(27)   0.304(38)   0.384(48)   0.464(53)   0.544(68)   0.624(78)   0.704(88)   0.704(89)   0.704(88)   0.704(88)   0.704(868)
Sup-tvi-oo  (T-t ...)            54000                 3.045(9)   0.075(15)   0.075(15.:  D.075(15)   0.075(15)   0.05(715)   0.075(15)   0.075(15)   0.075(15)   0.025(5)    0.025(5)    0.025(5)    0.025(5)
Ageot                             4,800                0.192(40)  0.288(60)   0.432(90)   0.672(140)  0.912(190)  1.152(240)  1.392(290)  1.632(340)  1.824(380)  1.968(410)  2.064(430)  2.112(440)  2.112(440)
Agest Trai-ee                     1,800(1/2 yr)             -     0.072(40)   0.108(60)   0.108(60)   0.108(60)   0.108(60)   0.108(60)   0,090(50)   0.072(40)   0.054(30)   0.036(20)   0.036(20)   0.0136(20)
Asst. Agent                       3,000                0.015(5)   0.090(30)   0.180(60)   0.500(100)  0.450(150)  0.600(200)  0.750(250)  0.900(300)  1.050(350)  1.200(940)  1.260(420)  1.320(440)  1.320(440
Asot. Ageot Trainee                 600(1,2 yr)             -     0.024(40)   0.030(50)   0.030(50)   0.036(60)   0.036(60)   o.o36(60)   o.o36(60)   0.036(60)   0,036(60)   0.018(30)  0.1(30)   o.018(30)
Marketing A-st.                   3,000                0.150(50)  0.270(90)   0.420(140)  0.570(190)  0.720(240)  0.870(290)  1.020(340)  1.170(390)  1.320(440)  1.320(440)  1.320(440)  1.320(440)  I.320(440)
Marketing A.sl. Trainee             600(1l'2 yr)                  o.o36(60)   0.036(60)   0.036(60)   0.036(60)   0.036(60)   o.036(60)   o.o3(60)   0.027(45)   0.027(45)   0.027(45)   0.027(45)   0.027(45)
Home Econonics Agrot              4,000                     -           -      0.536(9)    0.072(18)   0.112(28)   0.152(38)   0.192(48)   0.224(58)   0.272(68)   0.312(78)   0.3S7(88)   0.352(88)   0.352(88)
Laborer                             600                0.032(54)  0.108(160)  0.168(250)  0.228(380)  0.288(480)  0.348(580)  0.408(680)  0.468(780)  0.528(880)  0.528(880)  O.b28(880)  0.528(880)  0.526(88e)
Rent Office and St.re             2,880                D.026(9)   0.052(18)   0.081(28)   0.109(38)   0.138(48)   0.167(58)   0.196(68)   0.225(88)   0.253(88)   0.253(08)   0.253(88)   0.253(88)   0.253(86)
Otl-er Office Cs                  1, 300          40        -     0.023(18)   0.036.28)   0.049(38)   0.062(48)   0.075(58)   0.088(68)   0.101(76>   0.1.14(88)   0.114(88)   0.114(88)   0.114(88)   0 114(88)
Fare Supplie.                     4,000           16   0.036(9)   0.072(18)   0.112(28)   0.12(38)   0.192(48)   0.224(58)   0.272(68)   0.312(78)   0.352(88)   0.352(88)   0.325(88)   0.352(88)   0.352(88)
Horse Maintenance                   200                0.005(25)  0.010(50)   0.020(100)  0 030(150)  0.045(225)  0.060(300)  0.075(775)  0.090(450)  0.105(525)  0.120(600)  0.135(675)  0.145(725)  O.150(Y97)
Vehicle Operation                 6,250           75   0.045(9)   0.113(18)   0.175(28)   D.238(58)   0.300(48)   0.364(58)   0.425(68)   0.488(78)   0.550(88)   0.550(88)   0.550(88)   0.550(88)   0.550(88)
Travel sod per diem               4,500                0.041(9)   0.081(18)   0.126(28)   0.171(38)   0.216(48)   0.261(58)   0.306(68)   0.351('8)   0.396(88)   0.396(88)   0.396(88)   0.396(88)   0.396(88)
Home Econnmics Sat                1,100           10   _ -              -      0.010(9)    0.020(18)   0.01(28)   0.042(38)   0.053(48)   0,064(58)   0.075(68)   0.086(78)   0.097(88)   0.09(8)    .7(88)
Total Operating Costs                                    0.797      1.634        2.313       . 3.164      4.105        5.634       5.976        6.886       7.753        8.045        8.204       8.349        8.354
Foreign exchange cost component                        0.200       0.324       0.226        0.276       0.378        0.484       0.591        0.697       0.803        0.852        0.899        0.946       0.946
'/Aetstl Cost
April 23, 1973



ETHIOPIA
AGRICULTURAL MINIMUM PACKAGE PRDJJECT
Cooperative Development Department Costs
(Eth$'000)
1982
Fiscal                                                                                    and
Year      1974      1975     1976      1977      1978      1979     1980      1981      After
1/
Motor Vehicles and Cycles -
for MP Areas Established in            1971       60        -         -        60        -         -         60       -         -
1972      -         60        -         -         60       -         -         60        -
1973      -         -         60        -         -        60        -         -         60
1974      -         -         -         60        -         -        60        -         -
1975      -         -         -         -         60       -         -         60        -
1976      -         -         -         -         -        60        -         -         60
1977      -         -         -         -         -        -         60        -         -
1978      -         -         -         -         -        -         -         60        -
1979      -         -         _         -         -        -         -         -         60
60       60        60       120       120       120      180       180       180
Office Furniture                                     5         5         5         5         5        5         5         5         5
Salaries 2  _ Inspectors                            13        25        38        50       63        76        88       101       113
- Coop. Assistants                     35        70       105      140       175       210       245      280       315
Per Diem                                            20        40        60        80       100      120       140       160       180
Office Running                                       3         7        10        14        18       21        25        28        32
Motor Vehicles and Cycles Running
Cost                                          10        20       30        40        50        60       70        80        90
TOTAL                               146       227       308      449       531       612       753      834       915
Foreign exchange cost component  /                 56        65       74       128       137       146      2U0       209       217
1/  Vehicles for inspectors              -   3 x Eth$ 14,000 = 42,000            2/  Numbers of staff increasing annually up to
Motor cycles for co-op assistants -  10 x Eth$  1,800 = 18,000                    1982 by 3 inspectors @ Eth$ 4,200 p.a., and,
60,000              by 10 co-op. assistants @ Eth$ 1,200 p.a.
3/ 75% of motor vehicle investment and operating costs, 52% of office
furniture, 40% of other office costs.
I-a
February 1973                                                                                                                      _ e



ETHIOPIA
AGRICULTURAL MINIMUM PACKAGE PIDJECT
Cost of Farm-to-Highway Roads
Construc- Main-   ---               -Costs (EthVOOO) -------
Year of         Km of Roads in MP Areas tion Pro-  tenance  Constn=- Main-                Foreign Ex- Cost Used in
Construction    Becoming Operational in                       tion      tenance   Total  change Cost  Econ. Analysis
1971   1972  1273-79    (km)      (km)
1974               90       -      -       90         -        720         -        720        504       540
1975               90      90      -      180         90     1,440         45     1,485      1,o4o     1,114
1976               90      90     100     280        270     2,240        135     2,375      1,662     1,781
1977               90      90     200     380        550     3,040        275     3,315      2,320     2,486
1978               90      90     300     480        930     3,840        465     4,305      3,013     3,229
1979                -      90     400     490      1,410     3,920        705     4,625     3,237      3,469
1980                 -      -     500     500      1,900     4,000        950     4,950     3,465      3,712
1981                 -      -     500     500      2,400     4,000      1,200     5,200      3,640     3,900
1982                -       -     500     500      2,900     4,000      1,450     5,450     3,815      4,088
1983                 -      -     400     400      3,400     3,200      1,700     4,900      3,430     3,675
1984                 -      -     300     300      3,80o     2,400      1,900     4,300      3,010     3,225
1985                 -      -     200     200      4,100     1,600      2,050     3,650      2,555     2,738
1986                 -      -     100     100      4,300       800      2,150     2,950      2,o65     2,212
1987 and after       -      -      -       -       4,400       -        2,200     2,200      1,540     1,650
Note:  Construction assumed to start in 4th year of operation of MP area, at a rate of 10 km/year/area.
Construction cost Eth$8,000/km, maintenance Eth$500 km (See Annex 7).
Foreign exchange cost assumed to be 70% of total cost.
Cost used in economic analysis represents 75% of total cost:
15% unskilled labor, shadow priced at 0
1% taxes
remainder attributable to benefits outside project.
February, 1973.



ETHIOPIA
AGRICULTURAL MINUMUM PACKAGE PROJECT
Cost of Penetration Roads
(Eth$7000)
Penetration Roads for MP Areas
Becoming Operational ins          1971   1972   1973   1974   1975   1976   1977  1978   1979
Penetration Roads to be                                                                              1979 and
Constructed in:                   1970   1971   1972   1973   1974   1975   1976   1977   1978   followidg
Roads to be constructed (km)         -       -       -      -      -     110    500    500    500      -
Roads to be maintained (km)          -       -       -      -      -       -     110    610  1,100    1,610
Cost of constructiom /               -       -       -      -      -   1,320  6,000  6,000  6,000       -
Cost of maintenancea                 -       -       -      -      -       -      55    305    555       805
Cost of construction
and maintenance                    -       -       -      -      -   1,320  6,055  6,305  6,555       805
Foreign exchange cost
componentY              -        -      -      -       -     924  4,239  4,414  4,588       564
Cost used in economic analysi k      -       -       -      -      -     792  3,633  3,783  3,933       483
V    Eth$12,000/km.
.g/  Eth$500/km/year.
y/   70% of total cost                                                                                              ii
li!  Cost used in economic analysis represents 60% of total costs 15% of unskilled labor, shadow priced at 0;
1% taxes;
remainder attributable to benefits outside project.
February, 1973



ETHIOPIA
AGRICULTURAL MINIMUM PACKAGE PROJECT
Cost and Quantities of Inputs - Fertilizers
------------------------------------EX1 '000 -------------------------------
1             Cost!/ cif Assab or                                 Costs Used for Econo-
Quantitx W  (m.tonsl        p    -aDibVuti        Cash C8t to Farmero           mic Analysis
DAP      Urea     DAP     Urea      Total    DAP       Urea   Total    DAP      Urea    Total
1971                  480     120       104      19      123       185       38      223      .149     30      179
1972                  980     240       212      37      249      377        75      452      304      60      364
1973                2,630     610       568      95      663    1,013       191    1,204       815    153      968
1974                5,230   1,150    1,130      179    1,309    2,014       360    2,374    1,621    288    1,909
1975                9,010   1,890    1,946      295    2,241    3,469       592    4,061    2,793    473    3,266
1976               13,430   2,690    2,901      420    3,321    5,171       842    6,013    4,163    673    4,836
1977               18,330   3,670    3,959      573    4,532    7,057    1,149    8,206    5,682    918    6,6oo
1978               23,560   4,710    5,089      735    5,824    9,071    1,474   10,545    7,304  1,178    8,482
1979               28,950   5,790    6,253      903    7,156   11,146    1,812   12,958    8,975  1,448   10,423
1980               34,200   6,840    7,387   1,067    8,454   13,167    2,141   15,308   10,602  1,710   12,312
1981               38,900   7,780    8,402   1,214    9,616   14,977    2,435   17,412   12,059  1,945   14,004
1982               42,600   8,520    9,202   1,329   10,531   16,401    2,667   19,668   13,206  2,130   15,336
1983               45,300   9,060    9,785   1,413   11,198   17,441    2,836   20,277   14,043  2,265   16,308
1984               46,80o   9,360   10,109   1,460   11,569   18,018    2,930   20,948   14,508  2,340   16,848
1985               47,700   9,540   10,303   1,488   11,791   18,365    2,986   21,351   14,787  2,385   17,172
1986               h8,200   9,640   10,411   1,504   11,915   18,557    3,017   21,574   14,942  2,410   17,352
1987 and
following years   48,400   9,680   10,454   1,510   11,964   18.634    3,030   21,664   15,004  2,420   17,424
1/  Based on 1 qt/ha of all grains for DAP and 0.5 qtAha for maize and sorghum.
2/  For prices used, see Table -n.
May 2, 1973                                                                                                              co



ANNEX 9
Table 11
ETHIOPIA
AGRICULTURAL 1IN14 U  PACKAGE P&)JEC!
Build-up of Fertilizer Prices 1/
(Eth$/ton)
DAP          UREA
Cif Assab or Djibouti                                     iT-(=US$94)   156(=US$68)
Bagging                                                    25             25
Transport to Addis                                         40             40
AIDB overhead                                               5              5
AIDB financial charges                                     25             19
AIDB bad debt charge                                       18             13
Turnover tax                                                7              6
Transport to MP Area                                       24             24
EPID margin                                                25             25
Cash price to farmer                                      385            313
Interest paid by farmer                                    35             27
Total price to farmer                                     420            340
Price used in cost/benefit analysis                       310            250
1/ Based on information available August 1972.
May 2, 1973



ANNEX 9
Table 12
ETHIOPIA
AGRICJLTUR1AL  rIXIfUA PAO1AGE PhUJJCT
Costs and Quantities of Inputs - Improved Seeds
Quantity   (Metric Tons)          _______________Eth$ million----------------
Cash Cost         Cost        CQst cif Assab
Hybrid  Synth.               2/   in Economss  or  Djibouti(only
Wheat    Teff    Maize   Maize       to FarmersJ    Analysi2'2    hybrid maaize)4/
1971       11         10       1        1         0.010            o.oo6           0.001
1972       22          3       8        8         0.020            0.015           0.008
1973       19          7      14        6         0.028            0.020           0.013
1974      113          8      38       24         0.094            0.070           0.036
1975      258         58      84       39         0.228            0.148           0.080
1976      481       100      154       78         0.419            0.304           0.146
1977      754        165     253     103          o.668            0.488           0.240
1978    1,057        246     375     145          0.968            0.710           0.356
1979    1,391        348     518     188          1.313            0.863           0.492
19)80    1,672      439      674     233          1.650            1.226           o.640
1981    1,952        534     840      268         1.997            1.494           0.798
1982    2,241        630   1,004      310         2.254            1.764           0.954
1983    2,460        726   1,156      340         2.655            2.004           1.098
1984    2,374        791   1,286      366         2.815            2.153           1.222
1985    2,677        836   1,387      371         3.061            2.334           1.318
1986    2,749        863   1,457      382         3.184            2.433           1.384
1987    2,782        890   1,502     387          3.262            2.497           1.427
1988    2,790        894   1,527      392         3.297            2.527           1.451
1989    2,795        896   1,540     385          3.313            2.541           1.463
1990 and
following yrs 2,800        900   1,550      390         3.330            2.555           1.473
1  Based on seeding rates:                      2  Wheat   Eth$350/ton
- Wheat, 1.25 ql/ha, renewed every 4 yrs        Teff    Eth$500/ton
- Teff,  0.25    "I "           l  tt 1         Hyb.Maize Eth$1,150/ton
- Synth. maize, 0.4 "    if   "I  "I "t         Synth. "  Eth$300/ton
- Hlybrid maize, 0.4 "    "   annually
3] Wh eat          Eth$190/ton                  4/ Eth$950/ton
Teff           Eth$310/ton
Hybrid maize   Eth$1,070/ton
Synth. maize   Eth$220/ton
February 1973



ANNEX 9
Table 13
ET.IItCFT
Ak3RICILTTRAL MINIIU! PACKAGE P140JECT
Costs and Quantities of Iputs - Improved Harrows
Total   ----Eth$ Million----
Nunber of Farners                                 No. of
Thurchasing for           HIunber of Farnmersv /   Harrows              Foreigng4
First lime  /             Replacirng Harrow-    Bought    costY    Ecchange
71'7                   240                                           2)40      0.010      0.002
Us?3                                         ) 440     0.0e       0.00)4
AP7)4                 520                                           820      0.C33      0.00.7
c`74                8,350                                         1,380       0.05      0.0113
I976                 1,910 1,9EC                                               0.079      C.016
1.9?7                2,5)40                                        2,5)40      0.102      0.(020
1 97E                2,920                                         2,920       0.117      0.024
1 ?77?               3,190                                         3,190       0-.128     0.025
19V0                 3,o 2040                                       31,)20     0.-37      0.027
3,150                       h44C             3,590       c.-L44     0.020
i 9E2                2,150 C20                                     3,720       C .3) 49   O.03C
2,900                      1,3&0             3,730       0.149      C. 330
1.9ELv  1,7  1,980)  3,730    0.1i4     0.030
2,350                      1950c              3,690      0 .140.    0.03.
90.6                  1506,                     2,920             3,570       0.143      C.029
9P'7                  300                      3,190              3,4o        0.1)4C     C .028
3 czUp                 _                        3 ,3420            3,)42C      0.137      0 .Q7 7
i &9{                   -                        3,590             3,590       0.144      0.029
!990  ninti followinE    -                      3,720              3,720       0.1)49    C.(30
1/   Assaned at 5% of farmers who began using fertilizer in previous year.
2/  Replacement after 8 years of use
3,/  Eth$40/unit
4,'  20% of cost.
February 1973



ETHIOPIA
AGRICULTURAL MINIMUM PACKAGE PRDJECT
Costs and Quantities of Inputs - On-Farm Storage
-----------------------------------Eth$ million------------------------------
Cost of
Construction    Insecticides      Maintenance    Total Cost   Foreign Exchanae
Number of        EEth$17.50/      (Eth$1 p.a.     (Eth$2 p.a.                    Insecticides and
units               unit)     per existing    per existing                    50% of construc-
constructed                             unit)             unit)                  tion cost)
1971            -
1972            -                -
1973            130             0.002             -              _               0.002            0.001
1974            450             o.oo8           0.001          0.001             0.010            0.005
1975          1,135             0.020           0.002          0.003             0.025            0.012
1976          2,030             0.036           0.004          0.007             0.047            0.022
1977          3,185             o.o56           0.007          0.014             0.077            0.035
1978          4,630             0.081           0.012          0.023             o.116            0.052
1979          6,190             0.108           0.018          0.035            0.161             0.072
1980          8,410             0.147           0.026          0.052            0.225             0.100
1981         11,090             0.194           0.037          0.074             0.305            0.134
1982         14,360             0.251           0.052          0.103            o.406             0.177
1983         17,210             0.301           0.069          0.138             0.508            0.219
1984         17,820             0.312           0.087          0.173            0.572             0.243
1985         17,300             0.303           0.104          0.208            o.615             C.255
1986         16,100             0.282           0.120          0.240            o.642             0.261
1987         14,600             0.256           0.135          0.269            o.66o             0.263
1988         13,000             0.228           0.148          0.295            o.671             0.262
1989         10,700             0.187           0.158          0.316            o.661             0.251
1990          7,900             0.138           0.166          0.332            0.636             0.235
1991          4,300             0.075           0.170          0.340            0.585             0.207
1992 and follow-
ing years  -                -              0.170          0.340            0.510             0.170
e r  1
February 1973                                                                                                 (Dw



ANNEX 9
Tab-le 15
ETHIOPIA
AGRICULTURAL MINIMUM PACKAGE PROJECT
Costs of Inputs - Miscellaneous
(Eth$ million)
Total Costi/    Foreign Exchange Cost(50/)
1971                          0.015                0.008
1Q72                          0.033                0.016
1973                          0.081                0.0o40
1974                          0.167                0.083
1975                         0.292                 0.146
1976                          0.442                0.221
1977                          0.621                0.310
1978                         0.822                 0.411
1979                          1.035                0.517
1980                          1.251                0.625
1981                          1.455                0.728
1982                          1.629                0.815
1983                          1.770                o.885
1984                          1.869                0.935
1985                          1.938                0.969
1986                          1.984                0.992
1987                          2.010                1.005
1988                          2.022                1.011
1989                          2.032                 1.016
1990 and following years      2.032                1.016
1/ Eth$4/ton of gross incremental output of grain,
includes pesticides, bagging, and small tools.
ExcludeO other inputs and labor
May 2, 1973






ANNEX 10
ETHIOPIA
AGRICULTURAL MINIMUM PACKAGE PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements of IDA Credit
(Us$' 000)
End            Estimated Amount      Cumulative Dis-
of              Disbursed            bursement at End
FY             Quarter            during Quarter       of Quarter
1974/75             2                       700                  700
3                     1,000                1,700
4                     1,300                3,000
1975/76             1                     1,400                4,400
2                    1,600                 6,000
3                     1,800                7,800
4                     1,800                9,600
1976/77            1                      1,800               11,400
2                     2,100              13,500
3                     2,100               15,600
4                     2,100               17,700
1977/78             1                     2,000               19,700
2                       800               20,500
3                       500               21,000
April 30, 1973






ANNEX 11
Page 1
ETHIOPIA
AGRICULTURAL MINIMUM PACKAGE PROJECT
Yields, Production and Farmers' Income
Genera'l
1.        The soils and rainfall of Ethiopia's highlands are well suited for
growing cereals. About 70% of the highland areas under crops are planted to
cereals, while oilseeds, pulses, vegetables, fruits, or tree crops are grown
on the rest. About one-third of the grain area is planted to teff (eragrostis
abyssinica). The area under wheat (12% of grain area) is increasing with the
development of new varieties suited to a wide range of ecological conditions
and improved rust resistance. The area under barley (21%), sorghum (19%),
and maize (16%) varies locally with rainfall, altitude and custom. All grains
are used for human consumption, and virtually none are fed to animals. Barley
and sorghum are also used for brewing. Sorghum's slow-burning straw is
favored as fuel. Nearly all farms keep livestock which is fed on straw and
grazed on pastures (owned or communal) and fallow land. They are not normally
used to produce cash income, but rather to provide draft power, transport,
subsistence food and dung.
2.        To date, pests have not heavily damaged Ethiopia's cereals.  Wheat
rust is a problem against which the only weapon is the constant development
of new resistant varieties, and careful selection at planting time. The
Institute of Agricultural Research (IAR) has been successful in variety
development. Under the Project, seeds would be treated with fungicides
against smut.
3.        There is not much double cropping.  The area under fallow varies,
though not as much as the cropped area; the nearer fields are to homesteads,
the more dung is available and the less fallow land is needed. Crop rotations
are not always regular, and there is some intercropping (e.g. beans in maize).
Farm Models
4.        To demonstrate the effects of inputs and projected prices, farm
models have been developed for typical I ha and 3 ha farms and crops particip-
ating in the Project. The National Sample Census which produces the only
available statistics on farm sizes has more accurate information on cropped
area per farm than on total farm area. Therefore, cropped area has been
chosen as the basis of calculation. The models assume that profitability of
inputs will induce farmers to increase grain area from 70% to 75% of cropped
area. Price developments will lead farmers to increase wheat and decrease
maize and sorghum areas.



ANNEX 11
Page 2
Yields
5.        Estimates of cereal yields in the highlands are not supported by
reliable statistics and include a considerable margin of error. Estimates of
incremental yields due to fertilizer and improved seeds are based on four years
of FAO's countrywide fertilizer demonstration program, on field trials carried
out by the TAR, and on EPID's two-year countrywide demonstrations program.
Incremental yields due to use of harrow are based on findings in the CADU
project. Table 7 illustrates the yields, and Table 8 the comparative advan-
tages of different innovations.
Fertilizer
6.        Recommendations are one ql/ha diaimnonium-phosphate (DAP, 18%N 46%
P205) for wheat, teff, sorghum, and maize and additional 0.5ql/ha urea (45%N)
for sorghum and maize. Fertilizer for barley is not generally recommended,
as prices and yields make it economic only in high potential areas. Estimates
of farmers' costs including 12% interest for nine months are Eth$42/ql DAP and
Eth$36/ql urea.  These recommendations are below the economic optimum under
good husbandry, and more advanced farmers will receive credit for higher
rates.  EPID's demonstrations program and IAR trials will produce more de-
tailed recommendations for different areas. Participating farmers are
expected to fertilize all cereals except barley in the second to fourth year
of participation. 65% of the total farmers in MP areas are projected to use
fertilizer after nine years. In well organized MP areas, even more farmers
will participate. This adoption rate assumes that part of the landlord
communitv will, to their own advantage, share fertilizer costs with tenants.
Seeds
7.        Improved varieties of wheat, maize, barley and teff (but not sorghum)
have been established in the country. Although hybrid maize is already pro-
duced in the country and imports from Kenva are readily available, model
calculations assume that only half of all farmers will achieve a standard of
husbandry that will justify use of hybrid maize; the rest will use synthetics.
No benefits are included from improved barley seeds as they do not show their
full potential unless fertilized. Farm models assume use of improved seeds on
total wheat, maize, and teff area. Economic analysis assumes farmers use
improved wheat and maize seed one year after using fertilizer, and teff. seeds
two years after using fertilizer. A gradual build up of area so seeded is
expected over four years, from 20% to 80% of area fertilized. Farmers will
purchase new seed every four years (except hybrid maize, which will be
purchased annually); incremental yields estimates take into account declining
yield potential. The slow increase in seed consumption is geared to the
buildup of seed production in the country. Farmers' costs, including 12%
interest for nine months, are estimated at Eth$35/ql for wheat, Eth$50/ql
for teff, Eth$115/ql for hybrid and Eth$30/ql for synthetic maize. Seed rates
are: wheat 1.25/qi/ha, teff 0.25ql/ha, maize 0.4ql/ha.



ANNEX 11
Page 3
Harrow and Plough
8.        A spike-tooth harrow and a mouldboard plough are being produced in
the country on the basis of designs initiated by the CADU project. The plough
(Eth$60) does not improve yielis, but speeds up soil preparations considerably.
This is important at the start of the planting season, when work oxen are in
poor condition. Altbough credit will be extended for plows, farm models and
economic calculations include neither costs nor benefits. The harrow (Eth$40)
improves seed bed preparation and seed covering and raises yields of wheat,
sorghum and barley. It is expected that five percent of the fertilized area
will benefit from its use. Farm models include harrow use on total wheat,
sorghum and barley area. Annual costs are 20% of purchase price if used on
at least 1 ha; smaller farmers would have to share one implement.
Farm Storage
9.        It is estimated that farm storage losses for grains range from 20%
in drier areas to 50% in more humid areas, with a national average of probably
25%. Trials show that properly designed and easy to erect farm stores,
together with pesticides, can reduce losses to 1%/year. Unskilled persons
following simple instructions should be able to reduce storage losses to
5%/year. Cement-lined storage pits (Eth$10/ton) and lined weldmesh bins
(Eth$13/ton) have been developed and tested in WADU project.
10.       Investment cost of weldmesh bins, including transportation, super-
vision and interest of 12% for nine months and excluding farm labor, would
be Eth$17.50/ton, recurrent cost would be Eth$1/ton/year for pesticides and
Eth$4/ton/year for maintenance, depreciation and interest. 1/ With storage
of home consumption and seed requirements of about 1 ton, and reduction of
storage losses from 25% to 10%, savings would be Eth$14/year at 1985 grain
prices. Farm models and economic analysis assume farm storage for home
consumption and seed requirements only. EPID would provide farmers with the
store design, construction material, and advice during construction. Thirty
percent of participating farmers are expected to build stores in 10 years.
Cost of Production
11.       Production costs on traditional farms include seeds, tools, bags,
cost of draft power and labor, as well as taxes. The 1 ha farmer would
probably not keep enough cattle to raise and replace a pair of work oxen,
while the 3 ha farmer could not cultivate his land with family labor alone.
Average family size has been assumed at 5.3 persons, who could cultivate
2.5 - 3 ha under crops. The production costs of the 3 ha farm include hired
labor, while the 1 ha f-armer is expected to pay for hired work oxen by hiring
out surplus family labor.
12.       Incremental production and related costs include:  costs and credit
charges of fertilizer, seeds, harrow and stores; cost of bags and pest control
1/   Of which Eth$2 is for maintenance.



ANNEX 11
Page 4
which might become necessary on a wider scale with higher yields; additional
hired labor for a 3 ha farm; and increased taxes.
Home Consumption
13.       The 5.3 persons per family will consume as much as 4.1 adults.
Models assume consumption of 160 kg/person, which would require storage of
210 kg/person, allowing for a 25% loss. In addition, farm families will
consume all livestock products.
Farmers Net Cash Income
14.       Table 8 shows the development of farmers' net cash income with
different innovations in different years. Returns from areas planted with
other crops are assumed to be the same as for unfertilized cereals. Falling
grain prices will cause farmers' cash position to deteriorate and will gradually
force them to use innovations to keep their standard of living. By 1985
farmers' net cash income would fall between 47% and 24% on a 1 ha farm and
by about 25% on a 3 ha farm.
15.       The 1 ha farm tends to produce only the subsistence needs of a
family and yield no cash income. Use of fertilizer would provide a modest
cash income, and with improved seeds would raise it by between 50% and 260%;
harrow and improved storage would add a further 30% each. On a 3 ha farm,
fertilizer would raise income by 30%; seeds would add a further 20%; and
improved stores a further 6%. Model calculations do not include the possible
benefits from:
(a) Increased cropped area, because fertilizer would
diminish the need to keep fallow in crop rotations;
(b) Fruits and vegetables producing better returns than
unimproved cereals;
(c) Residual effects of fertilizer (50% of cropped area)
on barley and non-cereals; and
(d) Storage of grain for sale.
April 30, 1973



ETHIOPIA
AGRICULTURAL MINIMUM PACKAGE PROJECT
Area Under Crops, and Number of Holdings
by Province 1/
----------- Area Under Crops ----------------
Number of                                                     % of
PROVINCE                   Total Area          Holdings               Total         Size of Holdings      Total Area
(ha'OOC)                                  (ha)                (ha)
Tigre                         6,025             252,600               281,919              1.12               5
Begemdir                      8,025             189,500               250,183             1.32                3
Gojam                         6,225             245,370               282,008              1.15               5
Welo                          9,350             404,600               375,751             0.93                4
Wellega                       7,725             191,300               218,902             1.14                3
Shewa                         8,200             670,700             1,124,379             1.68               14
Hararge                      26,125             263,160               297,994             1.13                1
Kefa                          5,350             224,050               200,087             0.89                4
Illubabor                     5,350             111,850                75,724             0.68                1
Gemu Gofa                     3,950             114,300                58,202             0.51                1
Sidamo                       11,175             375.945               194,625             0.52                2
Total                     97,500           3.043,375             3,359,774             1.10                3
1/   11 Provinces out of 14.
May 2, 1973



ETHIOPIA
AGRICULTURAL MINIMUM PACKAGE PROJECT
Frequency Distribution of Holdings by Size
(Percentage)
Size Group      ha       0-0.5   0.5-1.0   1.0-1.5   1.5-2.0   2.0-3.0   3.0-4.0   4.0-5.0            5.0          Total
PROVINCE
Tigre                       45        23         16        5           6         4          1           -              100
Begemdir                    40        30         13        9          5          3          -           -              100
Gojam                       27        27         18       12         10          2          1           3              100
Welo                        55        25         11        3          4          2          -           -              100
Wellega                     29        36         14       10          7          2          1            1             100
Shewa                       23        23         15       12         14          5          5           3              100
Hararge                     45        31         11        5          5                     1           1              100
Kefa                        41        35         12         7         4           1         -            -             100
Illubabor                   32       37         14         7          3          2          -           5              100
Gemu Gofa                   73        19          4         2         2          -          -            -             100
Sldamo                      73        18          5        2          1          -          -            1             100
Average       ~      42        26         12         7          7          3          2           1             100
1/ Weighted average using No. of holdings in Table 1 as weights.
Source: Central Statistical Office - National Sample Survey Reports 1966-1968
May 2, 1973



ETHIOPIA
ACRICULTURAL MINIMUM PACKAGE PROJECT
Participating Farmers and Cropped Area/Farm
Year of MP Area                            1        2       3       4        5        6       7        8        9
2/
Farmers Participating
Incremental                      80       120     500    1,100   1,200   1,200   1,000    700         600
Cummulative                      80       200      700    1,800   3,000   4,200   5,200  5,900   6,500
Average
Area per Farmer 3/             ha        5.0      4.5      3.0       1.7     1.3      1.0     0.8    0.7       0.6        1.34
Area Under Cereals - 75%       ha        3.8       3.4     2.3       1.3     1.0      0.8     0.6    0.5       0.5
1/ Year 1 - Demonstration Year.
2/ Out of estimated 10,000 farmers in one MP Area.
3/ Estimated average cropped area per participating farmer by year of his participation.
Large farmers are expected to adopt innovations first.
February 1973                                                                                                         |



ANNEX 11
Tables 4 & 5
ETHIOPIA
AGRICULTURAL MINIM   PACKAGE PROJECT
Build up of Area Fertilized per Farmer
(h.)                                                 Table 4
Ypar of MP  Area                1         2          3         4          5         6          7         8          9         10
Year in Which Farmer
Joins MP Program
1                       0.8       1.6        2.4       3.0       3.0        3.0       3.0        3.0       3.0        3.0
2                                 0.8       1.6        2.4       2.7        2.7       2.7        2.7       2.7        2.7
3                                           0.8        1.6       1.8        1.8       1.8        1.8       1.8        1.8
4                                                      0.4       0.8        1.0       1.0        1.0       1.0        1.0
5                                                                0.4        0.8       0.8        0.8       0.8        0.8
6                                                                           0.4       0.7        0.7       0.8        0.8
7                                                                                     0.2        0.5       0.5        0.5
8                                                                                                0.2       0.5        0.5
9                                                                                                          0.2        0.5
Build up of Area Fertilized in One MP  Area                            Table 5
(ha)
Year of MP Area                 1         2          3         4          5         6          7         8         9          10
Number of Farmers
Joining AP erogram                                 Contribution per Group of Participants
80                      60        130        190       240       240        240       240        240       240        240
120                                100        190       290       320        320       320        320       320        320
500                                          400        800       900        900       900        900       900        900
1,100                                                    440       880      1,100     1,100      1,100     1,100      1,100
1,200                                                              480        960       960        960       960        960
1,200                                                                         480       840        840       840        840
1,000                                                                                   200        500       500        500
700                                                                                              140       350        350
600                                                                                                        120        300
Total     6,500                     60         230       780     1,770      2,820     4,000      4,560     5,000      5,330     5,510
Rounded                             60        250        800     1,800      2,800     4,000      4,600     5,000      5,300     5,500
February 1973



EThIOPIA
AWIRICTLURAtL MKISDM  PACKAOE PrOJE!                                                                ANNEX 11
Proiections of Yields. Costs and Revenues per Hectare.
At Foil Oe-eeopxent
1974 Prices                                                          1985 Prices
Without                         With Innovations                         Without                      With Innovstios
Innovations     Pertilieer  Inr. Seed  Harrt,   Total Innovation         Io-ovatioo  FertiIizer  lpt  Seeds  Narro"  Total Ionooatioi
Y:rld twsIsloti-v                ql/ho          9.0              13.8       16.8         19.6         L9.6                9.00       13.8        16.8          19.6         19.6
l-cros nt-l               ql/ha           -                4.8         3.0         2.8         10.6                  -          4.8         3.0          2.8         10.6
Ft-natgr  Prior                Eth$/ql          16.25           16,25       16.25        16.25        16.25              16.00       16.00       16.00         16.00        16.00
-l-e of Pro-u.sion             Eth$/he        146.30               -          _      -                  -               144.00          -          -             -            -
VlU.io of lucteocetol Prod.    Ethl/ho            -             78.00       48.80        45.50      172.30                 -         76.80       48.00         44.80       169.60
lot troetota I Coot; of Prod.    Ethr/ha          _             44 .00      8 ,00        9 .00       61.00                           4 41. 00     8.oo         9 .00        61.00
lr r-.etoi Nrt Revenoe         EthS/ha           _              34k00       40.80       36.50       111.30                 -         32,80      4.00         35.8o        108.60
h.r-  on tthSIOC invested    Eth$                 -            178         610         505          282                    -        175         600          1198          278
Yield Cn-lertive                ql/ha           7.0              11.8       14.8           -          18.3                7.0        11.8        14.8          -'           11.8
I-r-rontal                ql/ha                            4.8         3.0          -           7.8                             4.8         3.0           -           7.8
F -sogatr  Price              Eths$ql          19.10            19.10       19,10          -          19.10              18.50       18.50       18.50          -           18.50
l..lo  of P-od-ccion          EthSfh.         133.70               -          -            -            -               L29.50               -            -                   -
olI;, of  i.c..reent.l Prod.   Etho/ha            -             91.70       57.30          -         149.00                -         88.80       55.50          -          144.30
1. to-nncl Costs of Prod."1 Eth$/ha              -              10.00        4.00          -         L8.00                           44.00        h.oo          -          4h0oo
I- reo-tl Nen  Roveou-      Eth$/h-            -              47.70       53.30          -        101.00                 -         Lv.80       51 50      '  -           96
thIturn on  tlO    - Invested   Eth$           -             208       1130              -        310                    _        202        1390             _         300
telld Conulacti-               ql/ha           15.0              26.0       36.0           -          36.11              15.0        26.0        3e.0           -           36.1
--cre-entl               ql/ha             -              11.0       10.0           -          21.00                           11.0        10.0           _          21.00
rorogote Plrce               EthS/ql            8.20             8.20        8.20          -           8.20               6.50        6.50        6.50                       6 6.50
Vlur of Prodotioo           EthS/ha          123.00               -          -            -            -                97.50                -           -                   -
V      i Inore-nental Prod.  EthS/ha              -             90.20       82.00          -         172.20                -          71.50      65.00          -          136.50
l. reetes-ol Costo of Prod-/ EthS/ha              -             64-00       29.00          -         93,00                 -         64 00       29.00          -           93.oo
Incremoentol Net R-venoe     Eth$/ha              -             26.20       53.00          -          79.70                -           7.50      36.00          -           43.EO
itcrn on tEh$100 Invested  Eth$                  -            110         283             -        185                    -         112        2242                       146
Yirld L.-Iolati-v                ql/ha         12.0              22.0         -          26.8         b6.5               12.0        22.0          -           26.8         26.8
Icceo-ntal                ql/ha           -               10.0          -          4.8         14.8                            10.0          -            4.8         14.8
F-.gAte Price                Eth$/ql            12.00            12.00         -         12.00        12.00               8.50         8.50         -           8.50         8.50
Vol.]   of Prod-vtio-        Eth$/ha          144.00               -           -           -            -               102.00                -                   -           -
Valor of Incre-ent.l Prod.  Eth$/ha               -             120.00         -         57.60       177.60                -          85.00         -          40.80       125.80
-ncremental Cooto of Prodl/ Eth$/he               -              6h.00        -          10.00        7L600                -          64.00         -          10.00        70.
--rn,oeotl Net R.venue      Eth$/ha             -               ;6.00        -          117.60     103.60                 -          21.00        -           30.80        51.80
Rt,ito-on r:th$100 Inveoted  EthS                 -             188           _         576          240                   -         113            -         1*06         170
B.,,
Yirld Co,eolativ-              ql/ha            10.0               _          _          12.8         12.8               10.0           _           -          12.8         12.8
I    -cremental          ql/ha             -                -           -          2.8          2.8                  -     -                 -            2.8          2.8
bacuzgace  Price             Eth$/ql            9.00               -          -           9.00         9.00               7.50          -           -           7.50         7.50
Wnion of Produotion          Eth$/ha            90.00              --                                   -                75.00          -           -             -           -
V.lIe of 1--rrietel Prod.  Eth$/ha                -                -                     25,20        25.20                -                        -          21.00         21.00
Iscrcnrtal Cost. of Prod.I/Eth$tha                -                -                      g 9.00       -00                 -                        -            9.00        9.00
Ionr_eotsl Wzet Revenue      EthO/ha             -                 -          -          I6.20       16.20                 _     -                  - _          0         12.00
Retoni on Erh$100 Invested  PthS                  -                -           -        280         290                    -            -           -          2318         234
F/ inldieg terrental labor cost,  nd inrr,- tal toss.  Ineldine tnta.re.ts on  snot Iomrns an,
.oot of bas.pl-nt orotaction and miscellaneous of Eth$ O.k/al.  Coat/he of harror arsrssd a" 201 of purchase price of EthS .h3.
;ly 2, 1973






ANNEX 11
Table 7
EThIOPIA
AOIICLTURAkL NmDUM  PACKAGE PMoJECT
F.aram Models
---Without Osoovati ---------            ------__W th Fertilizer___.______          With Fe-tiliesr & Improved Seed                       r H Iqr  de
lbs Cropsed         3ho Cropped          lbs Cropped        The Cropped           l'Da Croppe         3ha Cropped          Ihe Crosped       3he Croppod
1974      1985      1974      1985       1974      1985      1974      1985        1g74      1985      1974      1985       1974      1985     1974    1983
Area Cropped               he        1.00      1.00      3.00       3.00       1.00      1.00      3.00      3.00       1.00     1.00        3.00      3.00       1.00     1.00     3.00    3.00
Area meler ..reels         he        0.70      0.70      2.10      2.10        0.75      0.75      2.25       2 5       0.75     0.75        2.25      2.29       0.75     0.75     2.25    2.25
in%socroppediarea         %          70        70        70        70         75        75         75        75         75       75         75        75          75       75       75      75
Wheat  Area                he        0.07      o.14      0.21      o.42        o.o8      0.15      0.2'3     oyrJ       o.23     0.5      0.23        0.45       O.5      0.15    0.23      .45
in   of erell ae          %       10        20        10        20          10       20         10        20         10       20        10          20         10       20      10        22,
Production 3/            Kg     .e:3       126       189       378       1U0        210        320       620        130      250       390        760        IcO      ;'90     45-:    830
Peveaue                Cth$       10.20     20.20     30.70     6o.5o       2.70      4.90       7.10     14.8o       6.00    10.90     17.20       32.80      8.90     16.30   15.67    40.90
Teff  Area                 he        0.21      0.21      o.63      o.63       0.22      0.22       0.67      o.67       0.22     0.22       0.67       2.67      0.20      1.22    0.67    -1.61
n%of cerealarea           %       30        30        30        30         30         30        30        30         30       30        30          30        30        30      30        30
Productio- 3/            Kg      147       i47       441       44i        260       260       790        790        330      330       930        990        330       330     390      990
Reoeno                 Eth$       28.io    27.30      84.40     81.90      10.50      9.90      32.00     30.00     02.20    21.20      67.70       64.50     22.27     91.20   67.70    G42S
Mviao    Area              he        7.11      7.10      o.4p      7.31       0.15      0.17        45      0.34       0.15 2     . 0.0    .45        0.34      0.1       D.11    o         24,534
n % of cereal ares        9       ?0        15        20        15          0        15        20         0          20       15        20         19         20        15      20        15
Production 1/            Kg      210       150       630       463        390       200       1,170      88o        540      400     1,60         22         540       400        1,620  22.2
peoenoe                Fth$       17.20      9.80     51.70     30.40       3.90      0.80       11.70     2.60      n.90      4.80     35.6C       14.80     U. .91     4.8D   35.60    14.02
So-gh-m  Area              ha        2.11,     0.11      042       0.32       0.15      0.12        o.45     0.34       0.15     0.12      0.45        0.34      0.17      0.12    0. 4      0.34
O9f cer--l area           %       20        15        20        15         20         15         20       15         20       15        20          15        20        15      20        15
Pr-dortive 3/            Kg      168       132       5o4       384        330       260        990       750        330       260      990        750        4Do       320    1,200      910
Peve-ue                Kth$       20.20     11.20     6o.5o     32.60       8.40      2.50       25.20     7.10       8.40      2.50    27.20        7.10     15.50      6.22    46.60   17.61G
Barley   Area              ha        (4.14     0.1o      o.42      0.42       0.15      0.15        o.45     o.45       0.15      0.15      D.45       0.45      0.15      0.15      0.45    o.45
in , of oere. lare        %       20        20        20         20            20    20 20                 20        20            20  22  22^                          20        27      21
Production  /            Kg      14o       14o       420       42o        i4o                                       140 42o  ho  140  14o  423    420        130       190      536      580
Eove2r                 K.th$      12.60     10.50     37.80     31.50                                                                                          2 _  -  -  -  _  -  _  2.4o  i.8o  7.30    5.40
Veluy of sreal.
Pr-d-ctice  h/ 3249                 88,-      79,-    265,-    237,-          -         .                              .          -        -
Net Valus of Inerremetal       _               -    _  
Production |             Eth$                                                26.-    16.-           78.-    55.-       49.-       39.-  i46.-        1>5.-       61.-    50.-    183.-   151.-
Value of Total CroD
Production 3/             2th$    126.-    113.-        39o,-    34o.-        -        -             -      -          -           -      -           -                                      -
Incrooettal Tamer        Fth$                                                                                                             12.-       12-                             12.-    12.-
Increpental Hired 1nb4r Kt4$       -         -           -       -            -        -            26,-  23.-        -            -      40.-       37.-       -        -           46.-   44,-
Not Value of Total Crop
Produetise 3/            3th2     l16.-    O9.-       268 -      22h.        -        -             -      -          _           _      _          _          _        _           _       -
Home Ceeauaption  /      nh$      114,-    108-                  10.-  oo8.-  U4.-    104.-        114.-  loB._       114.-       108.-  114.-      108.-    114.-       108.-     u4.-   1o.- 
Not Cash(Deficit)        Eth$       2.-    ( 5.-       154.-    120.-         08.-    13.-         206.-   152 -       51.-        34.-  248.-      190.-    63 V        45 2J Z79.-   215.-
Storage Pet Savisgs      Eth$      i.-       i4.-       15.-       i4.-       15.-     14,_         y5.      14.-       15.-       14.-   15.        14.-      15.-       14.-      15.-   l1.-
Net Cash rOth Isprovo
Strage                   30th$     17.-       9-       169.-    134.-         43.-    27.-         221.-    166.-       66,-       48.-  263.-    204.-         78.-      59.-     294.-   229.-
Total Cereal Production    kg     728       695      2,184      2,088      1,230    i,I60        3,690     3,460    1,470       1,380   4,41o     4,140     1,6Z0      1,530     4,840    4,58o
/   After loreseetsl Cost of Production (Fertilizer, Seeds, Harroco, Pegs, Plant proteotlus), after interests 'n impot
lorns, before incremetsl Post of labor
A/ Aesruig that Value of Productiop of Ares c-der poises,                flte, vegetables or fodder crops equals that of
osloprored cereal,.
3     After Taxes,  -ost of bage, hired labor. Aesm:ing that hire  of o.ee by The facm be .o-peneatd by hiring ou. faly labor.
5/   i60 kg cereal.s/adlt, 4.1 edults/fsailyallo-ieg for 25% storage Ioe.ee
U    Assuming that hlrfow be -sed o- lk: th-ree fa-err  to  chars harr--. Otber-i"e cost of The far increases by Eth$5/year.
May 2, 1973



ANNEX 11
Table b
AGnkICULTUA.L tlrfI4kFM PACOIAUE ?ttJjST
Far:ners Annual Net Cash Income-/
Area Under Crops                                          1 ha          as            3ha           as*
of                          Of
Year                                                 1974     1985      1974      1974      1985      1974
Without Innovations                         Eth$              2        (5)1                154        120      78%
With Improved Storage              Lth$              17         9       53%       169        134       79%
Increment due to Storage                                                           l %  10%   11%
With Fertilizer                             Eth$             28        13        47*       206        152     74%
Increment due to Fertilizer            %                                           34%        27%
With Fertilizer,and Imp.Storage  Eth$                43       27        63%       221        166      75%
Increment due to Storage               %             53%     108%                   7%         9%
Incremental to W/o Innovatiors         %                                           44%        38%
With Fertilizer and Seeds                   Eth$            51]         34       67%       248        190      77%
Increment due to Seeds                 %            82%       260%                20%         25%
Incremental to W/O Innovations j                                                  61%        58%
With Fertilizer,Seeds,and
Improved Storage                   Eth$            66           48      73%      263        204       78%
Increment due to Storage               %            29%         41%                6%         7%
Incremental to W/O Innovations V    %                                             71%        70%
With Fertilizer,Seeds and Harrow            fth$            63          45       71%      279        215       76%
Increment due to Harrow                            24X          32*               13%        13%
Incremental to W/O Innovations         %                                          81%        79%
With Fertilizer,Seeds ,E!arov
and Improved Storage               P44%            78          59       76%      294        229       78%
Increment due to Storage               %            24*         31%                5%         6%
.ncrementaa. to wio Innovations 3/   %                                            91%        91%
I/   Owner-Operator Income after home consumption and debt service on credit for innovations.
Tenants income would be between half and two-thirds of that, if landlord shares in
costs of inputs.
2!   Deficit to be covered by hiring out family labor or by decreasing home consumption by 5%
3/   Incremental percentage relates to income without innovations as found in line 1.  Net
Cash Income of 1 ha W/O Innovation too small to express increments in percent.
February, 1973



ANNEX 12
Page 1
ETHIOPIA
AGRICULTURAL MINIMUM PACKAGE PROJECT
Budgetary Implications
1.        The implications of the Minimum Package Program for Government
budget are four-fold:
(a) Taxes and other recurrent revenues from farm inputs and other
Project costs, as well as taxes on increased output and
agricultural income tax will increase government revenues,
as will income from that part of the IDA credit on-lent to
AIDB Bank;
(b) External inflows will arise from the IDA credit, as well as
from SIDA assistance - the probability and the amount of other
external assistance are as yet unknown;
(c) The recurrent costs of the extension and support services in
MP areas, and the maintenance of penetration and farm to
market roads will have to be met by increased Government
spending after the end of the Project period;
(d) The planned expansion 1/ of the Program and the present
anticipated external finance mean that a large part of the
Program will require investments after the period of IDA
financing and may have to rely entirely on Government
financing.
2.   Recurrent Revenues
These arise from several sources:
(a)  Taxes on farm inputs and other Project costs:  a turnover tax
of 2%, a transaction tax of 5% on locally manufactured goods
and an income tax and education tax element estimated at 3%;
1/   The FY 1974-76 slice of the program financed by IDA implies the establish-
ment of 88 MP areas by 1979. See main text.



ANNEX 12
Page 2
(b)  Agrlcultural income tax:  the marginal tax rate is about 1%
for the lowest income brackets and 6% for the highest.1/
The mission has assumed that 3% of the incremental net farm
benefit will be collected as tax;
(c)  Taxes on consumer goods:  on the basis of the prevailing tax
inci,dence on various consumer goods, a marginal tax rate of
2% 14as been applied to net incremental farm earnings;
(d)  On-1ending of IDA funds:  Government will receive interest
and principal on loans made to finance its handling of inputs
(feztilizer). The terms of on-lending to AIDB bank are
expegted to be 7-1/4% interest, repayment over 15 years.
3.        The revenues from these various sources amount to Eth$2.5 million
in 1980 and Eth$4.6 million by 1990.
4.   Recurrent Expenditure
The following categories are to be distinguished:
(a)  The recurrent expenditure for EPID headquarters and extension
staff and the Cooperative Development Department relate mainly
to salaries, but include also other costs except for clear-cut
investments such as buildings;
(b)  Maintenance of the road network to be constructed under the
Program will build rapidly during the later years;
(c)  The debt service on the IDA credit;
(d)  Financing of the increment in the revolving fund for
fertilizers.
-7            Marginal Tax Rates of Agricultural Income Tax
Medium                      Increase
Taxable                  Medium              Marginal
Income         Tax        Income    Tax      Tax Rate
150        1.50           150     1.50        1.0%
39.0       6.00           240     4.50        1.9%
540        18.00          150    12.00        8.0%
660       24.00           120     6.00        5.0%
840       33.00           180     9.00        5.0%
1,080       45.00           240    12.00        5.0%
1,350       60.00           270    15.00        5.6%
1,650       75.00           300    15.00        5.0%
1,850       90.00           300    15.00        5.0%
2,250       108.00          300    18.00        6.0%



ANNEX 12
Page 3
5.        These categories of recurrent claims on Government budget will
amount to Eth$16.2 million in 1980 and Eth$15.9 million in 1990.
6.        In principle, it would be desirable that recurrent Government income
and expenditure would be in reasonable balance. The nature of the proposed
Project is however such that there is a large discrepancy between income and
expenditure. This will mean a heavy pressure on Government budget, but is
considered to be within Government's capacity to handle.
7.        Government will probably be looking for additional external finance
for the period after disbursement of the IDA credit and the SIDA assistance,
not only for partial financing of the revenue gap, but also to finance the
investments in, or attributable to, NP areas for which the foundations are
laid during the IDA financed period.  These investments (buildings and roads)
amount to some Eth$50 million for the period 1977-86. At this stage it is
uncertain how much, if any, will be financed by external aid. Discussions
appear to be under way between Ethiopia and the People's Republic of China
for road construction, and also between Ethiopia and the UK.
8.        Table 1 shows the Government's projected cash flow for 1974-1992.
Several of the elements of this flow are subject to change, and will ueed
to be up-dated in the course of the Project.
May 4, 1973






ETHIIOPIA
AGRICULTIURAL MINIMUM PA(KAGE PROJ8CT
Govertment Cash Flow
(Eth$ '000)
1974      1975     1976      1977      1978      1979      1980      1981      1982      1983      1984      1965      1986      1987      1988      1989      1990      1991       1992
SWJaCES OP PUNDS
Taxes from  - Project Costs                340       490       740       890    1,040        970    1,090    1,180    1,320    1,340    1,370    1,370    1,360    1,340    1,340              1,340     1,340     1,34n      1, 31r
- Project Benefits              22        46       120       241       423       645       901    1,185    1,482      1,779     2,040    2,251    2,414    2,520    2,607          2,686    2,738      2,7f,9    2,'9C
IDA Credit                               9,974   13,598   19,836         -         -         -         -
ELDA                                     2,000    2,000        500       -         -         -              -         -         -         -              -         -         -         -         -         -          -         -
AIDB Loan Services                          148       299      470       470       470       470    1,005    1,004    1,005    1,004    1,005    1,004    1,005    1,004             1,005     1,004
TOTAL SOURCES                        12.484   16,433   21,666  1.60           1 1.933  2.085    2.99 6    3.369  3.807    4.123    4.415             ,       ' 9    4864 4952    5,030    _4,78 4.109                       _ !
APPLICATION OF FUNDS
Programe Cost (excl. farm inputs)   12,799   16,503   24,101   20,697   22,873   17,497   18,292   18,876   19,915   18,083   17,483   16,833   16,133   15,383   15,383   15,383    15,383   15,383    15,385
Loan to AIDB                             1,668    2,205    2,608         -         -         -         -         -         -         -
IDA Credit Service                           75       177      326       326       326       326       326       326       326       542       541       539       536       536       534        533       531       530       528
AIDB's Cash Deficiti/                       -         -         -      1,848    3,749    1,899    2,337        2,163    1,832    1,677    1,174          582    1,593        728        752       -         -         -          -
TOTAL APPLICATIOtNS                  14,542   18.885   27,035   22.871   26.948   19,722   20,955   21,365   22.073   20,302   19,198   17.954   18.264   16,647    16,669   15.916   15,914    15,913    15_911
NET INFLMI /(C7TFt9)                 (2,058)  (2.452)  (5,369) (21,270) (25,015) (17.637) (17.959) (17,9963 (18.266) (16.1793  (14.783) (13.329) (13.485) (11,783) (11.717) (10.886) (11,8363  (11,804) (11.781)
/   It is assumed that Goverment vill finance AIDE's cah deficits arising from the
programe (see Ann- 4, Table 1).
April 30, 1973.






ANNEX 13
Page 1
ETHIOPIA
AGRICULTURAL MINIMUMI PACKAGE PROJECT
Foreign Exchange Implications
1.        Foreign exchange costs of the Minimum Package Program would rise
rapidly from about Eth$5 million in 1974 to a stable level of about Eth$20
million per year from 1982 onwards. Supply and demand projections for the
more desirable food grains (wheat and teff) show a growing shortfall which
will only partially be met by the incremental MP production. If it is
assumed that the total incremental output from the Program would replace
grain imports, the foreign exchange value would rise from Eth$4 million in
1974 to about Eth$40 million per year after 1985 (Table 1). However, in view
of the strained balance of payment situation, it is by no means certain that
government would allow the full extent of the local grain deficit to be met
by imports.
2.        It would be more realistic to assume that one half of Ethiopia's
estimated cereal deficiency would be imported. Table 2 shows the foreign
exchange implications assuming that this is purchased both with, and without
the Program. In the peak year (1980) of the Program, Ethiopia would save
Eth$4 million in foreign exchange; by 1990 the saving would be Eth$27 million.
May 4, 1973






ETNIOPLA
AGRTCULTURAL MIYU3UM  PACKAGE PROJECT
Foreign Exchange Costs and Export Value of OutDut
(EthS '000)
5/                     ~~~~~~~Foreign  7
- E1  -----------------                           Roads------                          Exchange -
obs. 2/       Dem. 3/      MP. 3/   Co-oP  4/    arn        Pene-                 Total    Value of                     Balance
Ih.Q-      Areas -       Areas 2Areas-   Dev.Dept    Highway   tratisn    Inputs    Costs                 Out 't        Balance      (USJ '000)
1971             406          25           154           211        -           -           -           132       928         334         (594)          (287)
1972             669           6           267           300        -           -           -           275    1,517          701          (816)         (394)
1973           1,206           6           223           167        -           -           -           721    2,3Z3        1,835          (488)         (236)
1974           1,885           6           223         1,025        56          504         -         1,440    5,139        3,673       (1,466)          (708)
1975           1,790           6           223         1,126        65        1,039         924       2,490    7,663        6,442       (1,221)          (589)
1976           1,358           6           223         1,299        74        1,648       4,238       3,716   12,562        9,832       (2,730)        (1,318)
1977           1,309           2           223         1,481       128        2,320       4,413       5,137   15,013       13,738        (1,275)         (615)
1978           1.346                       223         1,587       137        3,013       4,588       6,684   17,578       18,053          475            229
1979           1,157          -             -          1,693       146        3,237         563       8,263   15,059       22,586        7,527          3,633
1980           1,157          -             -          1,754       200        3,465         563       9,846   16,985       27,112        10,127         4,888
1981           1,157          -             -          1,801       209        3,640         563      11,305   18,675       31,088        12,413         5,991
1982           1,157          -             -          1,846       217        3,815         563      12,507   20,105       34,307        14,202         6,854
1983           1,157          -                        1,171       217        3,430         563      13,430   19,968       36,790        16,822         8,119
1984           1,157          -             -          1,171       217        3,010         563      13,999   20,117       38,400        18,283         8,824
1985           1,157          -             -          1,171       217        2,555         563      14,363   20,026       38,928        18.902         9,123
1986           1,157          -             -          1,171       217        2,065         563      14,582   19,755       40,936        21,18t        10,222
1987           1,157          -             -          1,171       217        1,540         563      14,778   19,426       41,726        22,300        10,762
1988           1,157          -             -          1,171       217        1,540          563      14,806   19,454      42,197        22,743        10,976
1989           1,157          -             -          1,171       217        1,540         563       14,814   19,462      42,510        23,048        11,124
1990           1,157          -             -          1,171       217        1,540          563      14,809   19,457      42,702        23,245        11,219
I/  43% of investment and 45% of operating costs.
2/  47% of farm equipment, 16'A of farm  supplies and 40% of "other office costs`.
3/  44% office equipment, 47% of farm equipment, 75% of vehicles, investment and operating costs, 40% of "other office costs", 16% of house maintenance.
4/  75% of motor vehicle investment and operating cost, 52% of office furniture, 40% of "other office costs",                                                         H >
5/  70% Of all costs._
6/  See Annex 9  Table 11-15.                                                                                                                                         r 
7/  80% of farmgate value-as prices for imported grain are lower than local grain.  In 1970, agricultural imports were Eth$ 42 million,                                  -
representing 10% of total imports.  Imports of cereal production were about Eth$ 10 million in 1970.
April 30, 1973



ETHIOPIA
AG,RICULTURAL MINIMUM PACKAGE PROJECT
Program Foreign Exchange Implications
Aisijming One-Half of Cereal Deficienc Imported
__With Program-
-Without Program-
Foreign Exchange Costs   Savings in
Projecteu                   N.PP        Projected                  MP Program   Foreign
Cereal              Cereal                Incremental       Cereal                    and grain    Exchange from
Deficiencal/              t                  Production      IMport    MP Program    Imports          Project
('000                                      (t00o
Year       tons)      (Eth$t000)Z(Eth$coo0)            tons) (Eth$'000) -Eth$'O0O)-
19714/      37.4         4,525       1,493           3.3           417      1,076           928          2,OO4         (511)
1975       161.4        19,659       9,829          62.0         8,052       1,777       7,663           9,440          389
1980       331.1        39,004      19,502         265.8        33,890         -        16,985          16,985        2,517
1985       549.1        61,77T      30,887         411.9        49,66o        -         20,026          20,,026      10,861
1990       812.6        91,41.7     45,708         431.8        53,378        -         19,457          19,1457      26,251
1/   As defined in Annex 2,Table 4.
2/   Cereal deficiency is assumed to be 50% wheat, 50% maize, at farmgate prices.
Shows net foreign exchange costs or savings as a result of the Program.
Actual.
a ,
May 8, 1973



ANNEX 14
Page 1
ETHIOPIA
AGRICULTURAL MINIMUM PACKAGE PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return
1.        The figures used to calculate the economic rate of return are set
out in the attached Table.
2.        The assumptions and adjustments made in calculating economic costs
were as follows:
(a) EPID Headquarter Costs - excluded from the economic cost are:
(i) applied research, animal husbandry group and home
economic group - these relate to future innovations
of which no account is taken in the benefits;
(ii) 10% of the balance remaining after deducting (i), for
the time and costs incurred on other projects (CADU,
WADU) for which EPID has responsibility;
(iii) permanent working capital for AIDB;
(iv) the fund for marketing credit - as no benefits are
included and in view of the experimental nature of
the component;
(v) taxes, taken as 2% of the remaining balance.
(b) EPID Observation and Demonstration Areas - a deduction of about
2% has been made for taxes.
(c) In view of the high rate of unemployment throughout the Project
area, the cost to the economy of unskilled labor for road
construction and maintenance will be zero in terms of foregone
production. Consequently, a shadow wage rate of zero has been
used. The same applies to incremental farm labor, family and
hired, on participating farms.
(d) EPID MP Areas - excluded from the economic cost are:
(i) the cost of home economics services (benefits also
excluded);



ANNEX 14
Page 2
(ii) cost of extension services in MP areas would be reduced
in year seven by 20% and from year nine onwards by 40% -by
which time initial innovations would have been introduced.
After this date extension staff would be concerned with
new innovations not part of the Project;
(iii) 2%, for taxes, of the costs after deducting (i) and
(ii) above.
(e) Cooperative Development Department - 2%, for taxes, has been
deducted from the total cost.
(f) Farm-to-Highway and Penetration Roads - reductions of 25% and
40% respectively have been made, representing:
(i) unskilled labor shadow priced at zero -- 15% of total
cost;
(ii) taxes - 1% of total cost;
(iii) benefits outside Project - 9% or 24% of total cost
respectively.
(g) Fertilizer prices per ton (D&P Eth$310, Urea Eth$250) represent
international cif and local distribution costs but exclude taxes,
charges, interest, bad debt and EPID services.
(h) Improved Seeds - reductions of 20% to 30% have been made in
respect of the estimated tax and financing elements.
(i) Improved Harrows - the costs of these are not material
(about 1/2 of 1% of the total cost of inputs) and, therefore, no
adjustment has been made.
(j) On-farm Storage - a round figure deduction averaging a little
under 5% has been made in respect of taxes.
(k) Miscellaneous - these costs include pesticides, bagging and
small tools; an adjustment of about 5% has been made in respect
of taxes.
(1) Incremental Stocks of Fertilizer - it is assumed that inventories
will equal 15% of the fertilizer purchased in any year.
3.        Project benefits were derived from incremental production including
savings from improved on-farm storage, valued at the farm gate prices shown
in Annex 2, Table 9.



ANNEX 14
Page 3
4.        With these assumptions, the Project's economic rate of return is
estimated at 15%. An increase of 20% in the cost of inputs would lower the
return to 10%; an increase of 10% in benefits would raise it to 20%; a
combination of these two factors would give an economic return of 16%.
May 7, 1973






ETHIOPIA
AGRICULTURAL MINIMUM PACKAGE PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return Calculation
(Eth$'000)
___________________--____--_______-- - -C------ Costs-
Incremental
EPID                         Coop.                   Roads                              Stocks of       Totai                            Net
H        Obs. Areas Dem. Areas   M  Areas   Dev. Dep.  Farm-Highway  Penetration               Inputs      Fertilizer    Costs            benefits        Benefits
1971            -             306         280            870          -              -            -               200           27         2,470               417           (2,053)
1972            -             285         522         1,727           -              -            -               422           28         4,281               876           (3,405)
1973            -             285         458         2,367           -              -            -             1,089           90         6,374             2,294           (4,080)
1974          3,178           285         458         3,917          146            540           -             2,189          141        10,854             4,591           (6,263)
1975          3,046           285         458         4,994          227         1,114            792           3,776          204        14,896             8,052           (6,844)
1976          2,540           285         458         5,732          308          1,766         3,633           5,688          235        20,645            12,290           (8,355)
1977          2,441           143         458         6,578          439          2,486         3,783           7,868          265        24,461            17,172           (7,289)
1978          2,514            -          458         7,267          520         3,227          3,933          10,217          282        28,418            22,566           (5,852)
1979          2,142            -           -          7,705          601         3,469            483          12,570          291        27,261            28,233             (972)
1980          2,142            -           -          7,519          743         3,712            483          15,091          284        29,974            33,890            3,916
1981          2,142            -           -          7,359          824         3,900            483          17,332          254        32,294            38,660            6,566
1982          2,142            -           -          7,153          895         4,068            483          19,194          199        34,134           42,884             8,750
1983          2,142            -           -           6,432         895         3,650            483          20,639          146        34,387           45,988            11,601
1984          2,142            -           -          6,094          895         3,225            483          21,481           81        34,401            48,000           13,599
1985          2,142            -           -           5,756         895          2,738           483          22,077           49        34,140            49,660           15,520
1986          2,142            -           -           5,512         895          2,212           483          22,424           27        33,695            51,170           17,475
1987          2,142            -           -          4,896          895          1,650           483          22,611           11        32,688            52,158           22,440
1988          2,142            -           -           4,896         895          1,650           483          22,661           -         32,727            52,746           20,019
1989          2,142            -           -          4,896          895          1,650            483         22,682           -          32,748           53,137           20,389
1990          2,142            -           -           4,896         895          1,650            483         22,686           -         32,752            53,378           20,626
1991          2,142            -           -           4,896         895          1,650            483         22,635           -          32,701           53,496           20,795
1992          2,142            -           -           4,896         895          1,650            483         22,560           -          32,626           53,503           20,877
1993-95       2,142            -           -           4,896         895          1,650            483         22,560           -          32,626           53,503           20,877
Economic rate of return   14.90% over 25 years
April 30, 1973






ETHIOPIA
AGRICULTURAL MINIMUM PACKAGE PROJECT
EXTENSION AND PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION DEPARTMENT (EPID), MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE
ORGANIZATION CHART
INTER- MINISTERIAL
COMMITTEE FOR
COMPIEHENSIVE  h*iu9       h      uE hihIihihtihiuui1iuEihi u immIIIhIhIIEluuE   MINISTER OF AGRICULTURE
AND MP PROJECTS
COOPERATION WITH
AIDBVAIMS           uuuu..u...          HAD FE
IMPERIAL HIGHWAY AUTHORITY
LIVESTOCK AND MEAT BOARD
DEPUY HADS  um.u.munmuuu.COOPERATION WITH RESEARCH AND
TRAINING INSTITUTIONS
LIAISON COMMITE                                                                                                            I
WITH COMPREHENSIVE |9|"1    LIAISON DIVISION                                                           EXTENSIONDI VISION "uum                 u9h mCMNSRIE
PROJECTS                                                                                      IICOMMON SERVICES
I        -                l~                                            DIVISION
111311              - hIIfl|IUIIUlE3IuIl                                                                                                        ACCOUNTING
_____ ____ ____ ____ _____ ____ ____ ____ _____ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _IN T ER NAINT LNAL A U DI
SMALLHOLDER  AWASAVALLEY  H I  I> l  I< 1     I<    1      [ >H                                 LEGAL QUESTIONS
COMMEnCIAL             ANIMAL ~~~~~~~AROOM               IMARKETING            HOECOOPERATIVE                    STAFF SERVICES
SMALLHOLDER  PROJECTS        R   P         HUSBANIMAL     I                      AND CREDIT        ECONOMICS        PRtOMOTION
MALLERPROJECTS                            GROUPVALEYGROUP                                        GRUIGOP                             RU
PROJECTS         AUTHORITY
NORTH WESTERN
LOWLANDS
,   SHASHAMANE                                                   REGIONAL COORDINATORS
MP AREA SUPERVISOR
MARKET CENTER:
Agent
Assist. Agent
Marketing Assistnt
World Bank - 7378 (R)






BRD- 10231
l   i   56'                  '"0.49                                                                          44'                                                    FEBRUARY  073
3 JX  '    v                                                      AGRICULTURAL MINIMUM PACKAGE PROJECT
r \  ff                                                                                Minimum Package Areas as of Nov 1972
=~~~~~~~~~~~~~nn-.                                                                                                             -1 -. Ag oltena  lt ozone Rourroarice          Commer ci terme  g rnels
es ,< -a -,.                                                                                                                                     I  Forsern higri ends             *    Reqonal rtr-es-ea n  onr Cor mcagty
-  II Centre W Sourirens nr3grr ends         dsotrions
i  t   2   _:   t  45                                      .    t j  m Western Highlands                 *    Rese-rnh scb-str Ons
I/                                                                                            21.orthern  t Easrern Low e4ds    A    Assoc-ate reseoarch stot ens   in
ant Ursen4                            i              j                  53                                        5                                    Sutheer Lo-1-nds                      Proposed essr--   sob-stations
!250                                                                                                                               A A    Proposed eepnrienenta1 sites
I 3    <  t  , /         A.L, *o?  /                                                              FOhret .6 ril Imeters               M    nimrrr-  Packtgee Ars 1971
6\'         a                      A J A *                                                                 1500 metet geerai..sed ncet-nr   LF/,l 0 tiom  PF-koge Arern 1972
/ e-                                                                                                      Proino  condr ese1nonstraon Aros    1072
S U D A N   ~~~~~~~~~~,                           *i~~~~ 3        /                                                   ite-nti-e  BoUnd-ie                     Senr A -,i197
s    u    D   A    N                                                                                                     0~38  , N    Pro-icia  Cep tars             Conpennens- Feo1ect
>                  2       t381            ~~~~~~~/',rr "S i)- 2   R'  ,t - .  49                                    - c  Se ineca  Capira                      a)    bserectionr Areos
etir'remere                                                            '9 .,   H   ,   R.           NAMES OFNUMBERE L-ATEOiE         MASOF NUMBERED LOCATIONS
t   1>   F   =: -  >;   OMekf e  E9  -                    MtINIMUMeesetEkAC-E  A    -EA i  DEMONETRATION AREee
5                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~         ~       ~~~~~INDASELASSr   t   -  Aet aset
-y p. 9ma,                          FYXMetemi  X 5  7  DIrR  j,   66                  .eAM.ADUA                                               Ak.                   ADGaAT
.   ~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                                  aa~V         NDAR   ,.WMKELE
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oo     d -? J   A                                                                                  ..... T 2b  }Ew7    RwAi OELb
i t  /9!                                                                           costs'e    -.                                                          E 4,Q   HAIK-wtetLDA  7  Y        eAY
.-A           0                  E      ERHAN HA
W,r    -F                                         <FLUNDO                                  0                 BUTIeRstA
: g:|00 < < $ Q < : \ 2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-T                                                                          11            S      HSEDKE Et
-'1- /W     (0- (.                                                                                                                                  DIGGA Bj    NAEEREA Is            A-   TESERA
A                                                       --aDEMNE   41
' gE   J   (7    - 4   '-   E   Xoa 31; h211                    A B E  s =s
NI Ii                            Wr'n-!   ,    , -  E-AA d                - H.;
L          E SS550 Y iiMonCic5A e4 _                                                      ,  OoE 3
4  <                W .3PF< r/                            6             t7/ FIrennac e,7,9   ARU.O      ,I                 -\
7:                                                                    itS        f                                                                                                       2c  / 
1.~  c0                                       it    j) /y               cco WeSOAcEte >21t/s                                                                                                        >    ~      4     _
240tSglUiD~~~~ Ac,n-'  PUSS;  _                                                               -           \                                                         ;r'l2'                           /}
k                                                                   car      \\  _6'            5 ,,  >  Ro_ pFi  '9                                                                               /   5-!-
-7 /--t J    . 7'4' '                          -
l~~~~~~ ThUrANrDA                                                           it KEN /t&-t-?Sl    > 
ro*  I   -)  F  A   A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~>       6            B         A          L~~~~H  A            A    O R0                                         APE
L   LiAN'B "'                                                         I           A  MO
is~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s
sOO                                                      005n~~~~~~"k 1
UGANDA                                               K~ ~~ ~~ ~~~~~~~ EA           ~                              L'    -oEca'n    er~~
epssecar9tpcscaaetr,t       Et       -      -






IBD- 10232
;6                                       4.~~~~~~~~~~~~oD                                          R                                                       FEBRUARY FY13
                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ETHI OPIA
/                                               ~~~~~~~AGRICULTURAL MINIMUM PACKAGE PROJECT
RAINFED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT
AND GRAIN STORAGE PROGRAMS
-       All -carYa rodsDeet  deoloperpYe
P     I                 F               -- -- Al I-toher roads A,der -Wrsent-O   I  ChsFaAAgrI-AluraI D-oelpmr Du,t(RADUF
.......All -eaMa r-od, propose.d       2  FRYIoraSodd. A,rculrure D.eospror  l,r IWADIJF
1.                                                             _______ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Dry .eother rods  32  H--rrr AFrIYAI   Deoelp-rrt ProeI,I(HADPF
.o-.---.-EoFrYoda            ~~~~~~4 Coffeoo-hlr.r  Frp -rae
0   FrY--SI  -arirole             2        Ado
'~~~~~~~SUDAN             -$~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-- N~R1
OoAd.                                                                                 STODADEI PLaE                   'OAD    YYWrERD
(                                          -j~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                 I~~~~~~~~. ADS S DrAE  NEEDY SI 0l  DA30  WOYFIYN  Sr- 
,>  or                                                                   K                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~      ~       ~~2SASS  -YAA IS,0DAF    1  WAB-AUSE
I                           .~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                   F. DOFF~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l~S AYAYD IA-ASIEOF  -M AFa  AYDYDASL
SLeerI                                                           F ADS S ASADA DEMO lETS S.)   Y1.A0       AEDE
(f  ,     DIDr              I                                 Argo,                                        RODS SYAR  IADDR  -ETEAF        "I      I AOYD
'IMrIr.,o  .                                        .             A.oob                0.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d ISSLLAS  I.0      OEDSE
,  .                       ,                                                                               Y.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 A550MW  rOSa ASFOYSE & SFO
-h-4,                                                            WOAHWOA                          rIAR    IU-
-'.3''  Orrrrro                        F            f             F           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~       ~        ~ ~~~~~~10. DARER YIARSY  23  SIFYS
FOR    OFoF~~~~~~~~r,,, F ~~~~~~~~            /           ' ~~~12 RIF DA.A                                   -50     DSESOUSE
.---'~~~~~~~   UoE,eroo.,,  ~~~~~~~~~~F. T. ALL                                    15. DSER                          r..A.FFEDSE
.1                                                                        Doodo,,  Ao,Iro     ~ ~ ~~~    5015                 FE SIRS                           F FDa   PFOFEDDSRE & SILOS ~  F-E 
-Nj-                                                                                                                            A SYNYAR                         F DDE    AAFERDLYE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ IS-
SSoroo  OAF.                       C.,~~~~~~~~~~~~II                            2.      A-      pm~
Fr ,ool. OR   /  . ~~~~D         J. .        '        10RESTDE                           CA tflp
sr,errte      MOF    --o,           Morro,,           ocTem~~ ~~~~~~~~~~ CA 
2    ODD   aT~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,
-  FOD                . 'I,s.os                                                                                                                  3
a-ltlc,U   A  ~  ~   RD~'                                                                                                                                                          Fl',,, 
1 A     -            o o,                                
UGANDA  '                    'K                                               -V~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~m                                          d 
RadI       K                                 ye          '         /-e~A






IRRD-109.1
>                 33^                  :      +3              1 ' g 9O                                              or                                              FE.3RUARY ,973
t.  i  i                                    ,                                     ETHIOPIA
AGRICULTURAL MINIMUM PACKAGE PROJECT
MAJOR FOOD CROP ECONOMIES
Red \m   t'E 2  r Fin'Enln3uSLu,iUiSl rij                 uro;J-,r  Sorgh-r / baley
9]?  pI;!eRSt. ?3    5                    ;                          -                             #   g v~3    Teff /boarley
K~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~<                   t              3-'Fj   z. \          9M     n;                                                           fOiae / 5rafum
ITz, I Ioghue.
i  )           ! X      ->- -  =df7sS    =Ts  n   c         *                          )                        _ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- Barey/wheat
dartoum   \  ZE-Nm  =  i  <  ! *1e TrEd llondl nomcdSc livestock ured~~~~~~~~Tod lorl nmadc ~hStCk re
X  .?:'SS:-. my .:   t;t,;S                 et.S   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~; ~500 maten contourt gnerolizea
A S   U   D                                                                  A                                                                  N , u tbU.>x 0  o Pr~v,rc,olupIS
XB' _ , a;;tX R ._._.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NInnternat ona bound:res3
'   .w      S/ 5 R '3Eg ,>z'.-u>  ,   i                   fi !  '.. ;t  ,     \           ,,                  
, ) ,, j , ( ; /tt ~~~~~~~~Gulf   of  r4den
R,--
/f LoRk | * i,~~~~~~~~~ 0                                                       FT AI;QfX'- 
por~~~~~oi~~                                                               SO~~  M             M A L    I A
U-W                                                                                                                                                              E k.



