CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 416 ET
Project Agreement
(Agricultural Minimum Package Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
AGRICULTURAL AND INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK S.C.
DATED JULY 5, 1973


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 416 ET
Project Agreement
(Agricultural Minimum Package Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
AGRICULTURAL AND INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK S.C.
DATED JULY 5, 1973


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 5, 1973, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association), and
AGRICULTURAL AND INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK S.C. (hereinafter
called AIDB).
WHEREAS by a development credit agreement (Agricultural Minimum
Package Project) of even date herewith (hereinafter called the Development Credit
Agreement) between the Empire of Ethiopia (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
the Association, the Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an
amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty one million dollars
($21,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit
Agreement, but only on condition that AIDB agrees to undertake such obligations
toward the Association as hereinafter set forth; and
WHEREAS AIDB, in consideration of the Association's entering into the
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement
and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. AIDB shall, in cooperation with EPID, carry out or cause to
be carried out Part A.1 and Part A.2 of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
the Development Credit Agreement in accordance with the provisions of Section
2.02 of this Agreement, all with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate agricultural, administrative and financial practices.


﻿4
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, Part A of the
Project shall be carried out as follows:
(i)         AIDB shall procure or cause to be procured in accordance with
the provisions set forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of the
Development Credit Agreement, and sell to the Project farmers,
the farm inputs included in Part A.1 of the Project. Sales shall
be made according to the needs of each Project farmer, as
recommended by EPID. Delivery of said inputs to individual
Project farmers shall be made through EPID acting as AIDB's
agent, and the purchase price shall be paid in cash to EPID for
the account of AIDB. The prices charged by AIDB to Project
farmers for such farm inputs shall be determined in agreement
with EPID.
(ii)        Delivery of said farm inputs to the Project farmer who does
not pay his purchase price in cash shall be made only after
(1) EPID has established his creditworthiness, (2) a Seasonal
Loan Agreement has been signed and delivered between the
Project farmer and AIDB financing part of the purchase price
of said farm inputs, and (3) the farmer has paid in cash the
balance of that purchase price not financed under the Seasonal
Loan. The terms and conditions of Seasonal Loans shall be in
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.03 of this
Agreement. After th. harvest, EPID staff shall collect for the
account of AIDB principal of and interest on the Seasonal Loans.
(iii)       The Borrower shall make available through EPID the extension
services required by Project farmers. EPID and AIDB shall enter
into a minimum package administration agreement governing the
relationships between EPID and AIDB in the carrying out of
Part A of the Project.
(iv)        The farm inputs purchased by or on behalf of AIDB for sale
to Project farmers shall be financed by AIDB under loans. The
principal amounts of such loans shall be the equivalent in
currency of the Borrower of the amounts in various currencies
(including the Borrower's currency) paid for such farm inputs,
such equivalent to be determined as of the respective dates on
which such loan amounts shall be disbursed by AIDB. Said loans


﻿5
shall bear interest at the rate of eight and one-half per cent
(8-1/2%) per annum on their principal amounts outstanding from
time to time.
Section 2.03. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, Seasonal
Loans shall finance not less than seventy-five per cent (75%) of the cost of farm
inputs, shall mature within a period of nine months after their date, and shall
bear interest at the rate of one per cent (1%) per month on the principal amount
outstanding; interest shall be payable upon final maturity of the principal amount;
Seasonal Loans shall incur no other charges.
(b)   AIDB    shall review  annually  with  the Borrower, EPID     and the
Association the adequacy of the maximum portion of the cost of farm inputs
which may be covered by Seasonal Loans, in order to determine whether such
maximum coverage is conducive to achieving the benefits expected to be derived
from the Project.
Section 2.04. AIDB shall, if the aggregate principal amount which is overdue
under its Seasonal Loans made to farmers in any minimum package area included
in the Project exceeds ten per cent (10%) of the aggregate principal amount of
all its loans made to Project farmers in that area for the previous cropping season,
consult with the Association as to the advisability of suspending the extension
of further credit facilities in that area.
Section 2.05. (a) AIDB undertakes to insure, or make adequate provision
for the insurance of, the imported farm inputs to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery
thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable to replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association may otherwise agree, all farm inputs financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to AIDB by the Borrower shall be made
available exclusively to Project farmers.
Section 2.06. (a) AIDB shall furnish to the Association promptly upon their
preparation, the procurement schedules for Part A.1 and Part A.2 of the Project,
and any material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request.
(b)   AIDB shall: (i) maintain or cause to be maintained records adequate
to record the progress of Part A of the Project, to identify the goods and services


﻿6
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to AIDB by the Borrower, and
to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) enable the Association's representatives
to examine all relevant records and documents related to Part A.1 and Part A.2
of the Project; and (iii) furnish to the Association all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure of
the proceeds of the Credit so relent to AIDB and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
Section 2.07. AIDB shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, AIDB shall not
take or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating,
assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. AIDB shall maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices, its operations and
financial condition.
Section 3.02. AIDB shall establish and maintain a separate Project Account
exclusively for Part A of the Project and shall record in it all payments received
on account of the sale of farm inputs included in Part A.1 of the Project, receipts
and payments for or in connection with Seasonal Loans, including amounts received
from Project farmers under Seasonal Loans, and amounts received from and paid
to the Borrower pursuant to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 3.03. AIDB shall: (i) have its accounts and financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to the
Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than four months after
the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements for such
year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, in such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information concerning its accounts and
financial statements and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to
time reasonably request.


﻿7
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. AIDB and any of its subsidiaries involved in whole or in part
in carrying out any part of the Project shall conduct its business and operations
in accordance with appropriate agricultural, financial and administrative policies
and practices, and under the supervision of competent and experienced management
assisted by experienced and competent staff.
Section 4.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, AIDB: (i) shall
not sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of any of its respective property
or assets, except in the ordinary course of business and (ii) shall take all action
necessary to maintain its corporate existence and right to carry on its operations
and to acquire, maintain and renew all rights, powers, privileges and franchises
necessary or useful in the conduct of its business.
Section 4.03. After completion of Part A of the Project, AIDB shall continue
to apply the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the Borrower and not repaid
to the Borrower, exclusively to the making of seasonal loans to farmers living in
the minimum package areas referred to in the description of the Project on the
terms and conditions specified in Sections 2.03 and 2.04 of this Agreement, unless
the Association shall otherwise agree.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Association and AIDB shall cooperate fully to assure that
the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the Association
and AIDB shall from time to time, at the request of either party, exchange views
through their representatives with regard to the performance of their respective
obligations under this Agreement, the administration, operations and financial
condition of AIDB and of any subsidiary of AIDB involved in whole or in part
in carrying out any part of the Project and other matters relating to the purpose
of the Credit for which it is assuming responsibility hereunder.
Section 5.02. The Association and AIDB shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by any one
of them of its obligations under this Agreement or the performance by AIDB of
its obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.


﻿8
Section 5.03. AIDB shall enable the Association's representatives to inspect
all stocks of farm inputs purchased under the Project and any relevant records
and documents.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 6.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date
upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 6.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association, and
of AIDB thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)         the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)        a date fifteen years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with
its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)(ii) of this Section, the
Association shall promptly notify AIDB of this event.
Section 6.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the Development
Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 7.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated
by this Agreement sha4l be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:


﻿9
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
For AIDB:
Agricultural and Industrial
Development Bank, S.C.
Box 1900
Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
Cable address:
AIDBANK
Addis Ababa
Section 7.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf
of AIDB may be taken or executed by the Managing Director of AIDB or such
other person or persons as AIDB shall designate in writing.
Section 7.03. AIDB shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of
the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the person or persons
who will, on behalf of AIDB take any action or execute any documents required
or permitted to be taken or executed by AIDB pursuant to any of the provisions
of this Agreement.
Section 7.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed


﻿10
in their respective names and delivered in the District of Columbia, United States
of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Bernard R. Bell
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa
AGRICULTURAL AND INDUSTRIAL
DEVELOPMENT BANK S.C.
By /s/ Teferra Wolde-Semait
Authorized Representative


