Report No. PID5893
Project Name                     Egypt-Health Sector Reform Program (+)
Region                           Middle East and North Africa
Sector                           Basic Health
Project ID                       EGPA45175
Borrower                         The Arab Republic of Egypt
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Health and Population
Cairo, Egypt
Tel: 202-355-1821 / 354-3462
Fax: 202-355-9422 / 354-1507
Date of Initial PID              December 30, 1997
Date This PID Prepared           December 15, 1997
Projected Appraisal              February 9, 1998
Projected Board Date             June 30, 1998
Country and Sector Background
Egypt is a lower middle income country with a 1995 per capita GDP of
US$970. The economic situation is heavily influenced by the need
for the country to adapt its economy to the globalization of the
world economy. The Egyptian health care system is characterized by
multiple sources of financing, management, and delivery. The public-
private mix in finance and delivery are major features of the system
with private expenditures accounting for over half of all financing,
and the private sector accounting for a very significant share of
service delivery.
The basic goals of the health care system are: (a) improving
population health status and social well-being; (b) ensuring equity
and access to care; (c) ensuring microeconomic and macroeconomic
efficiency in the use of resources; (d) enhancing clinical
effectiveness; (e) improving quality of care and consumer
satisfaction; and (f) assuring the system's long-run financial
sustainability.
Objectives
The Health Sector Reform Program is designed to improve the health
status of all Egyptians by both preventing illness and treating it
more effectively; eliminating unwarranted cost, outcome, access, and
quality gaps, especially for vulnerable populations; providing more
appropriate and better quality services by better targeting the
burden of illness and standard setting; getting better value for
money; and increasing public and private support for the system.
The HSRP is designed to deal with these issues in the context of a
comprehensive reform phased in gradually over the next 15-20 years.
The reform program is based on the political, social, institutional,



and economic realities in Egypt, and is designed to provide all
Egyptian's with effective 'health security'.
Description
The detailed policy reform options for each of the six health system
components are: (a) Health Care Financing, adoption of a phased
approach to expand insurance coverage towards universality, adoption
of a basic benefits package with a primary health care focus; (b)
Health Care Services, develop and ensure access to a basic benefits
package of primary care services which includes preventive and
curative outpatient and inpatient services; (c) Health Sector Human
Resources, implement strategies to rationalize the workforce in
terms of numbers, types, quality, and location, and develop
strategies to improve conditions of employment; (d) Health Sector
Infrastructure, developing and institutionalizing systems, policies
and procedures to rationalize health sector infrastructure; (e)
Health Sector Institutional Development, restructure the overall
health sector, create new health sector regulatory bodies/functions,
and consumer awareness building; and (f) Pharmaceutical Sector,
formulate and implement a comprehensive national drug policy, review
and implement an essential drug list for public sector institutions.
Financing
The total program cost is not yet determined. IDA will provide
US$90.0 million. Additional funding is expected from USAID and the
European Union. Other parallel financiers may join in financing the
program (to be determined).
Implementation
The Health Sector Reform Program (HSRP) will be overseen and closely
monitored by the Ministry of Health and Population (MOHP) through a
Program Management Unit (PMU). In addition, it is proposed that the
MOHP be assisted in its decision-making by at least three bodies
which could be comprised of a Health Policy Forum (HPF), a Program
Planning and Monitoring Committee (PPMC), and Governorate Program
Coordination Committees in the three pilot Governorates selected.
The HPF would act as an ad-hoc advisory body to the Minister and its
purpose would be to provide a forum for discussion of GOE's broad
developmental policies and how they influence health reform
initiatives. The PPMC would be a planning body responsible for
translating policies into activity plans and for overseeing the
implementation of the health reform program and ensuring that all
reform initiatives are consistent with the Strategic Framework. The
Governorate Committees would oversee program planning and
implementation in the three Governorates where pilot reform
activities are to be carried out. The project implementation period
is estimated to be for six years (1999-2004).
Sustainability
Over the next twenty years, Egypt will need to enhance its social
programs to handle its dual disease burden, as well as its
- 2-



integration in the global economy. At the same time its health
sector will face increased financial pressures resulting from the
growing non-communicable disease burden, population growth, and new
and higher cost medical technologies. This project will promote the
long-run financial sustainability of the health care financing
system by cost-effectively improving the clinical effectiveness of
the system and increasing the economic efficiency of the service
delivery network.
Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Project implementation in Egypt has improved steadily in the last
two years. Past and ongoing external assistance to the health sector
has generally focused either on specific narrow sector issues and/or
on targeted population groups. This type of assistance has not been
sufficient to sustain initial improvement in health conditions and
needs to be complemented by fundamental changes in policies.
Centralized and fragmented management, and combined financing and
provision has led to inefficient use of resources. Clarifying roles,
separating finance from provision, and developing needed technical
capacities will increase accountability, transparency and
efficiency. The project also benefits from tight coordination
between the various donors and a focused objective on the reform
priorities.
Poverty Category
The project is part of the program of targeted interventions (PTI).
Environmental Aspects
The proposed project has been rated "B". The only project input
which might have an environmental impact would be the rehabilitation
of priority public health facilities, for which an environmental
impact assessment would be required. The capacity to handle medical
and non-medical waste will be incorporated into the facility
masterplan process.
Program Objective Categories
The project will contribute to poverty reduction.
Project Benefits
Economic Benefits: The project would specifically address the
issues impeding efficiency and effectiveness of public health and
primary care activities. It will also lay the groundwork for a
gradual introduction of formal, universal coverage of a basic
benefit package, starting with the most vulnerable groups and
geographic areas.
Social Benefits: The project is expected to have a positive social
impact. In particular, the population will benefit from receiving
care from better trained physicians with incentives to provide
quality care in facilities which conform to norms and standards and
- 3-



are functionally efficient. In addition, through the strengthening
of the national health insurance system, a larger share of the
population will benefit from the primary health package, which will
have significant benefits from a social perspective. Target
Population: The project is aimed at the population at large.
However, project design will ensure that in the near- to medium-
term, the poor benefit more, specifically in access to basic primary
care and the project's focus on basic public health.
Project Risks
The potential risks are resistance to change from: vested interests
groups (e.g. physician and nursing associations, pharmaceutical
industry); local communities as delivery system rationalization
could result in the closing of certain facilities; the health
bureaucracy as the functions of different Government ministries
change in major ways and they divest themselves of their networks of
facilities; medical education stakeholders potentially if
responsibility for medical education is moved from the Ministry of
Higher Education (MOHE) to MOHP; Society at large as medical school
enrollments are limited; and HIO covered individuals as copayment on
drugs are increased.
The risks will be minimized by promoting wide-ranging awareness
campaigns which would target all interest groups with the aim of
explaining the reform program and the long-term benefits to be
derived from such a program, and enlisting the help of the
population at large in making this a successful reform. In
addition, continued dialogue between stakeholders and implementing
agencies will be a main focus of the program so that full
cooperation will facilitate the activities to be undertaken.
The World Bank           George Schieber/Bassam Ramadan, Task Managers
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202-458-7319
Fax: 202-477-8642/0036
Telephone: 202-473-4304
Fax: 202-477-8642
Note:   The contents of this document are subject to
change and the components described may not necessarily be included
in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending January 9, 1998.
ENVIRONMENTAL ANNEX
The project components have been reviewed in light of the
environmental requirements of Egypt and the provisions of the Bank's
- 4 -



Operational Directives and the project has been placed in
environmental Category B.
The only project input which might have an environmental impact
would be the rehabilitation of priority public health facilities,
for which an environmental impact assessment would be required. The
capacity to handle medical and non-medical waste will be
incorporated into the norms and standards being developed for the
sector. As such, consideration will be given to the waste
treatment/disposal capacity at health facilities during the
preparation of the investment masterplan and during the preparation
of facility rehabilitation plans.



