Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 17214-EGT
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
FOR A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 66.8 MILLION (US$90.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
FOR A
HEALTH SECTOR REFORM PROGRAM
April 24, 1998
Human Development Sector
Middle East and North Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective 03/24/98)
Currency Unit= Egyptian Pound (EGP)
EGP I = US$0.29
US$ 1.00 = EGP 3.4
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMIS
AFDB          African Development Bank
AWP           Annual Work Plans
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
CCO           Curative Care Organization
DANIDA        Danish International Development Assistance
EMP           Environmental Management Plan
EU            European Union
FMS           Financial Management System
GDP           Gross Domestic Product
GOE           Government of Egypt
GPCC          Governorate Program Coordinationi Committee
HPF           Health Policy Forum
HIO           Health Insurance Organization
HSRP          Health Sector Reform Program
ICR           Implementation Completion Report
IA            Implementing Agency
IDA           International Development Association
LMI           Lower Middle Income
M&E           Monitoring and Evaluation
MIS           Management Information System
MOHE          Ministry of Higher Education
MOHP          Ministry of Health and Population
MOPIC         Ministry of Planning and international Cooperation
MOSA          Ministry of Social Affairs
NHIF          National Health Insurance Fund
OECD          The Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development
OM            Operations Manual
NGO           Non-governmental Organization
PPMC          Program Planning and Monitoring Committee
SA            Special Account
SFD           Social Fund for Developmenit
TOR           Terms of Reference
TSO           Technical Support Office
TST           Technical Support Team
USAID         United States Agency for International Development
Vice President: Kemal Dervi~
Country Director: Khalid lkram
Sector Director: Jacques Baudouy
Task Team Leader: George Schieber



Arab Republic of Egypt
Health Sector Reform Program
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Project Financing Data ....................................................................I
A. Project Development Objective
1.  Project development objective and key performance indicators ................................2
B. Strategic Context
2.  Sector-related CAS goal supported by the project .....................................................2
3.  Main sector issues and Government strategy .............................................................3
4.  Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices ............................4
C. Project Description Summary
5.  Project components ....................................................................5
6.  Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project ..................................5
7.  Benefits and target population ....................................................................6
8.  Institutional and implementation arrangements .........................................................6
D. Project Rationale
9.  Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection ..........................................9
110. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies ....  9
11. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design ......................................... 10
12. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership ................................................ 11
13. Value added of Bank support in this project .............................................................. I1
E. Summary Project Analyses
14. Economic ...................................................................I 1
15. Financial ...................................................................                                     13
16. Technical ...................................................................                                     13
17. Institutional ...................................................................  13
18. Social ...................................................................                                        14
19. Environnmental assessment .......................    .                                        ;; 15
20. Participatory approach .......................                                                                    15
F. Sustainability and Risks
21. Sustainability .......................                                                                            15
22. Critical risks .......................                                                                            16
23. Possible controversial aspects .......................                                                            17
G. Main Credit Conditions
24. Agreements to be reached at negotiations .....................................                                    18
H. Compliance with Bank Policies ......................................                                                          18
List of Annexes
Annex 1:  Project Design Summary
Annex 2:   Detailed Project Description and Summary of Health Sector Reform  Program
Annex 3:   Estimated Project Costs
Annex 4:  Economic Analysis
Annex 5:  Financial Summary
Annex 6:  Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Annex 7:   Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 8:   Documents in Project File
Annex 9:   Statement of Loans and Credits
Annex 10:  Letter of Sector Policy
Annex 11: HSRP Management Structure
Annex 12: Arab Republic of Egypt at a Glance
Map



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
Human Development Sector
Project Appraisal Document
Arab Republic of Egypt
Health Sector Reform Program
Date: April 24, 1998                               Task Team Leader: George Schieber
Country Director: Khalid Ikram                     Sector Director: Jacques Baudouy
Project ID: 45175   l Sector: Pop. Health & Nutrition   Program Objective Category: Poverty Reduction
Lending Instrument: Sector Investment and Maintenance   Program of Targeted Intervention:   [X] Yes  No
Project Financing Data                [I] Loan     [XI Credit       [  Guarantee        [I Other
[Specify]
For Credits:
Amount (US$/SDR): US$90.0 million equivalentlSDR 66.8 million
Proposed terms:                        Ii   Multicurrency      [   Single currency
Grace period (years): 10 I         X] Standard IDA       [   Fixed            [       LIBOR-based
Years to maturity: 35
Commitment fee: .50% (less any
waiver)
Service charge: .75%
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                              Local              Foreign           Total
Government                                                   86.6               10.4               97.0
Cofinanciers
European Union (EU)                                                          120.0              120.0
United States Agency for International Development                           80.0               80.0
(USAID)
IDA                                                          48.0               42.0               90.0
Total         134.6              252.4              387.0
Borrower: Arab Republic of Egypt
Guarantor: N/A
Responsible agency(ies): Ministry of Health and Population
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):       1999       2000       2001    2002      2003          2004
Annual        6.0        10.0       20.0    25.0      20.0          9.0
Cumulative        6.0       16.0       36.0    61.0      81.0          90.0
Project implementation period: 1999-2003  Expected effectiveness date: 01/31/99  Expected closing date: 06/30/04



Page 2
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project levelopment objective and key performance indlicators (see Annex 1):
The Government's long-term Health Sector Reform Program (HSRP) is intended to improve the
population's health status, ensure equity (physical and financial accessibility for all population groups),
improve the efficiency and quality of services, and promote the system's long-run financial
sustainability. The Bank project will assist the GOE in implementing the first five-year phase of its
comprehensive Health Sector Reform Program (HSRP).
The specific project development objectives are:
* Improve population health status and well being in three pilot Governorates through universal
coverage to a basic package of primary health care and public health services.
* Improve access to, efficiency, and quality of primary health care services in three pilot Governorates.
The key performance indicators for this project relate to measuring: improvements in population health
status; improved access to, quality of, use, and efficiency of primary health care services. With respect
to health status, the project will contribute to Egypt's medium-term plan to reduce: (i) infant mortality
rate from 38/1000 to 29/1000; (ii) under-five mortality from 84/1000 to 64/1000; and (iii) deaths of
women due to pregnancy and delivery from 160/100,000 to 90/100,000.
The project will contribute to the achievement of these goals, but other factors outside both the project
and the health sector will also affect these indicators. Thus, for purposes of monitoring the effects on
health status of universal coverage to primary health care and public health services in the three
Governorates, it is proposed to monitor levels and trends in these measures before, during and after the
project, and compare these indicators to other comparable Governorates where there is no Bank project
intervention.
With respect to measuring the effects of the project on access to, quality of, equity, and efficiency of
primary health care services, use of a needs-based masterplan, retraining physicians to practice family
medicine, anid operationatizing the insurance entities in the pilot areas are u-sed as process rneasures for
these indicators. Increased use rates for primary care services can also be expected, monitored,
compared pre- and post-project implementation, and compared to other Governorates.
B: Strategic Context
2. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1):
CAS document number: 16533-EGT          Date of latest CAS discussion: May 5, 1997
The Country Assistance Strategy for Egypt places high priority on reinforcing the social agenda to
address poverty and the transitional costs of adjustment while maintaining the record of sound
macroeconomic management that has contributed to the resumption of strong economic growth in recent
years. The incidence of poverty in relative terms has declined significantly over the past 50 years, but
high population growth rates as well as regional disparities in access to essential social services and
income-earning opportunities have meant that the absolute number of households living in poverty has
continued to rise. The Government recognizes that rapid economic growth is essential to achieve a
sustained reduction in the level of poverty, but this needs to be complemented by improvements in the
quality and coverage of key social services, including universal access to a minimum critical package of
health care services, in a fiscally sustainable manner.



Page 3
3. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
The HSRP was developed by the Government with the assistance of the Bank and other donors to
address underlying structzural problems in the various sector domains which collectively determine
national health outcomes as well as the equity, efficiency, quality, and long-run financial sustainability
of the health sector. The reform program proposes a complete overhaul of all aspects of the health
system. Both the costs and implementation realities require a phased approach. The overall reform is
designed to deal with the system's major underlying structural problems.
That health outcomes are problematic and worse than the lower middle income (LMI) average is
illustrated by high national rates for child and maternal mortality (8.5% of children die before age 5;
1.7% of births result in the mother's death) and wide disparities between rural and urban areas (infant
and child mortality is 3 times higher in rural areas; maternal mortality is 5 times higher).
There are significant equity problems in access to services, by both income and geographic grouping.
Public spending is regressive, with only 16% of health allocations benefiting the lowest income quintile
and 24% going to the highest. In line with this skewed allocation, per capita public spending is 67%
higher in richer urban than in poorer rural Governorates.
Sector organization and management are fragmented, resulting in uncoordinated decision-making and
pervasive inefficiencies which preclude effective risk pooling and efficiency in service delivery.
Twenty-nine separate and uncoordinated Government and public entities are responsible for decision-
making. This impedes rational policy making, equitable and efficient financing, efficient provision, and
effective coordination both among public sector programs and between public and private actors.
Sector financing is also firagmented, with responsibilities shared but not coordinated among the Health
Insurance Organization (HIO), The Ministry of Health and Population (MOHP), the Ministry of Social
Affairs (MOSA), other Government Agencies and private services. This prevents risk pooling and
encourages strategic behavior among providers. Overall spending is low: with just 3.7% of GDP (US$38
per capita) spent on health care, Egypt spends less than other LMI countries. Low total and public
spending also reflects the inequity of financing: the 56% of spending which is private is mainly out-of-
pocket expenses disproportionately made by lower income individuals.
The delivery system is characterized by substantial excess capacity, under-use of sub-par quality
facilities, and substantial inefficiency. Egypt has more beds per capita than other comparable income
countries and a hospital occupancy rate under 50%. Unlike physical capacity, quality needs to be
increased. Nosocomial infection rates are at least 5 times as high as in OECD countries and lack of basic
equipment, supplies and drugs in MOHP primary facilities means that, despite impressive physical
access (e.g., 95% of the population being within 5 kilometers of a facility), effective access is limited.
Finally, efficiency varies widely, with costs per hospital day and per admission varying by 3 and 4 to 1,
respectively, in MOHP and HIO hospitals.
Spending and consumption of pharmaceuticals are as much as 50% higher than in other LMI countries,
and use is frequently excessive and inappropriate. Generics are infrequently used, and price controls
effectuate poorly targeted subsidies while inefficient state owned enterprises are inappropriately
subsidized at import, production, and distribution levels.
As with physical capacity, there are both surpluses and imbalances of medical personnel. While Egypt
has 1.6 physicians per thousand population, 3-4 times the number in other comparable income countries,
there is a shortage of primary care physicians relative to the number of specialists, and an absolute
shortage of skilled nurses. Quality also needs to be improved as evidenced by as many as 50% of deaths
in emergency situations being due to improper treatment by physicians.



Page 4
4. Sector issues to be addressed by thle project and strategic choices:
While in the long term the HSRP will address all of the issues raised above, the Bank's focus in this
project will be on the Government's chosen priorities for the first five-year phase of the reform:
universal coverage to a basic package of primary health care, including rationalization of the primary
health care delivery system, and reform of the HIO.
This project assists the GOE in the phased implementation of universal coverage and primary care
delivery system rationalization, beginning in three Governorates. Criteria for selection of Governorates
include: level and depth of poverty; income; health status; concentration of women, children and other
vulnerable groups; commitment to reform; administrative capacity; existing delivery capacity; presence
of the HIO in the Governorate; presence of other donor primary care activities; and, representativeness
and replicability. The Governorates chosen by the GOE are: Alexandria, Minoufia, and Sohag, and
represent one Governorate from each of Egypt's major subdivisions (i.e., Urban Governorates, Lower
Egypt, and Upper Egypt) excluding the sparsely populated Frontier Governorates.
Similarly, the HIO, which currently covers one-third of the population will be reformed to improve its
efficiency of administration and service delivery. It is currently running a 40% deficit and is not
financially sustainable in the long-term. It will also be transformed to become the future single national
health insurance entity by enhancing its role to function through new Governorate level subsidiaries as
the insurance entity administering the basic primary health care benefit package in the three pilot
Governorates.
These are the appropriate strategic choices for a number of reasons. First, by focusing on primary care
and public health, the project's most significant impacts would benefit underserved and vulnerable
populations, women and children. Second, focusing on these areas is the most cost effective means of
reducing the burden of illness. Third, this allocation of resources will significantly reduce some of the
most egregious urban-rural differentials in health outcomes, access, and spending. Fourth, it would lay
the base for universal coverage of a comprehensive benefit package in the future. Fifth, it would begin
to rationalize, the service delivery system, starting with ambulatory care up through district hospitals.
Rationalizing secondary and tertiary facilities will be much more costly and more volatile politically,
will require more fundamental changes in the medical education and planning systems, and will yield
lower benefits in terms of health outcomes. Starting with the introduction of family physicians, a
specialty new to Egypt, and retraining other primary care personnel in the three Governorates are
sensible first steps in improving primary care quality and efficiency. Sixth, the primary care initiative
can be undertaken while MOHP and HIO continue to insure curative care and begin the long process of
changing their functions and divesting their delivery systems.



Page 5
C: Project Description Summary
5. Project components (see Annex 2for a detailed description and Annex 3for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Cost Incl.    % of    Bank-      % of
Component              Category    Contingencies  Total  financing    Bank-
(US$M)              (US$M)   financing
1. Provide Universal Access to a   Physical;       347.3      90%      79.7       23%
Basic Package of Primary Health  Institutional
Care (PHC) Services:            Building
a. Implement Governorate PHC                       22.8       7%       16.3      72%
Insurance System
b. Improve Quality and Efficiency                 299.0      86%       60.3      20%
of PHC Delivery System
c. Improve Public Health
Programs                                         25.5       7%        3.1      12%
2. Reform of the HIO            Physical;           39.7      10%       10.3      26%
Institutional
Building
Total       387.0   1 100%       90.0     100%
Taken together, these two project components begin the process of introducing universal coverage of a
comprehensive package of services to be administered by a single national health insurance entity.
During Phase I, universal coverage for a basic primary health care package will be implemented in the
three pilot Govemorates. Phase I will also address reforming the organization and management of
broad-based MOHP public health programs, which either are included in the PHC benefit package or
provide the requisite complementary services to the basic primary health care benefit package. In the
long run a restructured HIO will become the National Health Insurance Fund (NHIF), a national
insurance entity administering the country's social health insurance system. To administer introduction
and operation of the basic primary health care package in pilot Governorates during Phase I of the reform
(which includes HIO restructuring at the national level), Governorate level HIO subsidiaries will be used.
To ensure efficient and effective delivery of quality services, the delivery system will also be
rationalized. As with reform of the insurance system, this process will entail testing and adjustment of
primary health care system reforms in Phase I pilot Governorates, followed by extension of those
reforms to the entire nation in later phases.
6. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The project will support a shift in investment policy away from its current urban and tertiary emphasis by
focusing major physical investments on primary care facilities largely in underserved areas.
Establishment of needs-based masterplans as the framework for facility rehabilitation and human
resource development supported by the project will serve as the mechanisms to effectuate this shift. At
the same time, by improving HIO's operational efficiency, the project will support extension of access to
a basic primary health care package through the insurance system.



Page 6
7. Benefits and target population:
By supporting the Government's long-term comprehensive reform program, the project will ultimately
benefit the entire population. Project design will ensure that in the medium termn the poor will benefit
more than those who already enjoy adequate access to basic primary care. First, the initial stage of
phasing in universal coverage to a basic package of primary health care services will largely benefit the
poor, children, women and other underserved vulnerable groups. Second, project activities in facility
rehabilitation will be predicated on a needs-based masterplan emphasizing poor, underserved areas.
Third, the types of primary care and basic public health programs to be supported disproportionately
benefit poor groups. Finally, because the poor are less able to substitute private for public services,
project activities which help to improve quality and availability of services and rationalize the payment
system in public delivery will therefore have an immediate impact on the poor.
8. Institutional and implementation arrangements (for a detailed discussion, see Annex 6 and the
Operations Manual):
Project Oversight: The Ministry of Health and Population (MOHP) has the overall responsibility for
management and implementation of the HSRP. To ensure continuity, technical quality, and effective
coordination between the mnany organizations involved in planning and implementing the reforns, the
Minister of Health and Population will be assisted by several entities at the central and local levels: a
Health Policy Forum (HPF), a Program Planning and Monitoring Committee (PPMC), a Technical
Support Office (TSO), as well as Governorate Program Coordination Committees (GPCCs) and
Technical Support Teams (TSTs) in the three pilot Governorates.
Health Policy Forum (HPF): The HPF will be established as an ad-hoc advisory committee by the
Minister of Health and Population. It will promote policy dialogue among concerned GOE officials and
stakeholders, encourage transparency in policy making, ensure continued Government commitment to
the reform  program  and facilitate intersectoral coordination.  It will include private sector
representatives, public figures who the Minister may wish to invite, and members from concerned
Government ministries and agencies including the Ministries of Higher Education, Planning, and Finance
and the Health Insurance Organization. The HPF will provide a forum for full participation of all
stakeholders in th e reform.
Program Planning and Monitoring Committee (PPMC): The PPMC, chaired by a senior designate of the
Minister and including MOHP undersecretaries, TSO Director, in addition to senior representatives from
HIO, the Curative Care Organization (CCO) and the Medical Syndicate, will be located at the MOHP
and will be responsible for strategic planning for the reform program. The main role of the PPMC is
policy formulation, planning and monitoring of the reform outcome. With responsibility for translating
policies into activity plans and for overseeing implementation of the health reform program, the PPMC
will ensure that all reform initiatives are consistent with the agreed strategic plan. It will update the
strategic plan, decide on overall program strategy and organization, and review and monitor Annual
Work Plans (AWPs) in accordance with agreed performance indicators. The PPMC will be responsible
for evaluating the impact of the project in terms of health outcomes, access, efficiency, and quality.
Technical Support Office (TSO): The Minister has formally established a Technical Support Office
(TSO) as part of his central administration and has issued a decree appointing the TSO Director who
reports directly to him. The TSO is in charge of coordinating the HSRP implementation and is finally
accountable to the Minister. The TSO will be composed of full-time operational and technical staff
recruited on a competitive basis and retained for the life of the project. The capacity of the TSO to
coordinate program implementation will be strengthened by assigning adequate financial and
administrative powers corresponding to its complex and varied tasks, comprising: planning, facilitation,
capacity building, appraisal, coordination, disbursement, procurement and overall direction of the
program. An Operations Manual outlining procedures for all areas of its work and including criteria for



Page 7
AWP design and implementation, is being developed for use by the TSO staff during project
implementation. The TSO staff will undertake a series of training activities during the preparatory phase
of the project to improve their readiness for implementation. The TSO staff will perform all their
functions according to the highest standards of efficiency, productivity and transparency. They will
work with all concerned, within and outside the MOHP, to ensure that program activities are undertaken
properly and in the most cost-effective manner.
Technical Support Teams (TSTs): The TSO will help establish small Technical Support Teams (TST) in
each of the three pilot Governorates to include initially a team coordinator, a financial specialist and a
procurement/engineer. These teams will mirror the TSO at the Governorate level, though on a much
smaller scale, and will serve as liaison between the Health Mudiriyyas (where they will be located) and
the TSO in coordinating all implementation activities at that level. The TSTs will be assigned smaller
procurement and financial responsibilities which they will undertake according to the guidelines and
procedures outlined in the program's Operations Manual. While the TSTs will report on a day-to-day
basis to the Mudiriyyas' Health Directors, they will undertake only functions agreed between the TSO
and the Governorate Program Coordination Committee (see below) and which are outlined in the
Governorate's annual work plan.
Governorate Program Coordination Committees (GPCCs): To oversee program planning and to monitor
implementation at the Governorate level, the Minister of Health and Population will establish a Program
Coordination Committee in each pilot Governorate. Counterparts from the main program components
(PHC, HIO, etc.) will serve on these Committees, which will be headed by the Director of the Health
Mudiriyya in each pilot Governorate. The Committees will play a technical advisory role to the TSTs at
the Governorate level and will have neither management nor financial responsibilities for program
implementation. The main function of these Committees will be to help prepare the annual work plans
and to ensure that health needs and priorities are properly reflected in the various reform interventions at
the Governorate level. The Director of the Health Mudiriyya in each pilot Governorate will become a
member of the PPMC and will attend all regular PPMC meetings, and contribute to all major strategy
and policy decisions that will be taken as part of the PPMC's planning and monitoring activities. The
TSTs9will facilitate thffe fUinctions and'''o'p'eration's -of these Com'mittees.
Inmplementation: The TSO is ultimately responsible for programming, coordination and implementation
of the reform. It will work through the MOHP with Governorates, donors, and other stakeholders to
coordinate the implementation of a comprehensive program of activities to be defined each year in the
AWPs. The AWPs would incorporate priority activities needed to achieve interventions identified in the
Strategic Framework. The AWPs would be developed in collaboration with the TSO and TSTs on the
basis of priorities and development objectives identified jointly with the PPMC and GPCCs and agreed
with the donors. IDA and other donors would assist in preparing AWPs as needed and upon Government
request. While formal IDA approval of AWPs would not be required, review and discussion of draft
AWPs by IDA would take place each year and would constitute a key area of IDA assistance to the GOE.
IDA review of AWPs would focus on three factors: (a) consistency with the overall Strategic
Framework; (b) overall internal coherence of the plan and complementarity among its various
interventions; and (c) feasibility, in terms of managerial and operational capacity and adequacy of
funding. Due to the extent and depth of the reforms, the TSO is expected to establish and support several
cross-sectoral ad-hoc advisory committees, expert panels, task forces, and work teams that would assist
in the detailed analysis, programming and implementation of the various program components and
activities at all levels.
The MOHP will implement program activities through various agencies within and outside the
Government. The TSO would establish linkages with all concerned parties and stakeholders, liaise
between central and local authorities, provide technical assistance to Implementing Agencies (lAs), and



Page 8
provide feedback and report regularly on program implementation to the Minister and the donors. The
lAs could include, but are not limited to: departments of the MOHP, the HIO, CCOs, universities and
medical institutes, training centers, NGOs, consulting firms as well as qualified individual consultants.
During the development of the AWPs, lAs would be identified for each activity or group of tasks. The
lAs would operate under contract (in the case of NGOs, medical institutes and private firms) or under
inter-agency agreement (in the case of public entities) with the TSO. These contracts or agreements
would include detailed Terms of Reference (TORs), budgets, implementation schedules, performance
indicators and requirements for progress reporting. The TSO/TSTs would ensure that these contracts and
agreements are selected and executed in accordance with the procurement and contracting procedures of
funding agencies, and based on sound business practices that assure competitiveness and transparency.
The TSO/TSTs may, as needed, extend technical support to lAs, especially public entities, in developing
proposals or in carrying out their activities. The TSO/TSTs would be supported, as needed, by technical
experts (local and foreign), to help it carry out its various assignments and responsibilities.
Accounts and Audits: The GOE is in compliance with IDA audit reporting covenants. The TSO will
establish and maintain separate program-related accounts for each donor and for all program
expenditures. These accounts will be maintained in accordance with internationally sound recognized
accounting practices and in an accounting system acceptable to IDA. The TSO will prepare interim and
annual financial statements and submit them to IDA. These statements shall reflect the financial
performance of the program. The Special Account, all project accounts, and SOEs will be audited in
accordance with international standards at the end of each GOE fiscal year, beginning with fiscal year
2000, by independent auditors acceptable to IDA. These reports will be submitted to IDA within six-
months from the end of each fiscal year and will be made available to the Minister of Health and the
other donors. All accounts, financial reports and audits should provide adequate and timely information
to IDA for supervision of the program.
Reporting: The TSO will maintain continuity in project management, and will ensure that all project
documentation is well prepared and on schedule and that procedural problems are reduced to the
minimum. The TSO/TSTs will prepare the AWPs in consultation with expert panels and the IAs, and
f6rward these to IDA-for discussion by no later than October 30 of each year. The TSO will prepare
semi-annual progress reports against AWP indicators.  These reports would discuss problems
encountered, solutions adopted, and adjustments to the AWPs. The TSO will develop and maintain a
computerized management information system (MIS) which will give financial and operational data on a
continual basis and track program implementation progress. In addition, the TSO will develop a uniform
(standard) reporting system for the evaluation by all concerned donors. All reports will be submitted
concurrently to the Minister of Health, IDA and the concerned donors. The TSO will prepare a detailed
Mid-Term report and submit it to all participating donors by end 2000 to serve as the basis for the Mid-
Term review, which donors and the GOE will conduct by early 2001. The TSO will also prepare an
Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for review by IDA and other concerned donors within six-
months of the closing date of the Credit.
Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E): The TSO will be responsible for monitoring progress against agreed
performance indicators (specified in Annex 1). It will also be responsible for undertaking an extensive
(independent) evaluation of the reform and the project interventions. The TSO's main M&E functions
include: (i) develop and undertake baseline and subsequent surveys to measure the process and
performance indicators for HSRP objectives and activities; (ii) monitor implementation progress and
performance of the various IAs; (iii) develop and maintain a database of program status for the
generation of annual progress reports for the Government and participating donors; (iv) conduct
continuous evaluation on the impact of the initiatives/interventions and provide feedback for
modification or improvement as necessary; (v) prepare summary reports for the Minister and the donors
highlighting problems, issues, and recommended actions. The TSO will contract independent technical



Page 9
auditors to undertake a full analysis of all program activities which will form the basis of the annual
progress reports. In addition, the lAs will provide the TSO with quarterly progress reports summarizing:
(i) the current status of project implementation and reasons for deviation from agreed implementation
plans; (ii) financial records; (iii) constraints faced and corrective actions to be taken; (iv) a work plan for
the subsequent six months; and, (v) an update on agreed upon monitoring indicators. These reports will
be consolidated by the TSO and forwarded to the Minister, IDA and the other donors semi-annually.
D: Project Rationale
9. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Although the Government's HSRP is a broad reform strategy covering all aspects of health sector
reform, project support for design and implementation of Phase I will focus on universal insurance
coverage, primary care, and delivery system reforms. These areas were selected by the Government as
the major components of the reform's Phase I because they would have the greatest impact on health
status, equity, and efficiency and are necessary prerequisites for later reform phases. Focusing on
primary care and public health programs while at the same time undertaking major reform of their
delivery and insurance systems in three selected Governorates provides a sensible balance on policy,
implementation, and financial sustainability grounds.
Areas not covered by the project include: the curative care delivery system (above the District Hospital
level), which will require civil service reform and prior institutional and management reform of the
multiple public financing and delivery programs; pharmaceuticals, a very politically sensitive area
requiring further study before implementing major reforms; and, total system manpower (beyond
primary care), which will require addressing employment policies, civil service reform, and sensitive
inter-ministerial issues, and where technical training programs aimed at alleviating unemployment
produce excess manpower supply.
10. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing andplanned):
Latest Supervision (Form 590)
Ratings
Sector issue                   Project             (Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                 __      _    Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
National Schistosomiasis      Support the development of a       S               S
Control Project (Cr. 2403-EG);  sustainable national program
US$26.8 million.             to control schistosomiasis.
USAID: Cost-Recovery in      Introduce cost-recovery in        N/A             N/A
Health; Ongoing (US$85.0     public hospitals managed by
million)                     the MOHP, HIO and CCO.
NETHERLANDS:                 Upgrade tuberculosis units and    N/A             N/A
Tuberculosis Control; Ongoing  increase the effectiveness of
(DFL 13.0 million)           tuberculosis prevention and
control programs.
GTZ: Improvement of Family   Improve family planning           N/A             N/A
Planning Services; Preparation   service delivery
(DM 3.0 million)



Page IO
DANIDA: Primary Health      Improve health conditions in     N/A             N/A
Care; Ongoing (DKK 39.2     selected communities particu-
million)                    larly of mothers and children.
ADB: Schistosomiasis Control;  Reduce bilharzia infestation  N/A             N/A
Completed (US$10.0 million)   among the rural population in
the Delta area.
UNICEF: Primary Health Care  Induce greater use of primary   N/A             N/A
Revitalization; Ongoing     care facilities and revitalize
(US$2.0 million)            the PHC system.
UNICEF: Health Information    Improve health sector man-     N/A             N/A
Systems and Operational     agement at all levels.
Research; Ongoing (US$0.1
million)
UNICEF: Expand Program of   Eradicate polio and control      N/A             N/A
Immunization (EPI); Ongoing   tetanus and measles.
(US$12.4 million)
UNICEF: Control of Diarrheal   Support ORS production and    N/A             N/A
Disease (CDD); Ongoing      diarrhea prevention.
(US$2.7 million)                                                                       ,
UNICEF: Control of Acute    Reduce deaths due to ARI in      N/A             N/A
Respiratory Infection (ARI);    children under five and im-
Ongoing (US$0.8 million)    prove surveillance system for
ARI.
UNICEF: Safe Motherhood;    Training TBA's and to in-        N/A             N/A
Ongoing (US$0.9 million)    crease utilization of MCH
services.
UNICEF: Nutrition; Ongoing    Support studies and interven-  N/A             N/A
(US$1.0 million)            tions on micronutrient defi-
ciencies.
UNICEF: Control of          Support health education         N/A             N/A
HIV/AIDS; Ongoing (US$0.4   among high school ages.
million)
WHO: Health Planning;       Strengthen planning and          N/A             N/A
Ongoing (US$0.2 million)    development of national health
care quality system.
WHO: Health Systems and     Strengthen District Health       N/A             N/A
Services Development;       System Development.
Ongoing
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
11. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Global experience with Health: Much of the Bank's past experience in the health, nutrition, and
population (HNP) sectors has been in basic public health, including reproductive health, infrastructure
development, and pharmaceuticals purchasing. There is less experience in comprehensive health sector
reform programs focusing on insurance reform and universal coverage. The Quality Assurance Group
(QAG) reviews have documented that simple, well designed projects tend to perform better, and that
projects based on good sector work have better development impacts. Unfortunately, risk pooling,
insurance expansion, and provider payment reforms are by their very nature complex undertakings even



Page I I
for developed countries; these however are needed areas of reform and are appropriate for Bank
assistance, as the Bank's HNP Sector Strategy Paper concluded. Bank projects have only recently begun
to focus on these areas.
Egypt Project Implementation Experience: Project implementation in Egypt has improved steadily in the
last two years. A major problem in the past - long delays in achieving loan/credit effectiveness - has
been nearly eliminated through high level attention to obtaining parliamentary ratification. Finally,
recent projects are being designed with simplified management, procurement and disbursement systems.
Egypt Health Projects Implementation Experience: The Bank has only had two health projects in Egypt
and the implementation experience has been mixed. The Bank's Schistosomiasis project took a long time
to become effective although it is now performing satisfactorily, and the Population Project has still not
been approved by the Government despite several extensions. MOHP capacity will need significant
technical assistance to enable the Ministry to develop, implement and monitor a broad and long-term
reform such as is envisioned under the HSRP. Coordination with other donors through sharing of
relevant experiences will help to address these issues and to provide the coordination needed for a broad
sector reform effort.
12. Indications of borrower commitment and ownersltip:
There is high level ownership of the strategy by the GOE since the HSRP was developed by the GOE
with technical assistance from the Bank, USAID, EU, and DANIDA. It reflects the perspective and
priorities of the Government and is the Government's first attempt to develop a comprehensive and
analytically based health reform program. The Minister of Health and Population and his principal
deputies have all been deeply involved with the development of the strategy.
13. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The value added by the Bank is its economic focus and experience in areas such as health care financing,
insurance, issues, providern payment - issues, and general system reform issues.  The Bank brings
experience in macroeconomic and public finance issues as well as in the complex issues regarding
financial and economic incentives inherent in a comprehensive reform. The Bank has also done an
extensive analysis as part of project preparation on the costs and affordability of both the Phase I and
overall health reform program. The Bank's comparative advantage resides in its ability to apply the
experiences of developed as well as developing countries in other regions to the process of addressing
these very difficult health finance and delivery issues.
E: Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 4)
14. Economic (supported by Annex 4):
[ ] Cost-Benefit Analysis: NPV=US$    million; ERR=    % [ Cost Effectiveness Analysis:
[X] Other (Specify)
Support for policy changes in the public financing and provision of Egyptian health services is justified
on a number of grounds. Chief among these arefirst, distributional arguments addressed to the current
regressive financing system whereby the poor bear a heavier relative burden in out-of-pocket payments
and yet do not enjoy effective access to basic care; second, efficiency and distributional arguments
addressed to risk pooling and insurance market failures manifest in "cream skimming" (i.e. limited
enrollments and adverse selection in schemes covering formal sector employees), unfunded mandates
(e.g expansion of HIO to cover all infants and school children), and poor use of the combined resources
of the multiple public and private health delivery systems, and; third, traditional public good arguments



Page 12
based on the positive externalities which accrue from public health activities and which are manifest in a
healthy labor force and lower burden of disease.
The Government's program will specifically address the issues impeding efficiency and effectiveness of
public health and primary care activities. In so doing, it will also lay the groundwork for a gradual
introduction of formal universal coverage of a basic benefit package, starting with the most vulnerable
groups and geographic areas. Public health and primary care interventions will target the major health
problems and promote cost-effective interventions. The basic benefit package is also established with
cost-effectiveness as the chief criteria to ensure the maximum gain in health status per pound spent. By
extending coverage to pregnant women (who are not now covered) and maternal health services through
the basic services package, both maternal and infant mortality should be substantially reduced. The
Government will seek to improve technical efficiency in a number of ways. First, it will restructure the
primary care delivery system by creating family health units and family health centers and by
rehabilitating and re-equipping district hospitals. Second, incentive based provider payment mechanisms
will be used by the insurance entities to ensure efficient delivery of services. Third, cost-sharing for
pharmaceuticals will be implemented through HIO as part of reforming the national benefit package it
currently administers. Fourth, the primary care delivery system will be restructured through retraining
physicians and nurses and reorienting the medical education system towards production of manpower
needed for primary care. This will increase both efficiency and quality.
Bank assistance in this project will support the primary care, public health, and financing aspects of the
Government's program. Quantification of savings due to these reforms is not feasible. Payoffs to
enhanced micro-efficiency stemming from improved contracting procedures, drug copayments, and
phased movement to a single source financing system for the basic package will be seen in the expansion
and extension of services through the basic services package. Moreover, improved service quality and
health status, and reduced out-of-pocket payments for private services engendered by the reform are not
readily measurable ex-ante and may not be entirely quantifiable ex-post.
In terms of the Phase I reform, it is possible to estimate the investment costs to restructure the primary
health care delivery systems in the three pilot Govemorates, the investments needed to set up the
insurance entities, and recurrent costs of providing universal insurance coverage to the 5.9 million
uninsured in the three pilot Governorates. It is estimated that restructuring of the primary health care
delivery systems in the three pilot Govemorates, both human and physical, would maximally require
investments of US$300 million. These figures assume replacement of most facilities and limited gains
from efficiency. With efficiency gains (i.e., eliminating unneeded facilities) and renovation instead of
replacement, the primary care infrastructure investments are likely to be about half this maximal figure.
Future recurrent costs from these investments would be on the order of 20% of the overall investment
costs. It is estimated that some US$23 million is needed to establish the insurance entities in the three
pilot Governorates.
The cumulative total five year recurrent costs of phasing-in insurance coverage to the 5.9 million
uninsured for the basic primary health care benefit package (cost of EGP 60 per capita) is estimated at
some EGP one billion or almost US$300 million. These costs would need to be financed through some
combination of individual payments (premiums and cost-sharing) and public expenditures. Individuals
on average are currently spending some EGP 98 per capita out-of-pocket for health services, 95% of
which goes for ambulatory care and drugs.
Thus, the real challenge for the GOE is to develop financing mechanisms which recycle these currently
largely private out-of-pocket payments into the public primary care insurance system. On the investment
side, in addition to the Bank project, grant support from USAID and the EU are likely to be available to
assist with the investment costs of restructuring the delivery system. In short, Phase I of the reform is
sustainable and affordable, but will require GOE commitment and action to institutionalize an equitable
and transparent financing source. It must also face the potential costs of the overall reform in terms of



Page 13
affordability and long-run financial sustainability. It will need to develop transparent mechanisms to
finance the investment and recurrent costs of universal coverage, delivery system restructuring, etc. This
will need to be reconciled with current spending levels, the public-private mix in financing and the future
growth prospects for the Egyptian economy. Efficiency gains from the current inefficient system are an
additional source of finance. These issues are analyzed in Annex 4.
15. Financial: NPVN/A             FRR N/A
Project funds will be provided by the Government, IDA, the EU, USAID. Other donor funds may be
made available at later stages of the project. Once implementation is complete, the technical ministry,
agency or private sector organization responsible for a particular component will be responsible for its
continued management and operation. As discussed above, the project is not expected to produce a
significant short-term financial burden, but the fully phased-in system of universal coverage and facility
rationalization will, and it will be necessary for the GOE to address these issues as it proceeds with
implementation.
EFscal impact: Egypt spends about US$2.3 billion (or 3.7% of GDP - about 1% less than comparable
income countries) per year on health care, some US$1.0 billion of which is public. The share of health in
total public expenditures (including the parastatal HIO) is only about 4%. Spending is thus relatively
low in both total and budgetary share terms in comparison to other LMI countries. The Bank credit of
US$90.0 million over 5 years amounts to a 1.8% annual increase in public health spending, and less than
1% of overall spending. Even if recurrent costs are generated at a rate of 25% of investment per year,
annual increases in public spending for each year of the project would be on the order of 2%.
On the other hand, as discussed above, the recurrent costs generated by universal coverage and the other
elements of the comprehensive reform package will be significant. While the Phase I reform in the three
pilot Governorates was analyzed above, the overall longer-term reform costs of a fully phased in system
will be much higher. It is estimated that universal coverage to a comprehensive package of benefits
would increase health spending in Egypt from its current level of 3.7% of GDP to 4.8%. However, the
public share would-ierease-from -its current -level of-1.7% to 3-.O%, while the private -share would drop
from its current level of 2.0% to 1.8%. Rationalization of the entire delivery system would add some
additional recurrent costs to these figures, bringing Egypt's health spending to something on the order of
5% of GDP. A detailed revenue analysis conducted as part of the appraisal mission (and available in the
project document file) indicates that under reasonable assumptions of projected economic growth, the
long-term reform is affordable and sustainable. The major issue for the GOE will be the significant
fiscal implications for the public budget as opposed to the overall level of spending. As the reform will
be phased in over a period of 15 years, the GOE will have the experiences gained from the pilot
Governorates as well as a long period of time to make this transition.
16. Technical:
The project is based on extensive analysis in the HSRP completed as part of project preparation, as well
as on many studies performed by the Bank and other donors. The highest priorities for Phase I of the
reform, identified by the Government and determined by it to be politically realistic, are incorporated in
the project design. Preparation of the project involved participation and involvement of senior level
technical consultants and top level Government officials.
1 7. Institutional:
Executing agencies: Except for the Schistosomiasis Control Project, the MOHP has limited experience
implementing IDA financed projects. The HIO, universities, medical institutes, training centers and
NGOs likely to be involved in project implementation, also have limited experience in working with the



Page 14
Bank. However, the MOHP has extensive experience implementing a series of large USAID financed
projects and numerous other small donor financed projects, and has embarked on several reform
initiatives over the last two years. As a result, MOHP senior management and staff have become more
familiar with donor requirements and are qualified to handle technical aspects of the reforms.
Procurement and financial management systems related to project implementation at MOHP and HIO
were reviewed at appraisal and found to be largely consistent with Bank policies and guidelines, though
lacking in capacity and relevant international experience. However, MOHP, HIO and other relevant
agencies would be supported with resident consultants and other technical assistance to strengthen initial
implementation capacity, transfer know-how and ensure compliance with the procurement and
disbursement guidelines of the Bank and other donors. Achieving and sustaining timely implementation
will be a constant challenge. Detailed Annual Work Programs (AWP) with performance and monitoring
indicators will ensure a clear definition of tasks, deliverables, timetables and responsibilities, including
terms of reference for key staff and implementation units.
Project management: The HSRP is a unique operation in its scale of coverage and comprehensiveness.
The effective management of the multiplicity of interventions envisaged at national and Governorate
levels requires an organizational structure that combines the need for central coordination with
operational flexibility at the local level. Accordingly, the responsibilities and membership of the HPF,
PPMC, TSO, GPCCs and TSTs have been designed to provide cross-sectoral support and to facilitate the
coordination and collaboration required for timely project completion.
Financial Management Capacity: A review of the financial management system at the MOHP has found
that it is largely consistent with Bank policies and guidelines. However, the review concluded while
internal controls seemed adequate, the accounting process was slow and the accounting department was
lacking in qualified computer-literate staff who could handle Bank accounting requirements. Therefore,
it was agreed that the MOHP would establish a separate computerized financial management system
(FMS) at the TSO and that it would promptly seek the technical assistance of the Social Fund for
Development (SFD) to put it in place under similar arrangements to the Bank supported project at the
Ministry of Education. It should be noted that the FMS at SFD was set up according to Bank's
requirements and has been in successful operation since 1993.
18. Social:
The project is expected to have a positive social impact by targeting vulnerable population groups in
terms of both universal coverage as well as the services covered in the primary health care benefit
package. Components will support improved access to and quality of health services. In particular, the
population will benefit from receiving care from better trained physicians with incentives to provide
quality care in facilities which conforn to norms and standards and are functionally efficient. Drugs used
for patient treatment will be better targeted to actual needs, and patients will likely spend less on drug
purchases. Any resistance to the project would likely arise from those who have a vested interest in
private health sector growth, in particular the private pharmaceutical sector. The Government's goal of
strengthening the national health insurance system will have significant social benefits. The project
would support this goal by improving resource use and the quality of service delivery, both necessary
prerequisites to expanding coverage. Surveys conducted by USAID indicate that individuals, including
the poor, are willing to pay increased out-of-pocket costs for quality services and drugs delivered by
public facilities. This indicates that a contributory social health insurance system which provides real
access to services will enhance consumer well-being.



Page 15
19. Environmental assessment:     Environmental Category      [JA   [x] B   [] C
The only project input with a potential environmental impact is public health facility rehabilitation, for
which an Environmental Management Plan (EMP) would be required. The capacity to handle medical
and non-medical waste will be incorporated into the sector norms and standards being developed.
Consideration will be given to the waste treatment and disposal capacity at health facilities during
preparation of the investment masterplan and during preparation of facility rehabilitation plans.
20. Participatory approacht:
The HSRP and project are based on both extensive collaboration with the GOE and numerous providers,
stakeholder analyses performed by USAID and other donors, and consumer surveys conducted as part of
USAID's cost-recovery project. The project design comports to the underlying needs, GOE and
population demands, and political realities in the country. Local participation will be an important factor
in Governorate implementation, especially in terms of enrollment of individuals not part of the fornal
sector. The implementation arrangements have been designed to assure participation by all stockholders
in the implementation of the project and overall reform. In particular, the HPF provides just this forum.
Moreover, we have discussed with the GOE launching the reform and building consensus through a
national town-hall meeting type symposium, and USAID has expressed interest in funding such an
endeavor. Furthermore, stakeholder reactions to the reform will be part of the project evaluation.
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
The primary beneficiaries of the HSRP are the entire population of Egypt. However, specific groups are
targeted under this project. The public health, primary care and universal coverage initiatives will
substantially benefit women, children and other disadvantaged population groups. Under the project, the
primary beneficiaries of the project will be underserved populations in the three pilot Governorates.
b. Other key stockholders:
Key stockholders are personnel in the health sector, local governments, NGOs, and the pharmaceutical
industry.  As discussed above, participation of all these groups will be institutionalized during
implementation through the HPF, the PPMC and the GPCCs. Other donors have been fully briefed and
will receive copies of the HSRP when it is finalized by the Government.
F: Sustainability and Risks
21. Sustainability:
Over the next twenty years Egypt will need to enhance its social programs to handle its dual disease
burden and to facilitate its integration in the global economy. Over the same period, the health sector
will face increasing financial pressure from the growing non-communicable disease burden and new and
higher cost medical technologies. Phase I of the HSRP will promote long run financial sustainability of
the health care financing system by cost effectively improving the delivery network's clinical
effectiveness and increasing its economic efficiency. It will increase coverage to achieve both equity and
the most cost effective health gains. Coverage expansions will be balanced against efficiency gains. The
primary care and public health focus of Phase I will reduce curative care spending over the short- and
long-term. Developing an actuarially sound financing base for the HIO and rationalizing its benefit
structure (e.g., drug copayments) will also assure financial sustainability.
The costs of both Phase I and the overall reform have been analyzed along with the long-run growth
potential of the Egyptian economy. As indicated above, the reform is affordable and sustainable both in



Page 16
the short- and long-term, although there will be significant shifts in financing from private to public
sources. For Phase I the Bank project will meet a substantial part of the investment costs for establishing
the insurance entities and rationalizing the delivery system. Costs not covered through the Bank project
will be met partially by current MOHP and HIO spending as well as increased GOE support, along with
assistance from other donors. In particular, first, donor assistance will be available in the short run.
USAID has US$80.0 million in grant assistance allocated to Egypt, with disbursement based on broad
policy conditionalities effectively met through adoption of the HSRP and implementation of Phase 1, and
other donors will base funding decisions on release of the HSRP. The EU has tentatively (subject to
approval of its member countries) committed US$120.0 million in grant support to the reforms. Second,
reallocating private spending to the public sector will be important in both the short- and long-termn.
Sustainable financing will require mobilization of private spending (over 60% of primary care is
privately financed) through some combination of premiums, user charges, and taxes.
Finally, increasing the level and efficiency of public spending on health could be an important source of
funds. Given the currently low proportion of spending allocated to the sector, reallocation favoring
health at the expense of other programs would be reasonable. Improvements in efficiency are the focus
of various project supported reforms, including rationalization of resource allocation and investment in
the delivery network through the needs-based masterplan. Manpower and facility rationalization under
the first component, and use of incentive-based contracting to deliver the primary health care package
and by the HIO should result in further efficiency gains to finance recurrent costs. Moreover, as the
effectiveness of primary care and public health programs increases as a result of the reform, the rate of
increase in spending on curative care should decline, providing further savings to finance reform
measures. In the longer-term, savings should occur in curative care spending as a result of the primary
care focus, and these funds should be available to help support the system.
22. Critical Risks for thte Project:
Risk                       Risk Rating        Risk Minimization Measure
Services may not improve in public sector.          s        Pilot introduction for improving   -
services in three Governorates/districts;
provide training for health providers in
pilot Govemorates (and through
ongoing pilot in universities).
Political or institutional opposition to            M        Ensure smooth transition from central
decentralization of control of the primary care              to local level by participatory
delivery system precludes implementation.                    involvement in project design and
implementation plans.
Government does not have the fiscal resources to    S        Detailed actuarial analyses of the
finance the reform.                                          reform costs and revenue availability
undertaken as part of the finalization of
the HSRP.
Governorate level insurance entities encounter      H        Provide sufficient TA and community
difficulties collecting premiums and enrolling               based involvement to assure enrollment
individuals not in the formal sector.                        of these groups.
Family physician training programs not established  M        Close coordination/cooperation instilled
on a timely basis; coordination between MOHP and             through the HSRP program to the
MOHE to revise training programs is lacking.                 development of curricula by MOHP
and MOHE.



Page 17
Opposition to HIO reforms by government agencies     S        Long-term promotion of both social
now responsible for financing and delivering care.            and financial benefits through
integrated services focusing on equity
and efficiency.
Govemment may not make primary care                  S        Government in-depth involvement in
rationalization decisions based on the masterplan.            the preparation of the masterplan and
TA available from donors (EU,
USAID).
MOHP and HIO not able to divest themselves or        S        Provide technical assistance to carry out
grant autonomy to facilities, close facilities, or            rationalization studies,
reconfigure personnel.                                        quality/efficiency studies and develop
internal frameworks which would carry
out recommended implementation
measures.
Private sector may resist increased government role  M        Ensure popular and private sector
in financing care.                                            stakeholder support through wide-
_________________________________________      _____________    ranging  publicity   cam paigns.
Relevant government agencies unable to coordinate    S        Reinforce implementing agencies and
activities both at the national policy and local              monitoring committees with needed
service delivery level.                                       expert technical assistance, and institute
open dialogue between all partners.
Overall Risk Rating      S       I
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
23. Possible Controversial Aspects:
As a major and far reaching reforn affecting both opportunities for rent seeking behavior and numerous
goods perceived by society as social entitlements, the HSRP may encounter various and serious instances
of opposition. Popular opposition to reform measures to implement actuarially sound funding for
insurance expansion as well as to cover recurrent costs generated by the reform and donor assistance may
be strong. strong resistance to specific changes may also be mo6blized by the affTcted vested miterest
groups (e.g., physician and nursing associations, the pharnaceutical industry). Likewise, as copayments
on drugs are increased, HIO covered individuals may mobilize opposition. Middle- and upper-class
segments of society may resist restrictions to medical school enrollment opportunities.  Local
communities may object to facility closings as the delivery system is rationalized. Because facilities in
better off areas containing excess capacity would likely be some of the first facilities targeted for closure,
this opposition may be disproportionately influential.  The phased implementation in three pilot
Governorates may be controversial as various interest groups raise questions about the choice of the
three pilot sites. Finally, various Government institutions may resist change as their functions change in
major ways (e.g., HIO and MOHP divestiture of their facility networks and potential MOHP assumption
of MOHE's medical education functions).



Page 18
G: Main Credit Conditions
24. Agreements Reachled at Negotiations:
*  GOE would address the major health policy reform issues contained in the Letter of Policy Statement
signed by the Minister of Health and Population;
*  GOE would maintain the HPF, the PPMC and the GPCCs for the life of the project with composition
and terms-of reference satisfactory to IDA;
*  GOE would maintain the TSO and the TSTs for the life of the project with staffing, qualifications
and resources satisfactory to IDA;
*  GOE would undertake all procurement, financial and disbursement responsibilities under the Credit
according to the applicable Bank guidelines and procedures specified in the Operations Manual;
* GOE would use the Bank's Standard Bidding Documents or, where applicable, simplified bidding
documents acceptable to the Bank, as further specified in the Operations Manual;
* GOE would submit to IDA annual financial reports audited by independent auditors acceptable to
IDA covering all project accounts, SOEs, and the Special Account;
* GOE would maintain adequate policies and procedures to enable it to monitor and evaluate the
implementation of the HSRP and achievement of its objectives on an ongoing basis, in accordance
with agreed performance indicators;
* GOE would prepare a mid-term report integrating the results of monitoring and evaluation activities,
including progress achieved and recommended measures for improvement, under terms of reference
satisfactory to IDA, and would carry out the mid-term review of the project by early 2001, and to
implement all actions agreed with IDA as a result of the review.
H. Compliance with Bank Policies
[X] This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
Task Team Leader: George Schieber
r ict ctor: Jacques Baudouy           4  /2 4 ( fc
Country Director: Khalid Ikram   I
K65tf/



ANNEX 1
Egypt: Health Sector Reform Program
Narrative Summar                 Ke  ef ance Ind ICatrs          Monitoring ad EvalutonCrtalAunpis
CAS  Ob eci  sSu   p re: ve:_::___________u____p____
Reinforce the social agenda by implementing a  -Population health status is  -Census data                     -Political will and sustained
comprehensive Health Sector Reform Program     improved                     -Household, provider, and consumer  economic growth allows GOE to
(HSRP)                                        -All Egyptians are provided   surveys                           undertake the reform and finance the
-All Egyptians are                                             system urey
with formal insurance coverage                         ..      system
-Government and industry statistics
-Urban-rural differentials in    -Insurance data
utilization and expenditure are
reduced
Proect eepetObeiv:
Implement Phase Iojtives of  the I-ISRP by:
a) Improving population health status and well be-   -IMR, Under-Five Mortality,   -Use of surveys and other baseline    -Population is provided with insur-
ing in three pilot Governorates through universal    MMR in pilot Governorates  data                          ance coverage
coverage to a basic package of primary health care   reduced in absolute terms and
and public health services                     relative to comparable       -Comparisons pre- and post-Bank    -MOHP undertakes necessary meas-
and public health servicesrlativeintervention in pilot Governorates    ures to define and implement the
Govemorates with no project   and comparisons to control groups   reform
intervention
b) Improving access to, efficiency and quality of  -Increased use rates of primary  -Consumer and provider surveys  -Lack of capacity to develop mas-
primary care services in the three pilot       care services in the pilot   -Public and private insurance rec-    terplans and stakeholder controversy
Govemorates                                    Governorates                 ords                              overwhelm GOE commitment to
rationalize the delivery system
-Government and industry health
statistics
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I.
FdC



Narrative Summary                Key Performance Indicators      Monitoring and Evaluation          Cnitical Assumptions.
Project Components/Output.
I. Provide Universal Access to a Basic Package of Primary Health Care (PlC)
a) Implement Governorate PHC Insurance System    -Universal coverage for a basic  -Consensus reached between MOHP  -Funding for the primary health care
package of primary and public  and other relevant parties on the  packages in pilot Governorates is
services phased in for eligible   definition of basic package  identified
populations in three pilot  -Insurance funds are established in   -Adequate local capacity to im-
Governorates                each pilot Governorate           plement the system can be devel-
-Insurance funds begin operation  oped
-Experiments with provider payment -The various relevant Government
mechanisms undertaken            agencies can coordinate both at the
national policy and local service de-
-Beneficiary registration and claims  livery level
processing system established   -USAID provider mechanism is
-Insurance quality monitoring and    implemented in timely fashion
control system established      -Coordination achieved with the
development of the PHC delivery
system
b) Improve Quality and Efficiency of PHC Delivery  -A needs based masterplan for  -Government completes masterplan  -Underlying population needs can be
System                                       the pilot Governorates is devel-  by the end of the first year of the  assessed
oped and implemented        project                          -Private sector practices can be
-Facilities rehabilitated and re-  -Standards for FHU and FHC  identified, allowing timely comple-
equipped                    developed                        tion of the masterplan
-Family practice physicians  -Family practice training curricu-    -Insurance entities establish
and nurses are trained      lums are established             incentive based payment system
c) Improve Public Health Programs            -National communicable       -Surveillance system is operational   -Adequate local capacity to im-
diseases surveillance system is                              plement the system can be devel-
designed, tested, and                                        oped
implemented
w



II. Reform of the.Health Insurance Organization
Reform the current social insurance organization  -Establish the Health Insurance  -Staff identified and recruited  -Unification of Laws 79, 32 and
(health Insurance Organization-HIO) to transition   Department             -HIO's legal and regulatory      revision of copayment and premium
it into the future single national health insurance en-  -Establish operational  framework and organizational  rates
tity~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~ ~Esals oproviding                          framersal covrag forganpriaryiandl
tity providing universal coverage for a primary and  insurance system and  structure and operation reviewed and  -Political commitment to place HIO
eventually a comprehensive benefits package
guidelines                  recommendations proposed          on a financially sustainable basis
-Review premium and copay-   -HIO's financial system analyzed    -Political consensus to adopt a
ment schedule, develop and  -MIS modules developed, tested,   standardized benefits package
implement selective contract-   and implemented               -Legal and political framework to
ing approaches and modem                                      enforce contracts between the
reimbursement methods        \                                insurer and the providers
-Development of MIS modules
to support the insurance
functions
:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a :   :  
on 
x
0



Annex 2
Page 1 of 2
ANNEX 2
Egypt: Health Sector Reform Program
Project Description
The project will assist the GOE in implementing Phase I of Egypt's Comprehensive Health Sector
Reform Program (HSRP). Under Phase I of the HSRP, universal coverage for a basic package of primary
health care and public health services will be phased in. The package is defined in the HSRP and
consists largely of cost-effective primary health care services as well as necessary emergency and basic
curative care services. Concomitantly, organization and management of broad-based MOHP public
health programs, which are either included in the primary care benefit package or provide the requisite
complementary services to the basic primary health care benefit package, will also be reformed. The
project will assist the GOE to refine the basic package, establish the public insurance entity to finance it,
ensure access to, and contracting mechanisms to pay for delivery of the package, and undertake needed
reforms in the organization and management of complementary public health services in the pilot
Governorates as well as nationally.  It will also assist in the reorganization, restructuring, and
rationalization of the primary care delivery systems in the pilot Governorates so that both the financing
and delivery of primary health care are assured (Component 1). The second component will reform the
HIO so that it can be transformed into the National Health Insurance Fund (NHIF) (Component 2).
The bulk of curative care services will continue to be provided through MOHP, HIO, CCO and Teaching
Hospital facilities outside the basic package and new insurance mechanism. Most curative care
financing and delivery reforms, as well as major changes in the overall medical education system and
pharmaceutical sector, are likely to take place in the reform's second phase.
PROJECT COMPONENT 1 - PROVIDE UNIVERSAL ACCESS TO A BASIC PACKAGE OF
PRIMARY HEALTH CARE (PHC) SERVICES
- US$79.7 million IDA contribution
The first component consists of three subcomponents that will assure implementation of the insurance
mechanisms for and service delivery of the PHC benefit package to the populations in the three pilot
Governorates. The three activities and their project costs are:
*  Implementing the PHC Insurance Systems in the -----------------------------------------US$16.3 million
Three Pilot Governorates
*  Improving Quality and Efficiency of PHC Delivery Systems in the---------------------US$60.3 million
Three Pilot Governorates
*  Reforming Public Health Programs------------------------------------------------------------US$3.1 million
The Bank project will provide technical assistance, training, equipment and facilities needed to begin
phasing in universal insurance coverage for the basic package of primary health care services in the three
pilot Governorates of Alexandria, Minoufia, and Sohag. Under this component, the Governorate level
insurance entity will be established, operationalized, and evaluated. This will include training staff,
setting up all insurance functions (e.g., revenue collection, enrollment, distributing health cards,
contracting with medical care providers, claims processing, monitoring quality, etc.), purchasing



Annex 2
Page 2 of 2
necessary equipment, and constructing or renovating appropriate office facilities. Branches or new
subsidiaries of the HIO will serve as the insuring entities for the primary health care benefit package.
Concomitantly, assistance will be provided to improve the management, organization, efficiency,
effectiveness and quality of the MOHP public health programs which are either in or complementary to
the PHC benefit package both nationally and in the pilot Governorates. Particular areas of focus include
development of surveillance and disease coding systems.
The primary health care delivery system in the three pilot Governorates will be restructured and
rationalized on the basis of a needs-based masterplan. The Bank project will support consolidation,
rehabilitation and re-equipping of the poorly functioning MOHP primary health care facilities up to the
district hospital level so that the current facilities can transition to become family health units, family
health centers, and district hospitals. Retraining will be provided to physicians in family medicine,
nurses and other primary care personnel. Imbalances in human resources thus will also be addressed.
Essential drug lists will be developed and implemented. All rationalization activities will be based on a
masterplan reflecting underlying health needs and existing public (e.g., MOHP, HIO) and private sectoT
capacity. Contracting procedures developed for the insurance entities to promote efficient delivery will
focus on facility autonomy, decentralization, separation of finance and provision, money-following-
patients, and use of incentive-based contracting and payment mechanisms. Basing investment decisions
on a needs-based masterplan will ensure that only appropriate rehabilitation and investment in equipment
takes place.
PROJECT COMPONENT 2 - REFORM OF HIO
- US$10.3 million IDA contribution
The second component will finance the costs of reforning the HIO to adapt its existing institutional
structure to provide the primary care benefit package in the three pilot Govemorates as well as to prepare
it for its transition to the National Health Insurance Fund (NHIF) in the later phases of the reform. The
component will support enhancing management capacity, implementation of MIS, development of
incentive-based contracting mechanisms, putting HIs eurrently insured population on a sound actuarial
basis, development of automated claims processing and enrollment systems, and other measures. The
component will support TA, training, equipment, and construction needed to achieve the actuarial and
functional reforms at HIO which will enable it to administer nationwide implementation of the primary
health care package (as the NHIF) as well as its future role as the country's national social health
insurance fund.



Annex 3
Page I of I
ANNEX 3
Egypt: Health Sector Reform Program
Estimated Project Costs
Project Component                                      Local          Foreign        Total
------------------ US$ million--------------------
Universal Coverage to a Basic Package of PHC Benefits     190.5         78.5         269.0
a Governorate PHC Insurance System                        14.0          6.5          20.5
b. Improve Quality & Efficiency of the PHC Delivery      160.1         67.1         227.2
System
c. Public Health                                          16.4          4.9          21.3
Reform of the Health Insurance Organization                 7.3         30.8          38.1
Total                                                     197.8        109.3         307.1
Total Baseline Cost
Physical Contingencies                                   14.9          7.4          22.3
Price Contingencies                                      48.1          9.5          57.6
Total Project Cost                                        260.8        126.2         387.0



Annex 4
Page 1 of 6
ANNEX 4
Egypt: Health Sector Reform Program
Economic Analysis
Public financing or provision of services can be justified when Government interventions aim at
achieving allocation, distribution, and economic stabilization goals. Government intervention to achieve
these goals is frequently important when market failures, externalities, and public or merit goods are
prominent in an economic or social sector. This is the case in the health sector, where many of the basic
conditions necessary for achieving efficient outcomes (in terms of either private or social welfare) in
competitive markets do not hold. The conceptual arguments for public finance and a public-private mix
of provision in the health sector are relatively straightforward (World Bank, Innovations in Health Care
Financing Discussion Paper 365 and Public and Private Roles in Health Discussion Paper 339). Market
failures which impede efficient outcomes and lead to socially undesirable distributional effects provide
strong justifications for public intervention on both the financing and provision sides of the health
services market (e.g., assuming a particular function, or regulating private activity). These commonly
include risk pooling difficulties and instability in the insurance market, information asymmetries, and
interdependence between supply and demand. Significant positive externalities which the private sector
frequently cannot internalize devolve from the prominence of public and merit goods and from potential
economies of scale and scope in the sector. Finally, the distributional and equity effects of market
operation without public intervention in the health sector may not be consistent with maximizing social
welfare in that individuals in such a context neither pay according to ability nor consume services on the
basis of need, basic social principles endorsed by most countries.
Governments need to be involved in financing public health services, as well as personal health services
for the- poor and -other vttnerable -groups. WVithou public financing or subsidization of public health
services, consumption of these services will be less than optimal from the standpoint of maximizing
social utility or health status. Governments in virtually all countries are involved directly or indirectly in
assuring physical access to personal health services in rural areas. To assure equitable risk pooling, all
OECD countries except the US have concluded that the most effective mechanism is publicly financed
insurance covering most personal health services for the entire population. Governments also need to
regulate private insurance, as well as private sector provision, to ensure acceptable balances of quality,
cost containment and operational efficiency. All countries regulate quality, and virtually all OECD
countries also regulate provider payment rates.
While the arguments concerning public versus private provision are clear on conceptual grounds,
empirical evidence indicating appropriate policy directions is often less straightforward. The decision on
whether to use public rather than private provision of health services should in theory be based on
whether it is cheaper for the government to produce and provide or to purchase the service in question.
The important issue is not whether a given service is publicly or privately provided, but whether the
basic incentives faced by the organization or entity providing the service facilitate or impede efficient
delivery and an equitable distribution of quality health care. In Egypt and other lower middle income
countries, conceptual justifications for public intervention and actual policies are constrained by limits
on available public resources and on the administrative capacity needed to implement conceptually
correct policies. The following evaluation of the Egyptian system, and the proposed project, are
predicated on these basic premises.



Annex 4
Page 2 of 6
Externalities in the Egyptian health market arise from underproduction and underconsumption of public
health and health promotion interventions, from information asymmetries and underproduction of
information, and from limited effective access to basic care. Microefficiency is hampered by the
existence of multiple uncoordinated financinig and delivery programs and by uncoordinated and often
perverse provider incentives. The system's overall effectiveness - in terms of health status achieved for
the level of financial, physical and human resource inputs committed - is hampered by poor quality,
limited effective access and micro inefficiency. The impact of the financing system on distributional
equity is regressive: while those covered by the HIO and therefore the recipients of substantial public
subsidies for health care are typically male, urban, and employed in the formal sector; the poorest
households spend the largest proportion of family income in out-of-pocket payments due to ineffective
actual access to basic services.
The HSRP is designed to build on existing strengths in the system while reforming its basic weaknesses
in order to achieve the basic goals defined for the reform. These goals address the broad problems
identified above in basic incentives and externalities, micro- and total system efficiency, and the
tradeoffs inherent in achieving a balance between quality, efficiency and access needed to assure an
adequate health status for the entire population.
HSRP long-term goals are to:
- improve the health status of the Egyptian population.
e provide universal access to formal insurance coverage.
* promote equity in both the financing and delivery of care.
- enhance the allocative and technical efficiency of the service delivery system.
- improve the quality of both public and private services.
- enhance the efficiency and effectiveness of the pharmaceutical sector.
* assure long-run financial sustainability of the system.
Strengths of the current system are:
*  Nominally, all Egyptians are "insured" by the State for their health needs either through formal HIO
coverage or the MOHP.
* Physical access to care is widespread, as 95% of the population is within 5 kilometers of a medical
facility.
* Health infrastructure of physicians, clinics and hospitals is extensive.
* State of the art technology is readily available.
* Pharmaceuticals are generally available.
* Immunization levels are high.
* Population growth has been reduced significantly.
* Over 80% of the population has access to safe water and sanitation.
* Health reform is a high priority for the Government.
Major system problems include:
* Health outcomes are poor relative to other comparable income countries.
* Maternal mortality is 174 on average and exceeds 500 in some areas.
* One in 12 children die before reaching age 5, one in seven in Rural Upper Egypt.
* Public health programs are poorly targeted to NCDs, while over 50% of adult males smoke.
* Less than 40% of the population has formal insurance coverage.



Annex 4
Page 3 of 6
*  Equity needs to be improved as the poor pay relatively more (both out-of-pocket and through the tax
system) and receive relatively less in benefits than the non-poor.
*  The fragmentation of financing does not lead to effective or equitable risk pooling.
*  Spending at 3.7% of GDP is low relative to other comparable income countries.
*  There are large urban rural disparities in health spending.
*  Management and financing of the system  is completely fragmented with 29 public agencies
involved, which precludes a consistent policy focus and consistent incentives from impacting on both
public and private sector institutions.
*  Public programs combine both financing and provision which together with rigid civil service rules
precludes incentives for efficient public provision of services.
*  Egypt has too many low quality inputs (i.e., beds and physicians) and there are serious geographic
maldistributions.
*  There is substantial inefficiency as evidenced by a hospital occupancy rate below 50%.
*  There are too many specialists relative to primary care physicians.
*  Quality is poor as evidenced by hospital nosocomial infection rates on the order of 30-40%
*  Pharmaceutical consumption and spending is 50% higher than that in other comparable countries,
and there are serious inefficiencies in production, distribution, management, procurement, financing,
and consumption.
A Conceptual Systemic Evaluation of the HSRP
The HSRP is a comprehensive program designed to address all these issues over the next 15 to 20 years.
In Phase 1, which will be supported by the Bank project and the efforts of other donors, the HSRP will
address areas that provide the greatest returns in improving health status in a cost-effective manner while
laying the basis for later phases of the reform effort. Given the serious political constraints and practical
difficulties inherent in achieving all of the HSRP's goals in the context of the system's present problems
(such as resistance against large reductions in the public workforce, difficulties in closing large numbers
of facilities, political sensitivities surrounding domestic pharmaceutical production and pricing, fiscal
inability of the  oivernment to immediately provide universal coverage of a comprehensive package of
primary and curative care services to the entire population, etc.), Phase I of the reform will focus on
interventions likely to engender rather than reduce support and which are essential to further reform
stages. The first five year phase of the reform focuses on implementing universal coverage to a basic
package of primary care services in three pilot Governorates, restructuring the human and physical
delivery infrastructures in those Governorates, reforming basic public health services that are either
included in or are complementary to the basic primary care package, and reforming the national HIO to
transition it to the future single social insurer for the country.
By supporting cost-effective interventions in public health and primary care, including improving the
efficiency and quality of service delivery, Phase I of the reform should yield maximum value in terms of
health gains for the resources invested. Effective risk pooling will be pursued through phasing in
universal coverage for a basic package of primary care and basic curative services. The most vulnerable
groups and geographic areas will be given initial priority in the process of introducing universal
coverage, thereby achieving the largest marginal impact early in the process. Focusing on family
medicine and retraining physicians and nurses will improve quality. Basing all facility rehabilitation
(from primary care centers to district hospitals) on a needs-based masterplan which takes account of both
public and private sector capacity will increase allocative efficiency in the sector and assure the
efficiency of Bank supported investments. The project will create further efficiency gains by providing
the H1O with assistance to improve its capacity to contract with providers for delivery of the basic health
package and by assisting it to divest itself of its delivery network.



Annex 4
Page 4 of 6
These steps will also lay the basis for further stages of the reform focusing on financing and delivery of
curative care. To prepare for latter stages, Phase I of the Government's program will initiate studies on
the pharmaceutical sector as well as general human resource and curative care delivery. Experiences
gained in Phase I will provide critical input for the design and implementation of the subsequent phases.
Empirical assessment of the impacts of all aspects of the Phase I reform or the Bank project are not
feasible, although a fiscal analysis of the basic insurance and system restructuring reform is undertaken
below. While directional changes can be evaluated, accurate assessment of these changes is confounded
by the multitude of interactions within the health sector as well as by the effects on health status and the
performance of sector institutions and actors of trends and policies external to the sector. A general
equilibrium quantitative assessment is impossible because the costs of service expansion (which are
justified by the low base level of spending and formal coverage) will be offset to an indeterminable
degree by micro efficiency gains from better contracting procedures, copayments on drugs, and eventual
adoption of a single source financing system for the basic package. The yield from efficiency gains will
in turn be somewhat offset by measures to enhance quality. Quantitative assessment would also require
a numerical accounting of improved quality, better health outcomes, and reductions engendered by the
reform in out-of-pocket payments for private services. While the last of these could be determined
through extensive surveys, quantification of the first two would simply reflect the assumptions used in
the assessment methodology.
Some conclusions can however be drawn in regard to the HSRP Phase I and project impact. Given
Egypt's demographic and epidemiological profile and poor health outcomes, allocative efficiency will be
improved by focusing on cost-effective interventions via both national public health initiatives and
universal access to the basic primary health care package of services. Ensuring that project renovation
and equipment expenditures are targeted according to a needs-based masterplan and changing the
economic incentives faced by medical care providers will provide the appropriate context for achieving
technical efficiency improvements.
Phase I Fiscal Analysis
While the detailed impacts of offsetting quality and efficiency gains are not readily measurable, the costs
of the Phase I reform can be evaluated as well as the costs of providing universal coverage in the long-
term. The detailed analyses underlying this analysis are contained in the project document file, which
also contains a detailed analysis and future projections of Egypt's revenue structure undertaken
specifically for this project.
In terms of the costs of Phase 1, it is possible to estimate the investment costs to restructure the primary
care delivery systems in the three pilot Governorates, the investments needed to set up the insurance
entities, and recurrent costs of phasing-in universal insurance coverage to the 5.9 million uninsured in
the three pilot Governorates. It is estimated that restructuring of the primary care delivery systems in the
three pilot Governorates, both human and physical, would maximally require investments of US$300.0
million. These figures assume replacement of most facilities and limited gains from efficiency. With
efficiency gains (i.e., eliminating unneeded facilities) and renovation instead of replacement, the primary
care infrastructure investments are likely to be about half this maximal figure. Future recurrent costs
from these investments would be on the order of 20% of the overall investment costs. It is estimated that
some US$23.0 million is needed to establish the insurance entities in the three pilot Governorates.
In terms of the large investments needed to rationalize the delivery systems, other donor funding is likely
to be available. The USAID had allocated US$80.0 million for support of the health sector reform, and



Annex 4
Page 5 of 6
the EU has tentatively, subject to approval by its member countries committed US$120.0 million for the
reform afford. The African Development Bank is likely to commit US$15.0 million as well. These
funds plus relatively minimal GOE contributions should suffice for meeting the investment costs of
implementing the Phase I reform.
Meeting the recurrent insurance costs is a different matter. The cumulative total five year recurrent costs
of providing insurance coverage to the 5.9 million uninsured for the basic primary health care benefit
package (cost of EGP 60 per capita) in the three pilot Governorates is estimated at some EGP one billion
or almost US$300.0 million. These costs would need to be financed through some combination of
individual payments (premiums and cost-sharing) and public expenditures. Individuals on average are
currently spending some EGP 98 per capita out-of-pocket for health services, 95% of which goes for
ambulatory care and drugs. Funds currently spent by MOHP and HIO to maintain their networks and for
curative care can also be reallocated to meet these new recurrent costs.
Thus, the real challenge for the GOE is to develop financing mechanisms which recycle these currently
largely private out-of-pocket payments into the public primary care insurance system. On the investment
side, as discussed above, in addition to the Bank project, grant support from USAID, AFDB, and the EU
are likely to be available to assist with the investment costs of restructuring the delivery system. In
short, Phase I of the reform is sustainable and affordable, but will require GOE commitment and action
to institutionalize an equitable and transparent financing source.
In terms of the recurrent costs of the Bank project itself in the short-term, Egypt spends about US$2.3
billion (or 3.7% of GDP - about 1% less than comparable income countries) per year on health care,
some US$1.0 billion of which is public. The share of health in total public expenditures (including the
parastatal HIO) is only about 4%. Spending is thus relatively low in both total and budgetary share terms
in comparison to other LMI countries. The Bank credit of US$90.0 million over 5 years amounts to a
1.8% annual increase in public health spending, and less than 1% of overall spending. Even if recurrent
costs are generated at a rate of 25% of investment per year, annual increases in public spending for each
year ofthe project would be&o-the order of- 2%''.
Fiscal Analysis of Long-Term Comprehensive Reform
On the other hand, as discussed above, the recurrent costs generated by universal coverage and the other
elements of the comprehensive reform package will be significant. While the Phase I reform in the three
pilot Governorates for a primary health care benefit package is affordable with some significant
recycling of private funds, the overall longer-term reform costs of a fully phased in system for a
comprehensive benefit package will be much higher. It is estimated that universal coverage to a
comprehensive package of benefits would increase health spending in Egypt from its current level of
3.7% of GDP to 4.8%. However, the public share would increase from its current level of 1.7% to 3.0%,
while the private share would drop from its current level of 2.0% to 1.8%. Rationalization of the entire
delivery system would add some additional recurrent costs to these figures, bringing Egypt's health
spending to something on the order of 5% of GDP. A detailed revenue analysis conducted as part of the
appraisal mission (and available in the project document file) indicates that under reasonable
assumptions of projected economic growth, the long-term reform is affordable and sustainable. The
major issue for the GOE will be the significant fiscal implications for the public budget as opposed to the
overall level of spending. As the reform will be phased in over a 15 year period, the GOE will have the
experiences gained from the pilot Govemorates as well as a long period of time to make this transition.
In summary, both the cost of the Phase I and overall reform will need to be met through a variety of
mechanisms. These include reallocating private health spending to the public financing mechanisms,



Annex 4
Page 6 of 6
increasing GOE contributions to the health sector, reallocating current MOHP, HIO, MOF, and MOPIC
expenditures, and increasing the level and efficiency of public (and private) spending on health.
The Egyptian health system is one of the world's most complex. It has virtually all of the problems
characterizing health systems in former socialist countries, while at the same time possessing few of the
virtues and most of the problems of open-ended, US type systems. Given rigid bureaucratic structures,
limited administrative capacity, and limited fiscal capacity, reforming the system is an immense
challenge. The GOE has committed itself to undertake such a reform. This project will provide the GOE
with the support for development and implementation of systemic changes needed in Phase I of a 15 to
20 year undertaking.
In view of the obstacles to improving system performance and outcomes, the HSRP provides a rational
basis for reform by clearly relating GOE reform policies to system problems and real world constraints.
The HSRP provides the reform blueprint for the Government and the donor community. Because the
project supports a reform program both endorsed by the Government and founded in a comprehensive
analysis of the sector, it represents a substantial improvement over past piecemeal donor supported
reform efforts. Present favorable economic and political conditions provide the Government with a
window of opportunity to initiate such a comprehensive reform. Use of a specific investment instrument
approach will assure that Bank resources used to support the reform are targeted to specific interventions
known to yield maximum results on the margin. Conditionalities - such as determining capital
investments on a needs-based masterplan - can further assure appropriate targeting and favorable
outcomes.



Annex 5
Page I of I
ANNEX 5
Egypt: Health Sector Reform Program
Financial Summary
Years Ending June 30
(US$ Million, 1998/99 base year)
Implementation Period               Operational Period
1999    2000    2001    2002    2003    2004    2005    2006
Proiect Costs
Investment Costs               35.6    54.5    77.1    63.3   106.0
Recurrent Costs                 1.6     7.1      7.5    13.7    20.6    20.6    20.6    20.6
Total                       37.2    61.6    84.6    77.0   126.6    20.6    20.6    20.6
Financing Sources (% of total
project costs)
IDA (amount)                   8.36    13.62    18.51    16.72    27.43
IDA (%)                       22%      22%      22%     22%      22%
Co-financiers (amount)       25.08    40.85   55.54    50.16    82.28
Co-financiers (%)             67%      66%      66%     65%      65%
Central Gov. (amount)          3.80    7.12    10.52    10.12    16.89    16.89    16.89    16.89
Central Gov. (%)               10%     12%      12%      13%      13%    100%    100%    100%
Total (%)                 100%    100%    100%    100%    100%    100%    100%    100%



Annex 6
Page I of 9
ANNEX 6
Egypt: Health Sector Reform Program
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
The Credit would finance selected pilot activities requiring the procurement of: (a) works, i.e.,
major and minor renovations and possibly reconstruction of family health units, family health
centers and district hospitals; (b) goods, including medical equipment, supplies, furniture and
vehicles; and (c) services for (i) the preparation of drawings and specifications for the required
works and equipment acquisitions, and subsequent field supervision of construction, (ii)
technical assistance consisting initially of needs assessments and rationalizations of existing
health care facilities within the program, and the undertaking of various studies for PHC and
HIO; and (iii) training of PHC and S1O staff in technical areas and other program staff in
implementation, procurement, financial control and facilities maintenance for sustainability.
Procurement under the Credit would be carried out in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for
"Procurement under IBRD Loans and Credits" - January 1995, revised January and August 1996
and September 1997 and for "Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers" - January 1997 and revised September 1997. Program components not financed by
the Bank would be procured in accordance with national regulations or the guidelines of
cofinancing institutions. The Bank's standard bidding documents would be used for all
procurement under International Competitive Bidding (ICB) and, with modifications acceptable
to the Bank and in Arabic language, also for National Competitive Bidding (NCB). Simplified
documents would be prepared for use under the Program and apply to National and International
Shopping (NS/IS) and small-value consulting contracts.
Works: Following the rationalization of existing health care facilities under the Program
and prioritization according to the criteria of the pilot activities, the requirement for works would
range from minor renovations to address maintenance deficiencies to major rehabilitation and
possibly reconstruction of facilities whose condition has fallen below minimum functionality.
Most of the targeted facilities in each of the Govemorates would be small in size (500 - 2,000
square meters), at scattered locations (up to 200 per Governorate), and therefore suitable mainly
for competitive bidding or quotations from local contractors. No ICB procurement of works
would be feasible, since the estimated contract values and conditions would be unattractive for
international contractors, even as packages. Contracts exceeding an estimated value of
US$300,000 equivalent would be procured using NCB procedures and documents and
advertisements in at least two national newspapers. Contracts below an estimated value of
US$300,000 equivalent, up to an aggregate amount of US$15.2 million equivalent, would be
procured using (i) advertisements in a local newspaper (if available) or announcements posted in
a public place, (ii) solicitation of competitive quotations from at least three capable local
contractors and (iii) simplified documentation and evaluation procedures agreed with the Bank.
Goods: To the maximum possible extent, the procurement of medical equipment and
other goods would be through packages and lots of similar items. Each package would have an
estimated contract value above US$500,000 equivalent and be procured using ICB procedures
and documents and advertisements in the "UN Development Business" and at least two national
newspapers. Bidders would be subject to post-qualification in accordance with the Bank's



Annex 6
Page 2 of 9
standard bidding document for "Procurement of Goods" - January 1995. Bid evaluations would
be submitted on the Bank's standard bid evaluation form "Procurement of Goods and Works" -
April 1996. Goods, including supplies, at estimated contract values between US$100,000 and
US$500,000 per procurement, up to an aggregate amount of US$8.0 million equivalent, would
be procured using NCB procedures and documents and advertisements in at least two national
newspapers. The procurement of goods below an estimated contract value of US$100,000
equivalent per procurement, up to an aggregate amount of US$2.5 million equivalent, would
follow NS/IS procedures, using simplified documents and procedures for soliciting, receiving
and evaluating competitive quotations from a minimum of three capable national or international
suppliers. Incidental goods and supplies below a cost of US$5,000 per purchase, up to an
aggregate amount of US$500,000 would be purchased directly from the nearest available source.
Goods required as part of the rehabilitation of large health care facilities in some Governorates
may be procured more cost-effectively through appropriate arrangements with construction
contractor of the same facility, e.g., through turnkey contracting. The estimated value of such
goods would be below the aforementioned threshold for ICB procurement. The bidding
documents for the turnkey procurement of works and goods would follow the Bank's standard
bidding document for "Supply and Installation of Plant Equipment - November 1997" and be
subject to the Bank's prior review.
Services: The needs assessment and rationalization of facilities would require site
inspections by architects and engineers to measure the works, evaluate the state of disrepair and
estimate renovation or replacement costs, as appropriate. A parallel assessment would cover
medical equipment and supplies. Following the setting of priorities for the pilot activities in the
three Governorates, architects and engineers would be retained to provide comprehensive
services covering drawings, specifications and administration of the construction contract on
behalf of Government. Initially, an invitation for expressions of interest in these consultancies
would be advertised in at least two national newspapers. Using transparent criteria, responses
would be evaluated by an evaluation committee and qualified consultants would be short-listed
for selections as opportunities materialize; the Governorates would share this short list of
qualified architectural! engineering consultants. For architectural/engineering consultancies
above an estimated contract value of US$50,000 equivalent, the selection method would be
Quality and Cost-Based (QCBS). For other architectural/engineering consultancies, other
specialized consulting assignments and short-term, low-cost contracts with consultants, the
selection would follow the Quality-Based (QBS), Consultants' Qualifications-Based (CQ) &
Single-Source Selection (SS) methods, depending on the nature of the terms of reference which
would precede all selections. A special category of service contracts to be financed under this
Credit will involve the maintenance and repair of medical equipment after the expiration of the
supplier's normal warranty period. A unit-cost contract with an annual ceiling will be used for
this purpose, following a competitive selection based on Least-Cost Selection (LCS).
Training: Institutional capacity building at the central and Governorate levels would
entail a staff training masterplan aimed at achieving proficiency in all technical skills required
for the proper operation of all rehabilitated health facilities under the project. The project would
also strengthen necessary skills required for the management of the reform program through
supporting training in implementation, including procurement, contract administration, financial
control, maintenance planning and similar subjects, in the shortest possible time. The substance
of this plan would be a skills assessment followed by staff enrollments in appropriate courses,
workshops, temporary secondments and the like, combined with on-the-job coaching by more
experienced staff. While the Bank and the cofinancing institutions may be able to provide some



Annex 6
Page 3 of 9
of this training, national and international training centers, as well as individuals, would have to
be contracted directly to satisfy all other requirements of the staff training plan. TA and training
would be contracted in accordance with TOR, budget and implementation schedule agreed with
the Bank during review of the Annual Work Plans (AWP).
Prior Review: The first three contracts in each category (works, goods and services),
irrespective of the estimated contract value, would be subject to the Bank's prior review, in
accordance with the applicable guidelines. Thereafter, all procurement of goods subject to ICB
procedures and all procurement of works, through NCB, with estimated contract values above
US$300,000 equivalent, and of goods with estimated contract values above US$500,000
equivalent would be subject to prior review. Contracts with individual consultants in excess of
US$50,000 and with consulting firms in excess of US$100,000, as well as all single-source
contracts, would be subject to prior review. The prior review process would cover about 70% of
the total works and goods contract values procured under ICB and NCB. All other contracts
would be subject to post-review on a random basis, during supervision missions and procurement
audits.
Procurement Responsibilities: The Ministry of Health and Population (MOHP) would
have primary responsibility for procurement under the HSRP. In particular, MOHP would
prepare and update the Consolidated Procurement Plan, as part of the AWP. MOHP would also
oversee and guide procurement at all levels based on the Program's Operations Manual. This
Manual would have to be approved and agreed among MOHP, the three selected Governorates,
the Bank and the cofinanciers, and should form the cornerstone of the Program Launch
Workshop and subsequent training activities. Among other guidance, this Manual would provide
consistent procurement procedures for all Program beneficiaries. It would also provide
illustrations and outline specifications for the Program's preferred models of health care
facilities and related equipment. In addition to these managerial and advisory functions, MOHP
would undertake all procurement activities that require ICB and NCB procedures, and all
selections for consultancies.
A central Technical Support Office (TSO) has been established at MOHP Headquarters. Its core
staff must include a program coordinator, a financial specialist, a procurement/engineer, an MIS
specialist, and several technical staff. The Minister of Health and Population will have executive
authority and accountability for all TSO's operations. These organizational arrangements would
be mirrored in the three Governorates in the form of Technical Support Teams (TSTs) which
would initially include a team coordinator, a financial specialist and a procurement/engineer. The
executive oversight function for the TSTs would be vested in each Governorate's Program
Coordination Committee (GPCC), chaired by the Undersecretary for Health in the Govemorate.
The TSTs would only be responsible for the procurement of works and goods involving national
shopping and direct contracting procedures, in conformance with the Program's Operations
Manual. TSTs would not undertake any procurement that may involve NCB or ICB, or
consultants' selection. Architects and engineers selected competitively by the TSO would be
given assignments at the Governorate level, e.g. to provide comprehensive services covering
drawings, specifications, bills of quantity and administration of the construction contract, under
the direction of the benefiting Governorate. The TSTs will provide monthly reports to the TSO
for its consolidated reports and the updated Procurement Plan. To expedite procurement, the
TSO would establish special tender committees for goods and works. An independent
procurement audit would be undertaken every 12 months following Credit Effectiveness Date to
confirm compliance with Bank procedures.



Annex 6
Page 4 of 9
The Bank will arrange for training of relevant TSO staff to become familiar with Bank
procurement guidelines and procedures. However, these procedures tend to be complex,
especially for new borrowing entities that have limited experience in international procurement
and in the Bank procedures in particular. Until the TSO staff become fully conversant with the
Bank's procedures, the TSO may wish to consult with other national entities which have had
experience implementing Bank credits, and arrange for transfer of relevant know-how and on-
the-job training of TSO staff. In addition to building procurement capacity at the TSO, the Bank
will support the central procurement unit at MOHP to ensure that its staff are properly trained
and equipped.
Disbursement
The proposed Credit, which constitutes Phase I of the reform program, would be disbursed over
a period of five years beginning in January 1999. The completion date would be December 31,
2003, and the closing date June 30, 2004. This is shorter than the country disbursement profile
of eight years. This period is deemed feasible due to the following reasons: (a) while the reform
program is long-term and comprehensive, Phase I represents priority interventions that are
within the capacity of MOHP to implement; (b) program definition and policy dialogue are at an
advanced level; and (c) some activities have already been initiated with donor financing.
The proceeds of the IDA credit will be disbursed against:
(a)    100% of foreign expenditures and 90% of local expenditures for civil works.
(b)    100% of foreign expenditures and 90% of local expenditures for goods.
(c)    100% of expenditures for consultants' services, technical assistance, training and studies.
Use of Statements of Expenditures (SOEs): Disbursements against civil works
contracts exceeding US$300,000, goods exceeding US$500,000, and consultants' contracts
exceeding US$100,000 for firms and US$50,000 for individuals, will be fully documented. The
first three contracts in each category (works, goods and services), irrespective of the estimated
contract value, would be subject to the Bank's prior review, in accordance with the applicable
guidelines. For all expenditures below the thresholds, disbursement will be made against
Statements of Expenditures (SOEs). Supporting documents for SOEs will not be submitted to
the Bank, but will be retained by the TSO/TSTs and made available for review by IDA
supervision missions. The TSO/TSTs will record the contracts as agreed with IDA, so that IDA
can monitor them for prior or ex-post review as needed.
SpecialAccount: To ensure that funds are readily available for program implementation
and to facilitate disbursements from the Credit proceeds, a Special Account (SA) in US Dollars
will be established by the Government at the Central Bank under TSO responsibility. The
authorized allocation of the SA is US$9.0 million, but the initial deposit will be limited to
US$6.0 million until US$18.0 million has been disbursed. The SA will be operated by the TSO
under terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA. The TSO Director along with another senior
MOHP representative will be designated by the Ministry of International Cooperation as
authorized signatories of the SA. Separate identifiable accounts would be maintained for each
donor and for all program expenditures, and supporting documentation would be retained for
subsequent review by World Bank Egypt Country Department Staff and visiting IDA supervision
missions. Disbursement applications will be prepared and submitted to IDA by the TSO with
copies of such applications provided to the Ministry of Planning & International Cooperation for
information. Replenishment of the SA by IDA will require the submission of full documentation



Annex 6
Page 5 of 9
or certified SOEs showing that payments were made exclusively for eligible expenditures against
contracts that are below the prior review threshold. The SA will be replenished monthly, or after
one-third of the initial deposit amount has been disbursed, whichever is sooner. Applications for
direct payment or Special Commitment will be subject to a minimum value of 20% of the
authorized allocation to the Special Account.
Accounts and Audits: The GOE is in compliance with IDA audit reporting covenants.
The-TSO will establish and maintain separate program-related accounts for each donor and for
all program expenditures. These accounts will be maintained in accordance with internationally
sound recognized accounting practices and in an accounting system acceptable to IDA. The TSO
will prepare interim and annual financial statements and submit them to IDA. These statements
shall reflect the financial performance of the program. The SA, all project accounts, and SOEs
will be audited in accordance with international standards at the end of each GOE fiscal year,
beginning with fiscal year 2000, by independent auditors acceptable to IDA. These reports will
be submitted to IDA within six-months from the end of each fiscal year and will be made
available to the Minister of Health and Population. All accounts, financial reports and audits
should provide adequate and timely information to IDA for supervision of the program.
Reporting: The TSO will maintain continuity in project management, and will ensure
that all project documentation is well prepared and on schedule and that procedural problems are
reduced to the minimum. The TSO will prepare AWPs in consultation with expert panels and
lAs, and forward these to IDA for discussion by no later than October 30 of each year. The TSO
will prepare semi-annual progress reports against AWP indicators. These reports would discuss
problems encountered, solutions adopted, and adjustments to the AWP. The TSO will develop
and maintain a computerized management information system (MIS) which will give financial
and operational data on a continual basis and track program implementation progress. In
addition, the TSO will develop a uniform (standard) reporting system for the evaluation by all
concerned donors. All reports will be submitted concurrently to the Minister of Health and
Population, IDA and the concerned donors. The TSO will prepare a detailed mid-term report and
submit it to all participating donors by the end of December 2000 to serve as the basis for the
mid-term review, which donors and the GOE will conduct by February 2001. The TSO will also
prepare an Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for review by IDA and other concerned
donors within six-months of the closing date of the Credit.
Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E): The TSO will be responsible for monitoring
progress against agreed performance indicators (specified in Annex 1).  It will also be
responsible for undertaking an extensive (independent) evaluation of the reform and the project
interventions. TSO's main M&E functions include: (a) develop process and performance
indicators for HSRP objectives and activities; (b) monitor implementation progress and
performance of the various lAs; (c) develop and maintain a database of program status for the
generation of annual progress reports for the government and participating donors; (d) conduct
continuous evaluation on the impact of the initiatives/interventions and provide feedback for
modification or improvement as necessary; (e) prepare summary reports for the Minister and
donors highlighting problems, issues, and recommended actions. The TSO will contract
independent technical auditors to undertake a full analysis of all program activities which will
form the basis of the annual progress reports. In addition, the lAs will provide the TSO with
quarterly progress reports summarizing: (a) the current status of project implementation and
reasons for deviation from agreed implementation plans; (b) financial records; (c) constraints
faced and corrective actions to be taken; (d) a work plan for the subsequent six months; and (e)
an update on agreed upon monitoring indicators. These reports will be consolidated by the TSO



Annex 6
Page 6 of 9
and forwarded to the Minister of Health and Population, IDA and the other donors semi-
annually.
Program Launch Workshop: Program activities will be launched at a workshop shortly
after Credit effectiveness. The workshop will introduce the program activities to all designated
counterparts and discuss major technical and operational details. The TSO will design and
organize the workshop. Participants will include key counterparts and major stakeholders and
representatives of relevant MOHP departments, HIO, CCOs, and the pilot Governorates.
Annex 6, Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements'
(in US$ million equivalent)
Total Cost
Expenditure Category                      Procurement Method                     (including
contingencies)
ICB         NCB          Other        N.B.F
1. Works                                      42.3         131.1         41.8          215.2
(29.2)       (15.2)                      (44.4)
2. Goods                          35.5        43.8          6.9           2.5           88.7
X________________________        (21.3)        (8.0)        (3.0)                       (32.3)
3. Services                                                 16.2         66.9           83.1
(13.3)                      (13.3)
Total                         35.5         86.1         154.2         111.2         387.0
1  (21.3)       (37.2)       (31.5)        (0.0)          (90.0)
Note:  N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed (includes elements procured under parallel cofinancing procedures,
consultancies under trust funds, any reserved procurement, and any other miscellaneous items). The
procurement arrangements for the items listed under "Other" and details of the items listed as "N.B.F." are
explained in the text.
Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by the IDA credit.
For details on presentation of Procurement Methods refer to OD 11.02, "Procurement Arrangements for
Investment Operations." Details on Consultant Services can be shown more easily in the Table Al format
(additional to Table A, where applicable).



Annex 6
Page 7 of 9
Annex 6, Table Al: Consultants and Training Selection Arrangements (optional)
(in US$ million equivalent)
Consultants and                                                                Total Cost
Training Services                      Selection Method                         (including
Expenditure                                                                 contingencies)
Category
QCBS   QBS   SFB   LCS    CQ             SS      N.B.F.
Firms/Individuals    75%     10%    0%      5%     5%       5%         0%        US$13.3
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS  Quality-Based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
SS = Single-Source Selection
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed.



Annex 6
Page 8 of 9
Annex 6, Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
Expenditure          Contract Value         Procurement        Contracts Subject to
Category            (Threshold)              Method              Prior Review
US$ thousands
1. Works
> US$300,000      NCB, advertisement in  First 3 contracts
two national          All contracts above
newspapers            US$300,000
< US$300,000      NS                     First 3 contracts
2. Goods                                 _
> US$500,000      ICB, advertisement in   First 3 contracts
UN Development        All ICB Contracts
Business
US$100,000-500,000   NCB                    First 3 contracts
< US$100,000      NS/IS                  First 3 contracts
<US$5,000        Direct Purchase       First 3 contracts
3. Services
> US$50,000       QCBS                  First 3 contracts
All contracts for firms
< US$50,000       QBS, LCS, CQ, SS      above US$100,000
All contracts for
individuals above
US$50,000
All Single-Source
contracts
2 Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.



Annex 6
Page 9 of 9
Annex 6, Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds (in SDR equivalent)
Expenditure Category           Amount of the Credit     Financing
(expressed in SDR      Percentage
million equivalent)
1. Civil Works                                   30.1         100% of foreign
expenditures and
90% of local
expenditures
2. Goods/Equipment                               22.1         100% of foreign
expenditures; 100%
of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost) and
90% of local
expenditures for
other items procured
locally
3. Services
Training                                     7.0         100%
Consultants                                  3.0         100%
4. Unallocated                                    4.6
TOTAL                                          66.8
Allocation of Credit Proceeds (in US$ equivalent)
Expenditure Category           Amount of the Credit    Financing
(expressed in US$     Percentage
million equivalent)
1. Civil Works                                   40.5         100% of foreign
expenditures and
90% of local
expenditures
2. Goods/Equipment                               30.0         100% of foreign
expenditures; 100%
of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost) and
90% of local
expenditures for
other items procured
locally
3. Services
Training                                     9.3         100%
Consultants                                  4.0         100%
4. Unallocated                                    6.2        :
TOTAL                                          90.0



Annex 7
Page I of I
ANNEX 7
Egypt: Health Sector Reform Program
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$'000)                     Planned                Actual
(At final PCD stage)
US$433.9             US$387.6
B. Project Schedule                             Planned                Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)         13
First Bank mission (identification)            03/20/1997            03/20/1997
Appraisal mission departure                    02/06/1998            02/06/1998
Negotiations                                   04/20/1998            04/23/1998
Planned Date of Effectiveness                  01/31/1999              / /19
Prepared by: Ministry of Health and Population
Preparation assistance: PHRD Grant TF027142 (Country executed) and TF27166 (Bank executed);
Cofinanciers (USAID, EU)
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
George Schieber                          Health Sector Leader
Bassam Ramadan                             Senior Economist
Albert Sales                             Health Specialist
Egbe Osifo                              Health Specialist
Rekha Menon                              Health Economist
Atsuko Aoyama                             Health Specialist
Eileen Sullivan                          Program Assistant
Mariam Claeson                      Senior Public Health Specialist
Ramesh Govindaraj                     Lead Pharmaceutical Specialist
Akiko Maeda                           Health Finance Specialist
Nicole Klingen                               Economist
Sahar Ahmed Nasr                              Economist
Mahmoud Gamel El Din                    Senior Procurement Specialist
Luca Frontini                               Economist
Micheline Faucompre                   Senior Language Task Assistant



Annex 8
Page I of I
ANNEX 8
Egypt: Health Sector Reform Program
Documents in the Project File*
A. Project Implementation Plan
*     Operational Manual: Managing the Reform Process, Draft April, 1998 (World Bank/MOHP).
*     Conceptual Framework for a Health Sector Reforn Strategy, April 1997.
*     Ministry of Health and Population Health Policy Change: An Agenda for Action.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
*     Egypt Health Sector Reform: Universal Access to Basic Primary Care and Public Health Services, February 1998
(Mariam Claeson)
*     Egypt: Fiscal Situation and Medium-Term Outlook: Health Care Sector Reforrn Fiscal Sustainability, February
1998 (Luca Frontini)
*     Expanding Social Health Insurance Coverage; Financial Projections 1995-2001, February 1998 (Akiko Maeda)
*     Facility Rationalization: Cost Tables, February 1998 (Nicole Klingen)
*     Egypt Health Sector Reforn Program (developed at the request and under the guidance of His Excellency Prof.
Ismail Sallam, Minister of Health and Population), December 1997
*     The Situation of Human Resource Development and Management in the Health Sector, July 1997 (Atsuko Aoyama
with contribution from Paulo Ferrinho).
*     Health Care Financing in Egypt: The Role of the Health Insurance Organization, September 1997 (Rekha Menon).
*     Work Group on Primary Health Care (Scope of Work), 1997 (Dr. El-Khoby, Dr. Shamma, Dr. Hamoud, Dr.
Tamman, Dr. Mansour, Dr. Gipson, Dr. Ahmed (MOH)).
A Reform Strategy for Primary Care in Egypt, Draft May 1997 (USAID),
Egypt: Reconnaissance Mission, Health Insurance Organization, February 1997 (V. Turbat).
*     The Human Resources Situation in Health Care Services in Egypt: Preliminary Assessment, March 1996 (G.
Dussault, Univ. of Montrdal).
*     World Bank Reconnaissance Mission: The Egyptian Pharmaceutical Sector Analysis, February 1996 (P. Lalvani,
VCF Inc.).
*     World Bank's Health Sector Reconnaissance Mission - Health Care Financing, March 1996 (Gilles des Rochers,
Consultant, Quebec, Canada).
*     Health Situation in Egypt, February 1996 (Claude Letarte, MD, DTPH, Consultant).
*     World Bank's Health Sector Reconnaissance Mission - The Egyptian Hospital Sector at the Crossroads, February
1996 (Daniel Letouze, PhD, Health Sciences, Dakar, Senegal).
C. Other
*     List of Health Projects in Egypt supported by the following members of the HRD Donor Sub-Group Members.
*     Partnerships for Health Reform: TA to Egypt Health Sector Policy Support - Draft Year One Country Activities
Plan, March 1997 (USAID/GOE).
*     Health Services Provider Survey (Dr. Hala Abou-Taleb).
*     DDM: Provider Survey Preliminary Results - The Role of Independent Pharmacists in Health Services Provision
(Dr. F. Kader, Dr. M. El-Adawy, M. M. Hamdy).
*Including electronic files



Annex 9
Egypt: HIalth Sector Reform Program
Statement of Loans and Credits
Status of Bank Group Operations in Egypt, Arab Republic of
IBRD Loans aid IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
Difference Between
expected
Originial Amount in USS Millions                      and actual                   Last ARPP
Loan or     Fiscal                                                                                                                                         disbursements a/           Supervision Rating b/
Project ID     Credit No.     Year                  Borrower                          Purpose
IBRD          IDA         Cancellations      Undisbursed       Orig  Frn Rev'd         Dev Obj          Imp Prog
Number of Closed Loanstcredits: 88
Active Loans
EG-PE-5149       IBRD 31980       1990   GOVERNMENT OF EGYPT                   IRHIG/PUMPING                      31.00          0.00               0.00             4.74         4.28        0.00       HS               S
EG-PE-5140       IBRD 31370       1990   GOVERNMENT                            ENGINEERING:& TECHNI               30.50          0.00               0,00             8.96         9.73        0.00       HS                S
EG-PE-5111       IBRD 33540       1991   EGPC                                  GAS INVESTM21NT PROJE              84.00          0.00               0.00            11.96        11.97        0.00        S                S
EG-PE-5146       IBRD 34170       1992   GOVERNMENT OF EGYPT                   NATIONAL DRAINAGE                  45.00          0.00               0.00            45.00         3.64        0.00       HS               HS
EG-PE-5152       IDA 24030        1992   GOVERNMENT                            SCHISTOSOMIASIS CONT                0.00         26.84               0.00            20.26        13.22         0.00       S                S
EG-PE-5146       IDA 23130        1,92   GOVERNMENT OF EGYPT                   NATIONAL DRAiNAGE                   0.00         75.00               0.00             9.84         3.64        0.00       HS               HS
EG-PE-5168       IBRD 36050       1993   GOVERNMENT                            PVT SEC TOURISM INF &             130.00          0.00               0.00            94.85        58.48        0.00        S                S
ENV
EG-PE-5153       IDA 25040        1993   GOVERNMENT OF EGYPT                   MATRUHi RESOURCE                    0.00         22.00               0.00            17.64         6.35         -.19       S                S
MANAGEMENT
EG-PE-5161       ]DA 24760        1993   GOE                                   BASIC EDUCATION PROJ                0.00         55.50               0.00            26.35        10.64        0.00        S                S
EG-PE-5157       IBRD 37190       1994   GOE/PBDAC                             AGRICULTURAL                       54.00          0.00               0.00            11.01       -36.47         0.00       S                S
MODERNI
EG-PE-5157       IDA 25850        1994   GOEtPBDAC                             AGRICULTURAL                        0.00         67.00               0.00            24.04       -36.47         0.00       S                S
MODERNI I
EG-PE-5173       IBRD 38320       1995   MPWR                                  EGYPT   UGATION IP                 26.70          0.00               0.00            26.70         8.72         0.00       S                S
EG-PE-5173       IDA 26720        1995   MPWR                                  EGYPT IRBJGAPION IMP                0.00         53.30               0.00            47.29         8.72         0.00       S                S
EG-PE-40507      IBRD 40180       1996   GOVERNMENT OF EGYPT                   POLLUTION ABATEMENT                20.00          0.00               0.00            20.00         4.64         0.00       S                U
EG-PE-40507      IDA 28660        1996   GOVERNMENT OF EGYPT                   POLLUTION ABATEMENT                 0.00         15.00               0.00            14.20         4.64         0.00       S                U
EG-PE43102       IDA 28650       1996   GOVERNMENT                             SOCIAL FUND 11                      0.00        120.00               0.00           101.32        24.36         0.00      HS               HS
EG-PE-5163       IDA 28300        1996   GOF                                   POPULATION                          0.00         17.20               0.00            16A0          2.83         0.00       S                U
EG-PE-5169       IDANNDD8         1997   GOE                                   ED.ENHANCEMENT PROG.                0.00         75.00               0.00            67.96         8.10         0.00        S               S
EG-PE-49166      IDA 30020        199S                                         EAST DELTA Ab.SERV.                 0.00         15.00               0.00            15.00         0.00         0.00
ToWal                                                                                                            421.20        541.84               0.00           583.52       111.02         -.19
Active Loans         Cled Loan                    al
Total Disbursed (WRD and IDA):                           370.65                3,561.87               3,932.52
of which hsbeen repaid:                                10.14               1,909.19                1,919.33
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                          952.90                1,656.20               2,609.10
Amount sold          :                                     0.00                   7.48                    7.48
Ofwhich repaid      :                                    0.00                    7A89                   7.48
Total Undisbursed      :                                 583.52                   0.00                  583.52
a.  Intended dishasemena to date minw acu disburemnents to date as projected nt appraissl.
b.  Following the FY94 An  Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP). a lettr bsed system was intoduced (iS  hihly Saisfry. S- sisffacwtoy, U - unutisfactory  U  highly unsf y): se proposed Improvanent in Pject nd Portfolio Performance Rating Meodogy
(Sec494.901, August23, 1994.
Note: Diabuesamentdat i updaauthbeend ofthe fut week ofthe month.                                                                                                                                         0   
'q-
0



Annex 9
Egypt, Arab Republic of                             Page 2 of 2
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 30-Sep-97
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                             IFC          i
FY Approval            Company          Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic   Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
1982/88               Luxor Hotel             0.00    1.37    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.37    0.00    0.00
1983/91/94/92/96      ANSDK                  18.57   11.44    0.00    0.00   18.57   11.44    0.00    0.00
1985                  MFIC                    0.00     .12    0.00    0.00    0.00     .12    0.00    0.00
1986/88/92            Meleiha Oil             0.00   30.82    0.00    0.00    0.00     .24    0.00    0.00
1991                  Al Bardi                1.55    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.55    0.00    0.00    0.00
1991                  ETIC                    0.00    1.95    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.95    0.00    0.00
1992                  Misr Compressor         9.70    3.77    0.00    0.00    9.70    3.77    0.00    0.00
1992                  Serena Beach            5.00    1.20    0.00    0.00    5.00    1.19    0.00    0.00
1992/97               Carbon Black-EGT       10.25    2.96    0.00    0.00    6.25    2.96    0.00    0.00
1993                  Cmrcl Intl Bank         0.00   15.59    0.00    0.00    0.00   15.59    0.00    0.00
1994                  Club Ras Soma           4.84    2.40    0.00    0.00    4.84    1.93    0.00    0.00
1994/96               Abu Soma Develop        0.00    1.20    0.00    0.00    0.00     .91    0.00    0.00
1996                  Apache Corp.            0.00   10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   10.00    0.00    0.00
1996                  Apache Qarun           10.00    0.00    0.00   15.00    7.54    0.00    0.00   11.31
1996                  Orix Leasing EGT        0.00     .89    0.00    0.00    0.00     .89    0.00    0.00
1996                  Phoenix Qarun          20.00    0.00    0.00   30.00   14.36    0.00    0.00   21.54
1997                  Egypt Trust             0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00
1997                  MGDK                    0.00    1.50    0.00    0.00    0.00   .-37-  0Q00    0.00
1997                  Orascom                20.00    5.00    0.00    0.00   12.00    5.00    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:               1 99.91   95.21    0.00   45.00   79.81   62.73    0.00   32.85
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
1997                  ANSDK GDR               0.00    0.00    0.00   30.00
1997                  ECC                    35.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997                  MGDK                    4.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1995                  MISR COMP-CAP IN        1.60    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996                  ORIX LEASING EGT        5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997                  UNIPAK-NILE             5.00    0.00    0.00    5.00
Total Pending Commitment:         50.60    0.00    0.00   35.00



NIinister of Health and Population
Egypt                        lA..311 a[i)-q
|                          ~~~~~~~~~~ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT              Annex I0
MINISTRY OF HEALTH AND POPULATION    Page 1 of 2 R
Kemal Dervis
Vice President
Middle East & North Africa Region
The World Bank
Dear Mr. Dervis:
In the context of the continuing collaboration between the Arab Republic of Egypt and the
World Bank, I would like to restate the policy of the Government of Egypt (GOE) regarding the
content and phasing of our comprehensive health sector reform program.
Improvements in the health status of the Egyptian population through universal access to
high quality and cost-effective services in the context of a fiscally sustainable and efficient svstem
are the goals of our comprehensive reform program. This program is described in detail in the
attached Egypt Health Sector Reform Program (HSRP) document developed bv the Ministry of
Health and Population under mv guidance and in collaboration with the World Bank. USAID. EU.
and DANIDA. The basic reform approach builds on the strengths of the current system. while
dealing with its weaknesses.
The HSRP over the long-term. will .:
* improve health outcomes and reduce regional disparities
* reform system organization and management
* increase health spending
* improve the equity. allocative efficiency and technical efficiency of health spending
* enhance the fairness of the current financing arrangements
*  rationalize the extensive human and physical infrastructure and eliminate regional disparities
* improve the quality of care in both public and private sectors
* implement economic incentives to improve operational efficiency
* improve the efficiency of the pharmaceutical sector and quality of its products
The HSRP provides a 10-15 year reform framework to achieve these objectives. As you
know. health reform is a difficult and complex process. Reform must be dealt with in an
incremental, yet substantive manner. The GOE is embarking on the first five-year phase of the
reform. During this phase. we plan to lay the basis for future stages of the reform. while
addressing our most serious health status, efficiency, and quality problems.
r O:  Y - r or  rvv%: .S- r4 . .N, - r OL .aY - l-oY LL-    _ 91,L *;t--J  i &LL" -
3 Magles El Shaab St., Cairo . Tel.:3557046 - 3540526 - 3541507 Fax: 3553966 - 3559422



Nlinister of Health and Population                     n                          j.
Egypt                        l  5z|t3 d                                       lgq
_____                     ~~~~~Annex 10
Page 2 of 2
During the first phase of the reform, universal coverage to a basic package of pnmarv care
benefits will be introduced in three pilot Govemorates: Alexandria. Minoufia. and Sohag. The
insurance entities will be local subsidiaries of the Health Insurance Organization specifically
oriented to providing coverage for the primary care benefit package. The service delivery svstems-
both human and physical, in the pilot Governorates will be rationalized according to needs-based
masterplans. These masterplans will be based on existing human and physical infrastructures.
underlying health needs, and norms developed by the Government concerning appropnate capacity.
efficiency, and quality needed for effective and efficient delivery of the primarv care benefit
package. Complementary vertical national public health programs will also be reformed to
reinforce the basic primary care package. The National Health Insurance Organization will be
eventually restructured so that it can serve as the national social health insurance svstem for the
entire population in the future. Major studies and analyses will be undertaken in the areas of
curative care, pharmaceuticals, and human resource development to serve as the base for future
phases of the reform.
Based on our experiences with the first phase, we plan to expand coverage to other
Governorates and ultimately to the entire population. In the longer term. consonant with improved
systems efficiency and availability of financing, we plan to expand the basic primarv care package
to a comprehensive benefit package. Learning from our experiences and the results from the
masterplans, we will initiate steps to deal effectively with general over-capacity of personnel and
facilities, while resolving problems of appropriate mix and geographic distribution. The human
resource and facility planning will also result in improved quality and accessibility. The incentive-
based payment arrangements employed by the primary care insurance entities will reinforce both
qualitv and efficiency objectives.
While much of the phase one effort focuses on primary care, we are also taking a serious
look at the issues of overall health manpower and system capacity. We will develop policies on
medical school enrollments as Egypt has too many physicians, yet has serious geographic and
specialty mal-distributions. In addition, medical school enrollments are far in excess of our needs.
We are also focusing broadly on overall systems capacity in terms of beds and the low occupancy
rates. While the phase one reforms per se will address these issues for primarv care. we wNill
address these critical issues and develop policies that we will implement during phase one or later
phases of the reform as appropriate and feasible.
Phase one of the reform will be costly. While the proposed Bank project and other donor
assistance will assist the government in meeting the underlying investment costs, the government is
committed to meeting the significant annual costs of providing health insurance to a basic package
of primary care benefits for the 5.7 million uninsured in the three pilot governorates. and
ultimately to all Egyptians. As part of our policy planning, we will develop transparent financing
mechanisms to meet these primary care insurance costs through premiums, co-payrnents. and
additional govermnent revenue contributions. Some of these costs can be met through efficiency
gains achieved through the planning process. Financing social health insurance is a difficult
economic and policy issue that we will resolve during the phase one implementation process.
Prof. Dr. js{nail Sallam
Ministerof Healtnad Population
Arab rep, iqrblfEgy
rooAtrr - roorsv% :,JlA  roov-ro:r-root.   :,,L-,^I  X:.              - ,,,-li    t -r
3 Magles El Shaab St., Cairo . Tel.:3557046 - 3540526 - 3541507 Fax: 3553966 - 3559422



Annex 11
Egypt Health Sector Reform Program (HSRP)
Proposed Management Structure
I      I _
oI-



ANNEX 12                                                          Annex 12
Egypt Health Sector Reform Program                                                  Page 1 of 2
Arab Republic of Egypt at a Glance                                                        1/13/98
M. East  Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                          & North  middle-                  -         -        -   -   -
Egypt   Africa  Income    I Development diamond-
Popubtion mid-1998 (millions)                         59.3      279    1,125
GNP per capita 1996 (USS)                            1,090    2,090    1,750                  Life expectancy
GNP 1998 (billions USS)                               64.8      582    1,987
Average annual growth, 1990-96 
Population fS6                                         2.0      2.8       1.4
Labor force(X)                                         2.8      3.3       1.8     GNP                              Gross
Most recent estimate (latest year available since 1989)                           per           \      /        nore
capita                       eninment
Poverty: headcount index (% of population)
Urban population (% of total population)               45        57       56
Life expectancy at birth (years)                        63       86       67
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)               56        54       41
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)              9         ,.       ,,               Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of populaton)                   64       85
Illiteracy (% of populatfon age 15+)                   49        39
Gross primary enrollment (% ofschool-age populabton)   98        97      104              Egypt, Arab Rep.
Male                                                105       104      105        -     Lower-middle-income group
Female                                               91        91      101    ____________________
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1975     1985     1995      1996
Economic ratlos-
GDP (billions USS)                           11A      34.7     59.0      67.6
Gross domestic investment/GDP                33.4     26.7     16.7      16.6
Exports of goods and services/GDP           20.2      19.9     24.2      20.6              Openness of economy
Gross domestic savings/GDP                   12.3     14.5     12.1      12.1
Gross national savings/GDP                     ..       ..    14.1       13.9
Current account balance/GOP                 -21.2     -9.3      0.8       0.7
Interest payments/GDP                         0.7      2.1      2.1       1.8     Savings                 _   Investment
Total debtlGDP                               42.3    8a.e      58.2      46.8
Total debt servkoe/exports                   10.3      9.e     11.6      11.8
Present value of debt/GDP
Presentvalue of deWexports
Indebtedness
---.-~~~--   ~         4878-U -19C6-9- - 1896-  *-198C6-- 1*97.-- - - 
(average annual growth)
GDP                                 7.8      4.0       4.7      5.0       6.9               Egypt, Arab Rep.
GNP per capita                      4.4       2.7      2.9      3.8       5.3               Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services       3.8      6.9       1.5      8.4       9.0
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1975     1985     1995      1996     Growth rates of output and Investment X)
f% of GDP) ,
Agriculture                                  29.0     20.0     17.2      17.3  2i
Industry                                    26.9      28.6     33.1      31.6  i,
Manufacturing                              17.4     13.5      25.0     24.3
Services                                    44.1      51.5     49.7      51.1     1I '       S        1 9    4  959
. 201T
Private consumption                         62.9      68.2     77.1      77.5    *301
General government consumption               24.9     17.2     10.8      10.4    i
Imports of goods and services               41.3      32.0     28.8      25.1                    GDI   -O-GDP
(average annual growthi.i                1975-5  1986-96       1995     1996      Growth rates of exports and Imports (%)
Agriculture                                   2.8      2.8      2.9       3.1    'T
Industry                                      9.8      4.3      5.0       4.9
Manufacturing                                ..      4.8       7.1      6.9 
Services                                     10.6      3.7      5.0       5.6
Private consumption                          6.8       4.8      3.1       3.6 8
General government consumption                4.4     -0.2      5.7       2.4            GI         23   4            go
Gross domestic investment                     7.8     -2.8      9.1       9.7     .'I
Importsofgoodsandservices                     3.9      1.2      1.0       6.4
Gross national product                        7.0      4.9      5.0       5.s                 EXpOI      0mports
Note: 1996 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show fbur key hndicators In the country (In bold) compared with its Income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond wil
be incomplete.



Annex 12
Page 2 of 2
Egypt, Arab Rep.
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prices                               1975     1985      1995      1996       Inflation (%/)
(% change)                                                                          25
Consumer prices                                 ..        ..       9.3      8.3    20
Implicb GDP deflator                          10.4       9.0       9.4      9.0    1i
10
Govemment finance                                                                    5
(% of GDP)                                                                           o
Current revenue                                 ..      22.2      26.4     25.1              9t    92    93    94   95   9g
Current budget balance                           ..    -13.7       2.6      2.5                  -GDP det.   --*-CFn
Overall surplusldeftct                           ..    -21.6      -1.3      -1.3                    G                C
TRADE
(millions USS)                                         1985      1995      1996      Export and Import levels (nill. USS)
Total exports (fob)                             ..        ..    5,366     4.964      10,0
Cottom                                         ..       ..       306       91      i4,000
Other Agriculture                             ..        ..       309      230      12,0D0
Manufactures                                   ..       ..   2,202       1,314     10.00 or.
Total imports (Gi;)                                             1 ..   12,811    14,107  SAWd 11111
Food                                           .         ..    2,760    2,887       C.:0      iD D JI
Fuel and energy                               4.         .         .         .      ,0
Capital goods                                  ...             3,108     41,10`[__ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ __ _ _ _
Exportpriceindex(1987=100)                       ..       .,      118       127             90  91   92   93  94  95 IS
Import price index (1987=100)                   ..        ..      140       145                 nExoports     mrimports
Terms of trade (1987=100)                        ..       ,.       84        87
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(milions US$)                                i976      1986      1996      1996      Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services                2,503    6,866    13,470    15,245     10
Imports of goods and services                5,141    12,606    16,894    18,951     8
Resource balance                            -2,638    -5,740    -3,423    -3,706     e
Net income                                    -244     -990      454        539      4
Net current transfers                           ..        ..    5,276     4,390      2
Current account balance.                                                             0 
before offcial capial transfers           -2,426    -3,209     .48Q       499 .2
Financing Rems (net)                         1,878    3,022       274        72      e*
Changes in net reserves                       548       187      -754      -570      4  
Memo:
Reserves including gold (nL US$)                ..    1,587    16,949   18,811
Conversion rate (loalUS3)                      0.5       1.0       3.4      3.4
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976     1986      1996      1996
(millions USS)                                                                       Composition of total debt, 1996 (mill. USS)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed         4,835   27,950    34,369    31,667
IBRD                                         14       720     1,494     1,181
IDA                                          84       745       999     1,049                     A        1181 049
G2:2221
Total debt service                            305      1.044    2,134     2,345             F: 1358          C: 16
IBRD                                          1       109       318      290                                  D: 208
IDA                                           1         6        20        22
Composition of net resource tfos 
Official grants                               ,.        0         0         0
Oflicial credRors                          2,169     1,354      289        10
Private creditors                            49       175      -187      -376
Foreign direct investment                     ..        0         0        0
Portfolio equity                              ..        0         0         0                      E.23804
World Bank program
CommIments                                  132         4       124       79      A - lBRD                      E- BMate.
Disbursements                                62       306       140       131     B IDA      D- Other mufillateral   F - Pivate
Principal repayments                          0        44       215       198     C-IMF                         G - Shorttenn
Net flows                                    62       262       -75       -67
Interest payments                             1        71       123       113
Net transfers                                61       191      -198      -180
Development Economics                                                                                                 1V13/98



Approved by:
Country Director
MNCEG
Date:  ,A,-      Z+ / 9,
FROM: The Vice President and Secretary
STATUS OF NEGOTIATIONS
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
HEALTH SECTOR REFORM PROGRAM
Negotiations have been completed and the Credit documents will be submitted to the
Executive Directors for consideration on a date to be determined.
The following is a description of the proposed Credit:
Borrower:            Arab Republic of Egypt
Beneficiary:         Health Sector Reform Program
Amount:              SDR 66.8 million
Terms:               Payable in 35 years, including 10 years of grace.
Commitment Fee:      0.50% on undisbursed credit balances, beginning 60 days after
signing, less any waiver.
Service Charge       0.75% on disbursed amount.
Purpose:            This project will improve population health status as well as
access to care, equity, and the efficiencv and qualitv of Egypt's
health care financing and deliverv by assisting the Govermnent in
the implementation of the first phase of its comprehensive Health
Sector Reforrn Program (HSRP). During the first five-year -
phase of the reform, universal access to a basic package of
primary care services will be implemented in three pilot
Governorates-Alexandria, Minoufia, and Sohag. The national
social Health Insurance Organization (-[O) will be reformed so
that in the future it will serve as the single national health
insurance entity. In later phases of the reform, universal coverage
will be expanded to other Governorates and, ultimatelv, the entire
population.
Co-financier:       United states Agency for International Development (USAID)
European Union (EU)



Distribution:
Executive Directors and Alternates
President
Bank Group Senior Management
Vice Presidents, Bank, IFC and MIGA Executive Committee
Directors and Departnent Heads, Bank, IFC and MIGA
Contact person: George Schieber
Task Manager, ext. 87319



p
l



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
IBRD 27759
280   ~~~~~~~~~~~2e ~~~~~36.
WE~TMt4KANiGA ~A32-
/                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Skibin el KorQ;, 2 0   mailiya    
G$IRO     tez
Lake    y;3>g 
)   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~E;00000                                    
'I     Be A   R  PUBLISuefn
Co~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AR
28i        O    F    E G  Y  P T             ElMinya 0                                                  SAUDI
280                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ARABIA28
,;       -~~~--------- RIVERS_ a,_ _ _                                                _ _ _ _   
Ass|ut suchbounaris.ghAswan
0 5SELECTEDA CITI E
t~ ~ ~~Mta
-~~~~~----~~~~~~~~~  RIVERS~~~~~AP I                                           1 9



