Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3076-EGT
Development Credit Agreement
(Health Sector Reform Project)
between
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated May 22, 1998
CREDIT NUMBER 3076-EGT
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 22, 1998, between ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility 
and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has 
requested the Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Association  has received a letter dated March 1, 1998, from 
the Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed 
to restructure its health sector (the Program) and declaring the Borrower's 
commitment to the execution of the Program;
(C)
the Borrower has contracted from the United States Agency for 
International Development (USAID) grants in an aggregate principal amount of 
$80,000,000 to assist in the financing of the Project on the terms and 
conditions set forth in two agreements entered into between the Borrower and 
USAID, dated September 30, 1996 and September 30, 1997, respectively; and
(D)
the Borrower intends to contract from other sources of finance (the 
Cofinanciers) grants in an aggregate principal amount equivalent to $120,000,000 
to assist in financing the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in 
agreements (the Cofinanciers’ Agreements) to be entered into between the 
Borrower and the Cofinanciers;
Page  2
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the 
foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions 
set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, as amended through 
December 2, 1997 (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement:
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms 
defined in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth 
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) 
of this Agreement;
(b)
“MOHP” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Health and Population, or 
any successor thereto; and
(c)
“Operations Manual” means the Borrower’s manual, including Project 
financial management systems, agreed with the Association, for the carrying out 
of the Project, as the same may be amended with the agreement of the 
Association.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an 
amount in various currencies equivalent to sixty six million and eight hundred 
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 66,800,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the 
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement 
for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in 
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, through MOHP, for the purposes of the Project, 
open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in its Central Bank on 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.  Deposits into, and 
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2004 or such later date 
as the Association shall establish.  The Association shall promptly notify the 
Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment 
charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at 
a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to 
exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days 
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on 
which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or 
canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the 
Page  3
canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the 
accrual date and at such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter 
pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall 
be applied from the next date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind 
imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency 
specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General 
Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to 
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge 
at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the 
principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the 
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual 
installments payable on each May 1 and November 1 commencing November 1, 2008 
and ending May 1, 2033.  Each installment to and including the installment 
payable on May 1, 2018 shall be one and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such 
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two and one-half 
percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever:  (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product 
(GNP), as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three 
consecutive years  the level established annually by the Association for 
determining eligibility to access the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank 
shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, 
subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the 
Association and after due consideration by them of the development of the 
Borrower's economy, modify the repayment of installments under paragraph (a) 
above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal 
amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date referred to in 
paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on which the 
Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph (b) 
have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a 
minimum of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or 
all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest 
at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the 
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the 
judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element 
obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph 
(b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the 
Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of 
installments as provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09. The Ministry of  Health and Population is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purpose of taking any action required or 
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and 
Article V of the General Conditions.
Section 2.10. The Borrower represents that it has designated its Ministry 
Page  4
Section 2.10. The Borrower represents that it has designated its Ministry 
of Finance for the purpose of handling, on behalf of the Borrower, debt service 
payments with respect to the Credit.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives 
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, 
shall, through its Ministry of Health and Population, carry out the Project with 
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, 
financial, engineering, environmental, and public health practices, and shall 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this 
Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, 
the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation 
Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement 
of the goods, works, and consultants' services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the 
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions 
and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association 
and furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing 
Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower 
and the Association, a plan for the continued achievement of the objectives of 
the Project; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views 
with the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained 
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project 
of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the 
Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) 
of this Section 
including those for the Special Account 
for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent 
auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any 
case not later 
than six months after the end of each 
such year, the report of such audit by 
said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
said records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the 
Association shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the 
Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower 
Page  5
Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower 
shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting 
such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has 
received the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Credit 
Account was made, all 
records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the 
annual audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section 
and that the report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion 
by said auditors as to whether the statements of 
expenditure 
submitted during such fiscal year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
A situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that 
the Program or a significant part thereof will be carried out.
(b)
The Cofinanciers’ Agreements shall have failed to become effective 
by June 30, 1999, or such later date as the Association may agree; provided, 
however, that the provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that adequate funds for the 
Project are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions 
consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
(c)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A)
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of 
or any grant or loan made to the Borrower for the 
financing of the Project shall have been suspended, 
canceled or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant 
to the terms of the agreement providing therefor, or
(B)
any such loan shall have become due and payable prior 
to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the 
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Association 
that: (A) such suspension, cancellation, termination or 
prematuring is not caused by the failure of the Borrower to 
perform any of its obligations under such agreement; and (B) 
adequate funds for the Project are available to the Borrower 
from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with 
the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement;
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the event specified in 
paragraph (C)(i)(B) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to 
the proviso of paragraph (C)(ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI
Page  6
Effectiveness; Termination
Section 6.01. The effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement shall 
be determined in accordance with Section 12.01 (a) of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The date one hundred twenty (120) days after the date of 
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the 
General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this Agreement, the 
Minister of State for Planning and International Cooperation and the Head of the 
Sector for International and Regional Finance Organizations of the Ministry of 
International Cooperation of the Borrower are severally designated as 
representatives of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section  11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of International Cooperation
(International and Regional Finance Organizations Sector)
8 Adly Street
Cairo, Egypt
Cable address: 
Telex:
Ministry of International
391-5167
Cooperation, Cairo
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their 
respective names in Cairo, Arab Republic of Egypt, as of the day and year first 
above written.
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
By /s/ Zafer El-Bishry
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Page  7
By /s/ Khalid Ikram
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each 
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each 
Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent
to be Financed
(1)
Civil works
  30,100,000
100% of foreign
expenditures and 
90% of local
expenditures
(2)
Goods
  22,100,000
100% of foreign
expenditures and
100% of local
expenditures (ex-
factory cost) and
90% of local
expenditures for
other items pro-
cured locally
(3)
Training
   7,000,000
100%
(4)
Consultants' Services
   3,000,000
100%
(5)
Unallocated
   4,600,000
TOTAL
  66,800,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency 
of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of 
the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the 
Borrower;
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall 
be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made 
on the basis of statements of expenditure under such terms and conditions as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower, for expenditures under 
contracts (other than each of the first three contracts for works, goods and 
consultants’ services) costing less than: (a) $300,000 for works; (b) $500,000 
for goods; (c) $100,000 for services of consulting firms; and (d) $50,000 for 
services of individual consultants and training.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
Page  8
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in initiating the 
phased implementation of universal health coverage and primary care delivery 
system rationalization.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Carrying out a program to rationalize the primary care delivery system and 
introduce universal health coverage in the Borrower’s Governorates of 
Alexandria, Minoufia and Sohag through, inter alia: (i) development and 
implementation of a health insurance system for each of the said Governorates, 
including the setting up of all insurance functions and the provision therefor 
of technical assistance, staff training equipment and office facilities, and 
(ii) consolidation, rehabilitation and equipping of primary health care 
facilities in the said Governorates and the rationalization of their functions 
on the basis of a needs-based masterplan, including the preparation of an 
environmental management plan, and the retraining of health providers in family 
medicine and the development and introduction of essential drug lists.
Part B:
Carrying out a program to reform and improve the efficiency of the 
management and operations of the Borrower’s General Health Insurance 
Organization to undertake efficiently the administration of the health insurance 
systems referred to in Part A (i) of the Project, as a first phase in its 
restructuring as a future national health insurance entity, including the 
provision therefor of technical assistance, staff training, a management 
information system, incentive-based contracting mechanisms and sound actuarial 
policies, automated claims processing and enrollment systems and office 
facilities.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2003.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and 
September 1997 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II 
of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part 
B.
(a)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 
2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower .
Page  9
(b)
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the 
procedures applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
(a)
Goods estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $8,000,000 equivalent, may; and (b) 
works shall, except as provided in paragraph 3 of this Part C, be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of 
the Guidelines.
2.
Shopping (International and National)
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $2,500,000 equivalent, and works estimated to 
cost less than $300,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not 
to exceed $15,200,000 may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Direct  Contracting
Goods estimated to cost less than $5,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the 
Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to 
bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be 
furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all 
goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as 
shall have been approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said 
paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review 
(a)
With respect to each of the first three contracts for goods and 
works, irrespective of the cost thereof, the procedures, as the case may be, 
referred to in subparagraph (b) or subparagraph (c) of this paragraph shall 
apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for goods to be procured pursuant to 
Part B of this Section, and each contract for works to be procured pursuant to 
Part C.1 of this Section, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for goods or works to be procured 
pursuant to Part C.2 and 3 of this Section, the following procedures shall 
apply: 
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier under shopping 
procedures the Borrower shall provide to the Association a 
report on the comparison and evaluation of quotations 
received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under direct 
contracting or shopping procedures, the Borrower shall 
Page  10
contracting or shopping procedures, the Borrower shall 
provide to the Association a copy of the specifications and 
the draft contract; and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f) and 2 (g) and 3 
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, 
the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions 
of the Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  Selection and Employment 
of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 
and revised in September 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ 
services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 
thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 
thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Quality-based Selection.
Services for complex or highly specialized assignments under Parts A and B 
of the Project shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Least-cost Selection.
Services for maintenance and repair of medical equipment under Part A of 
the Project, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Selection Based on Consultants Qualifications.
Services estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, may 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
4.
Single Source Selection.
Services which are estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per 
contract, may, with the Association's prior agreement, be procured in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
5.
Individual Consultants.
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.01 
of the Consultant Guidelines, may be procured under contracts awarded to 
individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 
through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
Page  11
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the 
proposed plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be 
furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection 
of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
selection plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to the first three contracts for the employment of 
consulting firms and of individual consultants and each contract for the 
employment of consulting firms estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or 
more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines 
shall apply.
(b)
With respect to the first three contracts for the employment of 
individual consultants and each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the 
qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the 
consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its prior review and 
approval. The contract shall be awarded only after said approval shall have been 
given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, 
the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
The Borrower shall, through MOHP, maintain arrangements, satisfactory to 
the Association, for the carrying out of the Project in accordance with the 
requirements and other details set forth in the Operations Manual.
2.
The Borrower shall maintain, with membership, resources and terms of 
reference satisfactory to the Association: (a) a Health Policy Forum to function 
as an ad-hoc advisory committee to promote policy dialogue and consensus among 
policy makers and stakeholders in areas related to public health; (b) a Program 
Planning and Monitoring Committee to be responsible for strategic planning and 
monitoring of reforms in the health sector and for the review of the annual work 
programs under the Project; (c) a Technical Support Office to be responsible for 
supervising and coordinating overall Project implementation; (d) a Technical 
Support Team in each of the three Governorates of Alexandria, Minoufia and Sohag 
to be responsible for supervising Project implementation within the respective 
Governorate; and (e) a Governorate Program Coordination Committee in each of the 
three Governorates of Alexandria, Minoufia and Sohag to be responsible for the 
coordination of health sector reform in the respective Governorate and for the 
provision of technical advice to the respective Technical Support Team for that 
Governorate referred to in subparagraph (d) of this paragraph.
3.
The Borrower shall: (a) employ consultants, with qualifications and terms 
of reference satisfactory to the Association to assist in the carrying out of 
the Project; and (b) carry out the training under the Project in accordance with 
guidelines satisfactory to the Association.
4.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor 
and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators agreed upon 
Page  12
and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators agreed upon 
between the Borrower and the Association, the carrying out of the Project and 
the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, 
and furnish to the Association: (i) on or about October 30 of each year, an 
annual report on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during 
the period preceding the date of such report and the measures required to ensure 
the efficient execution thereof, and (ii) on or about December 31, 2000, a 
mid-term report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation 
activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress 
achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date 
of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during 
the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by November 31 of each year, the 
annual report for the preceding year, and by February 15, 2001, or such later 
date as the Association shall request, the mid-term report and, thereafter, take 
all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said reports and the Association views on the matter.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2) and (3) 
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the 
eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
$9,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, 
that unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation 
shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $6,000,000 until the aggregate 
amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to 
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the 
equivalent of $18,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation 
and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as 
follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special 
Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit 
into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the 
Special Account at such intervals as the Association shall 
Page  13
Special Account at such intervals as the Association shall 
specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association the documents and other 
evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule 
for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such 
request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account 
for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be 
withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, 
furnish to the Association such documents and other evidence showing that such 
payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the 
Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all 
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions 
and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, 
within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this Agreement, 
any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to 
said Section in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special 
Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower 
of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to 
make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 
6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the 
eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of 
twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such 
procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit 
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making 
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any 
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an 
amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence 
as the Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if 
the Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to 
the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. 
Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the 
Page  14
Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the 
Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has 
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any 
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further 
payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) 
and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent 
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of 
this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
