                                               Egypt
                                HealthSector ReformProject
                                       (Credit3076-EGT)
               ProposedAmendment of the DevelopmentCreditAgreement


Summary

1. This memorandum seeks the approval of the Executive Directors to restructurethe Egypt
Health Sector ReformProject (Cr. 3076-EGT) by revising the Project Development Objectives,
by extending the closing date of the credit agreement for the first time by 24 months, andby
reallocating the credit proceeds. There i s no change to the project description.

2. The originalproject development objectives are to: (i)    improve population health status and
well being inthree pilot Governorates through universal coverage to a basic package of primary
health care and public health services; and (ii) access to efficiency and quality of
                                                improve
primary health care services inthree pilot Governorates.

3. It i s proposedto amend the project development objective by removing "universal coverage"
as an explicit development objective as there have been delays inpassingthe universal health
insurance law, and to limit the coverage to two Governorates instead of three.

4.    The proposedproject development objectives would thus read: "The objectives of the
Project are to expand healthcoverage with a basic package of primary healthcare and public health
services to the poor populationintwo pilot Governorates and improve access and efficiency of
primaryhealthcare services throughrationalization of healthinfrastructureintwo pilot
Governorates".

Background

5. The Project was approved by the Boardon May 21, 1998, and became effective one month
later on June 24, 1998. The original credit amount i s SDR 66.8 million (US$90 million
equivalent). The original closing date i s June 30,2004. As of May 26, 2004, SDR 8.9 million
had been disbursed, which represents 13 percent of the total credit amount. Half of the
disbursements were made inthe last six months.

ImplementationEnvironment

6. Since effectiveness, the project has experienced many implementation problems and delays
and management has also changed several times. Component 2 "Reform of HealthInsurance
Organization (HIO)" was particularly problematic as Parliament failed to pass a new law
proposed by the Government to unify the existing health insurance laws and achieve universal
coverage. Little progress was seen inthis component. This legislative failure also affected in
part Component 1, which exhibited similar, but less severe problems. The project has beenrated
unsatisfactory since October 2002. Thereafter, a series o f triggers and a Remedial Action Plan
(RAP) were put inplaceto enhance the project management capacity, improve project
performance, and accelerate the implementation pace. More importantly, the RAPwas meant to
validate the Government commitment to the project and its objectives. Since then there has been
significant turnaround inthe project, both interms of implementation and renewed commitment.
The new Minister of Healthand the new Director of the Technical Support Office (TSO) have

                                                  - 2 -


given the project heightenedattention and scaled up efforts to achieve the triggers and meet the
tight implementation timetable. Moreover, the M O W and the last Bank supervision mission in
March 2004 agreed to restructure the project by revising the PDOs and reallocating the project
funds. This all improves the probability of achieving the revisedproject objectives.

7. The Government of Egyptproposedto revise the project development objectives by
removing "universal coverage" as an explicit development objective inlight of the delays in
passing the universal health insurance law. Also, the Government proposed to reduce the scope
of the project from three to two Governorates. The revisedPDOs, as proposed, are to: expand
health coverage with a basic package of primary healthcare and public health services to the poor
populationintwo pilot Governorates and improve access and efficiency of primary healthcare
services through rationalization of health infrastructure intwo pilot Governorates. To help ensure
that the revised PDOs would be achieved, credit proceeds will be reallocated from training, most
of which has been financed now by the European Commission, to civil works and goods.


Rationale for Approving the Amendment of the Credit Agreement

8. If the project were to close on June 30,2004, it would not achieve its objectives and will
therefore close with unsatisfactory performance.

9. Implementation has improved markedly inthe last year as the MOHP and project
management duringthe last year met a series of triggers and successfully completed the RAPto
enhance project management capacity, improve project performance, accelerate the
implementation pace. Inaddition the MOHP: (i)       increased disbursement to about $12 million
(SDR 8.9 million), with half of that amount disbursed in the last six months; (ii) increased the
amount of signed contracts to $15 million; and (iii)   saw significant improvement inprogress on
the ground towards achieving the project objectives. Implementation i s now satisfactory.

10. Approving the restructuring of the project will: (i) the project to achieve its revised
                                                          allow
development objectives andreduce the risk of not doing so; (ii)    allow the Bank to maintain its
involvement inpolicy dialogue and operations inthe health sector inEgypt; (iii) Egypt to
                                                                                   allow
utilize some of the last available IDA funds for a priority program, (the Government of Egypthas
stated it does not want to lose these funds); and (iv) complete contractedcivil works and goods
under the project to ensure that the benefits intended from the project reach the targeted
beneficiaries, the poor population inthe two pilot governorates.

11. The proposedrestructuredproject would also support the current CAS objective for poverty
reduction through targeted interventions. These include the expansion o f family medicine
practices, the establishment of quality standards and accreditation mechanisms, the provisionof
an integrated primary care service responsive to needs of the whole family, and the rationalization
of investments inhealth infrastructure and human resources.


Project Implementation

12. The Project faced slow implementation and disbursement problems for a number of reasons.
These included: (i) the long design phase indeveloping the health master plans; (ii) weak
                                                                                      the
management capacity of the TSO at the beginning of the project; (iii)   TSO management and staff
changes; and (iv) the delays indisbursement due to problems encountered with the Central Bank
of Egypt.

                                                - 3 -


13. The remedial actions undertaken by the TSO included: (i)    strengtheningthe staffing of the
procurement and engineering units; (ii) developing standard procurement documentation; (iii)
revising the implementation and procurement plans to accelerate the pace of execution; (iv)
streamlining internal processes and implementation procedures; and (v) adopting a rigorous
monitoringand evaluation plan.


Key Follow-Up Activities

14. The M O W had previously agreed to and has complied with the key triggers and critical
actions inthe RAP. Inaddition, the Government of Egypt has sent a new implementation plan, a
revised and updatedprocurement plan, updatedmonitoring and evaluation indicators, and the
audit report. The Bank supervision mission of March 2004 verified the compliance with all of
these key follow-up activities. The M O W also agreed to a new RAPto maintain the accelerated
pace of project implementation.


Key PerformanceIndicators

15. The M O W provided an updatedmatrix demonstrating satisfactory improvement inmost of
the indicators includingthose related to the project objectives. These have been reviewed by and
are acceptable to the Bank.


Audit

16. An unqualified audit report was submitted on time, for the period ending December 2003.
Accordingly there are no outstanding audits under this project. All previous audits have been
issued with unqualified opinions and no accountability issues have been identified.


                 The World Bank
                 INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT  1191ComicheElNil St..   Tel: (202) 574-1670/71

                 INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION                  Floor 15, Boulak        Fax:(202574-1676

                 MahmoodA. Ayub, Director                               Cairo, Egypt
                 Egypt, Yemen and Djibouti
                 Country Department

                                                                                         May 4,2004

H.E.Minister FayzaAboulnaga
Minister o f State for ForeignAffairs
Ministry o f ForeignAffairs
Maspero
Cairo, Egypt
(Transmission by fax: 574 9711)


                          Re:     Health Sector ReformProject (Credit No. 3076-EGT)
                                  Extension of Closing Date and
                                  Amendment to the Credit Agreement


Excellency:

        In response to your letter of March 29, 2004, Iam pleased to inform you that, after a very
careful review by the World Bank, extension of the closing date has been granted until June 30,
2006, for the Health Sector Reform Project. Attached please find the amendment letter, whose
signature will confirm your agreement with the amendment to the Credit Agreement.

        Iamdelightedthat we wereabletorespondtoyourrequestfor extensionandCredit
amendment for this high priority project. Isincerely hope that the project can now move ahead
rapidly to meet its important development objectives.

        With best wishes.

                                               Sincerely,




                                           MahmoodA. Ayub
                                               Director
                           Egypt, Yemen and Djibouti Country Department

                                             - L -




cc: H.E.Dr.MohammedAwad Tag ElDin
     Minister o f Health and Population
    Ministryof Health and Population
     Cairo, Egypt
     (Transmission by fax: 795 3966)

     Ms.Souraya Abo ElSaoud
     Under Secretary of State for International, Regional and
     Arabic FinancingOrganizations
     International Cooperation Sector
     Ministry of ForeignAffairs
     Cairo, Egypt
     (Transmission by fax: 391 5167)

     Dr.HanemAbdel AzimZaher
     Undersecretary o f the Central Department
     For Technical Support and Projects
     Ministry of Health and Population
     Cairo, Egypt
     (Transmission by fax: 792 1646)

     Mr.Mahdy Aljazzaf
     Executive Director
     Washington, D.C.

     Mr.Mohamedkame1Amr
     Alternate Executive Director
     Washington, D.C.

The World Bank                                             1818 H Street N.W.          (202) 477-1234
INTERNATIONALBANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT       Washington, D.C. 20433      Cable Address: INTBAFRAD
INTERNATIONALDEVELOPMENTASSOCIATION                        U.S.A.                      Cable Address: INDEVAS



                                                                                               May 28,2004


            H.E.Minister FayzaAboulnaga
            Minister of State for Foreign Affairs
            Ministry of ForeignAffairs
            8 Adly Street, Downtown
            Cairo, Egypt


                             Re:     Health Sector ReformProject
                                     (Credit No. 3076-EGT)
                                     Amendment Letter to the Development Credit Agreement

           Excellency:

                    We refer to the Development Credit Agreement (Health Sector Reform Project) dated
           May 22, 1998, between the Arab Republic of Egypt (the "Borrower") and the International
           Development Association (the "Association").     We also refer to the request to the Association
           contained inyour letter dated March 29,2004, to amend the Development Credit Agreement.

                   We are pleased to inform you that the Association, after due consideration, has agreed to
           the said request. Accordingly, the Development Credit Agreement i s hereby amended as follows:

            1.      Section2.03 of the Development Credit Agreement i s modifiedto read as follows:

                            "Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2006 or such later date as the
                   Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such
                   later date."

           2.      The table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1to the Development Credit Agreement
           shall be modified to read as follows:

                                                "Amount of the Credit
                                                      Allocated                         % of
                                                    (Expressed in                   Expenditures
                   Categorv                         SDR Eauivalent)                to be Financed

           (1)     Civil works                           33,400,000                100%of foreign
                                                                                   expenditures
                                                                                   and 90% of local
                                                                                   expenditures

           (2)     Goods                                 23,700,000                100% of foreign
                                                                                   expenditures, 100% of
                                                                                   local expenditures (ex-
                                                                                   factory cost) and 90%
                                                                                   of local expenditures for
                                                                                   other items procured
                                                                                   locally

H.E.FayzaAboulnaga                              - 2 -                                  April 8, 2004


                                      Amount of the Credit
                                            Allocated                            % of
                                          (Expressed in                      Expenditures
        Category                          SDR Eauivalent)                    to be Financed

(2)     Training                                   700,000                   100%

(3)     Consultants' Services                   4,500,000                    100%

(4)     Unallocated                             4,500,000

                 TOTAL                        66.800.000"

2.      In Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement (Description of the Project), the
objectives of the Project shallbe modified to read as follows:

                 "The objectives of the Project are to expand health coverage with a basic package
        of primary health care and public health services to the poor population in two pilot
        Governorates and improve access and efficiency of primary health care services through
        rationalizationof health infrastructureintwo pilot Governorates.''

        All the terms and conditions of the Development Credit Agreement, as amended hereby,
shall remain in full force and effect.      Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing
amendment by signing and dating the confirmation on the enclosed copy of this Amendment
Letter and returning it to us. Upon receipt by the Association of the copy of this Amendment
Letter countersigned by you, the Amendment Letter will become effective as of the date o f the
countersignature.

                                                      Sincerely,

                              INTERNATIONALDEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION



                                                                  ~    ~~~
                                                MahmoodA. Ayub
                                                Country Director for
                                            Egypt, Yemen and Djibouti
                                       Middle East and North Africa Region


CONFIRMED AND AGREED:
ARAB REPUBLICOFEGYPT


By:
      Authorized Representative

Title:
Name:
Date:

