                                  Document of
                                 The World Bank




                                                   Report No: ICR00001162



  INTENSIVE LEARNING IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS
                            REPORT
                          (IDA-30760)



                                      ON A

                                      CREDIT

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 66.8 MILLION
                       (US$ 90.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                      TO THE

                          ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT

                                      FOR A

                     HEALTH SECTOR REFORM PROGRAM



                                  March 28, 2010




Human Development Sector
MNC03
Middle East and North Africa Region
                         CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                      (Exchange Rate Effective 3/16/2010)

                     Currency Unit = Egyptian Pound (EGP)
                             EGP 1.00 = US$ 0.18
                             US$ 1.00 = EGP 5.44

                                FISCAL YEAR
                                July 1 ­ June 30



                    ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


AfDB/AfDF   African Development Bank / African Development Fund
AWP         Annual Work Plans
BBP         Basic Benefit Package
CAS         Country Assistance Strategy
CCO         Curative Care Organization
CIS         Clinical Information System
DANIDA      Danish International Development Assistance
DCA         Development Credit Agreement
EMP         Environmental Management Plan
EU          European Union
FH          Family Health
FHF         Family Health Fund
FMS         Financial Management System
GOE         Government of Egypt
GPCC        Governorate Program Coordination Committee
HISDP       Health Insurance Systems Development Project
HPF         Health Policy Forum
HIO         Health Insurance Organization
HSRP        Health Sector Reform Program, or Health Sector Reform Project
IA          Implementing Agency
ICR         Implementation Completion and Results Report
IDA         International Development Association
IEG         Independent Evaluation Group
ISR         Implementation Status and Results Report
M&E         Monitoring and Evaluation
MCIT        Ministry of Communication and Information Technology
MIS         Management Information System
MOH         Ministry of Health
MOPIC       Ministry of Planning and international Cooperation
MOSS        Ministry of Social Solidarity

                                       ii
NHIF    National Health Insurance Fund
NTI     National Training Institute
NICH    National Information Center for Health
OM      Operations Manual
NGO     Non-governmental Organization
PAD     Project Appraisal Document
PDO     Project Development Objective
PHC     Primary Health Care
PPMC    Program Planning and Monitoring Committee
SA      Special Account
SFD     Social Fund for Development
TOR     Terms of Reference
TSO     Central Administration of Technical Support (formerly, Technical Support
        Office)
TST     Technical Support Team
USAID   United States Agency for International Development



                     Vice President: Shamshad Akhtar
                   Country Director: A. David Craig
                    Sector Manager: Akiko Maeda
               Project Team Leader: Sami Ali
                  ICR Team Leader: Sami Ali




                                   iii
                                     ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
                                      Health Sector Reform Project




                                                    CONTENTS




A. Basic Information....................................................................................................... v
B. Key Dates ................................................................................................................... v
C. Ratings Summary ....................................................................................................... v
D. Sector and Theme Codes........................................................................................... vi
E. Bank Staff.................................................................................................................. vi
F. Results Framework Analysis ..................................................................................... vi
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs ................................................................... ix
H. Restructuring (if any) ................................................................................................. x
I. Disbursement Profile ................................................................................................. xi
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 6
3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 14
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 26
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 27
6. Lessons Learned........................................................................................................ 31
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners........... 32
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 33
Annex 2. Outputs by Component.................................................................................. 36
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 47
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes............. 54
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 57
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 66
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 70
Annex 8. Comments of Co financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ...................... 87
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 92
Annex 10. Key Performance Indicators at End of Project (March 31, 2009)............... 93
Annex 11. Health Indicators for Egypt, and Alexandria and Menoufia ....................... 95
MAP




                                                             iv
A. Basic Information
                        Egypt, Arab Republic
Country:                                        Project Name:             Health Sector Reform
                        of
Project ID:             P045175                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IDA-30760
ICR Date:               03/29/2010              ICR Type:                 Intensive Learning ICR
                                                                          GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     SIM                     Borrower:
                                                                          EGYPT
Original Total
                        XDR 66.8M               Disbursed Amount:         XDR 63.7M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 63.7M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Health (MOH)
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
 African Development Bank (AfDB)
 European Commission (EC)
 US Agency for International Development (USAID)

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process              Date            Process             Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       11/07/1997     Effectiveness:            09/19/1998         06/24/1998
                                                                                  06/15/2004
Appraisal:            02/06/1998     Restructuring(s):
                                                                                  10/01/2007
Approval:             05/21/1998     Mid-term Review:                             12/13/2001
                                     Closing:                  06/30/2004         03/31/2009

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Substantial
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings               Borrower         Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Unsatisfactory          Government:      Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory                  Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Moderately Satisfactory                  Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:


                                                i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                           Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           No                                              None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           No                                              None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before           Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:   Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Compulsory health finance                                             30
Health                                                                70              100


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Child health                                                          25                  40
Gender                                                                25                  40
Health system performance                                             50                  20

E. Bank Staff
         Positions                        At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Shamshad Akhtar                      Kemal Dervis
Country Director:          A. David Craig                       Khalid Ikram
Sector Manager:            Akiko Maeda                          Jacques F. Baudouy
Project Team Leader:       Sami Ali                             George Schieber
ICR Team Leader:           Sami Ali
ICR Primary Author:        Luca Etter
                           Paul Geli
                           Rebekka E. Grun


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The specific project development objectives are to:
 * Improve population health status and well being in three pilot Governorates through
universal overage to a basic package of primary health care and public health services.



                                               ii
  * Improve access to, efficiency, and quality of primary health care services in three
pilot Governorates.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The revised PDOs are: (i) To expand health coverage with a basic package of primary
health care and public health services to the poor population in two pilot Governorates
and improve access and efficiency of primary health care services through rationalization
of health infrastructure in two pilot Governorates.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                               Original Target     Formally        Actual Value
                                                 Values (from       Revised         Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value
                                                   approval         Target        Completion or
                                                  documents)        Values         Target Years
                  Expansion of Coverage with a package of primary health care services. Number
Indicator 1 :     of beneficiaries registered in the Family Health Fund to receive the basic benefit
                  package of PHC services
Value
                                            2.173 million                       2.431 million
quantitative or   0
                                            persons (100%)                      persons (112%)
Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/30/2001                03/31/2009                          03/31/2009
Comments
                  Achievement: 112% of the target (121% for Alexandria and 108% for
(incl. %
                  Menoufia).
achievement)
                  Expansion of coverage of primary health care services to the uninsured. Number
Indicator 2 :     of uninsured beneficiaries registered in the Family Health Funds to receive the
                  basic benefit package of PHC services
Value
                                            1.087 million                       1.356 million
quantitative or   0
                                            persons (100%)                      persons (125%)
Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/30/2001                03/31/2009                          03/31/2009
Comments
                  Achievement: 125% of the target (170% for Alexandria and 104% for
(incl. %
                  Menoufia).
achievement)
                  Expansion of coverage of primary health care services to the poor. Number of
Indicator 3 :     poor beneficiaries as defined by the exemption policy registered in the FHF to
                  receive the basic benefit package of PHC
Value
                                            0.495 million                       0.579 million
quantitative or   0
                                            persons (100%)                      persons (117%)
Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/30/2001                03/31/2009                          03/31/2009
Comments
                  Achievement: 117% of the target (121% for Alexandria and 114% for
(incl. %
                  Menoufia).
achievement)
                  Improved accessibility to primary health care services. Percentage of population
Indicator 4 :
                  with improved physical access to the basic benefit package of PHC services
Value             0                          3.622 million                     2.992 million



                                                 iii
quantitative or                           persons (100%)                      persons (83%)
Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2001                  03/31/2009                          03/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %        Achievement: 83% of the target (107% for Alexandria and 72% for Menoufia).
achievement)
                Improved accessibility of primary health care services to the poor. Percentage of
Indicator 5 :
                poor population with physical access basic benefit package of PHC services
Value
                                          1.831 million                       1.884 million
quantitative or 0
                                          persons (100%)                      persons (103%)
Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2001                  03/31/2009                          03/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %        Achievement: 103% of the target (90% for Alexandria and 113% for Menoufia).
achievement)
Indicator 6 : Enrollment of beneficiaries in the FHF
Value
                                          2.173 million                       1.406 million
quantitative or 0
                                          persons (100%)                      persons (65%)
Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2001                  03/31/2009                          03/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %        Achievement: 65% of the target (49% for Alexandria and 72% for Menoufia).
achievement)
Indicator 7 : Enrollment of uninsured beneficiaries in the FHFs
Value
                                          1.087 million                       0.350 million
quantitative or 0
                                          persons (100%)                      persons (32%)
Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2001                  03/31/2009                          03/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %        Achievement: 30% of the target (26% for Alexandria and 35% for Menoufia).
achievement)
Indicator 8 : Enrollment of poor beneficiaries in the FHFs
Value
                                          0.495 million                       0.380 million
quantitative or 0
                                          persons (100%)                      persons (77%)
Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2001                  03/31/2009                          03/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %        Achievement: 77% of the target (53% for Alexandria and 94% for Menoufia).
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target                       Actual Value
                                                                 Formally
                                              Values (from                         Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value                               Revised
                                                approval                         Completion or
                                                               Target Values
                                               documents)                         Target Years
                Efficiency / Rationalization of delivery of primary health care services. Number
Indicator 1 :
                of family health clinics constructed/ renovated in compliance with the


                                               iv
               governorates health plans
Value
                                            1141 clinics
(quantitative   0                                                             1,103 (97%)
                                            (100%)
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2001                    03/31/2009                        03/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %        Achievement: 97% of the target (105% for Alexandria and 92% for Menoufia).
achievement)
                Efficiency of services family clinics service delivery. Average no of daily
Indicator 2 :
                encounters per physician
Value
(quantitative   4                           24                                11.9 (50%)
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2001                    03/31/2009                        03/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %        Achievement: 50% of the target (62% for Alexandria and 37% for Menoufia).
achievement)
                Utilization of immunization services. Percentage of facilities with >95%
Indicator 3 :
                coverage of completely vaccinated children in the first year.
Value
(quantitative   0                           100%                              100%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2001                    03/31/2009                        03/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %        Target achieved in both Alexandria and Menoufia.
achievement)
                Utilization of antenatal care services. Average number of ANC visits per
Indicator 4 :
                pregnant women
Value
(quantitative   3.35                        5                                 2.7 (54%)
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2001                    03/31/2009                        03/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %        Achievement: 54% of the target (62% for Alexandria and 52% for Menoufia).
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                               Actual
        Date ISR
No.                             DO                        IP               Disbursements
        Archived
                                                                           (USD millions)
  1     06/18/1998          Satisfactory             Satisfactory                     0.00
  2     10/09/1998          Satisfactory             Satisfactory                     6.00
  3     01/21/1999          Satisfactory             Satisfactory                     6.00
  4     05/04/1999          Satisfactory            Unsatisfactory                    6.00
  5     10/14/1999          Satisfactory            Unsatisfactory                    6.00
  6     03/27/2000          Satisfactory            Unsatisfactory                    6.01



                                              v
  7    04/14/2000         Satisfactory                  Unsatisfactory               6.01
  8    08/03/2000         Satisfactory                  Unsatisfactory               6.01
  9    01/29/2001         Satisfactory                  Unsatisfactory               6.01
 10    05/09/2001         Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                6.01
 11    11/01/2001         Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                6.01
 12    01/07/2002         Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                6.01
 13    04/29/2002         Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                6.01
 14    10/28/2002        Unsatisfactory                 Unsatisfactory               6.01
 15    04/15/2003        Unsatisfactory                 Unsatisfactory               6.01
 16    06/30/2003        Unsatisfactory                  Satisfactory                6.01
 17    12/24/2003        Unsatisfactory                  Satisfactory                8.93
 18    04/19/2004        Unsatisfactory                  Satisfactory               12.71
 19    06/29/2004         Satisfactory                   Satisfactory               14.23
 20    12/22/2004         Satisfactory                   Satisfactory               18.66
 21    04/29/2005     Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory        34.77
 22    08/14/2005     Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory        36.83
 23    06/08/2006     Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory        68.95
 24    12/28/2006     Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory        87.98
 25    03/09/2007     Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory        89.32
 26    11/18/2007     Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory        91.95
 27    06/17/2008     Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory        96.03
 28    12/30/2008     Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory        97.58
 29    04/09/2009     Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory        97.61


H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                        Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                              Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
 06/15/2004       Y       U       S          13.60
 10/01/2007               MS     MS          91.69


If PDO and/or Key Outcome Targets were formally revised (approved by the original approving
body) enter ratings below:
                                                            Outcome Ratings
Against Original PDO/Targets                                  Unsatisfactory
Against Formally Revised PDO/Targets                           Satisfactory
Overall (weighted) rating                                 Moderately Satisfactory




                                                vi
I. Disbursement Profile




                          vii
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
(this section is descriptive, taken from other documents, e.g., PAD/ISR, not evaluative)

1.1 Context at Appraisal
(brief summary of country and sector background, rationale for Bank assistance)

1.1.1 The Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Egypt placed high priority on
reinforcing the social agenda to address poverty and the transitional costs of adjustment
while maintaining the record of sound macroeconomic management that has contributed
to the resumption of strong economic growth in recent years. The incidence of poverty in
relative terms had declined significantly over the past 50 years, but high population
growth rates as well as regional disparities in access to essential social services and
income-earning opportunities have meant that the absolute number of households living
in poverty has continued to rise. The Government recognized that rapid economic
growth was essential to achieve a sustained reduction in the level of poverty, but this
needed to be complemented by improvements in the quality and coverage of key social
services, including universal access to a minimum critical package of health care
services, in a fiscally sustainable manner.

1.1.2 The Bank's Project Appraisal Document (PAD), dated April 24, 1998, included the
following information on the health sector. Health outcomes were problematic and worse
than the lower middle income (LMI) average as illustrated by high national rates for child
and maternal mortality and wide disparities between rural and urban areas. There were
significant equity problems in access to services, by both income and geographic
grouping. Public spending was regressive. Sector organization, management and
financing were fragmented, with responsibilities shared but not coordinated among the
Health Insurance Organization (HIO), the Ministry of Health (MOH), the Ministry of
Social Affairs (MOSA), other Government Agencies and private services. Overall
spending was low: with just 3.7 percent of GDP (US$38 per capita) spent on health care,
Egypt spent less than other LMI countries. The delivery system was characterized by
substantial excess capacity and inefficiency. Lack of basic equipment, supplies and drugs
in MOH primary facilities meant that, despite impressive physical access (e.g., 95 percent
of the population being within five kilometers of a facility), effective access was limited.
Finally, efficiency varied widely, with costs per hospital day and per admission varying
by three and four to one, respectively, in MOH and HIO hospitals. Spending and
consumption of pharmaceuticals were as much as 50 percent higher than in other LMI
countries, and use was frequently excessive and inappropriate. As with physical
capacity, there were both surpluses and imbalances of medical personnel. While Egypt
had 1.6 physicians per thousand population, three to four times the number in other
comparable income countries, there was a shortage of primary care physicians relative to
the number of specialists, and an absolute shortage of skilled nurses. Quality also needed
to be improved.

1.1.3 Two other health projects financed by the Bank were implemented concurrently
with the HSRP: the National Schistosomiasis Control Project, which became effective in



                                             1
June 1993 and closed in September 2002, and the Population Project, which became
effective in June 1998 and closed in March 2005. The outcome of both projects was
rated "moderately satisfactory" by the Independent Evaluation Group (IEG) of the World
Bank.

1.1.4 The HSRP was developed by the Government with the assistance of the Bank and
other donors to address underlying structural problems in the various sector domains
which collectively determine national health outcomes as well as the equity, efficiency,
quality, and long-run financial sustainability of the health sector. The reform program
proposed a complete overhaul of all aspects of the health system. The Bank-financed
project would assist the Government of Egypt (GOE) in implementing the first five-year
phase of its comprehensive Health Sector Reform Program (HSRP). Phase I focused on
universal insurance coverage at the primary care level in selected governorates and on the
primary care delivery system reforms; these areas were selected by the Government
because they would be relatively affordable and establish the basis for future reform
phases.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as
approved)

1.2 1 According to the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) dated April 24, 1998, the
specific project development objectives were to: (i) improve population health status and
well being in three pilot Governorates through universal coverage with a basic package of
primary health care and public health services; and (ii) improve access to efficiency, and
quality of primary health care services in three pilot Governorates. The Development
Credit Agreement (DCA), dated May 22, 1998, had a different definition of the PDO: "to
assist the Borrower in initiating the phased implementation of universal health coverage
and primary care delivery system rationalization". However, the project description in
the DCA referred to three Governorates, and a supplemental letter to the DCA on
Monitoring Indicators repeated exactly the two objectives of the above-mentioned PDO
in the PAD.

1.2.2 With respect to health status, according to the main text of the PAD, it was expected
that the project would contribute to Egypt's medium-term plan to reduce: (i) infant
mortality rate from 38/1000 to 29/1000; (ii) under-five mortality from 84/1000 to
64/1000; and (iii) deaths of women due to pregnancy and delivery from 160/100,000 to
90/100,000. Since other factors will also affect these indicators, for purposes of
monitoring the effects on health status of universal coverage to primary health care and
public health services in the three Governorates, it was proposed to monitor levels and
trends in these measures before, during and after the project, and compare these
indicators to other comparable Governorates where there was no Bank project
intervention.

1.2.3 With respect to measuring the effects of the project on access to, quality of, equity,
and efficiency of primary health care services, according to the PAD, use of a needs-
based Master Plan, retraining physicians to practice family medicine, and



                                             2
operationalizing the insurance entities in the pilot areas would be used as process
measures for these indicators. Increased use rates for primary care services would also be
expected, monitored, compared pre- and post-project implementation, and compared to
other Governorates.

1.2.4 Annex 1 of the PAD and the Supplemental Letter to the DCA on Monitoring
Indicators did not provide any baseline values or quantitative targets for the selected
indicators.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification

1.3.1 In connection with the June 2004 project restructuring, the PDO was modified to
read as follows: "The objectives of the project are to expand health coverage with a basic
package of primary health care and public health services to the poor population in two
pilot Governorates and improve access and efficiency of primary health care services
through rationalization of health infrastructure in two pilot Governorates". The revised
PDO was approved by the Bank's Board of Directors on a no objection basis in June
2004.

1.3.2 New performance indicators were developed to monitor the achievement of the
revised PDOs. In order to capture the main elements of the revised PDOs, the indicators
included three indicators on accessibility, four on coverage and four on enrollment for the
general population, the uninsured and the poor. Indicators on the utilization rate, the
average number of daily encounters per physician and the average number of antenatal
care visits per pregnant woman would be used to monitor efficiency. For the indicators
that are related to the Family Health Funds (FHFs) that were established under the
project, the baseline values were zero. Drawing on the lesson of original objectives that
were too ambitious, the targets were set at levels that could be realistically achieved.

1.3.3 In the first five years, the project suffered many implementation problems and
delays. In particular, Parliament rejected a new law proposed by Government to unify
the existing health insurance laws and achieve universal coverage. As of May 1, 2004,
only 13 percent of the credit amount had been disbursed (with half of the disbursements
made in the last six months). If the project were to close on the original closing date of
June 30, 2004, it would not achieve its objectives and would close with unsatisfactory
performance. The GOE proposed to revise the PDO by removing "universal coverage"
as an explicit development objective and to reduce the scope of the first objective from
three to two Governorates.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries
(original and revised, briefly describe the "primary target group" identified in the PAD
and as captured in the PDO, as well as any other individuals and organizations expected
to benefit from the project)




                                            3
1.4.1 By supporting the Government's long-term comprehensive reform program, the
project would ultimately benefit the entire population. According to the PAD, the project
design would ensure that in the medium term the poor will benefit more than those who
already enjoy adequate access to basic primary care. First, the initial stage of phasing in
universal coverage to a basic package of primary health care services would largely
benefit the poor, children, women and other underserved vulnerable groups. Second,
project activities in facility rehabilitation would be predicated on a needs-based Master
Plan emphasizing poor, underserved areas. Third, the types of primary care and basic
public health programs to be supported disproportionately benefit poor groups. Finally,
because the poor are less able to substitute private for public services, project activities
which help to improve quality and availability of services and rationalize the payment
system in public delivery would therefore have an immediate impact on the poor.

1.4.2 Some project activities benefited all groups: basic curative and investigation
services and a referral system to rationalize utilization of secondary care services.
However, specific groups were targeted under this project: the public health, primary care
and universal coverage initiatives will substantially benefit women, children and other
disadvantaged population groups. In January 2008, the DCA amendment introducing a
performance-based financing arrangement was intended to target the poor and the
uninsured.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

1.5.1 The project (estimated cost including contingencies: US$387.0 million) had two
components:

Component 1: Provide universal access to a basic package of primary health care (PHC)
services (estimated cost including contingencies: US$347.3 million), with three
subcomponents:
    a) Implement Governorate PHC Insurance System (US$22.8 million);
    b) Improve quality and efficiency of PHC delivery system (US$299.0 million); and
    c) Improve public health programs (US$22.5 million).

Component 2: Reform of the Health Insurance Organization - HIO (estimated cost
including contingencies: US$39.7 million).

1.5.2 According to the PAD, taken together, the two project components would begin the
process of introducing universal coverage for a comprehensive package of services to be
administered by a single national health insurance entity. During Phase I, universal
coverage for a basic primary health care package would be implemented in the three pilot
Governorates. Phase I would also address reforming the organization and management
of broad-based MOH public health programs, which either are included in the PHC
benefit package or provide the requisite complementary services to the basic primary
health care benefit package. In the long run, a restructured HIO would become the
National Health Insurance Fund (NHIF), a national insurance entity administering the
country's social health insurance system. According to the PAD, to administer



                                             4
introduction and operation of the basic primary health care package in pilot
Governorates during Phase I of the reform (which includes HIO restructuring at the
national level), Governorate level HIO subsidiaries would be used. To ensure efficient
and effective delivery of quality services, the delivery system would also be rationalized.
This process would entail testing and adjustment of primary health care system reforms
in Phase I pilot Governorates, followed by extension of those reforms to the entire nation
in later phases.

1.5.3 The project would support a shift in investment policy away from its current urban
and tertiary emphasis by focusing major investments on primary care facilities largely in
underserved areas, coordinated with EU support on training and capacity building of staff
for the new family health service model. Establishment of needs-based Master Plans as
the framework for facility rehabilitation and human resource development supported by
the project would serve as the mechanisms to effectuate this shift. At the same time, by
improving HIO's operational efficiency, the project would support extension of access to
a basic primary health care package through the insurance system.

1.5.4 It is noteworthy that, in the description of the project, both the PAD and the DCA
did not include a component for Project Management, which turned out to be needed
early on in project implementation.

1.6 Revised Components

1.6.1 With the June 2004 restructuring, Component 1 dealt with only two (instead of
three) pilot Governorates: Alexandria and Menoufia1.

1.6.2 In May 2006, the GOE requested and was granted an extension to utilize some
savings to finance a rapid response to address the Avian Influenza crisis. A new sub-
component 1.4 for Avian Influenza activities was added with an allocation of US$3.10
million. Since this new sub-component, including public health activities, was consistent
with the revised PDOs in expanding public health services, there was no need to change
the PDOs.

1.6.3 In January 2008, the DCA was amended to introduce a new sub-component 1.5 for
a performance-based financing arrangement to improve the performance of the project by
linking disbursements to actual enrollment and utilization of services by the poor and
uninsured in the Family Health Funds. This amendment to the DCA went through a level
two restructuring, which was approved by the Bank' Regional Vice President, with no
change in the PDOs.


1
  Part A of Schedule 2 of the DCA on "Description of the Project" mentioned specifically the three
Governorates of Alexandria, Menoufia and Sohag. In the PAD and the DCA, the distinction between the
"Project" financed by the IDA credit and the "Program" financed also by co financiers is not that clear. To
the extent that the DCA dealt only with the "Project" financed by the IDA credit, Part A should also have
been revised when the DCA was amended in June 2004.



                                                     5
1.6.4 A component on project management (Component 3) was added in the early years
of the project to cover expenditures incurred by the TSO for managing the project.
However, the DCA was not amended to reflect that change.

1.7 Other significant changes
(in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and schedule, and funding
allocations)

1.7.1 Because of lack of political support and the inability of the Family Health Funds
(FHFs) that were established in the Governorates to function as full-fledged insurance
entities2, the overall reform of the social health insurance system could not materialize.
In the original project design, the HIO was to be fully engaged, but its role was
significantly reduced at the request of the former Minister of Health. Only some
activities were carried out to support and upgrade the existing HIO, both in capacity
building of HIO leaders and supporting HIO IT infrastructure.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
(including whether lessons of earlier operations were taken into account, risks and their
mitigations identified, and adequacy of participatory processes, as applicable)

2.1.1 In the HSRP Strategy Paper (1997), the GOE articulated its long-term reform vision
as the achievement of universal coverage with basic health services for all its citizens.

2.1.2 According to the PAD, the Bank's focus in this project would be on the
Government's chosen priorities for the first five-year phase of the reform: universal
coverage for a basic package of primary health care, including rationalization of the
primary health care delivery system, and reform of the HIO. The piloting of reforms in a
limited number of Governorates was a very positive aspect of project design, since
reform involves changing the incentives for both health providers and patients. Based on
agreed selection criteria, the Governorates chosen by the GOE were: Alexandria,
Menoufia, and Sohag, and represented one Governorate from each of Egypt's major
subdivisions (i.e., Urban Governorates, Lower Egypt, and Upper Egypt) excluding the
sparsely populated Frontier Governorates.

2.1.3 Similarly, the HIO, which then covered one-third of the population, would be
reformed to improve its efficiency of administration and service delivery. At the time of
appraisal, it was running a 40 percent deficit and was not financially sustainable in the

2
  According to Egypt's Health Sector Reform and Financing Review dated February 2004, the development
of the FHFs was constrained by the legislative environment governing the health sector in Egypt, which
prohibits any agency outside the HIO from collecting premiums or capitated payments from individuals or
families. The FHFs ended with an awkward legal and institutional status. However, the FHFs introduced
some insurance concepts in PHC: contracting PHC facilities, concept of enrollment in FHF for coverage by
PHC services, and cost-sharing of enrolled beneficiaries, both insured and uninsured.



                                                   6
long-term. It would also be transformed to become the future single national health
insurance entity by enhancing its role to function through new Governorate level
subsidiaries as the insurance entity administering the basic primary health care benefit
package in the three pilot Governorates.

2.1.4 At the time the credit was made, the Bank had relatively limited experience in
comprehensive health sector reform programs focusing on insurance reform and universal
coverage. It should be noted that such a comprehensive health system reform approach
was identified as a strategic priority in the 1997 World Bank Strategy for Health,
Nutrition and Population, and the project design was intended to reflect a movement in
that direction.

2.1.5 The design of the project was informed by sector work carried out by the
Government with the assistance of donors, including the Bank. However, institutional
and stakeholder analyses and consultations that were carried out did not flag possible
resistance and solutions. Risk assessments and mitigation plans were inadequate, with
unwarranted optimism about capacity and political commitment. Project preparation did
not analyze the political economy of the proposed reforms, which would have provided a
better understanding of the political challenges facing the proposed reforms. Since health
reform usually takes place over a long period, there would certainly be changes in the
leadership of the sector that would affect the ownership of and commitment to reforms.

2.1.6 The design of the project had two components for universal access to a Basic
Benefit Package (BBP) of PHC services and for reform of the HIO (both components
were listed specifically in the PAD and the DCA). It did not include a component for
project management, which turned out to be needed early on in the project
implementation.

2.1.7 The reform of the HIO (component 2) should not have been put under the umbrella
of the MOH, but should have been a component under the management of the HIO itself
with its own Special Account; also, it probably would have been better to put sub-
component 1.1 (implement governorate insurance system) under the management of the
HIO. Actually, this was the original design of the project, but it was strongly opposed by
the Minister of Health at the time who insisted on reducing the role of HIO. A lesson
learned is that in order to maximize the chances of success of a health reform project
dealing with both health and insurance issues, the leadership role must be effectively
shared between the Ministry of Health and the organization in charge of health insurance.

2.1.8 Finally, there was no implementation manual that spelled out clearly and in
sufficient detail, at least for the first year of the project, what had to be done, who was
supposed to do what, when and at which cost. This turned out to be major problem for
the insurance part of the Project. An Operations Manual was "being developed" at the
time the credit was signed, but it had many shortcomings (for example, it did not include
a chapter on Monitoring and Evaluation). That 1998 draft manual was never finalized
because the original project design was changed by the decision of the former Minister of
Health to reduce HIO involvement.



                                            7
2.1.9 In theory, the HSRP provided a rational basis for reform; technically, the right
issues had been identified, and there was a strong government interest and commitment to
reform, represented by the presence of a dynamic Minister of Health, which suggested
that this was a good time to initiate the reform process. The project design was also in
line with the Bank's global Health Sector strategy (approved in 1997) which supported
the implementation of such a system-wide reform project. However, in retrospect the
project design proved to be too complex and ambitious in scope to be carried out in the
context of a five-year investment project. Moreover, the project was not ready for
implementation, but the Bank decided to move forward with the project in light of the
possibility of supporting a system wide reform. Consequently, the first five years of the
project were focused on completing the preparatory activities (e.g., completion of the
Master Plans and establishment of project implementation capacities), which explains the
very low disbursements rates during the first five years (the original project period). The
project's quality at entry is rated "Unsatisfactory".

2.2 Implementation
(including any project changes/restructuring, mid-term review, Project at Risk status,
and actions taken, as applicable)

2.2.1 Throughout the project period, co-financiers (EC, USAID and AfDB) were
important players in the health sector. The Ministry of Health (MOH) had the overall
responsibility for management and implementation of the HSRP, with the assistance of a
Central Department for Technical Support (TSO) at the central level and Technical
Support Teams (TSTs) in the pilot Governorates. To ensure continuity, technical quality,
and effective coordination between the many organizations involved in planning and
implementing the reforms, the MOH was to be assisted by a Health Policy Forum (HPF)
and a Program Planning and Monitoring Committee (PPMC), but it seems that these
entities did not play an active role in project implementation.

2.2.2 There was high-level commitment and participatory analytical work from the MOH
for health reforms in the preparation and approval stages of the project; the IDA Credit
was made effective in one month, which is very unusual in Egypt. However, changes in
leadership of the sector affected the ownership of and commitment to reform. For the
first four years or so of project implementation, there was no local reform team with the
willingness, technical capacity and political support to lead the process. During project
implementation, there were three Ministers of Health and five Managers of TSO, and
there were also changes at the governorate level. Also, it took a long time to select and
train TSO staff. The management capacity of the TSO was weak in the early years of
project implementation.

2.2.3 There was opposition from MOH and other entities to efforts to transform the HIO
into a single-payer plan and to separate finance from the delivery of health services.
Although the PAD indicated that Governorate level branches or subsidiaries of the HIO
would serve as the insuring entities for the primary health Care BBP, this did not happen.
Instead, as early as 1999, Family Health Funds (FHFs) that by law could not collect



                                            8
premiums and capitated payments from individuals and families were established in the
pilot Governorates, supposedly as "insurance" entities, but they could not really function
as insurance entities (for more details, see Annex 2 on Outputs by Component). Since, in
addition, Parliament rejected the insurance law proposed by the Government, the
insurance reforms could not be implemented as planned, while expansion of family
health services continued.

2.2.4 The mid-term review (MTR) in December 2001 assessed the project progress with
reference to the original project objectives and design and concluded that the original
project objectives remained valid but that an extension of the project closing date might
be necessary to complete all the proposed activities. The MTR therefore did not identify
the need for restructuring and revision of the PDO, which was only identified at a later
stage (in 2004).

2.2.5 The Master Plans (MP) for the Governorates were financed by a trust fund
administered by the Bank (Alexandria) as well as by the IDA Credit (Menoufia and
Sohag). Data collection and verification and the mapping of existing facilities took a
long time, so that altogether the preparation of the MPs took three years. This delayed
the start of the reconstruction/remodeling of health facilities. That process was also
delayed with the liberalization of the Egyptian Pound in January 2003 which led to
significant increases in the local currency costs of imported materials. Civil works
contractors who had fixed price contracts in Egyptian pounds had to interrupt their work
until adjustments could be made to the contract prices. From 2003 to 2006, contractors
were also reluctant to enter into new contracts until prices stabilized.

2.2.6 In 2003, Ministerial Decree 147 was issued to increase revenues for health care by
authorizing Family Health Units (FHU) and Centers (FHC) to collect user fees and drug
copayments from beneficiaries. The introduction of fees and copayments had a negative
effect on the utilization rate of FHUs and FHCs. The decree did not yield substantial
revenues since the fee structure covered only a small portion of the actual cost of
providing a basic benefit package of services, and drug copayment were set at one-third
of the market price of the drugs. Also, the decree did not provide any risk pooling
mechanism as fees are collected at the time of service provision.

2.2.7 In 2003/2004, after a long period of slow implementation and disbursement
problems, the MOH and project management successfully completed a Remedial Action
Plan (RAP). In June 2004, the Project was formally restructured to abandon the objective
of universal coverage and focus more on the poor and the uninsured, while reducing the
number of pilot Governorates from three to two.

2.2.8 In 2005, the reform process received a major impetus when on July 6 President
Mubarak announced a new medium-term framework for reforming the health sector.
This called for: (a) improving the management capacity and financial sustainability of the
HIO; (b) expanding the coverage of primary care services under the FHF in all
governorates; (c) improving the performance of all state-owned hospitals; (d) expanding
access to health services to all uninsured Egyptian citizens through the introduction of a



                                            9
mandatory Social Health Insurance (SHI) program; and (e) merging all these components
into a national SHI system over the medium term.

2.2.9 One of the basic ideas under the project was to begin with a new system of family
based primary health care, the first level of care people approach when they have a health
problem. With this "Family Health Model"3, families rather than individuals are
registered with specific doctors and facilities in their home neighborhood. In 2005, the
MOH adopted the family health model, developed under the project, to be the service
delivery model rolled out in all primary health care facilities in Egypt.

2.2.10 While the project was successful in rationalizing primary health care services,
improving access and expanding health coverage to the general population, the required
payment of registration fees turned out to be a key financial constraint in increasing the
enrollment of the poor and the uninsured population. The Government aimed to raise the
ceiling on the number of exempted poor and requested assistance to finance the
corresponding registration fees and co-payments through the project. In order to address
this issue, in September 2007, the Bank approved an extension of the project for 18
months to develop appropriately targeted exemption of registration fees payments and
health services co-payments for the poor and uninsured population enrolled in the
existing Family Health Funds (FHF) in the two pilot governorates of Alexandria and
Menoufia. This extension provided an opportunity to improve the beneficiary enrollment
scheme and to refine the adopted exemptions scheme as well, in collaboration with the
Ministry of Social Solidarity (MOSS).

2.2.11 In January 2008, the HSRP Credit Agreement was also amended to introduce a
Performance-Based Financing arrangement to improve the performance of the project by
linking disbursement to actual enrollment and utilization of services by the poor and
uninsured in the FHF. Accordingly, a new Project Operations Manual was prepared,
establishing the detailed rules and procedures for the enrollment and exemption of target
groups, in collaboration with the Ministry of Social Solidarity (MOSS), and for the
verification of the process by independent auditors. Performance agreements and health
services provision contracts between the different parties (MOH, FHF and Health
Services Providers) were finalized. The MOH contracted the Center of Social and
Criminal Research to develop a social targeting mechanism in the two pilot governorates
under the supervision of the MOSS. However, this performance-based financing

3
   The Family Health Model is a consolidated Beneficiary-Centered care model, dealing with Family within
the context of community as the focus of high quality service delivery through a qualified Family Physician
as a "gatekeeper" who deals with 80 percent-90 percent of cases providing a BBP including special
services for vulnerable groups. Family Health facilities should be accredited before contracting with the
FHF on the basis of performance-based payments. The FHF provides service accessibility to the poor
population counteracting the cost-sharing financial barrier. Implementation of the Family Health Model
follows a step-wise approach through (i) Infrastructure Development, including prototype building and
prototype medical and non-medical equipment list to fulfill the BBP requirements, (ii) Human Resource
Development, including: Staff Pattern, Job Description and Training Programs and (iii) implementation of
standard operating systems as Standard Practice Guidelines, Essential Drug List, Family Folders, Clinical
Information System and Referral System.



                                                    10
arrangement was introduced late in the project cycle. Although it was discontinued, it is
an important experience on which the Government can build. It could be followed by a
proxy means testing for social targeting and payments with the Ministry of Social
Solidarity (MOSS) identifying the poor, the Ministry of Finance (MOF) providing the
budget for the exemption of the poor, and the Ministry of Health providing health
services.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization


2.3.1 According to a 2009 IEG Report on "Improving Effectiveness and Outcomes for
the Poor in Health, Nutrition, and Population", M&E are critical for implementing and
monitoring health reforms and for demonstrating impact. A strong and consistent M&E
system is important for understanding whether the proposed reforms will work, given that
they involve changing the incentives for both providers and patients; hence, the idea to
first launch reforms in pilot regions as was the case for this project. Based on these
results, decisions can be made on a wider replication of successful reforms. Evaluation
of pilot reforms and rapid dissemination of results can also demonstrate to skeptics that
the reforms are feasible, weakening political resistance.

2.3.2 According to the PAD, the TSO would be responsible for monitoring progress
against agreed performance indicators and for undertaking an extensive (independent)
evaluation of the reform and the project interventions. However, that very important
aspect of the project was not at all prepared. The TSO's main M&E functions were
described in very general terms. The agreed performance indicators were listed in Annex
1 of the PAD and in a supplemental letter to the DCA, but these documents did not
provide baseline values or quantitative targets for the indicators. The draft 1998
Operations Manual did not include any specific chapter on M&E.

2.3.3 From December 2002 to June 2003, a consulting firm assisted MOH in developing
and testing an M&E system to follow HSRP progress and evaluate its impact, and in the
process trained Egyptian staff. The system was based on the original project, with
universal coverage and three Governorates. It had to be revised when the objective of
universal coverage was abandoned and the number of pilot Governorates was reduced
from three to two in connection with the June 2004 restructuring. New key performance
indicators (as shown in Section 3.2 and in Annex10) were developed and refined over
time to monitor the achievement of the revised PDOs.

2.3.4 The development of the MIS and Clinical Information System (CIS) at the level of
the FHFs and health facilities is discussed in Annex 2 on outputs by component. The
implementation of the MIS and CIS has been unsatisfactory. Basically, the CIS is not
operational. The MIS system that has been put in place does not include a connection
between the FHFs and the health facilities.




                                           11
2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
(Focusing on issues and their resolution, as applicable)

Environment

2.4.1 The Environmental Category was B. The only project input with a potential
environmental impact was the rehabilitation of public health facilities. The capacity to
handle medical and non-medical waste was incorporated into the sector norms and
standards, and the Master Plans and detailed designs of health facilities took into account
the requirements for waste treatment and disposal capacity in health facilities.

2.4.2 An environmental safeguards review carried out in 2006 found out that health
facilities are following, to an acceptable level, the environmental requirements in terms of
using anti-bacterial finishing materials for floors, walls and ceilings; having dedicated
temporary storage of medical wastes; having an internal sewage network connected to the
public sewerage network (if existing) or to a bottom and sides-sealed holding tanks;
raising awareness of staff on the danger and risk of exposure to health care waste; and
putting in place waste handling procedures. There were variations in the levels of
implementation of good environmental practices4 depending on the level of training and
awareness of the staff and the strictness of management in implementing those practices.
Health facilities have an incentive to comply with environmental safeguards since this is
a requirement for accreditation. In addition, the FHFs conduct quarterly supervision to
the contracted facilities.

Procurement

2.4.3 TSO's task was complicated by having to deal with many donors with different
regulations, but it did manage. Regarding procurement under the IDA Credit, in addition
to the usual post reviews, two independent procurement reviews were carried out in 2006
and 2009. There was no case of misprocurement, and the reviews showed that
procurement by the TSO has been satisfactory.

2.4.4 According to the TSO, the Bank procurement specialists provided very good
service to the TSO. There were very good communications between the Bank and the
TSO, which was able to consult the Bank informally before requesting the Bank's non
objection. The Bank made available standard bidding documents in Arabic that the TSO
used for National Competitive Bidding (NCB).

Financial management



4
  Generally, the situation was better in Alexandria than Menoufia, and the further away from urban centers,
the less satisfactory the conditions were.



                                                    12
2.4.5 There has been no major issue regarding financial management of the project by the
TSO. The TSO had a well functioning accounting and reporting system and a sound
control structure, with a financial management manual describing clearly the
responsibilities of the experienced financial staff. Financial reports have been clear and
acceptable to the Bank. Audit reports have been submitted on time and unqualified.

2.4.6 The Financial Management (FM) capacity that was built during this project is
providing an acceptable launching point for the new Health Insurance Systems
Development Project (HISDP) as the latter is benefiting from the FM system as well as
the expertise of the FM Officer of the closed HSRP.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
(including transition arrangement to post-completion operation of investments financed
by present operation, Operation & Maintenance arrangements, sustaining reforms and
institutional capacity, and next phase/follow-up operation, if applicable)

2.5.1 There has been progress in strengthening primary health care and family services
and defining a basic package of primary health care and public health services. This
progress will be continued with the rolling out of the Family Health Model in all the
governorates, financed by GOE and other donors. However, efforts to introduce
universal coverage and to transform the HIO into a single-payer plan and to separate
finance from health delivery have failed. The system remains highly fragmented, with
about two dozen entities providing and financing health care.

2.5.2 On December 22, 2009, the Executive Directors of the World Bank approved a
Loan of US$75.0 million to Egypt (Loan No. 7828-EG) for a Health Insurance Systems
Development Project (HISDP) to support the Government's program to establish an
efficient and effective national social health insurance system. The PDO of the HISDP is
to assist the Government of Egypt in improving the financial sustainability and efficiency
of its social health insurance operations.

2.5.3 The HISDP represents a natural extension of the ongoing collaboration between
Egypt and the World Bank on health sector reform and builds on the activities and
lessons of the HSRP. The HISDP will finance the establishment of the single national
health insurance Payor's IT-enabled operations as part of the new national health
insurance program (in Suez, Sohag, and Alexandria Governorates). The HISDP consists
of a single component, entitled Health Insurance Payor Operations & Management
Information System, which will finance three tightly integrated contracts. These are: (a)
Main Business System Contract - delivering an integrated package of business process
development, application software, operational and management training, and extended
technical support services; (b) Hardware Platform Contract - delivering the necessary
computing and communications technologies to operationalize the new business
functions in the three pilot governorates; and (c) Verification and Validation (VV)
Contract, whereby a specialized health insurance firm will deliver hands-on support to
the new Egyptian Payor for decision-taking, activity coordination, technical / substantive



                                           13
advice, and verification and validation services. The new business system will be
introduced gradually across the three pilot governorates.

2.5.4 The HIO will be the implementing agency of the HISDP and a project
implementation unit (PIU) financed by Government funds will be established for
fiduciary management of the project and for monitoring and evaluation.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
(to current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)

3.1.1 The project remains relevant to the current country priorities and the Bank
assistance strategy.

3.1.2 According to the latest Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for the period FY06-
FY09, dated May 20, 2005, the key development objectives of the GOE were the
"achievement of high and sustainable GDP growth" and the "alleviation of poverty and
attenuation of income disparities". The Bank Group proposed to help the GOE achieve
its goals by aligning its support over the next four years (FY 06-09) to three key strategic
objectives, namely, facilitating private sector development, enhancing the provision of
public services, and promoting equity.

3.1.3 With regard to enhancing the provision of public services, Bank Group support
would include: (i) improving the quality and efficiency of the existing government health
care delivery system by reducing fragmentation, introducing greater managerial
autonomy and accountability, and contracting of services when appropriate; (ii) placing
greater emphasis on prevention and primary care; and (iii) enhancing management of
public funds, including the HIO, through the introduction of modern information systems
and management practices.

3.1.4 With regard to promoting equity, Bank Group support would aim, inter alia, to
improve access to healthcare for the poor and those who do not have employment-based
health insurance coverage. This would be done in a cost effective manner. According to
the CAS Results Framework, it would involve increased public investments in family
health services in priority underserved regions, and development of institutional
arrangements to support the expansion of health insurance coverage in primary care.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
(including brief discussion of causal linkages between outputs and outcomes, with details
on outputs in Annex 2)

3.2.1 The table below shows the trend in key performance indicators for the two
governorates of Alexandria and Menoufia after the restructuring, and Annex 10 presents
the end of project results separately for Alexandria and Menoufia. The data show that the
revised PDOs have been achieved with respect to the two main objectives: expanding



                                            14
health coverage with a BBP of PHC services to the poor, and improving access and
efficiency of PHC services through rationalization of health infrastructure.

Objective 1 ­ Expanding health coverage with a basic package of primary health care
and public health services to the poor population in two pilot governorates.
Rating: Significant.

3.2.2 At project closing, 2.4 million beneficiaries were registered and covered by the
FHFs to receive the BBP of PHC services; this represented 112 percent of the end of
project target. In the last few years, the two FHFs succeeded in identifying 0.6 million
poor persons, and the coverage for the poor represented 117 percent of the end of project
target (121 percent for Alexandria and 114 percent for Menoufia).

Objective 2 ­ Improving access and efficiency of primary health care services through
rationalization of health infrastructure in two pilot governorates.
Rating: Modest

3.2.3 At project closing, the package of PHC services was physically available to 3.0
million persons (representing 83 percent of the end of project target ­ 107 percent for
Alexandria and 72 percent for Menoufia), including 1.9 million poor persons
(representing 103 percent of the end of project target ­ 90 percent for Alexandria and 113
percent for Menoufia). The performance would have been better if a greater number of
FH facilities had been accredited and contracted by the FHFs (out of the 331 facilities,
only 241 had been contracted, representing 73 percent of the end of project target).

3.2.4 Although the improvement in the physical accessibility of the poor and the
uninsured is significant, financial accessibility to the BBP of PHC services remains a
concern. Efforts begun in the last eighteen months of the project to enroll the poor (about
0.4 million were enrolled, or 77 percent of the end of project target) in the FHFs in
Alexandria and Menoufia need to be continued and increased, particularly in Alexandria.

3.2.5 Regarding the rationalization of health infrastructure and the efficiency of services,
1,103 FH clinics have been constructed or renovated in compliance with the governorate
health plans; this represents 97 percent of the end of project target (105 percent for
Alexandria and 92 percent for Menoufia). At 2.3 visits per person per year, the average
utilization rate for both governorates is 92 percent of the end of project target of 2.5;
Alexandria (3.3/ visits/ person/ year) is performing much better than Menoufia (1.2/
visits/ person/ year). On the other hand, the efficiency has deteriorated over the last three
years or so. Maybe because of a lack of incentives or maybe because of overstaffing, the
average number of daily encounters per physician is only about 12, or 50 percent of the
end of project target (62 percent for Alexandria and 37 percent for Menoufia). An
explanation is that family physicians work mainly on curative and emergency visits
which constitute only about 55 percent of facility utilization. In any event, recently MOH
revised the standard roster of family physicians and changed it from 500 families per
physician to 1,000/1,200 families per physician.




                                             15
                   Key Performance Indicators for Both Governorates
      Outcome / Impact              Value        November September       March
           Indicators                               2006        2008        2009
Accessibility ­ General         Target           3,622,000   3,622,000   3,622,000
Population. Population with Actual               2,230,000   2,530,000   2,992,238
access to the BBP of PHC
services based on planned
capacity of operational FH      Achievement %       62%         70%        83%
facilities (constructed /
renovated) based on national
standards.
Accessibility ­ Poor. Poor      Target           1,831,391   1,831,391   1,831,391
population with access to the Actual             1,456,622   1,718,476   1,883,548
BBP of PHC services based
on planned capacity of
operational FH facilities       Achievement %       80%         94%       103%
(constructed / renovated) in
poor areas as identified by the
governorate health plans.
Accessibility - Clinics         Target             1,141       1,141      1,141
complied with health plans. Actual                  839         981       1,103
Number of FH clinics
(constructed / renovated) in    Achievement %       74%         86%        97%
compliance with the
governorate health plans.
Coverage ­ General              Target           2,173,200   2,173,200   2,173,200
Population. Total number of Actual               1,847,667   1,956,063   2,430,991
beneficiaries covered by the
FHF to receive the BBP of       Achievement %       85%         90%       112%
PHC services.
Coverage ­ Uninsured.           Target           1,086,600   1,086,600   1,086,600
Total number of uninsured       Actual           1,056,462   1,072,307   1,355,514
beneficiaries covered by FHF Achievement %          97%         99%        125%
to receive BBP.
Coverage ­ Poor                 Target           825,000*    495,000*    495,000*
(identified). Total number of Actual               75,385     417,038    578,603
poor beneficiaries identified
by any identification method Achievement %           9%         84%       117%
(social workers / MOSS /
NGOs / geographical
targeting).




                                        16
                  Key Performance Indicators for Both Governorates
      Outcome / Impact             Value        November September                             March
          Indicators                               2006        2008                            2009
Coverage ­ Facilities          Target              331         331                              331
contracted by the FHFs.        Actual              205         205                              241
Number of FH facilities
contracted by the FHFs,        Achievement %       62%         62%                               73%
compared to the total; number
of MOH PHC facilities.
Enrollment- General            Target           2,173,200   2,173,200                         2,173,200
Population. Active             Actual           1,087,235   1,275,897                         1,406,018
enrollment in the FHFs based
on renewal of family health    Achievement %       50%         59%                               65%
folders.
Enrollment ­ Uninsured.        Target           1,086,600   1,086,600                         1,086,600
Active enrollment of           Actual            296,029     410,930                           548,484
uninsured beneficiaries based
on renewal of family health    Achievement %       27%         38%                               50%
folders.
Enrollment ­ Poor. Number Target                    n.a.    495,000*                          495,000*
of enrolled poor beneficiaries Actual               n.a.     141,182                           380,159
(insured and uninsured).       Achievement %        n.a.       29%                              77%
Enrollment ­ Exempted          Target               n.a.     247,500                           247,500
poor (uninsured).              Actual               n.a.     141,182                           188,146
                               Achievement %        n.a.       57%                              76%
Efficiency ­ Utilization rate. Target               2.5         2.5                              2.5
Average number of visits per Actual                 1.6         2.2                              2.3
person per year.               Achievement %       64%         88%                              92%
Efficiency- Average number Target                   24          24                                24
of daily encounters per        Actual               25          13                               11.9
physician.                     Achievement %      104%         54%                              50%
Efficiency ­ ANC utilization Target                  5           5                                 5
rate. Average number of        Actual               3.7         3.0                              2.7
antenatal care visits per      Achievement %       74%         60%                              54%
pregnant woman.
* With the approval of the Bank, the MOH revised the end of project target for the poor from 825,000 to
495,000 based on the assumption that 60 percent of all the poor in both governorates would be covered by
primary health care services, in line with the assumption made after the June 2004 restructuring that the
project would cover 60 percent of the general population of both governorates having access to primary
health care services.




                                                   17
Other achievements

3.2.6 Under the project major innovations in service delivery were introduced in Egypt.
The Family Health Model (FHM) was adopted for the first time. Integrated services were
provided under the same roof for the entire family, requiring less time and transportation
and offering better quality of care. Both physicians and patients valued the concept of
continuity of care (being seen by the same FH physician and having a single medical
record). The FHM covers four main areas: building and equipment; medical and non-
medical supplies; drugs; and human resources. A FHM implementation manual was
developed under the reform; MOH now has standards for buildings and equipment. The
introduction of the family health practice, a specialty that is new to Egypt, can in the long
run rectify the surplus of specialist physicians and support a more holistic and integrated
approach to patient care. Government demonstrated its commitment to the FHM by
declaring it as the national primary health care model. The fact that the FHM is now
being implemented in the whole country is the greatest achievement of the HSRP.

3.2.7 Performance-based incentive systems were also adopted for the first time in Egypt.
Incentives were tied to institutional factors (e.g., attainment of accreditation status,
enrollment levels and patient satisfaction). Incentives of up to 250 percent of base salary
were then distributed to employees based on job type, years of experience, academic
qualifications and on-the-job performance. They succeeded in increasing provider
accountability to quality standards and reform goals. The reform program thus
demonstrated that health provider behavior can be favorably modified to serve national
health sector goals. This experiment was limited to public (MOH and HIO) providers.
Subsequently, the performance-based incentive systems were replaced in September 2008
by a new mechanism of fees for services.

3.2.8 Quality of care and appropriateness of clinical practices were supported through a
facility accreditation process. All facilities went through an accreditation process
established by the MOH Quality Improvement (QI) Directorate. The QI Directorate
published and disseminated a set of clinical practice guidelines for all components of the
BBP, which were used for training of providers at the sites.

3.2.9 The service delivery component of the HSRP has succeeded in increasing patient
satisfaction and demand for PHC services by utilizing a holistic family health approach to
patient care. The surveys conducted in 2009 showed that reformed and accredited health
facilities are providing somewhat better quality services than the non reformed and the
non accredited ones. An issue identified by the surveys is that beneficiaries have a
limited understanding of their entitlements, which has had a negative impact on the
demand for services. The MOH is exploring new approaches to improving patient
communication and outreach programs to address these shortcomings.

3.2.10 Another promising development was the introduction of the performance-based
financing arrangement linking disbursement to actual enrollment and utilization of
services by the poor and uninsured in the FHFs. This financing arrangement was a pilot



                                             18
that aimed to increase the utilization of health services by the poor beneficiaries after the
achieved improvements in service accessibility.            This pilot was developed in
collaboration with the team implementing the Plan Nacer in Argentina which has a
similar incentive scheme in place, and thus represents the important role the project
played in global knowledge transfer. Although the arrangement was closed at the end of
the project, it provides an important implementation experience on which the
Government can build future programs. The Government is currently developing a new
social targeting mechanism to exempt the poor from premiums and co-payments: they
will benefit greatly from reviewing the experiences and lessons learned from this
financial arrangement.

3.3 Efficiency
(Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return, cost effectiveness, e.g., unit rate norms,
least cost, and comparisons; and Financial Rate of Return)

3.3.1 As shown in Annexes 1 and 2 of the ICR, three-quarters of the IDA Credit5 were
used to finance the construction/rehabilitation, equipping and furnishing of health
facilities. In the HSRP, the preparation of Master Plans (MP) was used as a basis for
rationalizing health infrastructure investment, and the design of FHUs and FHCs6
financed by the IDA Credit was based on the standards and guidelines of the MP.
However, because the MOH used the services of different international and national
consulting firms that led to different interpretations in applying these standards and
guidelines in the pilot governorates, there were some deviations from the MPs. Annex 3
presents the deviations in the net areas of the health facilities financed by the IDA Credit
in the Alexandria and Menoufia Governorates.

3.3.2 The MOH decided to take advantage of the experience under the project to revise
the national standards and guidelines of health planning for service delivery of the Family
Health Model. The objective was to reach a consensus on a FHM which is affordable for
a roll out in new governorates based on a set of minimum acceptable standards. The new
standardized model is a modified FHU2. The revised standards and guidelines were
integrated within the accreditation and licensing system of family health facilities. The
MOH also updated the governorate health plans.

3.3.3 The conclusion is that the construction/rehabilitation carried out for the 117 health
facilities financed by the IDA Credit served a very useful purpose to determine the most
cost effective design for the 2,500 facilities to be renovated and equipped by the end of
June 2010, financed by the national budget.

3.3.4 An impact evaluation carried out in 2006 showed that, as an integrated package, the
HSRP occasioned a shift from secondary to primary care. Although patient satisfaction

5
 US$71.91 million (out of US$94.69 million) were used to finance sub-component 1.2 to improve quality
and efficiency of PHC delivery system.

6
    FHU1, FHU2, FHU3, FHU 4 and FHC.



                                                 19
differed across regions, a high accreditation score as well as family health training and
infrastructure investment seemed to satisfy patients. A greater availability of drugs and a
higher referral rate also played a role.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
(combining relevance, achievement of PDOs, and efficiency)
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

3.4.1 As restructured in June 2004, the HSRP aimed to improve access to a basic package
of primary health care and public health services to the poor population in two pilot
Governorates (Alexandria and Menoufia). Under the project, the Ministry of Health
adopted the Family Health Model which helped to introduce an integrated primary health
care system, and is the model being rolled out in all primary health care facilities in
Egypt. The investment carried out for the 117 health facilities financed by the IDA
Credit served a very useful purpose to determine the most cost effective design for the
2,500 facilities to be renovated and equipped in all governorates, with GOE financing.
The project laid a strong foundation for further development of the primary health care
services in Egypt. In terms of expanding health coverage, the total number of
beneficiaries covered by the Family Health funds to receive the basic benefit package
(BBP) of primary health care (PHC) services reached 2.431 million persons, representing
112 percent of the end of project target (the target is 2.173 million persons of the 6
million population in the two pilot governorates); and the number of poor beneficiaries
with access to the BBP of PHC services has reached 1.884 million persons, representing
103 percent of the end of project target (the target is 1.831 million persons). The 1,103
family health clinics constructed or renovated in compliance with the governorates health
plans represent 97 percent of the end of project target of 1,141 clinics. Infrastructure
investments under the project were also pro-poor: more than 30 percent went to the
poorest deciles of districts, and about 50 percent to the poorest three deciles. The
utilization rate of facilities is satisfactory overall, but the average number of daily
encounters per physician has decreased over the last three years. Through this project,
MOH, in collaboration with MOSS, developed a social targeting mechanism to conduct
an identification of the poor in rural and urban areas. Using this mechanism, the
percentage of poor beneficiaries (insured and uninsured) who enrolled in the BBP of
PHC services increased from 15 percent in 2007 to 77 percent of the end of project target
(0.495 million persons) in 2009. The Government will need to continue working on
refining the targeting and enrollment mechanisms for the poor, in order to improve the
newly adopted exemption scheme and to ensure increased health insurance coverage for
the poor in the future. The Government has indicated its commitment to gradually
increase its financing of the registration fees for the poor through general revenues.

3.4.2 Since the PDOs were formally revised (approved by the Board) when only US$13.6
million (about 15 percent of the IDA Credit) were disbursed, the outcome rating must
take into account both the original and the formally revised objectives or targets7. As

7
    ICR Guidelines ­ OPCS ­ August 2006 (last updated on 2/9/2007) - Page 25 and Appendix B.




                                                        20
shown in the Table below, the weighted value of 4.55 corresponds to a rating between
"Moderately Satisfactory" and "Satisfactory"; the overall rating is rounded to
"Moderately Satisfactory", which is the same as the PDO rating in the last ISR.

                                           Against          Against         Overall
                                        original PDOs       revised
                                                             PDOs
          1.   Rating                   Unsatisfactory    Satisfactory       -
          2.   Rating value*                  2                 5            -
          3.   Weight**                     15%               85%         100%
          4.   Weighted value               0.30              4.25         4.55
          5.   Final rating (rounded)                                  Moderately
                                                                       Satisfactory
      *Highly Satisfactory = 6; Satisfactory = 5; Moderately Satisfactory = 4;
      Moderately Unsatisfactory = 3; Unsatisfactory = 2; and Highly
      Unsatisfactory = 1.
      **% disbursed before/after PDO change

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)

3.5.1 Over the last ten years (1998-2008), steady progress has been made in improving
the health status of the population. Annex 11 shows the trend in health indicators for
Egypt, and for Alexandria and Menoufia. The under-five mortality rate fell from 31.5 to
24.2 (a reduction of 23 percent) in Alexandria, and from 30.5 to 17.3 (a reduction of 43
percent) in Menoufia. Maternal care has also improved. The maternal mortality rate fell
from 93.7 to 50 (a reduction of 47 percent) in Alexandria, and from 98.3 to 45.4 (a
reduction of 54 percent) in Menoufia. Generally, the health indicators show greater
improvements in Menoufia than in Alexandria. There are many factors that influenced
the improvements in health indicators, and the HSRP is only one of them. Actually,
during the same period 1998-2008, the whole country also made good progress on its
health outcomes, especially in reducing mortality among women, infants and children,
and Egypt is likely to achieve the MDG targets by 2015. It is interesting to note that
improvements in under five mortality rate and infant mortality rate have been
significantly greater in Menoufia than Alexandria. There is one possible contributing
factor. Alexandria is an urban governorate that attracts the population of neighboring
governorates seeking medical care for complicated cases, so that some mortality cases
registered in Alexandria actually belong to the neighboring governorates, which may
inflate the mortality rates registered in Alexandria.

3.5.3 In 2006 and 2007, the World Bank shared with the Minister of Health a number of
recommendations in a series of workshops on facets of social health insurance as follows:
(i) use the development of the Benefit Package as the pillar for incremental transition; (ii)
phased transition from supply-sided budget to social insurance financing including
alternative sources of financing; (iii) introduction of capacity for strategic purchasing;
(iv) separate provider-purchaser functions in HIO and MOH; and, (v) SHI models in


                                             21
other regions such as Latin America and Central Europe. More recently, the Ministries of
Finance and Investment have requested the Bank's collaboration on refining the actuarial
models for assessing revenues and expenditures and developing projections on overall
fiscal impact for the social health insurance. Under the Health Insurance Reimbursable
Technical Assistance (RTA), the Bank is providing technical advice on (a) actuarial
modeling and estimation of the fiscal and economic impact of the different policy options
under consideration in the new Social Health Insurance (SHI) Law; and (b) policy advice
on the content and design of the SHI Law. An independent review of the actuarial
modeling of the financial and fiscal implications of the different reform scenarios was
performed by an actuarial firm contracted by the Ministry of Finance.

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

3.5.4 The project deals with primary health care (PHC) and is, therefore, particularly
important for women and children.

3.5.5 The main change resulting from the June 2004 restructuring was to focus on the
poor. As mentioned above, the emphasis on the poor and the uninsured has been
successful. For the two Governorates of Alexandria and Menoufia, at project closing
significant progress had been made on accessibility, coverage and enrollment:

   a) Accessibility: 1.884 million poor people had access to the BBP of PHC services
      based on the planned capacity of operational family health facilities (constructed /
      renovated) in poor areas as identified by the governorate health plans.
   b) Coverage: 0.579 million poor beneficiaries had been identified by any
      identification method (Social workers / MOSS / NGOs / Geographical Targeting).
   c) Enrollment: 0.380 million poor beneficiaries (insured and uninsured) had been
      enrolled.

3.5.6 Good progress has been made in Menoufia to enroll in the FHF almost all (94
percent) the identified poor, but in Alexandria the percentage is less than fifty percent.
The Government has indicated its commitment to gradually increase its financing of the
registration fees for the poor through general revenues.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional
development)

3.5.7 It is important to differentiate between the delivery model and the financing. As
mentioned above, the FHM has been endorsed by the Government as the primary health
care model for the whole country, and is likely to be sustainable. On the other hand, the
future of the Family Health Funds (FHFs) that have been established is uncertain at this
stage. The Government is reviewing the experiences of the FHF as a basis for the design
of the new health insurance system and primary care services which will be rolled out in
the next phase of the health insurance reform program. A new health insurance law and a
new social targeting mechanism funded by the MOF for exempting the poor are under



                                           22
preparation by the Government. The Government requested and, in December 2009, the
Bank approved the Health Insurance Systems Development Project (IBRD ­ US$75.0
million) in preparation for the new phase of the reform process. The introduction of
Master Plans and the rolling out of the Family Health Model (FHM) are having a lasting
impact on the rationalization of health facilities. The adoption of standards and
guidelines strengthened the operational capacity of Family Health Centers (FHCs) and
Family Health Units (FHUs). Also, the accreditation system has been institutionalized as
part of the quality assurance system; it is a strong incentive for FHCs and FHUs to
provide health services of good quality.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

3.5.8 The Family Health Model presents many advantages, but it could also have a
negative impact on some programs, such as the family planning activities that were also
financed by the Bank. According to a report by the Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)
of the World Bank8, there are indications that reproductive health and family planning
services have been diluted in the Basic Benefit Package (BBP). Family doctors are not as
well trained as the specialists who had provided these services under the vertical
program. Also, under the new family health clinic design, there is no special room
designated for family planning clients, who are seen in any one of the regular service
delivery rooms. Finally, there were concerns that there were fewer women physicians
catering to family planning clients, which is an important factor to many clients and their
husbands. However, according to two research projects carried out in 2007 and 20089,
the reduction in family planning services was not related to the family health model but
rather to other communication and organizational factors.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)

Management and Service Quality in Primary Health Care Facilities in Alexandria and
Menoufia at the Completion of the Health Sector Reform Project

3.6.1 The Health Sector Reform focused on supply-side improvements. Since there are
issues in the quality of service and management in both reformed and non-reformed
public primary care facilities, regarding for example availability of supplies, correct
payment exemptions for the poor, and consequently, utilization by the population,
surveys were conducted in the governorates of Alexandria and Menoufia to: (i) give an
overview over the performance of primary care facilities in the light of the objectives of
the HSRP; (ii) account for the basic health needs of the population in the catchment areas

8
    Project Performance Assessment Report ­ Population Project (Cr. 2830-EGT) ­ IEG ­ June 25, 2008

9
 (a) Evaluation of impact of the provider incentive payments on reproductive health services: Egypt's
Health Reform Program ­ Social Research Centre of American University in Cairo, 2007, in collaboration
with WHO; and (b) Study on reproductive health impact of family health model pilots in Egypt ­ El Zanaty
and Associates, 2008, in collaboration with UNFPA.



                                                   23
of these facilities, and assess how these needs are met by the primary care facilities; and
(iii) highlight a few avenues of promising governance initiatives identified by facilities or
the communities in their catchment area. The survey report entitled "Management and
Service Quality in Primary Health Care Facilities in Alexandria and Menoufia at the
Completion of the Health Sector Reform Project" is an integrated study of public primary
health service delivery in the reform governorates of Alexandria and Menoufia that were
financed by the World Bank. The report is based on a quantitative survey covering all
362 primary health care facilities, as well as 5,417 households, conducted between March
and December 2009. Furthermore, the study integrated the findings of a qualitative
study, comprised of a series of in-depth interviews with providers and beneficiaries, as
well as eight focus group discussions in four different facilities. The executive summary
of the survey report is included in Annex 5 of the ICR. The main findings are
summarized below.

3.6.2 The Demand for Primary Health Care. Nearly 40 percent of the sample report has
been ill or injured in the past 6 months. In general, a very large fraction of individuals
sought care when they were ill. Access to healthcare appears to be no problem in terms
of transport, but was possibly a problem in terms of finance. The most common
providers of care were private doctors. However, when people did seek care at health
facilities, over 95 percent of respondents indicated a "positive" opinion (extremely
satisfied or somewhat satisfied).

3.6.3 Availability of Non medical Infrastructure. A very high percentage of public
primary health care facilities have access to electricity, working phones and a water
outlet. Only two-thirds of the facilities, however, reported that water is always available.
Comparing different types of facilities shows that MOH ranks below HIO clinics in the
availability of all non medical supplies except for overnight beds. Further, within MOH
facilities, many of the supplies were found more regularly in reformed than in non-
reformed facilities and in urban facilities compared to rural facilities.

3.6.4 Availability of medical infrastructure. Many facilities lack basic supplies to
conduct Diabetes Mellitus treatment or educate patients. Supplies specifically needed for
CHD/hypertension treatment can only be found in very few facilities. Almost 9 out of 10
facilities are in possession of basic measurement instruments for treating children.
Materials to educate mothers about child health issues, on the other hand, could only be
found in half of the facilities. Supplies for sick child treatment are more frequently
available in MOH clinics compared to HIO clinics. Most of the facilities seem well
equipped to conduct basic antenatal services. Generally, in terms of availability of
medical infrastructure, reformed facilities are doing better than non-reformed facilities,
and accredited facilities are doing better than non-accredited facilities.

3.6.5 Allocation of Human Resources. Most of the facilities serve a catchment area of
30,000 people or less. The median facility has 50 health workers who each carry out ­ on
average ­ 90 consultations per year. The ratio of health workers to beneficiaries is much
higher in Menoufia than in Alexandria. Furthermore, there are fewer health workers per
beneficiaries in reformed facilities than in non-reformed facilities and in accredited



                                             24
facilities compared with non-accredited facilities. There is a difference in composition of
staff between facilities in Alexandria and Menoufia with a higher share of specialists, and
doctors in general, compared to non-medical staff in Alexandria. Furthermore, the share
of specialists is slightly higher in non reformed facilities compared to reformed facilities.
There are major differences in the socio-demographic composition of the different
categories of employees. In particular, doctors and pharmacists are much younger, less
experienced and have been at the facility they currently work in for a much shorter period
of time compared to nurses and, in particular, administrative staff.

3.6.6 Presence and Absence of Staff. Primary care facilities are officially available 24
hours. But, while all offer a morning shift, only 24 percent offer an afternoon shift and 4
percent offer a shift after 8 pm. Absenteeism is a problem which affects about half the
full-time staff. Female staffs are less absent than men, and a higher education level is
consistently and significantly linked with higher absence rates. Facility management,
outside quality supervision, infrastructure, a cost audit system on site, and positive
personnel incentives all matter for better staff presence.

3.6.7 Structural Observations of Doctors. The average Diabetes consultation is missing
many of the elements that are part of the ministerial FHM guidelines for Diabetes
Mellitus treatment. When consulting and examining CHD/hypertension patients, basic
procedures appeared to be carried out to a large extent. The observation of antenatal
treatments showed that very basic procedures are carried out often; more advanced but
essential procedures are missing in many cases. Of the different examinations required
by the guidelines of sick child treatment, very few were observed across the board. The
lack of observance of basic hygiene practices by doctors throughout the consultations is
alarming.

3.6.8 Constraints to Improvement. In the views of facility management, the three most
severe constraints to improving the quality of services at the facility level are the low
motivation of staff (viewed as a constraint by 43 percent of all managers), general lack of
supplies (39 percent) and the (non) availability of qualified staff (37.5 percent). Other
important issues mentioned by the interviewees were lack of drugs (29.3 percent), and
general problems with the quality of buildings (21 percent), plumbing infrastructure (14.4
percent) and non-medical supplies, i.e., furniture (13 percent).

3.6.9 Payments. Official payments differ by type of facility. The average de facto
examination fee at public primary care units is above the official co-payment for
reformed units, and many facilities charge for home visits. The vast majority of people
(97 percent) have never heard of the payment exemption for poor people in reformed
facilities. Interestingly, the exemption policy appears to work better at NGO and private
facilities and rural hospitals. Eighty-four percent of the primary facilities in the sample
report offering an exemption for the poor, but the decision-making process on exemption
differs noticeably between facilities.

3.6.10 Institutions of Quality Supervision and Governance. Over 85 percent of all
facilities in Alexandria and Menoufia have a system for determining client opinion about



                                             25
the facility or services. And over one-third of the facilities that collect client information
reported they have made changes as a result of client opinion. Accredited facilities have
a higher rate of collecting feedback compared to non-accredited facilities, the same can
be observed when comparing reformed with non-reformed facilities. There are several
informal governance institutions that can potentially influence the facilities' work, such
as media, religious organizations or NGOs.

Stakeholders' Workshop

3.6.11 On January 21, 2010, an HSRP Stakeholders Workshop hosted by the Ministry of
Health and the World Bank was held in Cairo to discuss the preliminary results of the
report "Management and Service Quality in Primary Health Care Facilities in Alexandria
and Menoufia at the Completion of the Health Sector Reform Project".

3.6.12 The main purpose of the workshop was to discuss issues with the goal to come up
with suggestions and policy recommendations that address the issues in the short,
medium, and long term. Based on the report, the following eight areas were identified as
major issues regarding the quality of primary health service delivery in Alexandria and
Menoufia: (i) exemption of the poor; (ii) limited continuity of care; (iii) lack of
technicians/training to operate high tech equipment; (iv) hygiene practices; (v)
insufficient adherence to guidelines; (vi) opening hours of facilities; (vii) lack of drugs;
and (viii) competition between FHU and other facilities.

3.6.13 A summary of the workshop discussions is included in Annex 6 of the ICR. While
it is clear that some issues could only be solved through increases in operating budgets
and long term, sustained reforms (for example, reform of HR policies), there is scope for
short term measures, including awareness/outreach campaigns, better quality supervision,
upgrading of guidelines, etc., that could be more easily implemented.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate

4.1 The FHM is likely to be sustainable, but the future of the FHFs is uncertain at this
stage. The risk to development outcome must be assessed in two areas.

4.2 First, there is the question of the sustainability of the accessibility, coverage and
enrollment of the poor for the BBP of PHC services. The Government has indicated its
commitment to gradually increase its financing of the registration fees for the poor
through general revenues. But the financial burden will need to be fiscally sustainable.
The Government recently undertook an actuarial analysis to estimate the fiscal impact of
the different scenarios for the design of the new health insurance program, and to ensure
that the scope of the new insurance program would be affordable. The MOF and MOSS
have also established a joint team to review the design of the social targeting
mechanisms, for which the experiences gained under this project would be valuable.




                                             26
4.3 Second, there is the question of the maintenance of the health facilities that have been
rehabilitated under the project. Maintenance is the responsibility of the health districts.
However, at the central level, accreditation could be withdrawn (and has actually been
withdrawn in some cases) if facilities are not properly maintained.

4.4 In view of the risks and uncertainty regarding project sustainability, the risk to
development outcome is assessed as "substantial".

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e., performance through lending phase)
Rating: Unsatisfactory

5.1.1 At the time the IDA Credit was approved for this project, the Bank had relatively
limited information on measuring the impact of comprehensive health sector reform
programs focusing on insurance reform and universal coverage. Therefore, the statement
in the 1998 PAD that the value added of Bank support to this project was the "Bank's
economic focus and experience in areas such as health care financing, insurance issues,
provider payment issues, and general system reform issues" 10 was an overly optimistic
assessment of the Bank's potential contribution and underestimated the political
challenges which could reduce the effectiveness of the Bank intervention.

5.1.2 Although the Bank spent about US$450,000 on project preparation and appraisal,
the project was not well-prepared. The Bank PAD was deficient in many respects. It
contained very little information on the contents of the components and implementation
assignments and responsibilities. An Operations Manual "was being developed" at the
time the project was appraised, but the draft was incomplete (for example, it did not
include a separate chapter for monitoring and evaluation). According to the agreed
minutes of negotiations of the credit, the Operations Manual should have been finalized
by December 31, 1998, but apparently it was never finalized. Annex 1 of the PAD did
not provide any baseline values and any quantitative targets for the selected monitoring
indicators. There was no component for project management, and there were
inconsistencies between tables on project financing.

5.1.3 At the time of project preparation, the Bank team had some reason to believe that
there was government ownership and commitment and, therefore, that the preparation
efforts would lead to a satisfactory project. However, as discussed in Section 2.1 on
quality at entry, the project was not ready for implementation when it was submitted to
the Bank's Board of Executive Directors. The Bank performance in ensuring quality at
entry is rated "Unsatisfactory".


10
     Section 13 on page 11 of the PAD on "Value added of Bank support in this project".



                                                     27
(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

5.1.4 Regarding the quality of supervision by the Bank, one has to distinguish between
the period before and after project restructuring.

Before the project restructuring

5.1.5 When the FHFs were established (as early as 1999), the Bank failed to ensure that
the insuring entities established at the level of each Governorate were branches or
subsidiaries of the HIO, as was envisaged in the PAD. It should have been clear at that
time that the legal and institutional status of the FHFs would not allow them to function
as full-fledged "insuring" entities. A component for project management was added in
the early years of project implementation; that was the right thing to do, but the DCA
(which listed two components only) should have been amended accordingly.

5.1.6 During the first five years of implementation, the Bank seemed to lack a clear
vision and/or a sound strategy for getting the project on track. During that initial period,
the Bank spent about US$700,000 of budget on supervision which is a substantial sum
for the activities that were carried out, essentially focusing on the strengthening of the
TSO, and the implementation of the Master Plans (including the one for Alexandria that
was financed by a Trust Fund). These activities were a continuation of the preparatory
work. The ISRs were not candid and realistic in reporting issues and ratings.
Considering the money spent and the results, this initial part of supervision would
deserve a rating of "Moderately Unsatisfactory".

After the project restructuring

5.1.7 The June 2004 restructuring (at about the time of the original closing date) was
indeed a turning point for the project. From that time on, the performance of the Bank
improved and the ratings were realistic. During that period of another five years, the
Bank spent about US$450,000 on supervision. The quality of supervision by the Bank
after restructuring deserves a rating of "Satisfactory" because of the proactivity of the
Bank and efforts by the supervision team in dealing with implementation issues and in
helping the Government to salvage the project.

5.1.8 The following actions and initiatives are worth mentioning:

   a) The Bank focused on the poor, and serious efforts were made to set targets for
      accessibility, coverage and enrollment and to monitor the achievement of those
      targets.
   b) The Bank supported the development of the Family Health Model by MOH.
   c) The Bank allocated financing for the response to the Avian Flu crisis.



                                            28
     d) The Bank introduced an innovative performance-based financing arrangement to
        address the problem of inadequate attention to targeting the poor and to introduce
        new incentives to change provider behavior.
     e) The Bank supported the WBI Flagship Program on Health Sector Reform and
        Sustainable Financing which was well received by the counterparts, and helped
        to enhance knowledge and capacity among key policy makers and managers in
        many of the critical areas being addressed by the project. 11.

5.1.9 Overall, the quality of supervision is rated "Moderately Satisfactory".

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

5.1.7 The rating for the Bank performance in ensuring quality at entry is in the
unsatisfactory range and the rating for quality of supervision is in the satisfactory range.
Therefore, in accordance with the ICR Guidelines, the overall Bank performance is rated
"Moderately Satisfactory" because the overall project outcome is rated in the satisfactory
range.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

5.2.1 According to the PAD, there was a high level ownership of the strategy by the GOE
since the HSRP was developed by the GOE with technical assistance from the Bank,
USAID, EU, and DANIDA. It reflected the perspective and priorities of the Government
and was the Government's first attempt to develop a comprehensive and analytically
based health reform program. The Minister of Health and Population and his principal
deputies were all deeply involved with the development of the strategy. The fact that the
Government managed to get the project effective in one month (when it usually takes six
to nine months in Egypt) may be viewed as an indication of the Government commitment
to the project and its interest in starting the process of reform as soon as possible.

5.2.2 Government should bear some responsibility (but to a much lesser degree than the
Bank, because usually Borrowers rely on the Bank's "expertise" on project readiness for
implementation) for the lack of readiness of the project for implementation. As
mentioned earlier, many factors affected implementation; changes in management are
one of them. During project implementation, there were three Ministers of Health and
five Managers of TSO, and there were also changes at the governorate level. As to
ownership and commitment, it turned out that the situation was not as clear as described
in the PAD. In fact, at the beginning of the project, the MOH had no ownership of the
Master Plans, and insisted on decreasing the fund allocation for the HIO and on putting
the control of the governorate health insurance funds under the MOH. For quite some
11
   The Flagship Course had a positive impact on participants; most of the course participants are now the
leaders who are implementing the current social health insurance reform either in the HIO or the MOH.



                                                    29
time, the TSO was very weak; it could not attract and retain qualified staff and
implemented activities in a chaotic manner.

5.2.3 It is probably because of change in management that GOE did not implement the
project as planned. The PAD stated clearly that the insurance entities in the governorates
should be branches or subsidiaries of the HIO, but this did not happen. The FHFs that
were established could not function as "insurance" entities.

5.2.4 The implementation capacity improved considerably in recent years. The TSO,
which was quite weak at the beginning of the project, developed into a competent entity
and managed project implementation effectively. Consequently, there were no major
issues on procurement and financial management, and the TSO managed to construct and
equip a sizable number of health facilities. GOE should be given credit for the
development of the Family Health Model (FHM) and the decision to implement it in the
whole country. The GOE should also be commended for: (i) developing the facilities
Accreditation System based on quality of care and appropriateness of clinical practices,
(ii) updating the National Standards and Guidelines of health planning for service
delivery of the Family Health Model (FHM), and (iii) developing and implementing a
social targeting mechanism to conduct an identification of the poor in rural and urban
areas. The fact that the FHM was endorsed as the primary health care model for Egypt is
the most important result from the project. In addition to the funds provided under this
project, the MOH mobilized additional resources from other donors as well as its own
budget in rolling out the FHM to 2,500 health facilities.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

5.2.5 The implementing agency was the MOH which is part of Government. The
assessment of MOH's performance is included in the above discussion of Government
performance.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

5.2.6 The above assessments show that in the early years of the project the government
performance was unsatisfactory. The situation improved significantly following the
restructuring and the strengthening of the TSO, and the Government can be given credit
for strong commitment and achievements during the latter part of the project. On
balance, the Overall Borrower Performance is rated "Moderately Satisfactory".




                                           30
6. Lessons Learned
(both project-specific and of wide general application)

   1) In order to maximize the chances of success of a health reform project dealing
      with both health and insurance issues, the leadership role must be shared between
      the Ministry of Health and the organization in charge of health insurance.

   2) Institutional and stakeholder analyses are essential during the design of the
      reforms and to inform decisions during implementation about when to intervene
      and when not to. Stakeholder consultations can help to flag possible resistance
      and solutions. Information and outreach to all stakeholders and the public to
      explain the reforms, the benefits of the reforms, and how the public will be
      affected should be an integral part of the reform process.

   3) Much more stringent criteria should be used to assess project readiness for
      implementation in order to avoid premature submission of projects for Board
      Approval.

   4) The presence of a local reform team with the willingness, technical capacity and
      political support to lead the process is also important to ensure success.

   5) Since health reform usually takes place over a long period, it is important to
      assess fully the political economy of reform and to prepare a proactive plan to
      address this issue, including generating evidence that reforms work and enlisting
      key stakeholders in the system that are vested in the reforms and likely to remain
      on place.

   6) The piloting and sequencing of reforms are important implementation modalities
      to maximize the chances of success.

   7) Collaboration between several Ministries may be essential to develop an effective
      tool to identify the poor. There is a need for clear criteria to identify the poor and
      outreach/awareness campaigns to inform people about the exemption policy and
      the procedures to be followed.

   8) The implementation of training plans for health personnel is crucial to ensure that
      expensive, high tech equipment can be operated for the benefit of the patients.

   9) Awareness/advocacy campaigns are important to inform and/or remind health
      personnel and patients of the importance of following basic hygiene procedures.

   10) Treatment guidelines should be regularly updated and structural observations of
       compliance with those guidelines should be part of the quality supervision of
       health facilities.




                                            31
   11) The shift pattern of health facilities should be re-evaluated periodically and
       opening times should be adapted to the needs of the community.

   12) There is a need to streamline the payment and fee regime across all facilities, and
       to explain the fee structure to beneficiaries while highlighting the services offered
       by the reformed facilities.

   13) Close monitoring of prescriptions and education of patients on proper drug usage
       could reduce waste and minimize the recurrent problem of the lack of essential
       drugs.

   14) A functioning Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) System is critical for
       implementing and monitoring health reforms and for demonstrating impact.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

A summary of the Borrower's ICR is included in Annex 7.

(b) Co financiers

A summary of the contributions of the European Commission (EC), the US Agency for
International Development (USAID) and the African Development Bank (AfDB) to the
ICR is included in Annex 8.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)

None




                                            32
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Costs by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                 Appraisal        Actual/Latest
                                                                  Percentage of
          Components          Estimate (USD Estimate (USD
                                                                   Appraisal
                                  millions)         millions)
 Component 1 - Provide
Universal Access to a Basic
                                    269.00            278.07        103.4%
Package of Primary Health
Care (PHC) Services:
1.1 - Implement Governorate
                                     20.50             45.00         219.5%
PHC Insurance System
1.2 - Improve Quality and
Efficiency of PHC Delivery          227.20            186.11         81.9%
System
1.3 - Improve Public Health
                                     21.30             43.56         204.5%
Programs.
1.4 ­ Avian Influenza                  -                 3.35         n.a.
1.5 ­ Enrolment of the
uninsured and payment of the
                                       -                 0.05         n.a.
registration fees and co-
payments
 Component 2 ­ Reform of
the Health Insurance                 38.10               5.13        13.5%
Organization (HIO)
2.1 ­ HIO Management
                                       n.a.              3.92         n.a.
Information Systems
2.2 ­ HIO capacity building            n.a.              0.83         n.a.
2.3 ­ Upgrading HIO training
                                       n.a.              0.38         n.a.
centers
Component 3 ­ Project
                                       n.a.            18.88          n.a.
Management
Total Baseline Costs                307.10            302.08         98.4%
Physical Contingencies               22.30               0.00         0.00
Price Contingencies                  57.60               0.00         0.00
Total Project Costs /
                                    387.00            302.08         78.1%
Financing Required
Source: MOH ­ Central Administration of Technical Support (TSO)




                                       33
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing (continued)

(b) Financing
                                                                  Actual /
                                                Appraisal
                                                                   Latest
                                     Type of Co Estimate                     Percentage
         Source of Funds                                          Estimate
                                      financing  (USD                       of Appraisal
                                                                   (USD
                                                millions)
                                                                  millions)
Borrower (GOE)                                    97.00            21.89*      22.6%
US: Agency for International
                                   Parallel       80.00      16.38**             20.5%
Development (USAID)
EC: European Commission            Parallel      120.00     151.27***            126.1%
AfDB ­ African Development
                                   Parallel         -         17.85                n.a.
Bank
IDA - International Development
                                                  90.00       94.69              105.2%
Association (IDA)
TOTAL                                            387.00       302.08             78.1%
Source: MOH ­ Central Administration of Technical Support (TSO)

* The contribution of the Borrower includes expenditures paid at the central level for
technical support, but does not include expenditures that have been paid at the
Governorate level (El Dewan El Aam, El Modiria, Districts, Health Districts).

** The above-mentioned figures on the contributions of Co Financiers are the amounts
that TSO has entered into the project accounts as having been used to finance the project.
These amounts may be quite different from the Co Financiers records of their
contributions. For example, USAID estimates that its financing of the health sector
reform in the form of grant funds totaled US$102.6 million. This is due to the fact that, in
project documents, the delineation between the "Project" (the first five-year phase of a
comprehensive health sector reform program) financed by the IDA Credit and some Co
Financiers and the larger "Program" is not very clear.

*** The contribution of the European Commission (EC) does not include about US$21
millions that have been allocated for technical assistance, supervision, evaluation and
auditing that have been spent directly by the European Commission.




                                            34
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing (continued)
(c) Details of financing of project costs by components

Component                                                     Financiers
                                   Total     GOE         EC     AfDB USAID       IDA
                                                        In US$ Million
Component 1 ­ Provide
universal access to a basic
package of Primary Health
Care (PHC) services
1.1 ­ Implement Governorate
PHC insurance system               45.00          -     37.98      -       -     7.02
1.2 ­ Improve quality and
efficiency of PHC delivery         186.11    16.40      72.74    13.67   11.39   71.91
system
1.3 ­ Improve public health
programs                           43.56         0.79   33.80    2.28    2.20    4.49
1.4 ­ Avian Influenza               3.35           -      -      0.25      -     3.10
1.5 ­ Enrolment of the uninsured
and payment of the registration     0.05          -       -        -       -     0.05
fees and co-payment
Sub-total Component 1              278.07    17.19      144.52   16.20   13.59   86.57

Component 2 ­ Reform of the
Health Insurance Organization
(HIO)
2.1 HIO Management
Information Systems                 3.92          -       -        -       -     3.92
2.2 ­ HIO Capacity Building         0.83          -       -        -       -     0.83
2.3 ­ Upgrade HIO Training
Centers                             0.38          -       -        -       -     0.38
Sub-total Component 2               5.13          -       -        -       -     5.13

Component 3 ­ Project
Management                         18.88         4.70    6.75    1.65    2.79    2.99

TOTAL                              302.08    21.89      151.27   17.85   16.38   94.69

Percentage                        100% 7.2%         50.1    5.9%         5.4%    31.4%
Source: MOH ­ Central Administration of Technical Support (TSO)




                                            35
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

1. According to the PAD, the HSRP financed by the IDA Credit would assist the GOE in
implementing Phase I of Egypt's Comprehensive Health Sector Reform Program.

2. According to the PAD, under Component 1, Phase I of the HSRP would phase in
universal coverage for a basic benefit package (BBP) of primary health care and public
health services. The BBP would consist largely of cost-effective primary health care
services as well as necessary emergency and basic curative care services12.
Concomitantly, organization and management of broad-based MOH public health
programs, which are either included in the primary health care BBP or provide the
requisite complementary services to the BBP, would also be reformed. The project would
assist the GOE to refine the BBP, establish the public insurance entity to finance it,
ensure access to, and contracting mechanisms to pay for delivery of the BBP, and
undertake needed reforms in the organization and management of complementary public
health services in the pilot Governorates as well as nationally. Governorate level
insurance entities would be established and made operational. This would include
training staff, setting up all insurance functions (e.g., revenue collection, enrollment,
distributing health cards, contracting with medical care providers, claims processing,
monitoring quality, etc.), purchasing necessary equipment, and constructing or renovating
appropriate office facilities. According to the PAD, branches or new subsidiaries of the
HIO would serve as the insuring entities for the primary health care BBP. Financing
would be separated from the provision of services. The project would also assist in the
reorganization, restructuring, and rationalization of the primary care delivery systems in
the pilot Governorates so that both the financing and delivery of primary health care are
assured. The component would finance technical assistance, training, equipment and
facilities needed to begin phasing in universal insurance coverage for the BBP in the pilot
Governorates.

3. According to the PAD, Component 2 would reform the Health Insurance Organization
(HIO) to adapt its existing institutional structure to provide the primary care benefit
package in the pilot Governorates, as well as to prepare it for its transition to the National
Health Insurance Fund (NHIF) in the later phases of the reform. The component would
support enhancing management capacity, implementation of MIS, development of
incentive-based contracting mechanisms, putting HIO's currently insured population on a
sound actuarial basis, development of automated claims processing and enrollment
systems, and other measures. The component would finance technical assistance,
training, equipment, and construction needed to achieve the actuarial and functional
reforms at HIO which will enable it to administer nationwide implementation of the

12
   The bulk of curative care services would continue to be provided through MOHP, HIO, CCO and
Teaching Hospital facilities outside the basic package and new insurance mechanism. Most curative care
financing and delivery reforms, as well as major changes in the overall medical education system and
pharmaceutical sector, would take place in the reform's second phase.



                                                   36
primary health care BBP (as the NHIF) as well as its future role as the country's national
social health insurance fund.

4. This Annex 2 on outputs by component will first discuss the achievements, or lack
thereof, by component and sub-component. For each, it will then describe the outputs due
to the financing from the IDA Credit.

Component 1 ­ Provide Universal Access to a Basic Package of Primary Health
Care (PHC) Services
Original IDA allocation: US$79.7 million; actual/latest estimate: US$86.57 million

5. The first component consisted of three subcomponents to assure implementation of the
insurance mechanisms for and service delivery of the PHC BBP to the populations in the
three pilot Governorates. The three sub-components were: (1) implementing the PHC
insurance systems in the three pilot Governorates; (2) improving quality and efficiency of
PHC delivery systems; and (3) improving public health programs. EC was the main
financier for Component 1.

6. The three Governorates (Alexandria, Menoufia and Sohag) that were selected at the
beginning for implementation of the HSRP represented the three major regions in Egypt
(Urban, Lower and Upper Egypt), as each has different characteristics and constitutes a
different market. The selection within each region was based on criteria such as level and
depth of poverty; health status; concentration of women, children and other vulnerable
groups; commitment to reform; administrative capacity; existing delivery capacity;
presence of the HIO; and representativeness and replicability.

7. When the project was restructured in June 2004, the number of pilot Governorates was
reduced from three to two (Alexandria and Menoufia), and the objective of "universal
coverage" was replaced by an objective of expanding coverage to the poor population in
the Governorates.

8. The service delivery activities of the Project were successful, but the Governorate
PHC insurance system could not be implemented as planned.

Sub-component 1.1 ­ Implement Governorate PHC Insurance System
Original IDA allocation: US$16.30 million; actual/latest estimate: US$7.02 million

9. As mentioned above, the PAD indicated that branches or new subsidiaries of the HIO
would serve as the insuring entities for the primary health care BBP. This did not happen,
probably because the HIO was not an implementing agency for the Project. Instead,
Family Health Funds (FHFs) were established as insurance entities in the pilot
Governorates. The concept was that the FHFs would develop as insurance agencies that
collect and hold capitated payment from enrolled beneficiaries, and that they would
integrate funding from public and private sources and separate financing from provision
of services. However, existing laws prohibit any agency outside the HIO from collecting
premiums or capitated payments from individuals or families. The FHFs were established



                                           37
with the legal status of an account in a bank called the "Family Health Fund" for the
Health Sector Reform Program (Ministerial decree 294 of 1999). From an institutional
perspective, the FHFs are managed by the MOH; each FHF is affiliated with the
respective Governorate Health Directorate and the central FHF is fully integrated into
MOH's Central Administration of Technical Support (TSO). As such, the FHFs ended
with an awkward institutional and legal status.

10. Financing of the services under the project has remained fragmented. The bulk of the
costs of the FH providers are still covered by their mother organization s, with the role of
the FHFs limited to disbursements of provider incentives based on performance criteria.
The costs of the FHFs' administration and incentive disbursement are covered by HSRP
funds from the Ministry of Finance and donors (essentially the European commission,
which provided the equivalent of US$38 million). The costs of providing BBP services
go directly from the MOH and the HIO to their FH facilities. Also, nominal collections
from patients (visit fees or copayments) go directly from providers to the MOH or the
HIO without passing through the FHFs. In Alexandria and Menoufia, the FHFs have a
contract with HIO, so that HIO pays a capitated amount to the FHFs to cover the insured
population with BBP. For the FHUs contracted with FHF, visit fees and copayments go
from providers to FHF. The FHFs pay a fee for service to the contracted facilities, based
on performance criteria.

11. The HSRP failed to:

   ·   Consolidate financing from MOH, HIO and private sources through the FHFs
       (using the single payer approach).
   ·   Separate financing from provision of services, since the MOH and the HIO still
       pay the costs of providing the BBP directly to their facilities.
   ·   Create new sources of revenue and to channel the significant private out-of-
       pocket expenditures that individuals pay for ambulatory care into the public
       system.

12. In summary, Governorate level insurance entities were not established and made
operational. The concept of the FHFs providing full cost PHC insurance through a
capitation payment system for members of families registered for continuous care at the
health facilities never materialized. This failure is probably due to the fact that the whole
project was under the umbrella of the MOH, instead of including the HIO as well as
implementing agency for the part of the project dealing with insurance.

IDA Financing (actual/latest estimate: US$7.02 million)

13. To support the establishment and operation of the FHFs, the IDA Credit financed the
development and deployment of the Clinical Information System (FHF-CIS) and the
Family Health Fund Information System (FHF-MIS) software applications. The IDA
Credit financed consulting services, training and IT equipment; the bulk of the money
was spent on the FHF-CIS. The development of the CIS and FHF applications was in two
phases, and to date the CIS has been installed in 73 family health facilities in Alexandria


                                             38
and in 102 facilities in Menoufia. Several versions had to be installed to try to correct
many system errors. The latest CIS version (9.4) was delivered in early November 2008
and was installed in the facilities in Alexandria and Menoufia. This version has resolved
most of the minor reported system errors; however, it did not address the major problems
reported by users which are affecting the core functionality of the system and impeding
the operational capacity of the CIS modules. Most of the facilities are not running all of
the CIS modules. The majority of users are not relying on the system due to problems in
the development and implementation of the business rules of the financial modules and in
most of the lookup tables of the systems (particularly problems with pharmaceuticals and
identification of poor and uninsured). At project closing, a final version of the CIS was
being developed under the supervision of the Ministry of Communication and
Information Technology (MCIT). The MOH (the end-user and owner of business rules)
and the MCIT (the contract manager and provider of IT technical assistance) must reach a
management agreement through which both ministries can contribute in their capacity to
manage CIS repeated problems, and assume ownership of the system by the MOH. It is
also important to establish, within the National Information Center for Health (NICH), an
appropriate permanent unit with managerial and technical capacity to take over the
management of the CIS after the MCIT hands it over to the MOH. Such unit shall have
the mandate of continuously upgrading the system, linking it with the Family Health
Funds and later with the Social Health Insurance system, expanding the deployment of
the system in other governorates and providing users with technical assistance.

Sub-component 1.2 ­ Improve Quality and Efficiency of PHC Delivery System
Original IDA allocation: US$60.30 million; actual/latest estimate: US$71.91 million

15. The service delivery component of the project has been implemented with success.
The primary health care delivery system in the pilot Governorates was restructured and
rationalized, together with the introduction of two major innovations in service delivery:
the family health model and the performance-based incentive system.
16. Rationalization of health infrastructure investment was introduced based on Master
Plans that targeted the gaps in population coverage in the pilot Governorates. Preparation
of the Master Plans was financed by a Trust Fund administered by the Bank (Alexandria)
and by the IDA Credit (Menoufia and Sohag). Master Plans utilized a socioeconomic
vulnerability index13 to target the most vulnerable (poorest and lower middle quartiles)
populations in each of the three governorates. Needs were assessed at the district level,
then district health plans were consolidated into governorate Master Plans. Rehabilitation,
extension and construction of health facilities were undertaken based on the health needs
of the poor population in the catchment areas, thus improving access, efficiency and
equity in service provision. Based on the Master Plans, new facilities were established
and existing facilities were rehabilitated and re-equipped. The facility infrastructure at the


13
  The social vulnerability index used eight socioeconomic indicators: illiteracy ratio, unemployment ratio,
income dependency ratio, inaccessibility to electricity, inaccessibility to potable water, average family size,
household crowding factor and the population size of the village.



                                                      39
district level (including MOH, HIO and participating private sector providers14) was
consolidated into three types of facilities, namely, family health units (FHU), family
health centers (FHC) and district hospitals. A total of 1,103 FH clinics (411 in Alexandria
and 692 in Menoufia) were constructed/renovated in compliance with the Governorate
health plans. Under-utilized facilities should have been closed but, since this was not easy
from a political point of view, in practice very few were closed.

17. Staffing levels and patterns in the facilities were revised against the Master Plans.
Imbalances in human resources were addressed, and new health manpower needs were
met through the MOH or the HIO. Staffs (physicians, nurses and other primary care
personnel) were trained. Physicians were trained in Family Medicine so that the family
physician, assisted by a community nurse and a social worker, would provide services in
the BBP to a specific family roster and act as the gatekeeper of the system. In addition,
facility directors received some basic training in accounting, human resource
management, continuous quality improvement and medical records.

18. Essential drug lists were developed and implemented.

19. New facility management systems (medical record system, provider payment systems
and information systems) that support efficient operations were implemented with
varying degrees of success. Family-based medical records and patient tracking systems
were introduced, and FH facilities started collecting some performance indicators (e.g.,
number of visits per physician, waiting time, etc.) from medical records and encounter
forms on a regular basis. An appointment system was established to reduce unnecessary
waiting time for patients. However, as mentioned above, implementation of the Clinic
Information System (CIS) at the Family Health (FH) facility level was not satisfactory.

20. Attempts were made to develop an organized referral system that starts at the FHU
level, where family doctors refer patients for investigations or specialists at the FHC, and
to the district hospital for more specialized care. A structured system for referrals was
institutionalized in Menoufia through the Ministerial Decree 231; this is a high
rationalization of secondary care services.

21. Quality of care and appropriateness of clinical practices were supported through a
facility accreditation process. All facilities went through an accreditation process
established by the MOH Quality Improvement (QI) Directorate. The QI Directorate
published and disseminated a set of clinical practice guidelines for all components of the
BBP, which were used for training of providers at the sites.
22. According to the Egypt's Health Sector Reform and Financing Review of February
2004, two major innovations in service delivery were introduced:
      ·    The Family Health Model was adopted for the first time in Egypt. The Family
           Health Model is a consolidated Beneficiary-Centered care model, dealing with

14
     However, private sector participation has been insignificant.




                                                       40
       Family within the context of community as the focus of high quality service
       delivery through a qualified Family Physician as a "gatekeeper" who deals with
       80 percent-90 percent of cases providing a BBP including special services for
       vulnerable groups. Family Health facilities should be accredited before
       contracting with the FHF on the basis of performance-based payments. The FHF
       provides service accessibility to the poor population counteracting the cost-
       sharing financial barrier. Implementation of the Family Health Model follows a
       step-wise approach through (i) Infrastructure Development, including prototype
       building and prototype medical and non-medical equipment list to fulfill the BBP
       requirements, (ii) Human Resource Development, including: Staff Pattern, Job
       Description and Training Programs and (iii) implementation of standard operating
       systems as Standard Practice Guidelines, Essential Drug List, Family Folders,
       Clinical Information System and Referral System. Integrated services were
       provided under the same roof for the entire family, requiring less time and
       transportation and offering better quality of care. Both physicians and patients
       valued the concept of continuity of care (being seen by the same FH physician
       and having a single medical record). A Family Health Model implementation
       manual was developed under the reform; MOH now has standards for buildings
       and equipment. The introduction of the family health practice, a specialty that is
       new to Egypt, can in the long run rectify the surplus of specialist physicians and
       support a more holistic and integrated approach to patient care. The fact that the
       family health model is now being implemented in the whole country is the
       greatest achievement of the HSRP.
   ·   Performance-based incentive systems were also adopted for the first time in
       Egypt. Incentives were tied to institutional factors (e.g., attainment of
       accreditation status, enrollment levels and patient satisfaction). Incentives of up to
       250 percent of base salary were then distributed to employees based on job type,
       years of experience, academic qualifications and on-the-job performance. They
       succeeded in increasing provider accountability to quality standards and reform
       goals. The project thus demonstrated that health provider behavior can be
       favorably modified to serve national health sector goals. This experiment was
       limited to public (MOH and HIO) providers. Subsequently, the performance-
       based incentive systems were replaced in September 2008 by a new mechanism of
       fees for services.

23. The service delivery component of the HSRP has succeeded in increasing patient
satisfaction and demand for PHC services (although the introduction of fees and
copayments put a brake on demand) by utilizing a holistic family health approach to
patient care. It should also have increased provider satisfaction and productivity, but this
is not the case; the average number of daily encounters per physician shows a downward
trend and, at project closing, represented only 50 percent of the end of project target. An
explanation is that family physicians work mainly on curative and emergency visits
which constitute only about 55 percent of facility utilization. In any event, recently MOH
revised the standard roster of family physicians and changed it from 500 families per
physician to 1,000/1,200 families per physician.



                                            41
IDA Financing (actual/latest estimate: US$71.91 million)

24. The IDA Credit financed the geographic information GIS; the Master Plans for two
Governorates (Menoufia and Sohag); consulting services, civil work contracts, and
purchase of equipment for the health facilities constructed/renovated in Alexandria and
Menoufia; and small amounts for consulting services and training.

25. The development of the governorate Master Plans took longer than planned, which
led to delays in the initiation of civil works contracts associated with the upgrading of the
PHC infrastructure facilities. Construction and rehabilitation activities also faced long
delays for several reasons. The most important reason is the instability in the prices of
construction materials that followed the January 2003 liberalization of the Egyptian
Pound against foreign currencies; the value of the US dollar went up from 2.6 EGP to
about 5.0 EGP. Many contractors who had signed fixed price contracts in Egyptian
pounds before the liberalization could not complete the on-going works without contract
price adjustments. Also, most contractors were very cautious about bidding for new
works because the prices of construction materials continued to increase through
2004/2006. Other reasons were problems with land acquisition and disputes, utilities
(electricity, water and sewage) and demolishing permits for old health facilities.

26. The IDA Credit financed 117 health facilities (49 in Alexandria and 68 in Menoufia)
that were constructed/renovated in compliance with the Governorate health plans. All
these 117 facilities have been furnished, equipped and staffed, and are operational.

Sub-component 1.3 ­ Improve Public Health Programs
Original IDA allocation: US$3.10 million; actual/latest estimate: US$4.49 million

27. The sub-component strengthened the National Communicable Disease Surveillance
System at the Central, Governorate and District levels.

IDA Financing (actual/latest estimate: US$4.49 million)

28. The IDA Credit financed equipment and furniture for MOH laboratories, training
activities and participation in various workshops.

Sub-component 1.4 ­ Avian Flu
Original IDA allocation: US$0.00 million; actual/latest estimate: US$3.10 million

29. This sub-component was added in May 2006 in response to a government request to
utilize some savings to address the avian influenza crisis. The allocation out of the IDA
Credit was US$3.10 million which have been fully disbursed. This IDA financing was in
addition to resources from a global trust fund on Avian Influenza administered by the
Bank. The AfDB also provided US$0.25 million for this sub-component.

30. As of January 2009, Egypt had identified 53 human cases of Avian Influenza of
which 23 cases ended in death. Egypt is considered a high risk country given antiquated



                                             42
farm behaviors and the large number of people raising poultry in their homes. If the
disease moves to an epidemic stage, it would have a large impact on the economy and
movement of people and commerce.

IDA Financing (actual/latest estimate: US$3.10 million)

31. The IDA Credit financed equipment and supplies, consulting services, workshops and
training activities to strengthen the disease surveillance system and the public health
response, in order to minimize the threat posed by the virus to humans and poultry in the
country.

Sub-component 1.5 ­ Enrolment of the poor and uninsured and payment of the
registration fees and co-payments.
Original IDA allocation: US$0.00 million; actual/latest estimate: US$0.05 million

32. This component was added in January 2008 through an amendment of the DCA in
order to improve the performance of the Project by linking disbursements to actual
enrolment in the Family Health Funds (FHFs) and utilization of services by the poor and
uninsured.

33. While the project was successful in rationalizing primary health care services,
improving access and expanding health coverage to the general population, the required
payment of registration fees turned out to be a key financial constraint in increasing the
enrollment of the poor and the uninsured population. The Government aimed to raise the
ceiling on the number of exempted poor requested assistance to finance the
corresponding registration fees and co-payments through the project. In order to address
this issue, in September 2007, the Bank approved an extension of the project for 18
months to develop appropriately targeted exemption of registration fees payments and
health services co-payments for the poor and uninsured population enrolled in the
existing Family Health Funds (FHF) in the two pilot governorates of Alexandria and
Menoufia. This extension provided an opportunity to improve the beneficiary enrollment
scheme and to refine the adopted exemptions scheme as well, in collaboration with the
Ministry of Social Solidarity (MOSS).

34. In January 2008, the HSRP Credit Agreement was also amended to introduce a
Performance-Based Financing arrangement to improve the performance of the project by
linking disbursement to actual enrollment and utilization of services by the poor and
uninsured in the FHF. Accordingly, a new Project Operations Manual was prepared,
establishing the detailed rules and procedures for the enrollment and exemption of target
groups, in collaboration with the Ministry of Social Solidarity (MOSS), and for the
verification of the process by independent auditors. Performance agreements and health
services provision contracts between the different parties (MOH, FHF and Health
Services Providers) were finalized. The MOH contracted the Center of Social and
Criminal Research to develop a social targeting mechanism in the two pilot governorates
under the supervision of the MOSS. However, this performance-based financing
arrangement was introduced late in the project cycle. It was discontinued when only



                                           43
US$0.05 million were disbursed for this sub-component. The Government agreed to
finance registration fees for the poor through general revenues.

IDA Financing (actual/latest estimate: US$0.05 million)

35. The IDA Credit financed a survey to identify the poor population in Alexandria and
Menoufia. The survey was carried out by the National Center for Social and Criminal
Researches.

Component 2 ­ Reform of the Health Insurance Organization (HIO)
Original IDA allocation: US$10.3 million; actual/latest estimate: US$ 5.13 million

36. Component 2 did not achieve its original objective of reforming the HIO to adapt its
existing institutional structure to provide the primary care benefit package in the three
pilot Governorates, as well as to prepare it for its transition to the National Health
Insurance Fund (NHIF) in the later phases of the reform. The component was financed
exclusively by the IDA Credit, and only half of the original IDA allocation was spent.
The component consisted of three sub-components: (1) improving the HIO MIS; (2) HIO
capacity building; and (3) upgrading HIO training centers.

Sub-component 2.1 ­ HIO Management Information System (MIS).
Original IDA allocation: n.a.; actual/latest estimate: US$3.92 million

37. The HIO-MIS that was designed, installed and used extensively in the 1990s was
becoming obsolete. It was increasingly difficult and costly to maintain, and it was in great
danger of collapsing. To deal with this situation, a two track approach was adopted:

   ·   Track 1 ­ A short-term track to keep the existing HIO-MIS from collapsing by
       modernizing the oldest, and most failure-prone hardware parts. The
       implementation of track 1 improved the maintainability, speed and reliability of
       the overall system and its equipment.
   ·   Track 2 ­ A longer-term track to enhance and add functionality to the system. It
       was intended to develop the next generation of HIO-MIS that will be able to deal
       with the complexities of insurance coverage in the future. From a technical point
       of view, it involved a shift to modern client-server (PC-based) technology and
       adds internet and other modern communication and network technologies. Track
       2 was organized into two phases: (i) to provide the overall system studies and
       specifications, and (ii) to implement the solution. Although IT equipment was
       delivered to the HIO and installed in sites, track 2 was not implemented
       successfully; hence, the need for additional interventions and financing under the
       recently approved Health Insurance Systems Development Project (HISDP).


IDA Financing (actual/latest estimate: US$3.92 million)




                                            44
38. The IDA Credit financed IT equipment; renovation of HIO units, and furniture and
office equipment; and operational supplies.

Sub-component 2.2 ­ HIO Capacity Building
Original IDA allocation: n.a.; actual/latest estimate: US$0.83 million

39. The sub-component included two major training activities implemented by the
National Training Institute (NTI): the capacity building program (CBP) and the WBI
Flagship Program.

40. The CBP was designed to bring senior and middle managers of the HIO to the
framework of the HSRP and build capacity for change. It included 12 workshops for
about 600 managers followed by a "core Program" of six intensive management and
leadership development programs for the promising 300 motivated mangers who are
likely to play key roles in the process of change. Results have been extremely
encouraging with the majority of participants motivated to continue through the core
programs.

41. In partnership with the National Training Institute, the World Bank Institute (WBI)
Flagship Program on Health Sector Reform and Sustainable Financing 15included the
delivery of seven training courses with 280 participants and two senior policy seminars
with 100 participants. The aim was to build a constituency of health care managers and
decision-makers in Egypt, who share common understanding of the challenge and
paradigms of health sector reform, and appreciate the advantages and disadvantages of
different reform options.

IDA Financing (actual/latest estimate: US$0.83 million)

42. The IDA Credit financed the CBP and the Flagship program.

Sub-component 2.3 ­ Upgrade HIO Training Centers
Original IDA allocation: n.a.; actual/latest estimate: US$0.38 million



15
   The principal goal of the Flagship Program of the World Bank Institute (WBI) is to provide intensive,
state-of-the-art knowledge and training on options for health sector development, including lessons learned
and best practices from country experience. The overall course aims to complement Bank lending with
learning by developing national capacities to: (i) better appreciate options for improving the performance of
national health systems with emphasis on improving the health of the poor; (ii) better appreciate inter-
sectoral issues that impact on health system performance and reproductive health; (iii) empower Bank
client countries to implement policies and programs that will render their national health systems more
equitable, efficient, qualitative and financially sustainable; and (iv) strengthen the capacities of national
institutions and networks of professionals in Bank client countries and regions so they can take the lead in
designing, implementing and sustaining programs that aim to improve performance of the health system.
The program is widely offered at regional level through regional partner institutions as well as through
customization at the country level.




                                                     45
43. The target was to upgrade, equip and operationalize 11 HIO training centers. This
target was completely achieved in 2006.

IDA Financing (actual/latest estimate: US$0.38 million)

44. The IDA Credit financed training center rehabilitation; furniture and office
equipment; and IT equipment.

Component 3 ­ Project Management
Original IDA allocation: US$ 0.00 million; actual/latest estimate: US$ 2.99 million

45. This component 3 was not included in the original project documents (PAD and
DCA). It was added in the early years of the project. The DCA should have been
amended, but there no indication that this was done. The component was financed by
GOE, EC, AfDB and USAID, in addition to IDA.

IDA Financing (actual/latest estimate: US$2.99 million)

46. The IDA Credit financed the construction of TST offices; equipment for the TSO and
TST offices; staff of the TSO engineering unit; TSO Monitoring and Evaluation;
operating costs (bank charges); and external financial audits.




                                           46
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
(including assumptions in the analysis)

1. As shown in Annexes 1 and 2 of the ICR, three-quarters of the IDA Credit16 were used
to finance the construction/rehabilitation, equipping and furnishing of health facilities. In
the HSRP, the preparation of Master Plans (MP) was used as a basis for rationalizing
health infrastructure investment and the design of FHUs and FHCs financed by the IDA
Credit. Because the MOH used the services of different international and national
consulting firms that led to different interpretations in applying these standards and
guidelines in the pilot governorates, there were some deviations from the MPs. As a
result, in some places family health facilities were spacious and of higher standards, and
in other places some were sub standards.

2. The National Standards and Guidelines which were prepared in parallel with the
Master Plan of Alexandria Governorate identified 4 levels for the family health units
(FHU 1, 2, 3, 4) and family health center (FHC), the number of family health clinics for
each level and the minimum net area required for the physical spaces of the health
facilities. The deviations in the net area of the health facilities are presented in the tables
below for Alexandria and Menoufia Governorates and summarized in the two charts that
follow the tables.

3. For Alexandria health facilities, 34 out of 49 complies with the minimum requirements
with a deviation of less than 30 percent and only 4 out of 49 showed non-compliance
with a deviation of more than 50 percent.

4. For Menoufia health facilities, 65 out of 68 complies with the minimum requirements
with a deviation of less than 30 percent and no facilities showed non-compliance with a
deviation of more than 50 percent.

5. After the implementation of the FHM in the remodeled facilities and the calculation of
the utilization rates of the population in the catchments area of the health facilities, an
updated version of the National Standards and Guidelines of health planning for service
delivery of the Family Health Model (FHM) was agreed upon between the MOH and the
World Bank team. The new standardized model is a modified FHU 2 (with two family
health clinics). The revised standards and guidelines were integrated within the
accreditation and licensing system of family health facilities.

6. The conclusion is that the construction/rehabilitation carried out for the 117 health
facilities financed by the IDA Credit served a very useful purpose to determine the most
cost effective design for the 2,500 facilities to be renovated and equipped by the end of
June 2010, financed by the national budget.



16
  US$71.91 million (out of US$94.69 million) were used to finance sub-component 1.2 to improve quality
and efficiency of PHC delivery system.



                                                 47
                                   (1) Alexandria Governorate
                            Deviations in Net Area of Health Facilities

         Name of          Type of    Remodel   No. of Clinics     Net Area (m2)     Deviation
No.
          Facility        Facility    Type     MP       Actual    MP       Actual      %
 1    Amrawy             FHU4+C        N        9          9     1161       1907      64%
 2              Goan       FHU4       D&R       9          9      650        840      29%
 3    Mandara            FHU4+C       D&R       9          9     1165       1554      33%
 4    Kurdahi            FHU4+C        N        7          5     1138       2500     120%
 5    Derbala              FHU*        N        1          1      218        171     -21%
 6    Sidi Bishr
                          FHU4         N        9         9       665       793       19%
      Bahari
 7    Sidi Bishr
                          FHU4         R        9         9       665       792       19%
      Qibli
 8    Mohsen              FHU2         R        5         5       505       244       -52%
 9    Abu ­Sir            FHU1        R&E       3         3       461       430        -7%
10    Baheej              FHU1        R&E       3         3       460       337       -27%
11    Borg El Arab
                          FHU1        R&E       3         3       460       443       -4%
      El Refia
12    ElGharbaneyat       FHU1        D&R       3.        3       462       577       25%
13    El Mafrouza
      Gharb (Ebn          FHU3         N        7         7       588       796       35%
      Sahlan)
14    El Metrass
                         FHU4+C       R&E       9         9      1334      1189       -11%
      South
15    El Dekhela         FHU4+C       D&R       9         9      1333      1443       8%
16    El Zeraa el
      bahary K26
                          FHU*         N        1         1       210       296       41%
17    El Zeraa el
      bahary K21
                          FHU2         N        5         5       510       588       15%
18    Hemlees             FHU*         R        1         1       209       147       -29%
19    Karmouz             FHU2         R        5         5       505       244       -52%
20    El Mafrouza
      Gharb               FHU2         N        5         5       509       510       0%
      (Karantina)
21    El Metrass El
      werdian
                          FHU3        D&R       7         7       589       789       34%
22    El Kabary          FHU4+C       D&R       9         7      1161      1039       -11%
23    El Hawaria          FHU1        D&R       3         3       463       525        14%
24    El Nasseriah       FHU3+C        N        7         7      1244      1496        20%
25    El Wady             FHU2        R&E       5         5       507       611        21%
26    Abdel Kader         FHU2         R        5         3       506       294       -42%
27    Bangar el Sokkar    FHU3        D&R       7         7       586       705        20%
28    El Gomrok           FHU2        R&E       5         5       508       619        22%
29    Abiss 2            FHU4+C        R        9         7      1286       920       -28%
30    Danna               FHU2         N        5         5       510       694        36%
31    Bakkous            FHU4+C       R&E       9         9      2221      1830       -18%


                                               48
         Name of         Type of    Remodel    No. of Clinics       Net Area (m2)     Deviation
No.
         Facility        Facility    Type      MP       Actual      MP       Actual       %
32    Haggar Nawatia    FHU4+C        N         9          9       1289       1486      15%
33    EL Matar            FHU*        R         1          1       209        226        8%
34    El Mafrouza
      Shark
                         FHU3        D&R        7         7         588       796       35%
35    Zawyet
      AbdElKader
                         FHU4         N         9         9         665       793       19%
36    Danna El Gedida
      & Ezbet Watania
                         FHU2         N         5         5         510       694       36%
37    El Hadra Qibli  FHU3          N           7          6         587      635         8%
38    El-Seuif       FHU4+C       R&E           9          9        1206     1392        15%
39    Abiss 7         FHU3          N           7          9         713     1010        42%
40    Abiss 10        FHU2       D&R            5          5         507      611        21%
41    Orabi           FHU1          N           3          3         463      535        16%
42    El Bassra       FHU1        R&E           3          3         459      280       -39%
43    Phelistine      FHU1        R&E           3          3        462      516         12%
44    El Gazair      FHU2+C         R           5          5        1196     1147        -4%
45    El Galaa        FHU1        R&E           3          3        459      455         -1%
46    Baghdad         FHU1          N           3          3         463      535        16%
47    El Amereya      FHU4       D&R            9          7         655      792        21%
48    El Wakkad       FHU1        R&E           3          3        464      530         14%
49    Haress          FHU1       D&R            3          3         464      607        31%
      Source: MOH ­ Central Administration of Technical Support (TSO)


      N: New
      D&R: Demolish and Rebuild
      R: Remodel
      R&E: Remodel and Extension




                                              49
      (2) Menoufia Governorate: Deviations in Net Area of Health
          Facilities

         Name of        Type of    Remodel
                                                 No. of     Net Area         %
No.                                              Clinics        (m2)
         Facility       Facility    Type                                  Deviation
                                              MP Actual     MP Actual
 1    Kafr Mit Abssy     FHU1        R         3       3    459     328     -28%
 2    Samadon           FHU4+C       R         9       7   1159     998     -14%
 3    Shenoufa           FHU1       D&R        3       3    459     484      5%
 4    Estebary           FHU1       D&R        3       3    459     484      5%
 5    Qwesna Center     FHU4+C       R         9       9   1159 1447        25%
 6    Kashdoukh          FHU2        R         5       5    504     633     26%
 7    Shubra Bas         FHU4       D&R        9       4    678     671      -1%
 8    Tamalay           FHU4+C      D&R        9       4   1159     817     -29%
 9    Teta               FHU4        R         9       8    678    1008     49%
10    Menouf            FHU4+C       R         9       7   1201 1135         -5%
11    Mit Fares          FHU3       D&R        7       7    740     832     12%
12    Ashlim             FHU2       D&R        5       5    631     773     23%
13    Taha Shubra        FHU4       D&R        9       9    805     823      2%
14    Delhmo             FHU2       D&R        5       5    631     655      4%
15    Abu Rakaba         FHU3       D&R        7       7    740     901     22%
16    Baraneya           FHU3       D&R        7       7    740     893     21%
17    Farhonia           FHU4       D&R        9       9    805     822      2%
18    El-Anjab           FHU2       D&R        5       5    631     655      4%
19    El-Khor            FHU2       D&R        5       5    631     700     11%
20    Ramlet El-Anjab    FHU2       D&R        5       5    631     655      4%
21    Kafr El-Hema       FHU4       D&R        9       9    805     822      2%
22    Ashmon Center     FHU4+C      D&R        9       9   1286 1628        27%
23    Manial Deweb       FHU1       D&R        3       3    586     691     18%
24    Shoshay            FHU2       D&R        5       5    631     655      4%
25    Koros              FHU4       D&R        9       9    805     822      2%
26    Abu Nishaba        FHU1       D&R        3       3    586     649     11%
27    El-Salam           FHU2       D&R        5       5    631     763     21%
28    Abshish            FHU2       D&R        5       5    631     718     14%
29    Abu Snita          FHU1       D&R        3       3    586     649     11%
30    Bahnay             FHU2       D&R        5       5    631     700     11%
31    Bir Shams          FHU2       D&R        5       5    631     655      4%
32    Mit Wasta          FHU3       D&R        7       7    744     893     20%
33    Bemem             FHU2+C      R&E        5       5   1112 1307        18%
34    Kamayesa           FHU2       D&R        5       5    631     662      5%
35    Al-Eraqia          FHU3       D&R        7       7    740     901     22%
36    Kafr Denshawy      FHU2       D&R        5       5    631     718     14%
37    Danasour           FHU2       D&R        5       5    631     700     11%
38    Sersemos           FHU1       D&R        3       3    586     649     11%


                                             50
         Name of         Type of    Remodel
                                                  No. of     Net Area        %
No.                                               Clinics        (m2)
         Facility        Facility    Type                                 Deviation
                                               MP Actual     MP Actual
39    Khdadba            FHU4+C      D&R        9       9   1286 1634       27%
40    Damhog              FHU2       D&R        5       5    631    718     14%
41    Kafr Sheik
      Sheata
                          FHU1       D&R           3   3    586    691      18%
42    Salamon             FHU1       D&R           3   3     586    691     18%
43    Mesherif            FHU2       D&R           5   5     631    700     11%
44    Kafr Abhanas        FHU1       D&R           3   3     586    649     11%
45    Kafr Taha Shubra    FHU2       D&R           5   5    631     700     11%
46    Kamshish            FHU3       D&R           7   7     740    901     22%
47    Kafr Bani Iran      FHU2       D&R           5   5     631    700     11%
48    Dabaiba             FHU3       D&R           7   7     740    832     13%
49    El-Remaly           FHU2       R&E           5   5     631    716     14%
50    Shanshour          FHU4+C      R&E           9   7    1286   1501     17%
51    Lebisha             FHU1       D&R           3   3     586    654     12%
52    Shama              FHU4+C      R&E           9   9    1287   1367      6%
53    Kafr Ghadra        FHU3+C      D&R           7   7    1221   1605     31%
54    Kafr Shubra
      Zenki
                          FHU1       D&R           3   3    586    610       4%
55 Mit Afifi       FHU3+C        D&R       7       7     1221      1605     31%
56 Talbant Abshish   FHU1        R&E       3       3      586       696     19%
57 Saqiet Monkady    FHU1        D&R       3       3      586       649     11%
58 Tahaway         FHU4+C        R&E       9       7     1286      1501     17%
59 Sadat Center    FHU4+C        D&R       9       9     1286      1628     27%
60 Kafr Dawood     FHU4+C        D&R       9       9     1286      1628     27%
61 Monshat Sultan    FHU4          N       9       9      805       958     19%
62 Damalik           FHU2        R&E       5       5      631       775     23%
63 Deberky           FHU3        D&R       7       7      740       893     21%
64 Hamool          FHU2+C        R&E       5       5     1112      1392     25%
65 Kafr Fisha        FHU3        D&R       7       7      740       893     21%
66 Kafr Remah        FHU1        R&E       3       3      586       688     17%
67 Bakhaty         FHU2+C        R&E       5       5     1112      1392     25%
68 KafrBelmeshet     FHU1        D&R       3       3      586       649     11%
Source: MOH ­ Central Administration of Technical Support (TSO)

N: New
D&R: Demolish and Rebuild
R: Remodel
R&E: Remodel and Extension




                                              51
                                 Alexandria Master Plan Deviation
    30



    25
                                                                                      Less
                                                                                      More


    20
          Total of 49

r
v
    15
v

y
y
v
p
h                        13
A
Ã
u
y   10
h
r
C
Ã
s
Ã



                                                      7
I    5                               6


           4
                                                                      2                             2
     0
                                                      -1             -1             -2
           -4            -3          -4

          0-10%         10-20%     20-30%           30-40%          40-50%         50-60%          >60%
     -5



    -10
           Source: MOH ­ Central Administration of Technical Support (TSO)


                                                                             % of deviation in Net Area




                                               52
                                 Menoufia Master Plan Deviation

      35

            Total of 68
      30

                          29                                                    Less
                                                                                More
      25




      20
  r
  v
  v
  
  y
  y
  v
  p
  h
  A
  Ã                                 17
  u
  y   15
  h
  r
  C
  Ã
  s
            14
  Ã
  
  
  
  I   10




       5



                                                    2
       0                  -1                                      1
            -2                      -2
                                                                       % of deviation in Net Area
           0-10%      10-20%      20-30%        30-40%        40-50%      50-60%           >60%
      -5


Source: MOH ­ Central Administration of Technical Support (TSO)




                                               53
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members
                                                                  Responsibility/
         Names                       Title                 Unit
                                                                    Specialty
Lending
George Schieber         Health Sector Manager             MNSHD   TTL
Bassam Ramadan          Senior Economist                  MNSHD   Economics
Albert Sales            Senior Health Specialist          MNSHD   TTL
Egbe Osifo              Health Specialist                 MNSHD   Health
Rekha Menon             Health Economist                  MNSHD   Economics
Atsuko Aoyama           Health Specialist                 MNSHD   Health
Eileen Sullivan         Program Assistant                 MNSHD   Operations
Mariam Claeson          Senior Public Health Specialist   MNSHD   Health
Ramesh Govindaraj       Lead Pharmaceutical Specialist    MNSHD   Pharmacy
Akiko Maeda             Health Finance Specialist         MNSHD   Health Financing
Nicole Klingen          Economist                         MNSHD   Economics
Sahar Ahmed Nasr        Economist                         MNSHD   Economics
Mahmoud Gamel El Din    Senior Procurement Specialist     MNA     Procurement
Luca Frontini           Economist                         MNSHD   Economics
Micheline Faucompré     Senior Language Staff Assistant   MNSHD   ACS

Supervision/ICR
George Schieber         Health Sector Leader              MNSHD   TTL
Bassam Ramadan          Senior Economist                  MNSHD   Economics
Mariam Claeson          Senior Public Health Specialist   MNSHD   Health
Akiko Maeda             Lead Health Specialist            MNSHD   TTL
Eileen Sullivan         Operations Analyst                MNSHD   Operations
Nicole Klingen          Health Economist                  MNSHD   Economics
Imad Saleh              Procurement Specialist             MNA    Procurement
                        Financial Management              MNAF
Robert Bou Jaoude                                                 Finance
                        Specialist                          M
Dennis Streveler        MIS Specialist                     MNA    MIS
                        Senior Implementation
Vasilios Demetriou                                         MNA    Architect
                        Specialist
Alaa Hamed              Senior Health Specialist          MNSHD TTL
Sameh El-Saharty        Senior Health Policy Specialist   MNSHD TTL
                        Senior Financial Management       MNAF
Hisham Waly                                                     Finance
                        Specialist                          M
Mohamed Yahia Ahmed     Financial Management
                                                          AFTFM Finance
Said Abd El Karim       Specialist


                                       54
Sally Abdelnabi           Temporary                       MNC03 ACS
Francisca Ayodeji Akala   Sr Public Health Spec.          MNSHD Health
Firas Raad Zaid Al-
                          Sr Health Spec.                 MNSHD Health
Hussein
Sami Ali                  Senior Operations Officer       MNSHD    TTL
Cristian C. Baeza         Lead Health Policy Specialist   LCSHD    Health
Suzy Edward Bazerghi      E T Temporary                   MNC03    ACS
                                                          LCSHS-
Gaston Mariano Blanco     Social Protection Specialist             Social protection
                                                           DPT
Nadia El Gohary           E T Temporary                   MNC03    ACS
Dina Mohamed Samir El
                          Sr Communications Officer       MNAEX Communications
Naggar
Akram Abd El-Aziz         Sr Financial Management         MNAF
                                                                   Finance
Hussein El-Shorbagi       Specialist                        M
Karim Kamil Fahim         Auditor                         IADDR    Finance
Jean-Jacques Frere        Sr Public Health Specialist     MNSHD    Health
Mahmoud Gamal El Din      Senior Operations Officer       MNSHD    Operations
Rebekka E. Grun           Economist                       MNSHD    Economics
Maged Mahmoud Hamed       Sr Environmental Spec.          MNSSD    Environment
Atter E. Hannoura         Consultant                      MNSSD
Sahar Mohamed Hegazy      Program Assistant               MNC03    ACS
Nehad Morsi Kamel         Consultant                      MNSHD
Badr Kamel                Senior Procurement Specialist   MNAPR    Procurement
Maiada Mahmoud Abdel                                      MNAF
                          Consultant                               Finance
Fatt Kassem                                                 M
                                                                   Health
John C. Langenbrunner     Lead Economist, Health          EASHD
                                                                   Economics
Rony A. Lenz              Consultant                      MNSHD
                                                          MNAF
Moez Makhlouf             Consultant                            Finance
                                                            M
                          Sr Natural Resources Mgmt.
Ayat Soliman                                              MNSSD
                          Specialist
Mario Antonio Zelaya      Consultant                      MNSSD Implementation
Luca Etter                Junior Professional Associate   MNSSP Economics
Paul Geli                 Consultant                      MNSHD ICR




                                          55
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                    Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                       USD Thousands
                                   No. of staff weeks     (including travel and
                                                             consultant costs)
Lending
  FY97                                                            144.38
  FY98                                                            293.02
  FY99                                                             14.19
  FY00                                                              0.00
                          Total:                                  451.59
Supervision/ICR
  FY97                                                              0.00
  FY98                                                              7.58
  FY99                                                            233.20
  FY00                                    61                      153.21
  FY01                                    35                       63.03
  FY02                                    33                      154.33
  FY03                                    20                      102.55
  FY04                                    23                       72.79
  FY05                                    31                      101.72
  FY06                                    32                      112.25
  FY07                                    27                      109.64
  FY08                                    20                       56.63
  FY09                                    17                        0.00

                          Total:        299                      1166.93




                                       56
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

Management and Service Quality in Primary Health Care Facilities in Alexandria
and Menoufia, at the Completion of the Health Sector Reform Project

                           Executive Summary of Survey Report

                                          Introduction

Motivation

1. The Egyptian Ministry of Health and Population (MOH) has been engaged in a
paradigm shift of health policy from a supply-side to a demand-side focus. At the center
of this is the new national health insurance program, announced in 2005, which aims to
serve as a catalyst to effect a transition from a system driven by budget inputs to a
"money follows the patient"- demand-based system. This program is also the logical next
step after the recent Health Sector Reform (1997-2005), which focused on supply-side
improvements. Meanwhile, various sources of evidence17 have suggested issues in the
quality of service and management in both reformed and non-reformed public primary
care facilities, regarding for example availability of supplies, correct payment exemptions
for the poor, and consequently, utilization through the population.
2. Holding the above two developments in perspective suggests exploring the potential
for demand-side mechanisms to improve service delivery issues. The present report
attempts to mark a first step in this direction, and: (1) to provide an objective, unbiased
assessment of the performance of primary facilities in the Alexandria and Menoufia
governorates; (2) to analyze the quality perceptions, health situation, utilization and
economic situation of households living in the catchment areas of the facilities; (3) to
examine the management processes of different institutions involved in primary care; and
(4) to understand the association of the recent Health Sector Reform Program with any
observed differences.
The Health Sector Reform Program

3. In 1997, the Government of Egypt (GoE) launched the Health Sector Reform Program
(HSRP) which addressed both the delivery and the financing of primary health services
and came to a close over 2006. The service delivery component included interventions
regarding the renewal of infrastructure and equipment; human resource development,
centered around family health training; and quality assurance, through a system of
accreditation standards and a regular inspection schedule for facilities. The financing

17
 E.g. Egyptian Service Provision Assessment 2004, Health Insurance Survey 2006, HSRP quarterly
monitoring data, HSRP Implementation Supervision Reports.



                                                57
component envisaged the re-channeling of funds from direct financing to contracted
financing through Family Health Funds (FHF) at the governorate level. The financing
component also envisaged affiliating the uninsured with a non-linear price system at the
point of delivery, requiring a one-off payment for opening a file and a co-payment for
each visit.

Methodology and Objectives of the Report

4. The present report is the preliminary results account of four types of surveys conducted
in the governorates of Alexandria and Menoufia, since July 2009, (i) a quantitative
survey of 362 primary health care facilities, both reformed and non-reformed (ii) a
quantitative survey of 5417 households (15 per facility) in their catchment area, (iii)
qualitative interviews and focus groups with a subset of these facilities and households
and (iv) qualitative institutional expert interviews. The surveys were designed in
cooperation between the TSO of the MOH and the World Bank, and are described in
more detail in Annex 1 of the Survey report.

5. The objective of this results account is threefold. It attempts to

   (i) give an overview over the performance of primary care facilities in the light of the
           objectives of the HSRP;
   (ii) account for the basic health needs of the population in the catchment areas of
           these facilities, and how these needs are met by the primary care facilities in
           our sample; and
   (iii)highlight a few avenues of promising governance initiatives, identified by
           facilities or the communities in their catchment.

                                       Main findings

The Demand for Primary Health Care

6. To assess the demand for primary health care, we examined self-reported prevalence of
illnesses and use of health care services, as well as respondents' experiences with the
health services they sought.

7. Nearly 40 percent of the sample report having been ill or injured in the past 6 months.
Those with lower levels of schooling were more likely to report having been ill or
injured. Cancer prevalence rates were low. But 5.41 percent of the sample report having
been diagnosed with diabetes. About 7.5 percent of the sample reported they have had
high blood pressure in the past 12 months.

8. In general, a very large fraction of individuals sought care when they were ill. Ninety
five percent of adults reportedly sought care when they were ill in the six months prior to
the interview.




                                              58
9. Access to healthcare appears to be no problem in terms of transport, but possibly in
terms of finance. The average travel time to the main health facilities visited was slightly
less than one hour. However, 33 percent of non-users said there were occasions when
money kept them from going to see a doctor or visit a health care facility. Only 50
percent of household heads reported that they have health insurance. 43 percent reported
that they were registered in the Family Health Model, although the fraction enrolled was
considerably lower in Alexandria than in Menoufia. When comparing utilization with
insurance status, it does not appear that a lack of health insurance is the driving factor in
determining whether people use care.

10. The most common providers of care were private doctors. Among all health care
users, nearly 47 percent had seen a private doctor in the past 6 months. When people did
seek care at health facilities, reliance on medication was not frequent. On the topics of
friendliness and availability of staff, qualifications, cleanliness and comfort level of
facilities and waiting areas, and location of facilities, over 95 percent of respondents
indicated a "positive" opinion (extremely satisfied or somewhat satisfied).

The Supply of Public Primary Healthcare: Availability and Quality of Care

Availability of Non medical Infrastructure

11. Almost all (98 percent) public primary health care facilities in Alexandria and
Menoufia have access to electricity. Working phones were available in 76.2 percent of
the facilities and a water outlet is generally available in 93 percent of all facilities.

12. Only two thirds of the facilities, however, reported that water is always available.
While almost all facilities have a toilet which can be used by patients, the interviewers
found that only 30.2 percent of the observed facilities offer soap and only 3.5 percent of
the facilities offer toilet paper in their bathrooms.

13. Comparing different types of facilities shows that MOH ranks below HIO clinics in
the availability of all non-medical supplies except for overnight beds.

14. Further, within MOH facilities there is a difference between reformed and non
reformed facilities. Many of the supplies were found more regularly in reformed than in
non reformed facilities and in urban facilities compared to rural facilities. In particular,
facilities in urban areas tend to have better infrastructure when it comes to working
phones (88.2 versus 78.6 percent of facilities are reachable by phone), water availability
(88.1 versus 56.6 percent of facilities) and waiting areas for patients (97.6 versus 88.9
percent of facilities).

Availability of medical infrastructure

15. Many facilities lack basic supplies to conduct Diabetes Mellitus treatment. Overall,
only 31.2 percent of all facilities in Alexandria and Menoufia possess a working ECG,
40.5 percent a machine to measure blood pressure ad hoc, 48.4 percent could find a



                                             59
working reflex hammer, 30.6 percent have insulin ampoules on stock, and 34.8 percent
have a minimum of 5 2 or 3ml disposable syringes. The numbers are similarly low, or
even lower, for aides to educate patients, such as MOH guidelines (observed in 33
percent of all facilities) or leaflets for patients (15.3 percent) and other visual aids for
teaching patients (7.8 percent). Almost all supplies for Diabetes Mellitus treatment are
more likely to be found in reformed facilities than in non reformed facilities.

16. Supplies specifically needed for CHD/hypertension treatment can only be found in
very few facilities; only 4.1 percent of the facilities had fibrates, 2.4 percent statins and
23.3 percent blood thinning medication. While still on an overall low level, the
availability of supplies for CHD/hypertension treatment is significantly higher in
accredited facilities as compared to non-accredited facilities, as well as in reformed
facilities compared to non-reformed ones. There is no significant difference in the
availability of supplies for CHD/hypertension treatment between facilities in Alexandria
and Menoufia or between urban and rural facilities.

17. Almost 9 out of 10 facilities are in possession of basic measurement instruments for
treating children such as infant scale (90.1 percent of all facilities), child scale (88.4
percent) or a functioning thermometer (93.3 percent). Materials to educate mothers about
child health issues, on the other hand, could only be found in half of the facilities, or less
(34.2 percent of facilities could show to the interviewers a IMCI mother cards). Supplies
for sick child treatment are more frequently available in MOH clinics compared to HIO
clinics. Furthermore, accredited facilities are more likely to be in possession of supplies
for child health services than non accredited facilities.

18. Most of the facilities seem well equipped to conduct basic antenatal services. A table
for ANC exam could be found in 93.5 percent of all facilities. Furthermore, over two-
thirds of facilities had available supplies such as spotlight source (70.7 percent), clean
gloves (80.4 percent), safety box for needles (80.1 percent), or decontamination solution
for clinical equipment (78.3 percent).

Human Resources

Allocation of Human Resources

19. The population of Alexandria and Menoufia is served by 362 public primary health
care facilities, with most of the facilities serving a catchment area of 30,000 people or
less. The median facility has 50 health workers which each carry out ­ on average ­ 90
consultations per year. The ratio of health workers to beneficiaries is much higher in
Menoufia, with one health worker for 336 inhabitants, than in Alexandria, where there is
a health worker for 1193 inhabitants. Furthermore, there are fewer health workers per
beneficiaries in reformed facilities than in non reformed facilities and in accredited
facilities compared with non accredited facilities. Non-reformed and non-accredited
facilities tend to be smaller and are more often placed in rural areas than reformed and
accredited facilities.




                                             60
20. From the 18,253 staff working in public primary health care facilities, about 20
percent are trained medical professionals, of which approximately half are general
practitioners, and each 25 percent specialists and pharmacists. There is a difference in
composition of staff between facilities in Alexandria and Menoufia with a higher share of
specialists, and doctors in general, compared to non-medical staff in Alexandria.
Furthermore, the share of specialists is slightly higher in non-reformed facilities
compared to reformed facilities.

21. There are major differences in the socio-demographic composition of the different
categories of employees. In particular, doctors and pharmacists are much younger; less
experienced and have been at the facility they currently work in for a much shorter period
of time compared to nurses and, in particular, administrative staff. Overall, primary
health care in Alexandria and Menoufia has a very female dominated workforce; 64.8
percent of doctors and pharmacists, 72 percent of administrative staff and almost 98
percent of nurses are female. The staff working in primary health care facilities comprise
a locally recruited workforce; almost 60 percent of administrative staff, 54.6 percent of
nurses and 32.5 percent of doctors and pharmacists were born within 5 km of the facility
they work in.

Presence and Absence of Staff

22. Primary care facilities are officially available 24h. But while all offer a morning shift,
only 24 percent offer an afternoon shift and 4 percent offer a shift after 8pm.

23. The survey included three surprise visits during the morning shift to monitor staff
presence and found that 42 percent of full time staff were absent at least once, 14 percent
were absent twice or more.18 The highest presence in all three visits was observed in
administrative staff (66 percent), nurses (64 percent), social workers (64 percent), lab
technicians (62 percent), and other staff (62 percent). In the econometric analysis,
professional categories appear to explain absences to a large extent, certainly more than
any other variables that we can measure.

24. Other correlations with individual characteristics show that female staff are less
absent than men, and a higher education is consistently and significantly linked with
higher absence rates. Unless we control for professional categories, in which case
education becomes insignificant. People on term contracts show significantly lower
absence rates than people on open-ended contracts.

25. People born within 5 km of the facility are less frequently absent (64 percent present
all three visits) than those who were born further away (51 percent). A similar relation
holds for those who live near the facility. Further, staff from cities above 100k are
significantly more absent and staff in rural areas shows a better presence pattern. Staff
whose relatives visit the facility, can be found present more often (64 percent present
each time vs. 50 percent).
18
     The presence of part time staff was not included in the analysis.



                                                        61
26. Facility management, infrastructure, a cost audit system on site and positive
personnel incentives all matter for better staff presence. Staff in HIO run facilities is
most present on all three visits (73 percent, and only 8 percent absent twice or more),
while MOH or NGO management does not seem to matter for staff presence (56 percent
present all three visits). Facilities that judge the lack of major infrastructure, such as
medical equipment, clean water or electricity an important issue, also report somewhat
higher staff absences. The more a facility is making use of a cost audit system, the better
the presence record of staff. As for the consequences of performance reviews, it is
possible that positive incentives work best, with salary increases and promotions being
associated with better average presence records.

27. Facilities experience some outside quality supervision from both formal (government
supervision) and informal (mukkadem, media, mosques) institutions. Many of these have
a positive association with presence. Most facilities are regularly visited by supervisors
from the Health District, and in the case of contracted facilities, also from the Family
Health Fund. Those who are not receiving these visits show higher absences. Facilities
that cooperated with the religious institution to announce their vaccination campaign
show somewhat better staff presence than those who did not. Staff of (the very few)
facilities where local media are reportedly critical show a better presence record than
where local media is very positive or does not play a role. A relationship with or visits by
the Mukkadem show no influence. Perhaps surprisingly, the presence of, and
relationships with NGOs do not seem to be associated with the staff presence pattern, at
least not positively.

Quality of Care: Structural Observations of Doctors

28. We have obtained structural observations of diabetes mellitus, hypertension/CHD,
sick child and antenatal treatments through letting trained doctors sit in as surveyors on
actual medical consultations. During the observation, the qualified surveyor compares a
checklist with the actions actually performed by the doctor and ticks the accomplished
items.

29. The average Diabetes consultation is missing many of the elements that are part of
the ministerial FHM guidelines for Diabetes Mellitus treatment. In less than half of the
observed consultations did the doctor examine the patient for sensations or reflexes (33.9
percent of observations), examine arms and hands or feet and legs for pulsation (20.2
percent and 23.7 percent, respectively), or examine the back of the thorax with a
stethoscope (43.8 percent). Only 12.6 percent of doctors asked about the patient's
smoking habits and 36.5 percent of all consultations mentioned the need for the patient to
exercise.

30. MOH facilities have a higher rate of following guidelines of Diabetes Mellitus
treatment than facilities run by the HIO. Furthermore, providers in facilities in
Alexandria and in urban facilities have a higher rate of conducting standard procedures
for diabetes treatment than facilities in Menoufia and facilities in rural areas. When it



                                            62
comes to informing the patient about his or her illness or answering the patient's
questions, however, this observation does not hold, and indeed, providers in facilities in
Menoufia are more likely to talk about health behavior with the client than their
colleagues in Alexandria. Reformed and accredited facilities have a higher rate of
carrying out standard procedures for diabetes treatment than non reformed and not
accredited facilities.

31. When consulting and examining CHD/hypertension patients, basic procedures
appeared to be carried out to a large extent. For all components of the treatment, the
guidelines were followed at a higher rate by providers in MOH facilities compared to
HIO facilities. Furthermore, facilities in Alexandria have a significantly higher rate of
carrying out standard procedures compared to facilities in Menoufia. There is no clear
trend when comparing reformed facilities with non reformed facilities, as well as
accredited facilities with non accredited facilities.

32. The observation of antenatal treatments showed that very basic procedures are
carried out often; more advanced but essential procedures are missing in many cases.
There is no distinct difference in the performance of antenatal care between HIO and
MOH facilities, and between facilities in Alexandria and facilities in Menoufia.
Furthermore, the comparison between accredited and non-accredited units is
inconclusive.

33. Of the different examinations required by the guidelines of sick child treatment, very
few were observed across the board. The observance of most examinations and
consultations is slightly higher in MOH facilities compared to HIO facilities. When
comparing sick child consultations in Alexandria and Menoufia or in urban and rural
clinics, there are no clear differences. Most examinations are more likely conducted in
reformed than in non reformed facilities.

34. The observance of basic hygiene practices by doctors throughout the consultations is
alarming. In only 22.4 percent of all observations did the provider wash their hands with
soap and water prior to engaging with the patient. The numbers are on a similar low level
for the usage of disposable gloves and the change paper or sheet on the examination
table, at 23.1 and 19.7 percent, respectively.

Constraints to Improvement

35. In the view of facility management the three most severe constraints to improving the
quality of services at the facility level are the low motivation of staff (viewed as a
constraint by 43 percent of all managers), general lack of supplies (39 percent) and the
(non) availability of qualified staff (37.5 percent). Other important issues mentioned by
the interviewees were lack of specific equipment such as drugs (29.3 percent), and
general problems with the quality of buildings (21 percent), plumbing infrastructure (14.4
percent) and non medical supplies, i.e., furniture (13 percent).

Payments



                                           63
36. Official payments differ by type of facility. In all MOH primary facilities in Menoufia
and contracted facilities in Alexandria, patients will co-pay: 10 LE to inscribe in the
family health unit and to open a family folder, 5 LE in Alexandria and 10 LE in Menoufia
for annual renewal of the folder, 3 LE per examination, 35 percent of the medical
treatment (drugs and other therapy), and 50 percent upon repeat treatment. Home visits
are officially not part of the package provided by contracted facilities. Non-reformed
Primary Health Care Units, and HIO units do not usually charge at the point of service.
However, they apply an official fee of 10 LE per home visit.

37. Some people are officially exempt from payment at the point of service. For people
who are already insured in the HIO but seek treatment in FHU, the HIO reimburses for
treatment. Poor people, as identified through household enumeration and poverty criteria,
are supposed to be exempt from any fees in reformed units in both governorates.

38. Nearly 80 percent of the people in our sample paid something at their last doctor's
visit. The share of people charged is actually not much lower at reformed public facilities
(71-79 percent) than in private facilities (85 percent). Patients have paid on average 27
LE for just the doctor's examination at their last visit (24 LE if registered in the FHM, 18
LE at the HIO.).

39. The average de facto examination fee at public primary care units is above the
official co-payment for reformed units, ranging from 4 LE (Urban Health Unit) to 8 LE
(Rural Health Unit). Among the reformed facilities, 9 percent of FHC and 16 percent of
FHU are reported to have charged patients more than the official examination fee.

40. Many facilities charge for home visits. Out of all patients, 65 percent report having
paid extra for a home visit, i.e., exceeding the usual visit fee. The average amount per
home visit was reported substantially higher in Alexandria (45 LE) than Menoufia (19
LE), and lower (19 LE) for those registered in the FHM, vs. those not registered (35 LE).

41. The vast majority of people, 97 percent, have never heard of the payment exemption
for poor people in reformed facilities. When enrolling for the FHM, 61 percent of the
FHM enrollees report a status research into their wealth and income situation, 39 percent
did not receive any enquiry whatsoever. 77 percent of those who enrolled paid a fee, 23
percent were exempted. Out of those who enrolled in the FHM, 33 percent believed they
should have been exempted, i.e., 10 percent more than those who actually have been
exempted.

42. At their last visit to a facility, 24 percent of those registered in the FHM were
exempted. Of these, 34 percent were covered by HIO, 30 percent reported to have paid at
another visit, and 17 percent believed the service was free for everyone. Only 12 percent
believed themselves exempt due to either FHM enrollment or status research. Six percent
believe they have been exempted because they know the personnel at the facility.
Interestingly, the exemption policy appears to work better at NGO and private facilities
and rural hospitals. 84 percent of cases exempted at an NGO clinic and 81 percent



                                            64
exempted at a private doctor note FHM membership or status research as reason for
exemption.

43. 84 percent of the primary facilities in our sample report offering an exemption for the
poor, but the decision-making process on exemption differs noticeably between facilities.
The person to make the final decision for exemption is in around 40 percent of facilities
the Social Worker, 27 percent use another person, and 27 percent do not have an official
person to decide this.

Institutions of Quality Supervision and Governance

44. Over 85 percent of all facilities in Alexandria and Menoufia have a system for
determining client opinion about the facility or services. Amongst those, a suggestion box
to collect client opinion is the most frequently used instrument (67 percent) while 62
percent percent of this group of facilities carries out patient surveys. There is some
traction and follow-up after client feedback. Almost half (46.5 percent) of the facilities
that collect client information have been able to show a report that shows how they are
collecting patient information, and a bit over one-third of the 85.6 percent of the facilities
that collect client information reported they have made changes as a result of client
opinion. Accredited facilities have a higher rate of collecting feedback compared to non
accredited facilities, the same can be observed when comparing reformed with non
reformed facilities.

45. There are several informal governance institutions that can potentially influence the
facilities' work, such as media, mukkadems, religious organizations or NGOs. In many
public primary health care facilities in Alexandria and Menoufia, the town administration
is involved in one way or another with the facility. Further, more than a third of primary
care facilities appear to have a fruitful relationship with the religious institutions in their
neighborhood. 37 percent of facilities reported that the mosques and churches in their
neighborhood helped them announce their vaccination campaign, while 27 percent of
facilities knew and talked to the Imam and 22 percent were confident he mentioned the
facility in Friday prayer. Press and media, however, had rarely any relationship to the
facility. Almost two-thirds (64.4 percent) of all facilities do not have an NGO in the area
where they operate.




                                              65
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
(if any)

1. On January 21, 2010, an HSRP Stakeholders Workshop hosted by the Ministry of
Health and the World Bank was held in Cairo to discuss the preliminary results of the
report "Management and Service Quality in Primary Health Care Facilities in Alexandria
and Menoufia at the Completion of the Health Sector Reform Project". The report is an
integrated study of public primary health service delivery in the reform governorates of
Alexandria and Menoufia that were financed by the World Bank. It is based on a
quantitative survey covering all 362 primary health care facilities, as well as 5,417
households, conducted between March and December 2009. Furthermore, the study
integrated the findings of a qualitative study, comprised of a series of in-depth interviews
with providers and beneficiaries, as well as eight focus group discussions in four different
facilities.

2. The report identified eight major issues which were discussed during the workshop
with the goal to come up with suggestions and policy recommendations that address the
issues in the short, medium, and long term. The following areas were identified as major
issues regarding the quality of primary health service delivery in Alexandria and
Menoufia: (i) exemption of the poor; (ii) limited continuity of care; (iii) lack of
technicians/training to operate high tech equipment; (iv) hygiene practices; (v)
insufficient adherence to guidelines; (vi) opening hours of facilities; (vii) lack of drugs;
and (viii) competition between FHU and other facilities.

3. Exemption of the poor. The report has shown that the exemption of the poor, which is
an important part of the HSRP, is facing major bottlenecks in implementation and is
applied insufficiently. On the user side, awareness of the policy amongst the population is
very limited. In the household survey, only 3 percent of respondents have heard of the
exemption policy. On the provider side, application of the policy is very arbitrary; the
process of exempting poor people has not been streamlined and the decision-making
process is unclear. The discussion showed that there is a need for: (a) clear criteria
amongst which the poor can be identified by the facility, and subsequently exempted,
using the poverty targeting designed by the Ministry of Social Solidarity (MOSS); and
(b) outreach / awareness work to inform people about the exemption policy and the
overall process for enrolment in the Family Health Model (FHM). During the discussion,
several participants mentioned the potential to use the social worker and Reada Rifya at
the facility level more frequently to interact with the community about
exemption/insurance issues, as well as potential outreach through religious organizations
and NGOs, if applicable.

4. Limited continuity of care / high turnover of physicians. The survey found that there is
a huge gap between the age structure and years of experience of physicians and



                                            66
pharmacists compared to administrative staff and nurses in the facilities. While over half
of physicians working in primary health care facilities in Alexandria and Menoufia have
been working at their current position for less than a year, 83 percent of administrative
staff has been with the facility 10 years or more. The qualitative survey confirmed that
the turnover of physicians is very high and the problem is accelerated by the fact that
many physicians take leave from the facilities to work in the private sector. The
workshop agreed that only a long term, sustained reform of HR policies for physicians
which would include a substantial improvement in salaries and incentives for doctors
could solve this issue. However, the workshop also identified a number of short and
medium term measures: (a) improve the filing system to allow for a smooth transition
between two physicians; (b) limit the time lag between departing and arriving physicians
at the facility to allow for a structured transition; and (c) in collaboration with
universities, improve training and status of "Family Physician" by awarding the
profession the status of a specialist.

5. Training not aligned with infrastructure at facility / lack of technicians / training to
operate high tech equipment. Many facilities that have been equipped under the HSRP
have now in place equipment (e.g., x-ray machines) that cannot be operated due to a lack
of technicians/trained staff. The workshop touched on many aspects of this issue,
including the questioning of whether high tech equipment is really needed in primary
health care facilities and the potential need to review the Master Plans. Another problem
­ which is related to the lack of continuity of care mentioned above - is that the high
turnover of staff leads to a low return on investment in training for physicians as they are
likely to leave the facility within a short period after the training. Potential short term
measures that were proposed included: (a) the implementation of a HR policy where
technicians are shared between several facilities to guarantee that high tech equipment
can be used at least on certain days; and (b) the revision of training plans for family
physicians to make sure that more doctors are qualified to use high tech equipment. The
establishment of medical technical institutes in every governorate was mentioned as a
potential long term measure.

6. Inconsistent adherence to hygiene practices / standards. The report found that the lack
of observance of basic hygiene practices by doctors is alarming. In only 22.4 percent of
structural observations of client consultations did the provider wash his/her hands with
soap and water prior to engaging with the patient. The numbers are on a similarly low
level for the usage of disposable gloves and the change of paper or sheet on the
examination table, at 23.1 and 19.7 percent, respectively. As possible short term
measures, the workshop suggested: (a) awareness/advocacy campaign to remind doctors
of the importance of following basic hygiene procedures, using visual aides, ideally
located in areas where they can also be seen by the patients; and (b) the use of liquid soap
in dispensers attached to the wall, as theft of hygiene materials seems to be a major issue.

7. Insufficient and very variable adherence to guidelines for CHD and diabetes
consultations. The quality index developed in the report which measures the adherence to
guidelines for treatment of sick child, antenatal, CHD and diabetes on a scale from 0 (no
element of guidelines was observed) to 1 (all elements of guidelines were observed)



                                            67
revealed that, on average, the adherence to CHD/hypertension and diabetes guidelines
was much lower than adherence to antenatal or sick child treatment guidelines.
Furthermore, the variance within the different health issues was much higher for these
two problems. Some participants cautioned that strict adherence to guidelines may be
very costly in some cases. The workshop concluded that there is a need to (a) update the
guidelines by the MOH for CHD/hypertension and diabetes treatment. Furthermore, there
were suggestions to (b) include structural observations as part of the quality supervision
of the facilities and to link it to incentives. As a long term measure, it was suggested that
(c) guidelines taught at medical faculties in universities may be revised and improved.

8. Few facilities operate a second or third shift; staff presence is variable and
insufficient. The report has shown that there is a large discrepancy between the desired
visiting times of most beneficiaries and the opening hours of many facilities. Almost half
of the respondents stated that they prefer to visit the facility in the evening; however, only
24 percent of facilities work in the afternoon and 4 percent are available after 8pm.
Furthermore, the survey found that out of the three visits of the survey team at each
facility (at least one of them unannounced), 42 percent of full time staff were absent at
least once, and 14 percent were absent twice or more. Absence is more of an issue with
physicians compared to administrative staff or nurses. Amongst the proposed measures
for improvement were: (a) an overhaul of the opening times policy, keeping in mind that
many facilities are too small to implement a 24 hour or even multiple shift opening
policy; (b) the introduction of an "on call" system where physicians can be reached easily
by the users; and (c) re-evaluate the shift pattern currently in place and adapt opening
times to the needs of the respective community. In order to avoid absenteeism, it was
suggested that the allocation of physicians should take into account the hometown of
doctors and consider a policy where no doctor is relocated to a facility in the proximity of
their home, as absence is more of an issue with physicians working close to their
hometown.

9. Lack of medicines, in some cases, MOH essential drug list medications; procurement
of drugs considered major concern of facility managers. Only a limited number of drugs
of the already compacted essential drug list for primary care are regularly available -
many others are not available or are available only in a minority of cases, as the report
has shown. Moreover, several facility managers have mentioned that the procurement of
essential drugs is a major issue of concern. In particular, many have complained that the
quantity ordered by the facility seldom reaches the facility but that, in many cases, only a
fraction of the drugs demanded by the facility are delivered. While most of the
participants have agreed that at the core of this problem is the limited budget available to
purchase drugs, some alternative suggestions came up in the discussion: (a) close
monitoring of prescriptions and education of patients on proper drug usage could reduce
waste; and (b) updating the essential drug list, especially regarding non communicable
diseases, was proposed.

10. FHM system bypass by other MOH clinics and private clinics because of fee regime.
With the population at large confused about the fee regime at the reformed FHU, there is
a risk of bypassing of the FHM by patients that prefer using the non-reformed clinics.



                                             68
Furthermore, the bypass is also an issue on the supply side as the incentive payments by
the FHF to providers in reformed facilities have substantially been decreased, creating a
competitive advantage for non reformed facilities in attracting physicians. On the supply
side, the workshop participants agreed that a standardized incentive regime across all
MOH facilities needs to be installed. On the demand side, there is a need to: (a)
streamline the payment and fee regime across all facilities in a district; and (b)
subsequently implement a clear communication campaign to explain the fee structure to
beneficiaries and highlight the services offered at the reformed facilities.




                                           69
        2009                                                 Ministry of Health
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Administration of Technical Support
                                 Central Comments on Draft ICR




                 Health Sector Reform
                       Program
                   Implementation
                  Completion Report
                    MOH Version




                                          May


                                     70

                                                                      Last update
able
T ofContents

Project Identification Card ........................................................................................................... 72
Introduction............................................................................................................................ 73
Project Description and Development Objectives................................................................................ 73
    Donor Collaboration During Implementation of Health Reform.................................. 73
    Project Components ...................................................................................................... 74
    Benefits And Target Population.................................................................................... 75
    Project Development Objectives................................................................................... 75
Achievement Of TheProject Development Objectives......................................................................... 77
Project Components.................................................................................................................. 78
    Subcomponent 1.1 Establish Governorate Health Insurance System ........................... 79
    Subcomponent 1.2: Improve quality and efficiency of PHC delivery system.............. 80
    Subcomponent 1.3: Strengthening Public Health Programs ......................................... 80
    Subcomponent 1.4: Performance-Based Financing ...................................................... 81
    Subcomponent 2.1: HIO Management information System ......................................... 82
    Subcomponent 2.2 HIO Capacity Building ................................................................. 84
    Subcomponent 2.3 HIO Training Centers Upgraded and Operational ........................ 84
Project Performance Measures ..................................................................................................... 84
    Summary of the Project Achievement of Targets ......................................................... 85
Lessons learned and Future Recommendations.................................................................................. 85




                                                                   71
Project Identification Card

       Project Name:     Health Sector Reform Project
   Executing Agency:     MOH
    Funding Agency:      World Bank "IDA"
       Type of Fund:     Loan

   The Project Approved by the Bank     May 21, 1998
                                 on:
          The Project effective Date:   June 24, 1998
           The original closing date:   June 30,2004
                Presidential Decree:    Decree 147 in 1998
         The original credit amount:    SDR 66.8 million (US$90 million equivalent)
            The Actual closing Date:    31 march 2009

Geographical Scope of Implementation:
    Original Scope: Alexandria, Menoufia and Sohag Governorates
    Revised Scope: Alexandria and Menoufia Governorates




                                          72
Introduction

Comprehensive development and modernization of health system is one of Egypt's
priorities and pursued objectives. MOH pursued different steps for improving the quality
of health care services available for all Egyptians; adults, children, the poor and the well-
off.

HSRP has 6 Strategies and 5 Principles. The Strategies include: Institutional
Development, Infrastructure Development, Human Resource Development, Services
Provision Reform, Financing Reform and Pharmaceutical Reform. HSRP aims to
implement its strategies within the following principles: Universality, Quality, Equity,
Efficiency and Sustainability.

Given the interests of the Ministry of Health as well as the strategic importance of Egypt
in the Region (both politically and size wise), the Bank, EC, USAID, and DANIDA (D4)
were particularly interested in assisting the GOE in the development of a comprehensive
but phased reform strategy .

The HSRP was announced as a national plan by the President Hosni Moubark on
6th of July 2005. This statement provides an important policy framework for the
health sector reform.


Project Description and Development Objectives

In early 1996 the MOH initiated a reassessment of the health sector situation and
recognize a need to explore alternatives for a comprehensive reform. As a result of these
discussions, the government adopted HSRP for Egypt which lays out a framework for
undertaking a comprehensive reform of the health sector over the medium and long term .
The Funding Partners Assisting the GOE in the development of a comprehensive but
phased reform strategy which could also serve as the base to coordinate the support of all
donors

The HSRP was developed by the Government of Egypt with the assistance of the World
Bank and other donors to address underlying structural problems in the various sector
domains which collectively determine national health outcomes as well as the equity,
efficiency, quality, and long-run financial sustainability of the health sector.

Donor Collaboration During Implementation of Health Reform
      DANIDA and Bank focused on development and implementation of a needs-
      based Master Plan
      USAID focused on the service delivery model
      EC focused on training and HR
      Bank and USAID focused on MIS



                                             73
       EC and Bank focused on construction and rehab, both in Alexandria, and
       Minoufia, EC in Sohag
       The African Development Bank ultimately invested in Suez and Qena based on
       the same reform program


The WB project assists the GOE in the phased implementation of universal coverage and
primary care delivery system rationalization, beginning in three Governorates. Criteria
for selection of Governorates include: level and depth of poverty; income; health status;
concentration of women, children and other vulnerable groups; commitment to reform;
administrative capacity; existing delivery capacity; presence of the HIO in the
Governorate; presence of other donor primary care activities; and, representativeness and
replicability. The Governorates chosen by the GOE are: Alexandria, Minoufia, and
Sohag, and represent one Governorate from each of Egypt's major subdivisions (i.e.,
Urban Governorates, Lower Egypt, and Upper Egypt) excluding the sparsely populated
Frontier Governorates.

Similarly, the HIO, will be reformed to improve its efficiency of administration and
service delivery. It will also be transformed to become the future single national health
insurance entity by enhancing its role to function through new Governorate level
subsidiaries as the insurance entity administering the basic primary health care benefit
package in the three pilot Governorates (Alexandria, Menoufia and Sohag) and Later in
two additional Governorates (Qena and Suez).

The project will assist the GOE to refine the basic package, establish the public insurance
entity to finance it, ensure access to, and contracting mechanisms to pay for delivery of
the package, and undertake needed reforms in the organization and management of
complementary public health services in the pilot Governorates as well as nationally. It
will also assist in the reorganization, restructuring, and rationalization of the primary care
delivery systems in the pilot Governorates so that both the financing and delivery of
primary health care are assured (Component 1). The second component will reform the
HIO so that it can be transformed into the National Health Insurance Fund (NHIF)
(Component 2).

Project Components
PROJECT COMPONENT 1 -PROVIDE UNIVERSAL ACCESS TO A BASIC
PACKAGE OF PRIMARY HEALTH CARE (PHC) SERVICES
        This component consists of three subcomponents that will assure implementation
        of the insurance mechanisms for and service delivery of the PHC benefit package
        to the populations in the three pilot Governorates.

PROJECT COMPONENT 2 -REFORM OF HIO
     This component will finance the costs of reforming the HIO to adapt its existing
     institutional structure to provide the primary care benefit package in the three
     pilot Governorates as well as to prepare it for its transition to the National Health
     Insurance Fund (NHIF) in the later phases of the reform.



                                             74
Benefits And Target Population
       By supporting the Government's long-term comprehensive reform program, the
       project will ultimately benefit the entire population. Project design will ensure
       that in the medium term the poor will benefit morethan those who already enjoy
       adequate access to basic primary care. First, the initial stage of phasing in
       universal coverage to a basic package of primary health care services will largely
       benefit the poor, children, women and other underserved vulnerable groups.
       Second, project activities in facility rehabilitation will be predicated on a needs-
       based Master Plan emphasizing poor, underserved areas. Third, the types of
       primary care and basic public health programs to be supported disproportionately
       benefit poor groups. Finally, because the poor are less able to substitute private
       for public services, project activities which help to improve quality and
       availability of services and rationalize the payment system in public delivery will
       therefore have an immediate impact on the poor.


Project Development Objectives
The Government's long-term Health Sector Reform Program (HSRP) is intended to
improve the population's health status, ensure equity (physical and financial accessibility
for all population groups), improve the efficiency and quality of services, and promote
the system's long-run financial sustainability. The Bank project will assist the GOE in
implementing the first five-year phase of its comprehensive Reform Program.

The specific project development objectives are:
    Improve population health status and well being in three pilot Governorates
      through universal coverage to a basic package of primary health care and public
      health services.
    Improve access to, efficiency, and quality of primary health care services in three
      pilot Governorates.

With regards the Project Development Objectives (PDOs), the expansion of coverage
with the basic package of PHC and public health services in 2003, show a slow progress
in the two pilot governorates (Alexandria and Menoufia). Achieving universal coverage
was a challenge, particularly that the law proposed by Government to unify the existing
insurance laws and achieve universal coverage was not passed by the parliament.

In 2004, It was noted that changes in the project scope and its components are needed and
major progress for expanding formal health insurance coverage cannot be achieved by
June 30/2004 closing date..so there was an agreement for restructuring the project by: (i)
modifying the PDOs to ensure that the project will be completed satisfactory, (ii)
reducing the no of health facilities that need to be constructed /rehabilitated and equipped
from 151 to 127 health facilities, and (iii) reallocating funds between the different budget
categories. the Government request for extension was submitted on March-August /2004.




                                            75
There are two changes proposed to the PDOs related to the scope of health coverage,
which is meant to be "universal" in "three governorates". The suggested changes will aim
at targeting the poor population in two governorates instead of three. The cause for
change is that there have been delays in passing the universal health insurance law, and
without a new Law unifying the existing insurance laws and mandating universal
coverage, it will not be feasible to achieve the objective of universality, at least, during
the project life.

On June 2004, the WB senior management approved the request of the GOE to extend
the project by two years and restructure the project as mentioned above. To help ensure
that the revised PDOs would be achieved, credit proceeds will be reallocated from
training, most of which has been financed now by the European Commission, to civil
works and goods.
The GOE and the World Bank agreed to restructure the project by:
     Modifying the PDOs to ensure that the project will be completed satisfactorily.
     Developing a Remedial Action Plan (RAP) to accelerate implementation.

The revised PDOs, are to:
    expand health coverage with a basic package of primary health care and public
      health services to the poor population in two pilot Governorates (Alexandria and
      Menoufia Governorates)
    improve access and efficiency of primary health care services through
      rationalization of health infrastructure in two pilot Governorates.

On September 2007, the bank received a formal request from the Minister of
International Cooperation to extend the project by 18 months to:
        (i) allow for sufficient time to increase the enrollment of the poor and the
        uninsured
        (ii) establish criteria, detailed rules and procedures for enrollment and verification
        of enrollment of the target groups and to test them
        (iii) strengthen the purchasing capacity of the FHFs in Alex. and Menoufia.

The credit extension would allow the introduction of direct payment of premiums and
copayments for the poor and the uninsured population for health services using output-
based disbursement, which is intended to improve the performance of the project by
directly linking disbursement against actual enrollment of the poor in the family health
insurance program.

The project aims at allowing the HSRP to achieve its objectives in general and the PDO
in particular through pushing forward two main elements of HSRP which are the
financial reform and the institutional reform. Both elements, financial and institutional
reform, will be achieved through allowing the development of a real purchaser of health
care services within the health sector in Egypt.

In January 2008, the HSRP Credit Agreement was amended to introduce Performance-
Based Financing arrangement to improve the performance of the project by linking



                                             76
disbursement to actual enrollment and utilization of services by the poor and uninsured in
the FHF.

Accordingly, a new project operations manual was prepared establishing the detailed
rules and procedures for the enrollment and exemption of target groups in collaboration
with the Ministry of Social Solidarity (MOSS). Moreover, MOH contracted with the
Center of Social and Criminal Research to use a social targeting mechanism in both pilot
governorates and sanction of the results by MOSS.

Regarding the expansion of coverage of PHC services to the poor population in both
governorates, Alexandria and Menoufia, the project target was 825,000 poor people in
both governorates. This target was recalculated based on the assumption that 60 percent
of all the poor in both governorates would be covered by PHC services, to be in line with
the assumption - set after the project restructuring in June 2004 ­ that the project would
cover 60 percent of general population of both governorates having access to PHC
services to 321,000 poor people in Menoufia and 174,000 poor people in Alexandria, i.e.
a total of 495,000 poor people in both governorates to be covered by basic benefits
package PHC.

Achievement Of The Project Development Objectives

The MOH has made good progress in achieving the Project Development Objectives
(PDO's) in terms of:
(i) expanding health coverage with a basic benefit package of primary health care and
public health services, with a focus on the poor population in Alexandria and Menoufia
governorates (the percentage of beneficiaries covered by the primary health services has
reached 2,430,991 beneficiaries representing 112 percent of the end of project target; and
the percentage of poor beneficiaries covered by the primary health services reached
578,603 poor beneficiaries, which exceeded the end of project target by reaching 117
percent)

(ii) improving access and efficiency of primary health care (the accessibility of the
general population to primary health care has reached 2,992,238 population representing
83 percent of the end of project target, the accessibility of the poor population reached
1,883,548 which exceeded the end of project target by reaching 103 percent, and the
number of family health clinics constructed or renovated in compliance with the
governorates health plans has reached 97 percent of the end of project target).

Coverage, accessibility, and utilization of family health services by the general
population
In the two pilot Governorates, Alexandria and Menoufia, the Family Health Funds
increased the coverage with a basic package of primary health care (PHC) to 2.43 million
persons, representing 112 percent of the end of project target; i.e. those who were
registered to receive family health services. Enrollment; i.e. those who paid a registration
fee or being exempted, those who are insured, and those who renewed their subscription
after at least one year, reached 1.4 million persons, representing 65 percent of the end of



                                            77
project target. This enrollment will be increased due to the acceleration in the
accreditation of newly completed facilities. To date, 241 facilities out of a total 331
facilities in Alexandria and Menoufia were contracted by the Family Health Funds.
Moreover, the package of PHC services became physically accessible to 2.99 million
persons, representing 83 percent of the end of project target.

Coverage of the uninsured population
From those who were registered, 1.35 million were uninsured persons, representing 125
percent of the end of end project target. From these uninsured, 0.33 million remained
enrolled after one year of subscription, representing 30 percent of the end project target.
As previously noticed, almost two thirds of those who remained enrolled (0.75 million
persons representing 58 percent of those enrolled) are already insured beneficiaries of the
HIO. This confirms that HIO beneficiaries are still opting to utilize Family Health
Facilities, with the FHFs acting as purchasers on behalf of the HIO. The Alexandria FHF
is getting reimbursed by the HIO for these services. But Menoufia FHF is only partially
reimbursed by the HIO.

Coverage and accessibility of the poor
The package of services became accessible to 1.9 million persons living in poor areas,
representing 103 percent of the end of project target. The two Family Health Funds, in
collaboration with the Ministry of Social Solidarity (MOSS), have made good progress in
the identification of the poor by identifying a total of 0.57million poor persons,
representing 117 percent of the end of project target. The number of enrolled insured and
uninsured poor in the two funds is about 0.38 million poor persons, representing 77
percent of the end of project target. Moreover, out of the uninsured poor enrollees, who
are assumed to be half of the poor beneficiaries, 0.18 million persons are exempted from
paying registration fees and co-payments, representing 38 percent of the end of project
target. This means that efforts are still needed to increase the number of exempted poor in
the Family Health Funds in Alexandria and Menoufia, to receive a basic benefit package
of primary health care services.

Rationalization and efficiency of Health Services
The number of family health clinics that were constructed or renovated in compliance
with the governorates health plans has reached 1103 clinics, representing 97 percent of
the total clinics constructed or renovated. Moreover, the service utilization rate is at an
average rate of 2.3 visits/ person/ year, representing 90 percent of the end of project
target.

Project Components

The primary health care delivery system in the pilot Governorates will be restructured
and rationalized on the basis of a needs-based Master Plan. The project will support
consolidation, rehabilitation and re-equipping of the poorly functioning MOH primary
health care facilities up to the district hospital level so that the current facilities can
transition to become family health units, family health centers, and district hospitals.




                                            78
The Project has two components

Component 1.
Universal Coverage for Basic Primary Health care (PHC) Services

Subcomponent 1.1 Establish Governorate Health Insurance System

For effective and efficient delivery of the primary care benefit package". So the insurance
entities ,the FHFs, were established in the three pilots Gov. The FHF received funding
from three primary sources. The HIO contributed an annual payment of 13 LE per
insured beneficiary enrolled in a family health family unit. The ministry of finance
(MOF) has also allocated 15 million LE to the three FHFs. But only about half the MOF
amount has been made available to the FHFs. The EC is contributing about Euro 37
million. The financing of the funds is primarily intended to cover the start up costs rather
than be a continuing source for sustaining operations.

To support establishing and operating FHF, the World Bank focused on development and
deployment of Clinical Information System (FHF-CIS) and the Family Health Fund
Information System (FHF-MIS) software applications.
    1.The development of the CIS And FHF applications was planned to be implemented
    in two phases:
        (i) Phase 1 : to assess user requirements, provide technical assistance and
        international experience, prototype and finally deliver system analysis and design.
        (ii) Phase 2: to select international software development firm experienced in the
        field to develop the CIS and FHF based on the quality deliverables of Phase 1.

Summary of Current Status of the Clinical Information System
To date, the CIS has been installed in 73 family health facilities in Alexandria and in 102
facilities in Menoufia, while in the initial deployment plan the CIS was to cover a total of
311 facilities, 94 of which were in Alexandria and 217 facilities in Menoufia. These
targets have been lately reduced to 287 facilities (89 in Alexandria and 198 in Menoufia).
The installation of the IT equipments and networks in the remaining facilities has not
been completed, which means that these remaining facilities are not yet ready to run the
CIS. The latest CIS version (9.4) was delivered in early November 2008 and was
installed in the facilities in Alexandria and Menoufia. This new version has resolved most
of the minor reported system errors, however, it did not address the major problems
reported from users which are affecting the core functionality of the system and impeding
the operational capacity of the CIS modules. Most of the facilities are not running all of
the CIS modules and that the majority of the users stopped depending on the system due
to reported unsolved problems in the development and implementation of the business
rules of the financial modules and in most of the lookup tables of the systems; namely
those of the pharmaceuticals modules. A final version of the CIS is being developed,
under the supervision of the Ministry of Communication and Information Technology
(MCIT), and will be delivered in April 2009 to address the above mentioned problems.



                                            79
Subcomponent 1.2: Improve quality and efficiency of PHC delivery system
   -   As of April 30, 2005, the civil works for only 5 health facilities financed by IDA
       have been completed.
   -   The civil works activities in this project faced long delays for several reasons. The
       most important reason was due to the problems facing the construction industry
       sector in Egypt since January 2003 due to the instability in the prices of
       construction materials because of the liberation of EGP against foreign currency,
       many contractors faced financial problems for old projects and were very cautious
       to bid for new projects as the materials prices continue to increase through
       2004/2006. Other reasons such as: problems of land acquisition and disputes,
       utilities (electricity, water, and sewage), demolishing permits for old health
       facilities had also influenced the delay of civil works activities.
   -   Several important actions were taken to overcome the problems mentioned above:
       some facilities were cancelled from funding; WB agreed to finance the Prime
       Minister decree for the compensation of old civil works contracts to help the
       contractors complete the in-going projects.

   The final list of approved health facilities for WB finance for civil works is currently
   equal to (117) facilities: 49 in Alexandria and 68 in Menoufia. The detailed attached
   reports for the civil works activities shows that all facilities in Menoufia were
   completed (100 percent), and 47 facilities were completed in Alexandria (95.9
   percent).

Summary Status of operational Bank financed family health facilities
As of March 10, 2009, the civil works of 116 out of 117 health facilities, representing 99
percent of the total number of facilities financed by IDA, have been completed. The
contractual problems and issues with the contractors that were causing delays in the
completion of health facilities construction were resolved. The construction of the
remaining facility, located in Alexandria Governorate, is expected to be completed by
end of March 2009. Out of the 116 completed facilities 115 are operational, furnished and
staffed. Moreover, the MOH decision to apply the family health unit prototype in all
governorates resulted in the reduction of the quantities of medical and non-medical
equipment in the newly constructed family health facilities which lead to a surplus in the
quantities of delivered equipment. Therefore, it is recommended the MOH to prepare a
revised distribution plan to redistribute the surplus of equipment among the existing
family health facilities.

Subcomponent 1.3: Strengthening Public Health Programs

National Communicable Disease Surveillance System
The activity under this subcomponent aim at strengthening the disease diagnosis and
surveillance capacity of MOH laboratories at the central level governmental and district
level.



                                            80
Progress on Avian Flu Activities. The implementation of avian flu activities is
completed. The planned training activities have been completed and the equipment and
supplies have been delivered.

Subcomponent 1.4: Performance-Based Financing
A Performance-Based Financing arrangement had been introduced to improve the
performance of the Project by linking disbursement to actual enrollment and utilization of
services by the poor and uninsured beneficiaries in the FHF in Alexandria and Menoufia
governorates.

From October 1, 2007 till end of March 2009 the project would allow payments for
enrollment fees and co-payments for the poor and the uninsured population for health
services using outputs-based disbursement, which is intended to improve the performance
of the project by directly linking disbursement against actual enrollment of the poor in the
family health insurance program.

Identification and Enrollment of the Poor:
It was agreed that the poor identification process will be carried-out through awarding of
the contract for identification of the poor to the Center of Social and Criminal Research
to conduct the identification of the poor. This center is the key governmental body
responsible for identification of the poor nationwide and its results are used by the
Ministry of Social Solidarity (MOSS) to target social services to the poor such as social
assistance pensions.

Based on the Center's analytical report for rural Menoufia, almost 54.6 percent of the
sample examined of the poor identified by the Menoufia Family Health Fund was
confirmed to be poor or extremely poor. However, a substantial percent (30.6 percent)
of the sample was found to be near poor. Given the shallow nature of poverty in Egypt,
the MOH concluded that about 85 percent of the verified sample could be considered
extremely poor, poor, or near poor. On the basis of this conclusion, the MOH has
decided to consider the group of the identified beneficiaries in rural Menoufia by the FHF
as poor and that this group would be eligible for enrollment. This group amounting to
220,639 persons was exempted and was provided cards that allow them access to four
free visits per year in family health facilities.

Due to the delay in the identification and exemption process of the poor beneficiaries in
the Family Health Funds, which is currently progressing in collaboration with the
Ministry of Social Solidarity (MOSS), and since the Project closing date is on March 31,
2009, the World Bank concurred with the MOH request to cancel the Performance Based
Financing using the Project funds and to continue progressing in the achievement of the
enrollment, exemption and utilization of services targets for the poor by ensuring
registration and co-payments exemptions for this target group using the government
funds, in order to ensure the sustainability of the primary health care coverage for the
poor. The government had indicated its commitment to financing the premiums for the
poor, identified by the MOSS, through general revenues. It is clear how it is important to




                                            81
prepare a study on the fiscal impact of exempting the poor in Alexandria and Menoufia
and to submit to the Ministry of Finance.

Component 2:
     Reform of the Health Insurance Organization

Subcomponent 2.1: HIO Management information System
   In cooperation with USAID, the Government of Egypt built the HIO-MIS to automate
   the health services of the HIO clinics and hospitals. The system was designed in the
   early 1990's, delivered in the middle of 1990's, and used extensively in the late
   1990's. The Health Insurance Organization (HIO) has a large investment in
   Information Technology and implemented management information systems that
   support some key business areas: The health services of the HIO clinics and hospitals.
   The information services are provided through a set of information and computer
   centers organized to support the different levels: The HIO Main Information Center
   (HIO-IC), The HQ Computer Center, The Branch Computer Center, The Clinic /
   Hospital Data Processing Center, Number of automated units: 90.

   As technology changes rapidly, HIO-MIS became old and obsolete quickly. It is
   increasingly difficult and costly to maintain and to do further development. In mid
   2002 and after some years of neglect, during which no more than the basic
   maintenance operations were done to the HIO-MIS, it was estimated that system
   collapse could happen in as little as 18 months from that date. This situation was due
   to the highly obsolete hardware platform of HIO system (H/W is no longer supported
   by the original vendors). To deal with this situation, a solution of two tracks was
   adapted:

   Track 1: A short-Term Track to keep the existing HIO-MIS from collapse by
   modernizing the oldest, and most failure-prone hardware parts.
   Track 2: A Longer-Term Track to enhance and add additional functionality to the
   system. The two tracks project was discussed in details with the chairman of the HIO,
   Dr. Mustafa Abdel Aty on October 17 2002 and he agreed to proceed with the two
   tracks plan.

TRACK 1 IMPLEMANTATION

       The endpoint of Track1 efforts would yield saving the HIO-MIS from collapse,
       Operating modern servers (about 74 servers) and printers (about 370 printers) in
       all locations where the HIO-MIS system is running, Improving to some degree the
       management reporting system. But the essential work in this direction will be
       done in Track 2.
       Briefly, the implementation of Track1 improved the maintainability, speed, and
       reliability of the overall system and its equipments. One success story in track1
       was the experimentation of client-server solution at some new health locations
       (the 9 holes in ALEX and CAIRO branches) rather than the used host-based
       solution. The HIO team has changed successfully all the Oracle applications



                                           82
       interfaces to be used on PCs by QWERTY keyboard and mouse. But we would
       still be left with "host-based" system, which uses dummy terminals (about 1500
       terminals where the HIO-MIS is applied) rather than Client-Server based system.

TRACK 2 IMPLEMANTATION

       This longer-term track is suggested to develop the next generation of HIO-MIS
       that will be able to deal with the complexities of insurance coverage in the future.
       Since track 2 will take several years, It is not likely to be completed by closing
       date of the project. The basic objectives of Track II are summarized as follows:
       From a Business Standpoint: Adds much more functionality which allows HIO
       leaders to use modern financial and clinical management techniques to manage
       the HIO fund, and to assure its fiscal sustainability and viability, Aids the clinical
       locations (clinics, hospitals) to run in a much more efficient manner, Adds
       convenience to the patients, to meet the expectations of the public, Helps evaluate
       quality and aids quality managers in measuring and improving it, Adapts the HIO-
       MIS to comply with the potentially new business model for health insurance.

In Summer 2004 track 2 was organized into two Phases, Phase 1 Providing the overall
system studies and specifications. Phase 2 Implementing the solution specified in phase
1.

Phase 1: Providing the overall system studies and specifications
    This phase is to prepare the studies and specifications required for phase 2 and any
    other expected future phases and/or tracks. It aims at constructing the information
    architecture and the strategy relevant to the overall objectives and needs of the HIO
    and its 5 levels: headquarter HQ, Branches B, Stores S, Hospitals H, and Clinics C.
    The RFP has been bid locally and according to the WB instructions, and gained by
    Automation Consultants. The work of Automation Consultant has continued about
    five months. But for some reasons, Automation has been apologized about finishing
    phase 1 completely and undertaken by our local consultant.

Phase2: Implementing the solution
    Due to the new trials of implementing a new Insurance and Health care business
    model in HIO, the implementation of the solution divided into two steps: 1-
    Building the infrastructure that support the new technologies and protect the system
    from collapse. 2- Building the predefined applications that go with the new HIO
    business model and constrained by its rules. TOR prepared for the first step in lots
    and according to the WB international bidding instructions (BID# 46). A project
    manager assigned to follow up the daily work of implementation. Currently
    Procured goods for 91 clinics and branches are delivered to the HIO. equipment
    technically accepted and distributed to the sites, networks and equipment
    completely installed in sites.




                                            83
Procurement of HIO IT equipment:
    The contracts for the supply of IT equipment for HIO were awarded to the
    suppliers. The
    supply of the equipment of US $ 1.7 million is completed by the end of September
    2005.
    The installation is completed primarily handed over with comments from the
    technical committee, Vendor is currently review and fix the technical comments,
    expected to be completed at the end of September, 2007.

Subcomponent 2.2 HIO Capacity Building
The Capacity Building Programme was designed to bring the senior and middle managers
of the Health Insurance Organisation to the framework of the Health Sector Reform
Programme and evoke the interest and create momentum and build capacity for change.
The CBP was structured as two phases, the first includes 12 workshops for 600 managers
followed by 6 intensive management and leadership development programme for the
promising 300 motivated managers who are likely to play key roles in the proves of
change.
This programme has been financed by the World Bank credit and supplemented by the
European Commission where the material development was undertaken.
Participants of the HIO were intended to come from the central level (40 percent) and the
different branches (60 percent) to create a balanced training opportunity for current and
potential leaders in the system and to create a form for communication, interaction and
networking within the HIO.

The overall performance of the workshops were monitored session by session and a
monitoring and evaluation report was produced for each group. The net result is
extremely encouraging and the majority of participants were motivated to continue
through the core programmes.

World Bank Institute (WBI) Flagship Programme on Health Sector Reform and
Sustainable Financing. 7 courses were attended by 40 participants with a total number of
280 participant and additional 2 senior policy seminars attended by 50 participants with a
total number of 100 participants

Subcomponent 2.3 HIO Training Centers Upgraded and Operational
The target was to upgrade, equip and operationalize 11 HIO training centers. This target
was completely achieved in 2006

Project Performance Measures

In order to monitor and evaluate the effectiveness of the family health care model and
family health fund , a contract with a qualified international consulting firm was
approved at January 2003. The system was used to track the progress on key HSRP
outputs and outcome indicators. The ME system development was finished in August
2003. The project matrix of Key Performance Indicators was revised and updated based
on the consultant report.



                                            84
Within the scope of the World Bank Project, specific indicators were selected to measure
the performance of project as Key Performance Indicators (KPIs). These indicators were
selected to represent different areas of performance, and were classified as follows:

Summary of the Project Achievement of Targets
               Outcome / Impact Dec. Dec. Nov.               Nov.   Sep.    Sep. Mar.
 Principles
                   Indicator        2003 2004 2005           2006   2007    2008 2009
             Accessibility -
                                      *    3% 51%            62%    70%     70%    83%
             General Population
Accessibility Accessibility - Poor      *         *     *    80%    94%     94% 103%
               Clinics complied
                                        *         *     *    74%    80%     86%    97%
               with health plans
               Coverage - General
                                       20%       50%   69%   85%    87%     90% 112%
               Population
               Coverage ­
                                       25%       53%   74%   97%    106% 99% 125%
               Uninsured
 Coverage
               Coverage - Poor
                                        *         *     *    9%     48%     84% 117%
               (Identified)
               Facilities Contracted
                                       22%       51%   53%   62%    61%     62%    73%
               with FHF
               Enrollment - General
                                        *         *     *    50%    54%     59%    65%
               Population
               Enrollment ­
                                        *         *     *    27%    40%     38%    30%
               Uninsured
Enrollment     Enrollment - Poor
               (insured +               *         *     *     *     15%     29%    77%
               uninsured)
               Exempted Poor
                                        *         *     *     *     51%     57%    38%
               (uninsured)
               Utilization Rate        72%       68%   72%   64%    88%     88%    90%
               Average Daily
 Efficiency    Encounter for          58% 46%           *    104%   67%     54%    50%
               Family Physicians
               ANC Utilization
                                      56% 56%           *    74%    62%     60%    54%
               Rate
* The indicator hasn't been measured in this time.


Lessons learned and Future Recommendations

   1) No single institution can adequately address both demand and supply issues
      simultaneously. Effective partnerships at all levels of governance are important to


                                            85
   achieving stated goals. This is particularly important where improving service
   delivery model alone is not an effective mechanism to tackle the needs of the
   poor. Intersectoral integration efforts are needed to deal with providing essential
   health services to the poor. Nominally, at least the following main bodies are
   involved:
            Ministry of Social Solidarity: Identification of Poor
            Ministry of Finance: Provide needed fund to exempt the poor
            Ministry of Health: Provide quality services
            NGOs: Facilitate process of identification of poor,
The project experience in piloting such kind of integration was very promising in
Alexandria and Menoufia Governorates

2) Single unified tool for poor identification has been developed through shared
   efforts of 3 Ministries, fulfilling the national requirements from all perspectives,
   which is a very positive point and this kind of intergovernmental efforts is
   strongly recommended to continue. MOSS should use this tool in its future
   surveys and collected data would be available to relevant governmental bodies.

3) Unified standardized service delivery model was shows to be effective in
   improving health outcomes in coverage areas, but continuous periodical
   evaluation is needed to address the updates.

4) Regarding the provider payment mechanisms, the mixed payment mechanism
   shows to be the most effective and efficient payment system combined with
   integration with district supervision teams for continuous improvement and
   quality assurance.

5) Legislative support is very important to achieve and sustain decentralization, as
   appeared from hospital autonomy piloting which was more effective and
   sustainable through the ministerial decree 120 year 2000, rather than the DPO
   experiment which was not supported by legal framework.

6) Project management and implementation staff should act as change agents or
   facilitators of the process of change. They should work through the Health System
   bodies - MoH departments, HIO, and Mudireya - so that there is greater
   ownership, understanding and commitment to the changes.

7) It's very important to strengthen the referral system by providing necessary
   motivational and legislative support.

8) Legislative frames for regulating health services purchasing should not be
   overlapping with provider regulatory mechanisms.




                                        86
Annex 8. Comments of Co financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Co financiers include the European Commission (EC), the US Agency for International
Development (USAID) and the African Development Bank (AfDB).

I. European Commission (EC)
Source: Paper provided by the EC Office in Cairo

Since 1998, the EC provided substantial financing for two programs: the Health Sector
Reform Program (Euro 110 million) and the Health Sector Policy Support Program (Euro
88 million).

Health Sector Reform Program (HSRP)

For a total amount of Euro 110 million, the Health Sector Reform Program (HSRP),
launched in 1998, was successfully concluded on 30 June 2007. In total, the Program­
implemented in five pilot Governorates (namely Alexandria, Suez, Qena, Menoufia and
Sohag) achieved significant successes.

Under its "hard" component, the European Commission rehabilitated/constructed (i.e.
construction of Family Health Units in rural areas) and equipped with medical and non-
medical equipment (e.g. medical and non medical equipment, x-ray machines, laboratory
equipment, etc. as well as furniture) a total of 125 clinics, 71 of which in the particularly
poor Governorate of Sohag in Upper Egypt.

Under its "soft" component, medical and paramedical staff has been given specialized
training and a Family Health Fund (FHF) was established providing a high quality
primary health package of services. Moreover, medical and paramedical staff was given
specialized training and, further to the handing-over and accreditation by the Ministry of
Health (MOH) of the clinics to the authorities at Governorate level, the Family Health
Units are being made fully operational.

The European Commission also contributed with Euro 26,000,000 to the Family Health
Fund model which has been adopted by the MOH as the model for the rolling-out to
several other governorates at national level and also constitutes one of the pillars for the
implementation of the new EC funded Health Sector Policy Support Program (HSPSP).

Health Sector Policy Support Program (HSPSP)

Launched in December 2006 for a total amount of Euro 88 million, the HSPSP represents
the first experiment of budget support program in the health sector in Egypt.

The program builds on experiences gained and evidence collected during the HSRP and
on policy adopted by the President for the Egyptian health system development
(officially-stated strategy presented by President Mubarak on 7th of July 2005). The
overall objective of the program is "to accompany the reform of health sector in its



                                             87
strategic short, medium and long term objectives by developing and rolling-out an
Integrated Health System, centered on the Family Health Model and, to promote good
governance and fiscal, financial, institutional and technical sustainability".

The program is organized on 16 activities, framed in 4 main components, and will be
implemented gradually in 3 phases, to which 3 disbursement tranches of about Euro 30
million are attached.

The main purpose of the program is:

   ·   To reframe the Ministry of Health reinforcing its role as regulator and policy
       maker.
   ·   To reshape existing health Insurances (and other heath purchasers) into a single
       Social National Health Insurance that will be the sole payer for the primary health
       care and will be subsidized to cover health expenditures of the poor.
   ·   To roll out the Family Health Model in 10 Governorates (5 of the former HSRP
       and: Beheira, Kafr El Sheikh, Fayoum, Beni Sweif, Menya).

Two tranches were currently disbursed for a total amount of Euro 60 million.

II. US Agency for International Development (USAID)
Source: Paper provided by the USAID Office in Cairo

Support for Health Sector Reform (1994-2010)

Conceptual Framework. The original concept of Primary Health Sector Reform was
developed by the Ministry of Health (MOH) with USAID support in the mid-1990's and
by 1997 was formalized in the "D-4" document of MOH, which defined the whole Health
Sector Reform program. USAID was the first donor in this area in 1994, and was later
joined by European Union (EU), World Bank and others in 1996-97.
National Health Accounts, conducted three times in Egypt with USAID support, provided
the evidence base as well as the rationale and political support for reform. The USAID
supported "Egypt Household Health Care Use and Expenditure Survey (1994-95)"
provided further stimulus and built political support for reform concepts due to concerns
that the poor were paying a larger proportion of their income for health services than the
rich and that in general, the population favored private providers over government
services.

Family Health Model. Extensive investments by USAID/Egypt in clinical and managerial
staff development to support of MCH and FP services since the early1990's built the
capacity for PHC services in the network of clinics and program management capacity
within Governorate offices. This service delivery capacity became the basis of the
integrated and broadened Family Health Model. Additionally, the initial introduction to
Egypt of the "family medicine" concept was through the Suez Canal Health Training
Project (supported by USAID in the early1980's), which emphasized graduating doctors
who were focused on community and family medicine.


                                           88
USAID was the first donor to help the MOH pilot test the financing mechanisms
envisioned in health sector reform in the Suez pilot project, which operationalized the
Family Health Fund. At the PHC level, the current system operating to generate revenues
allows for segregating highly subsidized services (morning hours) from "economic"
services provided after 2:00 pm. All revenue generated from the system goes into a clinic
level Service Improvement Fund (SIF) that is used to pay incentives as well as provide
operational costs for the clinic (repairs, drugs, cleaning, etc). USAID/Egypt is currently
assisting the MOH with programs to activate use of SIFs, which provide an important
source of money for clinic operations.

The concept of quality assurance was first introduced in Egypt by USAID through its
family planning and child survival projects. Under Health Sector Reform activities a
Quality Improvement Office was established by the MOH with resources from USAID;
accreditation standards and systems were also developed with USAID/Egypt support.

On-going USAID assistance is assisting the HIO transform itself into a specialized
agency for health insurance. During the mid-1990's USAID supported the development
of an extensive set of procedural manuals for HIO hospitals, later shared with all MOH
hospitals, which constituted guidelines for the services and procedures for each
department within hospitals. USAID also supported the development of an HIO
management information system, which is still in use today - although currently being
modified to allow for additional new functions such as claims processing and
reimbursements needed for its new role.

Health Information Systems. The current primary level HIS system is largely made up of
components of the FP and MCH information systems developed through the
Population/Family Planning and MCH projects. While problems still exist, PHC units are
reporting and the quality is improving. Data use is variable with more evidence of data
use at District and Governorate levels. There appears to be more awareness of service
statistics at clinic and hospital level as compared with 15 years ago but the level of use of
the data is probably variable. National officials clearly depend on the EDHS data for
decision making, but also quote program figures from service statistics. Feedback loops
are not always good, especially from the national level downwards.

The new "Clinical Information System" (CIS), which is part of the health reform process,
has been developed and is functional in the FHM facilities within the five pilot
governorates, but is not yet widely in use elsewhere. CIS, developed by the Ministry of
Communication and Information Technology, is based in part, on an earlier model tested
in the Suez pilot with USAID/Egypt resources. Called the Feedback Analytic and
Comparison Tool (FACT) CIS will be expanded gradually to cover all FHM facilities in
the future.

Cash transfers. Two Cash Transfer Support Programs were developed to provide
development support. The MOH received up to $15 million per year by meeting specific
benchmarks and used the funds without restriction for MOHP priorities. In 2007,



                                             89
USAID/Egypt and the Ministry of Health developed a $110 million Cash Transfer
Program, which recognized the restructuring of the health sector to increase efficiency
and improve effectiveness within a sustainable financial and regulatory framework. The
Ministry of Health focused on policy formulation and population-based public health
programs, intending to phase out its role as a direct provider of health services. Key to
this reform plan was redefining the MOH's role as a regulator, establishing quality norms
and standards, and a mechanism of accreditation and licensing to enforce standards.
USAID support was based on three areas: reform of the social health insurance system;
rationalization of policies to increase the efficiency of the healthcare system; and,
improvement in the recruitment and development of health care professionals. As of
March 2010, no funds have been disbursed.

III. African Development Bank (AfDB)
Source: Draft Project Completion Report of the AfDB

The Project

The project (P-EG-IBZ-001) was designed as a fully aligned support to the overall health
sector reform programme of the Government, in parallel with support from the European
Commission, the World Bank and USAID. The project entailed features of a policy-based
operation, with the disbursement of AfDB funds (one loan and one grant) in tranches
against fulfilment of predetermined conditions and execution in accordance with AfDB
rules by the Technical Support Office.

The loan (UA11.0 million) and grant (UA1.0 Million) were approved on 28th October
1998, signed on 11 July 2000 and effective on 14 November 2001. The grant was
disbursed in three tranches and the loan in two tranches. The implementation of the
program started at the beginning of April 2002. The main factor which contributed to
start up delays was the long design phase in developing the Health Master Plan. The
closing date of the project was postponed five times during project execution; the project
finally closed on December 31, 2008, five years after the original due date.

The AfDB intervention covered three districts in two governorates. In line with the sector
goal of improving the health status and well-being of all citizens, the project objective
was to introduce health sector reforms in selected pilot districts of Qena (Qous and Nagga
Hammady districts) and Suez (El Ganaien District) governorates in order to ensure
universal coverage of the population with a defined cost-effective package of quality
primary health care and public health services.

The main components of the AfDB's support were: (1) Health Care Services, to enhance
the quality and efficiency of care through capacity building, systems development and
investments in health facilities; (2) Public Health Programs, to strengthen public and
environmental health systems in villages particularly with respect to ensuring water and
food safety and the reduction of fatalities due to road accidents; (3) Sustainable financing
through health insurance, in particular establishment of the Family Health Fund as a




                                            90
purchaser of health services; (4) Governorate and District Health Administrations, to
strengthen their capacity under a decentralization approach.

Achievement of outputs

(1) Expected output: Quality and efficiency of PHC services improved.
Actual output: Over 50 training activities undertaken through about 500 training sessions
covering all staff (representing about 9,500 trainees in total) in the supported districts; 47
PHC facilities constructed/rehabilitated and 24 ongoing; equipment in the process of
being procured; treatment guidelines and protocols designed and adopted; essential drug
list established and regularly revised. Leading to the management of cases in accordance
with standard norms and availability of means of service delivery.

(2) Expected output: Cost-effective public health programs strengthened (several public
health programs provide cost-effective services to the target population).
Actual output: Disease prevention activities for infectious diseases and environmental
impacts on a routine basis (in particular water sample testing); advocacy undertaken
through community based health workers (in particular family planning; income
generating activities; etc.); food safety measures enforced through facility-based health
inspectors; road safety measures adopted and enforced.

(3) Expected output: Primary health care insurance systems introduced (unified health
insurance law implemented).
Actual output: Family Health Fund functional since 2004; facilities accredited and facility
contracting by the FHF in the process of being completed. However, the health insurance
law is still awaiting passage into law by Parliament.

(4) Expected output: Governorate and District Administrations strengthened
Actual output: District health Master Plans developed and implemented; more
responsibilities for health services management have been decentralized to the
Governorate and District levels; supervision under the referral system strengthened and
existence of good practices such as visiting specialists at primary facilities and visiting
generalists in district hospitals; computer-based case management system.




                                             91
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

   1) Project Appraisal Document (PAD) ­ Health Sector Reform Program ­ April 24,
       1998.
   2) Agreed Minutes of Negotiations ­ April 23, 1998.
   3) Development Credit Agreement ­ Credit No. 3076-0 ­ EGT - Health Sector
       Reform Project ­ May 22, 1998.
   4) Supplemental Letter - Credit No. 3076-0 ­ Monitoring Indicators.
   5) Health Sector Reform Program ­ Phase 1 ­ Draft Operations Manual ­ April
       1998.
   6) PSRs and ISRs.
   7) Aide Memoires.
   8) Memorandum and Recommendation of the President to the Executive Directors
       on a proposed project restructuring and amendment to the DCA for the HSRP ­
       May 2004.
   9) HSRP ­ Amendment Letter to the DCA ­ June 2004.
   10) HSRP ­ Amendment Letter to the DCA ­ January/February 2008.
   11) Egypt's Health Sector Reform and Financing Review ­ February 2004 ­ World
       Bank ­ Sameh El-Saharty, Sr. Health Policy Specialist and Task Team Leader;
       Joseph Antos, Health Financing Advisor; and Nihal Hafez Afifi, Health Systems
       Management Consultant.
   12) FHF Manual ­ Health Finance and Insurance Group ­ April 2004.
   13) FHF Manual ­ Central Family Health Fund ­ Updated 2007.
   14) Family Health Model System Review ­ Issues and Methodology ­ January 2005 ­
       Agence Européenne pour le Développement et la Santé.
   15) Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) ­ Report No. 32190-EG - May 20, 2005 - The
       World Bank - MNA Region.
   16) Impact Evaluation of the Egyptian Health Sector Reform Project ­August 2006 ­
       Rebekka Grun, Javier Ayala and others.
   17) Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) ­ Population Project (Cr. No.
       2830-EGT) ­ IEG ­ The World Bank - June 25, 2008.
   18) Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) ­ National Schistosomiasis
       Control Project (Cr. No. 2403-EGT) ­ IEG ­ The World Bank - June 25, 2008.
   19) Disbursement Plan as of 23/4/2009 ­ TSO.
   20) Egypt: Positive Results from Knowledge Sharing and Modest Lending ­ An IEG
       Country Assistance Evaluation 1999-2007 ­ The World Bank Group - 2009.
   21) Independent Procurement Review ­ Narayanaswami Viswanathan - 2009
   22) Improving Effectiveness and Outcomes for the Poor in Health, Nutrition, and
       Population ­ An Evaluation of World Bank Group Support since 1997 ­ IEG ­
       The World Bank - 2009.
   23) Management and Service Quality in Primary Health care Facilities in Alexandria
       and Menoufia at the Completion of the Health Sector Reform Project ­ World
       Bank ­ MNSHD ­ January 2010.




                                         92
Annex 10. Key Performance Indicators at End of Project (March 31, 2009)

     Outcome / Impact              Value          Alexandria   Menoufia       Both
         Indicators                                                        Governorates
Accessibility ­ General        Target             1,125,000    2,497,000    3,622,000
Population. Population         Actual             1,200,238    1,792,000    2,992,238
with access to the BBP of
PHC services based on
planned capacity of            Achievement          107%         72%           83%
operational FH facilities      %
(constructed / renovated)
based on national
standards.
Accessibility ­ Poor. Poor     Target              804,369     1,027,022    1,831,391
population with access to      Actual              724,717     1,158,831    1,883,548
the BBP of PHC services
based on planned capacity
of operational FH facilities   Achievement           90%        113%          103%
(constructed / renovated) in   %
poor areas as identified by
the governorate health
plans.
Accessibility - Clinics        Target                391         750          1,141
complied with health           Actual                411         692          1,103
plans. Number of FH
clinics (constructed /         Achievement          105%         92%           97%
renovated) in compliance       %
with the governorate health
plans.
Coverage ­ General             Target              675,000     1,498,200    2,173,200
Population. Total number       Actual              818,778     1,612,213    2,430,991
of beneficiaries covered by
the FHF to receive the BBP     Achievement          121%        108%          112%
of PHC services.               %
Coverage ­ Uninsured.          Target              337,500      749,100     1,086,600
Total number of uninsured      Actual              574,096      781,418     1,355,514
beneficiaries covered by       Achievement          170%         104%         125%
FHF to receive BBP.            %
Coverage ­ Poor                Target              174,000      321,000      495,000
(identified). Total number     Actual              211,343      367,260      578,603
of poor beneficiaries
identified by identification   Achievement          121%       114%           117%
method (social workers/        %
MOSS/ GOs/geographical
targeting).


                                             93
Annex 10. Key Performance Indicators at End of Project (March 31, 2009)
(continued)

     Outcome / Impact             Value         Alexandria    Menoufia        Both
          Indicators                                                       Governorates
Coverage ­ Facilities        Target                104           227           331
contracted by the FHFs.      Actual                73            168           241
Number of FH facilities
contracted by the FHFs,      Achievement           70%           74%            73%
compared to the total;       %
number of MOH PHC
facilities.
Enrollment- General          Target              675,000      1,498,200      2,173,200
Population. Active           Actual              333,258      1,072,760      1,406,018
enrollment in the FHFs
based on renewal of family   Achievement           49%           72%            65%
health folders.              %
Enrollment ­ Uninsured.      Target              337,500       749,100       1,086,600
Active enrollment of         Actual              252,883       295,601        548,484
uninsured beneficiaries
based on renewal of family   Achievement           75%            39%            50%
health folders.              %
Enrollment ­ Poor.           Target              174,000        321,000        495,000
Number of enrolled poor      Actual               77,340        302,819        380,159
beneficiaries (insured and   Achievement           44%            94%            77%
uninsured).                  %
Enrollment ­ Exempted        Target               87,000        160,500        247,500
poor (uninsured).            Actual               13,937        174,209        188,146
                             Achievement           16%           109%            76%
                             %
Efficiency ­ Utilization     Target                 2.5            2.5            2.5
rate. Average number of      Actual                 3.3            1.2            2.3
visits per person per year.  Achievement          132%            48%            92%
                             %
Efficiency- Average          Target                 24             24             24
number of daily              Actual                14.9            8.9           11.9
encounters per physician. Achievement              62%            37%            50%
                             %
Efficiency ­ ANC             Target                  5              5              5
utilization rate. Average    Actual                 3.1            2.6            2.7
number of antenatal care     Achievement           62%            52%            54%
visits per pregnant woman. %
Note - The assumption after the June 2004 restructuring was that the Project would cover
60 percent of the general population and 60 percent of all the poor in both governorates,
having access to primary health care services.
Source: MOH ­ Central Administration of Technical Support (TSO)


                                           94
Annex 11. Health Indicators for Egypt, and Alexandria and Menoufia

Indicators                                      1998          2008            %
                                                                         Reduction
                                                                         or Increase
Under five mortality rate
per 1,000 live births
Egypt                                           38.7          22.8          -41%
Alexandria                                      31.5          24.2          - 23%
Menoufia                                        30.5          17.3          - 43%
Infant mortality rate
per 1,000 live births
Egypt                                           29.1          18.0          -38%
Alexandria                                      26.6          19.7          - 26%
Menoufia                                        22.9          13.0          - 43%
Neonatal mortality rate
per 1,000 live births
Egypt                                           n.a.          n.a.            n.a.
Alexandria                                      17.7          10.7          - 40%
Menoufia                                         8.3          6.1           - 27%
Maternal mortality rate
Per 10,000 live births
Egypt                                           96.0          55.0           43%
Alexandria                                      93.7          50.0          - 47%
Menoufia                                        98.3          45.4          - 54%
Percentage of births attended by skilled
health personnel
Egypt                                            n.a.          n.a.           n.a
Alexandria                                      75.9%         93.9%         + 24%
Menoufia                                         64.0          88.3         + 38%
Antenatal care coverage
Egypt                                           n.a.          n.a.           n.a.
Alexandria                                      42.7          45.6          + 7%
Menoufia                                        68.4          73.1          + 7%

Data Sources:
National Information Center for Health (NICH) ­ MOH
Maternal Mortality Surveillance System ­ MOH
Prime Minister's Cabinet ­ Information and Decision Support Center (IDSC) ­ Egypt's
Achievements Report 2008




                                           95
MAP




      96
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     IBRD 33400


                                                                                               A R A B R E PU B L I C O F E GYP T
                                                                                                         SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS

                                                                                                         GOVERNORATE CAPITALS

                                                                                                         NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                   GOVERNORATES IN NILE DELTA:
        ARAB REPUBLIC
            OF EGYPT                                                                                     RIVERS
                                                                                                                                                                           1       KAFR EL SHEIKH              7   DAGAHLIYA
                                                                                                                                                                           2       DAMIETTA                    8   MENOUFIYA
                                                                                                         MAIN ROADS                                                        3       PORT SAID                   9   SHARGIYAH
                                                                                                                                                                           4       ALEXANDRIA                 10   QALIUBIYA
                                                                                                         RAILROADS                                                         5       BEHEIRA                    11   ISMAILIA
                                                                                                                                                                           6       GHARBIYA                   12   CAIRO
                                                                                                         GOVERNORATE BOUNDARIES

                                                                                                         INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES



                    25°E                                                                      30°E                                                                                35°E

                                                                                                                                               WEST BANK                  To
      To                                                                                                                                       AND GAZA
    Darnah                                            Mediterranean                                 Sea                                                                Tel Aviv

                           Salum
                                                     Marsa Matruh                                                         2 Damietta
                                                                                                          Kafr el
                                                                                                        1 Sheikh                        Port Said El'Arish
                                                                                Alexandria
         Libyan Plateau                                                               Damanhur                   El Mansura 3                                           ISRAEL                     JORDAN
                                                                                            4             6 Tanta 7 9
                                                                                                                  Zagizig
                                                                                            Shibin el Kom 8                 Ismailia
                                                                                                        Benha                                      NORTHERN
                                                                                                                        11
                                                                                                 5               10                                  SINAI
30°N                                                                                                                                                                                                                            30°N
                                                           Qattara
                                                                                                                       CAIRO               Suez
                                                                                                          Giza
                                                          Depression                                                    12
                                            Qara                                                                                                                           Taba

                                                                                               El Fayoum                         SUEZ                  SOUTHERN
                     Siwa
                                                                                              EL FAYOUM                                                  SINAI
                                  MARSA MATRUH                                                                     Beni Suef




                                                                                                                                                                                   Aqaba
                                                                                                                                           Gu
                                                                                               BENI SUEF                                              Abu Zenima
                                                                                                                                             lf
                                                                            GI Z A                                                            of
                                                                                                                                                                                                         SAUDI



                                                                                                                                                                           Gulf of
                                                                                                                                                Su
                                                                                                                                   Ras Gharib     ez
                                                                                            AL MINYA                                                         El Tur
                                                                                               Al Minya                                                                                                  ARABIA
                                                                                                                                            E
                                                                                                                                              a
                                                                                                                                              a




 LIBYA
                                                                                                                                                  s t
                                                                                                               N
                                                                                                               N
                                                                                                               N




                                                                                                                                    AL BAHR
                                                                                                               illle
                                                                                                                   e
                                                                                                                   e




                                                                                              ASSIUT                                                            Al Ghurdaqah
                                                                                                                                                      e r
                                                                                                                                                      e r



                                                                                                                       Assiut
                                                                                                                                  AL AHMAR
                                                                                                                                                          n
                                                                                                                                                          n
                                                                                                                         Riv
                                                                                                                          ie
                                                                                                                          i




                                                                                                                                                                  Bir Seiyala
                                          W e s t e r n
                                                                                                                             r
                                                                                                                             r
                                                                                                                             r




                                                                                                                                Sohag
                                                                                                                                    SOHAG                                                   Red
                                                                                                                                                             D e
                    L i




                                                                                                                                              Qena
                                                                                                                                                               e s




                                                                                                                                                                           Quseir
                                                                                                                                                                             .
                      i b




                                                                                                                                                                                            Sea
                                                                                                                                                                 s e




                                                Desert
                                                                                                                                                  QENA
                                                                                                                                                                     r t




                                                                                                                                             Luxor
                          y a




                                                A L WA D I                Mut               El-Kharga
                                                                                                                                                                       t




                                                                            .
                            a n




25°N                                            AL JADID                                                                                                                                   Marsa 'Alam                          25°N

                                                                                                                                                      ASWAN
                            D e




                                                                                                                                                   Kom Ombo
                              e s e




                                                                                                                             Aswan Dam             Aswan
                                  e r t




  To
 Jalu
                                                                                                                                  Lake
                                                                                                                                 Nasser


                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Halaib




                                                                                  SUDAN
                                                                                                                                                         0        50       100             150    200 Kilometers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           To
                                                                                                       To                                      To                                                                  Port Sudan
                                                                                                     Dongola                                 Berber
                         This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                                                                 0              50                  100        150 Miles
20°N                     The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information                                                                                                                                        20°N
                         shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                         Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                         endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
             25°E                                                                            30°E                                                                                           35°E

                                                                                                                                                                                                                    NOVEMBER 2004
