Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
CtR /2/?-Fo
Report No. P-4309-BO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO SDR 12.8 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
FOR THE
VUELTA GRANDE GAS RECYCLING PROJECT
June 3, 1986
|This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Bolivian Peso ($b)  =  US$0.0000005
US$1.00              =  $b 2 million
1 million ($b)       =  US$ 0.5
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Megawatt (MW)                =  thousand kilowatts
Gigawatt-hour (GWh)          =  million kilowatt-hours
Barrel (Bbl)                 =  0.159 cubic meters (cu m)
Cubic Foot (CF)              =  0.028 cubic meters (cu m)
British Thermal Unit (Btu)  =  0.252 kilocalories (kc)
Mile                         =  1.609 kilometers (km)
Bbl                          =  0.1765 CF
MMBbl                        =  million barrels
GLOSSARY AND ABBREVIATIONS
BCF       -  billion cubic feet
BD        -  Barrel per day
CIF       -  Cost, Insurance, Freight
ENDE      -  Empresa Nacional de Electricidad
ENFE      -  Bolivian Railways
FOB       -  Free on Board
IDB       -  Inter-American De'elopment Bank
LPG       -  Liquifirr  petroleum gas (propane/butane)
MCF       -  thousand cubic feet
MEH       -  Ministry of Energy and Hydrocarbons
MMCF      -  million cubic feet
MMCFD     -  million cubic feet per day
N4YSCRF    -  New York State Common Retirement Fund
TCF       -  trillion (1,000 billion) cubic feet
tpy       -  metric tons per year
YPFB      -  Yacimientos Petroliferos Fiscales Bolivianos
(Bolivian National Oil Company)
Note: A standard cubic foot of gas is the amount of gas at sea level
atmospheric pressure and 600 Fahrenheit contained in one cubic foot of
space.



BOLIVIA             FOR OMCUAL USE ONLY
VUELTA GRANDE PROJECT
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:               The Republic of Bolivia
Beneficiary:            Yacimientos Petroliferos Fiscales Bolivianos (YPFB)
Amount:                 SDR 12.8 million (US$15 million equivalent)
Terms:                  Standard
Onlending Terms:        The Government would onlend the proceeds of the
Credit to YPFB for a period of 12 years, including 3
years of grace at an interest rate of 9.5%.
Project Des:ription:   The proposed project would assist YPFB to increase
its liquid hydrocarbon production by 28.2 million
barrels over twenty years with gas production
thereafter. At peak during gas recycling, the
project would produce about 2 million barrels of
condensate and L million barrels of LPG per year.
The project consists of the development of the
Vuelta Grande retrograde gas condensate field, and
of a gas recycling plant; studies of YPFBts staff
policies and organizational efficiency; and
consultants services and training related to the
recycling operation. It would enable Bolivia to
redu^e the need to import oil, and to increase
foreign exchange earnings from LPG exports. Project
benefits would be broadly distributed. The project
faces relatively small technical risks because of
the works already accomplished, while the
uncertainty of the Government's economic program
could have negative effects.
Estimated Cost:
Local        Foreign           Total
(US$ million)
Wells                                     4.2            9.3             13.5
Gas Processing Plant                      6.8           16.5            23.3
Gathering Systems                         2.5            0                2.5
Base Cost                              13.5           25.8            39.3
Physical Contingency                      1.3            2.6             3.9
Price Contingency                         1.3            2.4             3.7
Total Project Cost                     16.1           30.8            46.9
Refund PPF Advance                        -              1.0              1.0
Total Financing Required               16.1           31.8            47.9
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by refipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclsed without World Bank authovrition.



- ii -
Financing Plan:
Local        Foreign          Total
(US$ million)
YPFB                                    16.1           10.8            26.9
Argentine Government                     0              6.0             6.0
IDA                                      0             15.0            15.0
Total                                 16.1           31.8            47.9
Estimated Disbursements:
IDA FY        1987           1988
Annual                                   9.2            5.8
Cumulative                               9.2           15.0
Rate of Return:        ERR 60.4%; FRR 43.9%.
Appraisal Report:       Report No. 6181-BO dated June 4, 1986.
Map:                    IBRD 14429R4



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR 12.8 MILLION TO
THE REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
FOR THE
VUELTA GRANDE GAS RECYCLING PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit to the Republic of Bolivia for the equivalent of SDR 12.8 million
(US$15.0 million equivalent) to help finance the Vuelta Grande Gas
Recycling project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        An Economic Report (No. 5680-BO) was distributed to the Executive
Directors in August 1985. The following discussion is based on that report
and the findings of several missions which visited Bolivia after the
Government adopted its economic stabilization and reform program. Country
data sheets are presented in Annex I.
Background
3.        Over the past century, Bolivia's economy has functioned as a dual
system in which the modern economy extracted mainly mineral resources to
finance the accumulation of assets abroad and had few linkages with the
non-modern economy in which the majority of the population lived under
subsistence agriculture. Political life was dominated by the mining and
land-owning oligarchy.
4.        Bolivia's defeat in the 1935 war with Paraguay created deep
dissatisfaction and generated pressures for change. The 1952 revolution
sought to put an end to the colonial structure and to weaken the
oligarchy's economic base. This objective was partially achieved.
Progress was made in eradicating feudal conditions, distributing the land
more equitably, and mitigating obstacles to social mobility, notably
through an impressive effort in primary education. However, the agrarian
1/   This and Part II are abbreviated versions of the sections on 'The
Economy' and 'Bank Group Operations in Bolivia- contained in the
President's Report (P-4253-BO), dated April 23, 1986 on the
Reconstruction Import Credit project.



-2-
reform and the nationalization of the large mines were followed by falling
production and declining GDP throughout the 1950s. During the subsequent
decade, output increased steadily at an average annual rate of about 5Z,
and real CDP per capita recovered its 1952 level by 1970.
5.        In the 1970s, a commodity boom, together with political
stability, brought GDP and export growth. While public sector investment
expanded and was financed by external borrowing, the private sector
remained dormant and continued to transfer resources abroad. Political
considerations and the expectations of rapid growth of export revenues and
public income generated many uneconomic and unviable projects, and
unrealistic pricing, foreign exchange and mineral taxation policies.
Returns on investment remained low and the country became burdened with
large repayments of short-term external debt without the capacity to
service them.
6.        Growth during this period was characterized by a reinforcement of
the role of the state in the economy. The productive sectors grew less
than the service sector, resulting in a vulnerable economic structure, with
relatively little real economic development. Incentives were distorted by
extensive controls over prices and the exchange rate, and by excessive
mineral taxation. Furthermore, expansion of private sector activity was
limited by the small domestic market, the weak transport and communications
network, and the lack of management capacity and of a trained labor force.
7.        As the underlying weaknesses of the 1970s growth became apparent,
commercial banks became concerned about the country's export potential and
debt servicing capacity and reduced their exposure in Bolivia. Falling
inflows of foreign exchange coincided with declines in oil production and
prices of mining exports, and an increase in debt service requirements. At
the same time, Bolivia entered into a period of political instability.
8.        An economic program aimed at correcting the external imbalance
and re-establishing normal relations with foreign lenders was defined in
1979. Its main elements included increasing some prices and tariffs of
public sector services, increases in prices of agricultural goods,
reduction of mining taxes, increases in interest rates, a devaluation, and
negotiations on debt rescheduling with the commercial banks. These
measures were the basis for a stand-by agreement with the IMF and a Bank
Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL) in 1980. After initial compliance with
INF targets and with the tranching conditions of the SAL, the country's
economic situation again deteriorated. The economic program was
interrupted by a military coup in July 1980. Rapid growth of public sector
expenditures combined with lower revenues resulted in a large fiscal
deficit. Public investment fell.
9.        The deterioration of the economy continued under three military
governments and the 1982-85 Siles administration. This was mainly caused
by inconsistent, partial policies which attempted to reactivate the economy
and to improve wages through foreign exchange, price, and financial
controls and nominal wage increases. Because of the failure to take into
account the limitations imposed by the external sector and the disregard
for financial constraints, these efforts were counter-productive. The lack
of direction and inappropriate policies discouraged productive activities,



- 3 -
while inflation accelerated and external debt arrears accumulated. No
sustained or consistent effort was made over this period to stabilize the
economy or solve structural problems.
10.       Thus, when President Paz Estenssoro took office in August 1985,
he inherited extraordinarily complex problems.  GDP, exports and investment
had been falling for four years in a row. Over 1980-84, GDP had fallen by
16% while GDP per capita had declined by 27%. Sectors most affected by
this decline had been manufacturing (34%), construction (30%) and mining
(22%). In August 1985, inflation was running at an annualized rate of
22,256Z. Central Administration revenues in 1984 as a share of GDP had
fallen to below 3%, and the deficit was in excess of 20%. The deficit of
the consolidated public sector had reached 29% of GDP. The official
exchange rate stood at $b 67,000 while the parallel rate exceeded $b 1
million/US$. There was a substantial accumulation of external debt payments
arrears (US$700 million on public debt, 20% of GDP) and imports were
less than two-thirds of the average 1979-81 level. Unemployment stood at
15% and there was a proliferation of marginal activities (small-scale
smuggling, black-market operations, etc.). Increasing distortions in the
formal economy had shifted a growing share of economic activities to the
underground economy, especially in the external trade area. The situation
was exacerbated by the weakness of the public administration, lack of
confidence in government policies, and deteriorating incomes of the urban
poor caused by the price distortions. Attempts to introduce stabilization
measures had failed because of the weakness of the Government and strong
labor opposition.
The New Economic Policy
11.       The new Government adopted shortly after taking office the bold
and pragmatic -New Economic Policy' program (NEP),in an effort to redress
the economic and social situation. It introduced measures on August 29,
1985 designed to stabilize the economy and to launch structural reforms
that would lay the foundation for the resumption of economic growth. The
package, whose design is well-conceived and comprehensive, includes:
(a) a sharp reduction of the fiscal deficit and elimination of
Central Bank financing of the public sector. These are being
achieved through elimination of Government subsidies, a drastic
rise in the prices of hydrocarbons, public utility tariff
increases, and a restoration of fiscal revenues. The latter is
to be brought about by returning economic activities to formal
channels as a consequence of the unification of the exchange
rates;
(b) a managed float of the exchange rate through an auction system
which devalued the peso in nominal terms by 97%;
(c) Lhe phasing out of Central Bank financing of the Treasury (TGN);
and tightening of controls over public sector revenues and
expenditures by centralizing all accounts in the TGN;
(d) bringing wage expenditures in line with the financial capacity of
the Central Government and public enterprises, and reducing wage
inequalities among public agencies. Bonuses have been



-4-
consolidated and payments in kind through subsidized foodstores
are being phased out. A ceiling on public sector agencies'
expenditures on wages has been set at the nominal amounts spent
in July, 1985 plus an additional 25% in nominal terms (the latter
much below the subsequent rate of inflation);
(e)  a comprehensive tax reform package:  a 10% value added tax, a 10%
income tax (against which the VAT can be deducted), a 1%
transactions tax, and a 1-5Z property tax;
(f) freeing prices in the economy (in the financial, goods and labor
markets), and using economic criteria to set those prices that
are inherently not market determined. External trade was
liberalized and import tariffs have been reduced to a flat 10% of
the CIF price plus 10% VAT;
(g) reorganizing and decentralizing the state mining and oil
companies, and;
(h) the Central Bank and the Finance and Planning Ministries were
instructed to propose further monetary and tax reforms.
12.       The structural reform effort aims at reducing Government
intervention, establishing market prices, and restoring incentives for
private sector activity so as to increase the efficiency of the economy. A
drastic departure from past policies, the program is comprehensive and
surpasses in some aspects the recommendations of several international
entities which have advised the Government.
13.        Initial results were encouraging.  Inflation was reduced from a
monthly rate of 60% in August to -2% in October and 3% in November. Money
emission by the Central Bank likewise fell from a 60% expansion in August
to 34Z in September, 16% in October and 0% in November. After the float of
the peso, the gap between the official and parallel rates had been
effectively eliminated and the exchange rate stabilized at about
$bl,100,000 to the US$. Treasury revenues increased from 5.5 trillion
pesos in August to 16.7 trillion in November. The consolidated public
sector deficit is estimated to have been reduced from 29% of GDP in 1984 to
10% in 1985.
14.       The program slipped towards the end of the year resulting in a
temporary setback in these trends. The Central Bank's lack of full control
over public sector agencies led to a substantial accumulation of arrears.
The process of clearing these up coincided with year-end bonuses to public
employees to compensate for the drastic reduction in real wages, expansion
of agricultural credit and credit and military expenditures. Monetary
emissions increased 50% in December. Inflation accelerated to 16% in
December and 33% in January and for a short period the parallel rate of
exchange exceeded $b2 million.
15.       In response, President Paz reshuffled the cabinet in January
1986, appointing to the key ministries of Planning and Finance two of the
main architects of the NEP. The new cabinet has brought the program back
on track. Monetary emission and fiscal expenditures have been controlled



effectively, albeit to some extent through build-up of arrears. As a
result, inflation was zero in February and March and the exchange rate has
stabilized at slightly less than $2 million; the spread between the
official and parallel rate is less than 5%. Tax reform proposals were
approved last month by the Congress.
16.       Based on the NEP, the Government, with IMF assistance, has
prepared a short-term economic program. The objectives for 1986 are a
sharp reduction of inflation (from over 8,000% in 1985 to below 85%), and a
stabilization of the economy after an accumulated fall of 18% since 1981.
Although initially a modest economic recovery was expected from the
improved price signals and reduced labor unrest, the fall in prices for key
exports and floods-cut farm output have reduced the possibilities of
achieving growth this year. The key stabilization element is the reduction
of the non-financial public sector deficit from an estimated 10% of GDP in
1985 to 5.8% in 1986. Fiscal adjustment is based on the increased revenues
of YPFB from the large real depreciation of the Peso and the indexation of
petroleum product prices to the US dollar; a very tight wage policy; and
the tax reform measures. This target is consistent with an annual
inflation rate of 80% (28% in the last three quarters). Central Government
current expenditures are programmed to remain constant in real rerms. The
current account savings of the consolidated nonfinancial public sector is
expected to improve from -6.2% of GDP in 1985 to 0.4% in 1986, and
investment expenditures to increase from 4.3% of GDP in 1985 to 7.0% in
1986, largely as a result of drawing on external financing for the
execution of on-going projects. Other program targets include limiting
expansion of money and quasi-money to no more than 40% in 1986, from 2,300%
in 1985; interest rates are to remain flexible and positive in real terms;
the exchange rate and trade regimes are to remain libc-ralized. The IMF has
agreed with the Government on a Letter of Intent and a policy memorandum
for 1986. A Stand-by Agreement is scheduled for approval this month.
Success of the New Economic Policy
17.       The major requirement for the success of the NEP is the
Government's continued determination to carry it forward, including the
consistent application of exchange rate, monetary, fiscal, and wage
policies. Some of the most difficult measures have already been adopted,
those requiring time are under implementation, and the program's medium
term objective of a market-oriented economy with minimal intervention has
been made explicit. The Government's commitment has been confirmed by
its restrictive Salary Decree, firm handling of a general strike in
September, Decree imposing compulsory loans for the Employment Emergency
Fund, recent cabinet changes, agreement with the IMF, and the approval of
comprehensive tax reforms. These stringent measures, however, are
straining the country's social fabric.
18.       A second critical requirement is external support.  After
prolonged economic decline, the population is impatient and decisive action
and more resources are needed to build on the reforms now underway. In the
short run, expansion of economic activity is constrained by the need to
avoid the resurgence of hyperinflation, which requires maintenance of the
tight monetary policy. The only way to allow for expansion of demand
without triggering inflationary pressures is through a higher level of



- 6 -
imports, leading to increased production that would, in turn, translate
into improved real wages and increased exports.
19.       The sweeping reforms undertaken would normally have induced
significant improvements in the balance of payments. However, Bolivia has
experienced an extraordinary collapse of world markets for tin and
hydrocarbons on which export earnings depend. The need for external
resources to allow the required higher imports without increasing pressures
on the exchange rate market has thus been exacerbated. In Bolivia, peso
depreciation and domestic inflation are closely related, therefore avoiding
a rapid depreciation of the exchange rate is crucial to contain inflation.
The latter is crucial to restore private sector confidence and to bring
about a reduction of interest rates, which currently constrain private
investment. Rapid transfer of external resources to Bolivia can thus help
sustain the economic program in the short-run.
20.       The third condition is the need to strengthen the Government's
administrative capacity. There is a serious shortage of capable
middle-level managers and technical staff to carry out the planned
reforms. The few qualified managers in the public sector are occupied in
mapping strategies and day-to-day defense of the economic program. Among
the areas that need to be addressed are the monetary program, fiscal
budget, tax reform, debt rescheduling, and the reorganization of public
enterprises. The IMF, IDB, and USAID are providing technical support in
these areas. Bank plans include assistance in the reorganization of
CONIBOL and YPFB and public financial sector reform, plus an evaluation of
the public investment program currently under preparation.
21.       Finally, the fourth main condition is to achieve a positive
response from the private sector, which must provide a significant part
of the required increases in investment, production and exports.  This
depends critically on the credibility of the Government program
-particularly control of inflition; maintaining a realistic exchange rate
policy; and the availability o' credit at reasonable costs.
22.       Over the medium term, the NEP measures already in place and those
envisaged under it provide an overall framework for an efficient use of
resources. Growth, however, will require substantial investment resources
to develop Bolivia's potential. After several years of economic decline,
both the public and private sectors have very limited capacity to generate
them. The strategy to enhance this capacity (whose preparation is now
underway) should include the following measures:
-    renegotiation of the external debt on concessionary terms;
-    strict screening of public sector investment projects with funds
channeled to projects of high returns, short maturity periods,
and which contribute to improving the balance of payments;
-    rationalization of YPFB and COMIBOL;
-    greater development of agricultural export potential; and



- 7 -
-    attraction of foreign investment to support effective use of
natural resources, in particular hydrocarbons.
Balance of Payments Outlook and External Capital Requirements
23.       Background.  Over the 1981-85 period, there were continuous
trade surpluses as Bolivians cut imports drastically to meet external
obligations, while the current account has been highly negative because of
the large interest payments on the external debt. In 1986-87, as a result
of the drastic elimination of the principal distortions in the economy, a
partial recovery of exports is likely. This outlook, however, has been
affected by the fall in the prices of mineral exports, particularly that of
tin. Gas exports to Argentina are assumed to be sustained. Non-
traditional exports (mainly agriculture), which fell from US$150 million in
1980 to US$31 million in 1985, may recover only gradually because
international prices, with the exception of coffee, remain depressed.
Demand from neighboring countries, which were important markets, is also
expected to be below past levels.
24.       Since 1982, registered imports have been sharply curtailed
through controls and a quota system for allocation of foreign exchange.
Consumption good imports fell in 1985 to 55% of the 1981 levels, while
imports of inputs and capital goods fell by 40%. These sharp reductions
seriously affected production, including that of the most important public
enterprises because of the lack of spare parts and imported inputs. The
same factors reduced manufacturing output by 31% between 1982 and 1984.
Investment, affected by the limitations on the purchase of imported
equipment, is estimated to have fallen to 70% of its real 1980 level.
25.       The Medium-Term Outlook.  The outlook for Bolivia's external
sector in the medium term remains uncertain. Exports have declined from
US$942 million in 1980 to US$621 million in 1985 as a result of the
persistently overvalued exchange rate; falling export prices; economic
difficulties in neighboring countries; and social unrest that affected
production. While the volume of 1986 exports is expected to increase by
6%, declining prices will result in earnings of only US$562 million.
Beyond 1986, however, possibilities for increased export volumes
are good.
26.       While the policy environment to achieve export growth has
substantially improved, international markets remain weak. The collapse of
the tin market has serious short-term repercussions but its impact on the
trade balance could be alleviated by closing some of COMIBOL's mines which
lose foreign exchange because of their high operating costs. Further
ahead, there are good possibilities for other minerals, but response to NEP
measures will be quite slow as exploration efforts have lagged and private
miners remain cautious about investing. The main export product is natural
gas, which is sold to Argentina at relatively high prices, under contracts
through 1992. There are indications that a lower price may be agreed to in
1986. The Bolivian Government intends to re-open dis^c-sions with Brazil
regarding substantial gas sales but these prospects remain uncertain.



-8-
27.       Agricultural and agroindustrial exports could be multiplied as
Bolivia has much unused fertile land, but only one-seventh of arable land
is cultivated and yields are low. Improved technology, increased
fertilizer use, and changing crop patterns could significantly increase the
value of production. Also needed are reducing transport costs,
agricultural research and extension, low cost irrigation, credit, and
improved marketing. The export potential is diverse (soybeans, corn,
coffee, cacao, wood and beef). Improved external policies should encourage
a relatively rapid response in agriculture but sustained production
increases and significant export diversification will depend on concerted
action to develop the institutional capacity to provide support and
infrastructure investments.
28.       The upshot is that, unless an effort is made by the international
financial community to put together an extraordinary financial package that
will support Bolivia's economic reforms over the medium term, the
likelihood of success is very low. The principal elements of such package,
assuming continued strong domestic efforts, are clear. In addition to: (i)
continuing IMF support for Bolivia's stabilization program, and (ii) IDA
assistance to underpin key structural and sectoral reforms, it will be
necessary to (iii) increase the flow of concessional aid, and (iv)
undertake a major restructuring of Bolivia's debt. This multi-pronged
strategy is currently being carried out, with the Association's approval on
May 20, 1986 of the Reconstruction Import Credit, the projected Stand-by
Arrangement and with a planned Consultative Group meeting. A restructuring
of Bolivia's external debt is now being pursued.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BOLIVIA
29.       Bolivia did not obtain any Bank Group financing until 1964 and
because of its restricted capacity to service external debt, initial Bank
Group financing was almost exclusively on IDA terms. With Bolivia's
promising prospects for expanded hydrocarbon exports, IDA lending ceased in
1975. In 1978, however, it became apparent that the expectations of large
petroleum exports, and with it, dynamic economic development, would not
materialize. Development is still seriously constrained by the dual
structure of the economy; a large part of the population continues to live
in extreme poverty. Limited creditworthiness and low per capita income
make Bolivia eligible for IDA credits. To date, the Bank and IDA have
approved 29 operations (15 crelits and 13 loans and one blend operation)
for Bolivia, amounting to US$451.1 million, of which 20 have been fully
disbursed.
30.       Bank Group lending to Bolivia has concentrated on the development
of infrastructure and social sectors. In the agricultural sector (seven
operations amounting to US$48.6 million), the Bank Group has helped Bolivia
develop a livestock industry, increase agricultural production, improve
incomes and living conditions on the Altiplano and promote the development
of the alpaca/llama industry; efforts to strengthen the Agricultural Bank
of Bolivia have met with limited success. Through five operations in the
power sector, amounting to US$53.4 million, the Bank Group has been
instrumental in modernizing the sector, expanding electricity supply,
improving the quality of service and setting up a regulatory agency and a
public power company, which has been efficient and financially sound. In



- 9 -
the transportation sector, Bank Group assistance to the railways (three
operations of US$67.0 million) has helped to streamline organization,
increase efficiency of operations and strengthen finances; an aviation
development project assisted Bolivia's efforts to develop hitherto isolated
areas by providing safe and efficient air freight and passenger
transportation; a highway maintenance project is helping Bolivia protect
its investments in highways. In the mining sector, five operations
amounting to US$37.2 million have aimed at increased exploration and
production and improved sectoral coordination. Additional Bank-supported
projects are improving water supply and sewerage services in rural
communities and the city of Santa Cruz; upgrading education and vocational
training programs; and bettering living conditions for the urban poor in La
Paz. The Bank's activities in the hydrocarbon sector are discussed in
paras. 51 and 60.   Finally, a Structural Adjustment loan was provided in
1980 to help the economy with its adjustment to a more productive basis.
31.       Overall, Bank Group lending to Bolivia has supported broadly
based Government efforts to expand and upgrade Bolivia's economic and
social infrastructure. Prior to 1978, the Government had an excellent
record in providing the required local funds, and in general, projects were
adequately carried out. Since then, however, the execution of many ongoing
projects has been affected adversely by the shortage of local funds,
changes in Government personnel, and periodic suspension of Bank
disbursements. The recent economic reforms and the appointment of highly
qualified project managers by the current Government should help improve
the execution of the remaining ongoing projects (however, the existing
portfolio is small with only US$22.1 million undisbursed.)
32.       While no new operations were approved in recent years, the Bank
group has provided substantial technical assistance and undertaken much
economic and sector work, focussed on critical impediments to Bolivia's
development. Much work has focused on improvements in resource management
and particularly investment programming but the proposals have yet to be
implemented. A comprehensive study on COMIBOL was completed in 1981,
including an action program for the rehabilitation of the company, a
priority listing of investment projects, and feasibility studies for quick
return investments. A program for the reform of the mining tax was
prepared and analyses of the mining investment law and the fiscal reserves
were carried out. Similarly, a blueprint was prepared for the
reorganization of the Agriculture Credit Bank (BAB) and reform of the
agricultural finance system. Studies were also prepared on pricing and
investment issues for agriculture and broader studies on constraints and
development options for the agriculture, transport, and energy sectors. A
study was also undertaken as a basis for overhauling public sector auditing
and procurement practices, some recommendations of which have been
adopted. Finally, Bank staff provided assistance to set up an orderly debt
data collection system and improve external debt management. Many of the
recommendations of these studies and reports are either in place or have
provided the bases for the current Government's stabilization and
structural reform program.
33.       The new economic policy provides a promising basis for resumption
of lending to Bolivia. Since Bolivia is not expected to become
creditworthy for Bank lending in the immediate future, the scale of the



- 10 -
future operational program will depend in large measure on the availability
of IDA financing. Assuming that concessional funds are available, we plan
a major effort to support the Government's economic program and,
accordingly, to rebuild our lending portfolio and pipeline, which has been
seriously depleted following the hiatus in lending since 1980. Our
assistance program would aim to strike a balance between policy-based and
other lending, with a substantial institution-building component. It would
be designed to assist the Government to achieve economic recovery and
establish the foundations for future growth. With Bank staff support, the
Government is currently defining a medium-term development program which
will elaborate on macroeconomic and sectoral policies and present priority
investment and financing plans. This will be presented to a planned
meeting of the Bolivian Consultative Group tentatively scheduled for
October 1986. More specifically, the objectives of Bank Group lending in
the immediate future would be to: (i) assist in sustaining the
implementation of the structural reform program and other adjustment
policies that would restore Bolivia's economy on the path of growth; (ii)
assist in the rehabilitation and reconstruction of the productive and
infrastructure support sectors; (iii) stimulate mining, agriculture,
agro-industrial, and hydrocarbon production to increase exports and achieve
efficient import substitution; and (iv) assist in the improvement of public
sector management and administration to enable the effective execution of
the economic reforms.
34.       Accordingly, the Bank Group's operational program will be
designed to support critical medium-term adjustment measures, both through
economic and sector work and individual lending operations. Following the
Reconstruction Import Credit, priority will be accorded to support for the
economic reform program through close monitoring and technical assistance,
with a further policy based operation tentatively planned for FY88. Both
sector work and lending are planned to support the restructuring of the
financial sector, now in disarray, essential for recovery of the mining,
manufacturing, and (to a lesser extent) agricultural sectors. Specific
policy measures will include rationalization of interest rates and a major
overhaul of the state-owned banking system. An institutional development
operation is being prepared to help strengthen financial management and
controls; support the development of more efficient systems of financial
intermediation both in the public and private sectors, streamline the
Government's budgetary, tax administration, cash and debt management
systems, and improve public sector accountability. Preparation is underway
for reconstruction and rehabilitation programs for COMIBOL and YPFB which
would include institutional and policy reforms to stimulate increases in
mining and hydrocarbons, respectively, and encourage joint ventures with
private sector investors, supported by three recently approved PPFs. Other
possible operations include a follow-up urban operation, transport and
power projects to redress the deterioration in the financial and operating
performance of ENFE and ENDE, and an agricultural credit cum extension
project. This tentative lending program will be reviewed in light of the
Government's mediumrterm recovery and structural reform program which will
be elaborated over the next six months.
35.       Because of the narrow scope for private investment, IFC became
active in Bolivia only in 1973 through an investment of US$400,000 in a



- 11 -
firm producing cables and plastic products. Two IFC 2.nvestments since
then have contributed to the establishment of a local market for long-term
securities; an equity participation of up to $550,000 in Banco Industrial
S.A. (BISA) to assist in financing medium-sized industrial and mining
enterprises, and US$337,500 in Banco Hipotecario Nacional to assist in the
development of mortgage banking. Annex II contains a summary statement of
the status of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments in Bolivia.
PART III - OIL AND GAS SECTOR
36.       Bolivia has large and well-diversified energy resources.  The
economically exploitable hydroelectric potential is estimated at 18,000 MW
of which only a small fraction has been developed. Proven natural gas
reserves in 1985 were sufficient to sustain output for over 40 years.
Proven reserves of liquid hydrocarbons (crude oil and condensates) are
limited by comparison, equivalent to 17 years of present production.
Ultimate reserves, especially for natural gas, are likely to be
significantly larger. Nearly half of the national territory is potentially
hydrocarbon bearing; only a small part of this area has so far been
partially explored.
37.       In 1984, net primary energy production reached 4.4 million tons
of oil equivalent (toe) derived mainly from natural gas (48Z), crude oil
and condensate (25%) and wood (21%). Energy resources and demand are not
well balanced. Crude petroleum accounts for less than 1X of identified
domestic resources but provided 57% of final energy consumption.
Conversely, natural gas, the largest energy resource, met only 12% of final
consumption.
38.       There has been petroleum exploration in Bolivia since the early
1900's, carried out mostly by international companies. 336 e7ploration
wells were drilled through 1984, with a discovery rate for each well of 1.3
million barrels of oil and condensate and 17.2 billion cubic feet of gas,
making Bolivia a minor oil producer. The sector developed rapidly in the
1960s and after a hiatus in 1969-70, oil output continued to rise about
6.5% per annum until it peaked in 1973 at 47,400 barrels per day (BD).
Thereafter, output failed to keep pace with current depletion because of
reduced public investment in petroleum and lack of major new discoveries.
Oil exports (which reached 32,500 BD in 1973) were reduced to Loot sales of
naphtha and gasoline after 1979. In 1985, oil production totalled 25,500
BD compared to the demand of 21,000 BD.
39.       Bolivia's fields are more gas than petroleum-prone; five of the
35 oil fields are marginal producers of oil, and the largest producer is in
fact a gas field. Black oil resources, on the other hand, are more
modest. At present, about 75% of total liquids production comes from
condensate, mostly by stripping gas of its liquid content. (The dry gas is
then sold to Argentina and locally). In 1982, under the Gas and Oil
Engineering Project (S-25), YPFB made the first new oil discovery in many
years, but this and the other finds in this period are relatively small.
Production of crude and condensate is expected to rise with the development
of newly discovered fields. But, even with this increase, liquid



- 12 -
production will decline in the long term again unless the present aged
fields are replaced.
40.       Private enterprise continues to play an active role in the oil
and gas subsector. The Government's policy for some time has been to rely
on foreign companies, in association with YPFB, to provide the bulk of risk
investment. The 1972 petroleum law postulates private sector participation
in exploration, development and production of hydrocarbons under
production-sharing contracts. A third of the area now contracted for oil
exploration rests with the private sector, mainly the Occidental Petroleum
and the Tesoro companies.  Shell is exploring the Beni basin in which it
recently applied to the Government for new acreage. The companies, who
bear all costs and risks, are guaranteed the right to retain foreign income
from their hydrocarbon sales, and YPFB is required to pay the contractors'
taxes. They share production from discoverLes with YPFB receiving 50-60%
of output. The Government awarded around 20 contracts from 1972 to 1982,
whose results have been disappointing, i.e., only 30 million barrels of
recoverable liquids have been discovered. Private companies nonetheless
are producing an increasing share of crude and condensate output, i.e. 24%
in 1985 compared to 112 of total production in 1979. In 1978, the
Government agreed to divide with the private sector the supply of gas
exports to Argentina so as to encourage the foreign firms to produce more
gas, and later promised them participation In future projected gas sales to
Brazil.  More recently, the Goverment has paid for oil from private
producers at the most commonly used benchmark in the trade (Arab Light
Crude), and, for gas, the private firms are paid the same border price as
YPFB (US$3.70 per MCF, equivalent to approximately US$20 per barrel of fuel
oil, less transportation charges).
41.       Natural gas development meanwhile has been expanding particularly
since the late 1970Ws when the private operators brought on stream fields
producing large volumes of gas. Gas production in 1985 reached 450 MMCFD,
largely determined by the need for the associated liquids. About half of
the output was exported with the remainder used locally and reinjected to
maintain reservoir pressure or to be stored because of insufficient
markets. Greater gas consumption will be needed to satisfy domestic energy
requirements and substitute for liquids to be exported.
42.       Domestic Demand.  Petroleum demand growth in the mid-1970's
averaged over 11Z per annum, but fell to less than 3.52 yearly in
1979-80 and has stagnated since. Demand is stable for lighter products
while LPG continued to grow fast. In order to promote the substitution of
gas for scarcer fuel oil, the Government is constructing a gas pipeline to
connect Santa Cruz, La Paz and Oruro. Petroleum product demand is
prolected in 1990 to be around 23-24,000 BD, assuming (i) relatively modest
recuperation of economic growth; (ii) declining elasticity of demand for
petroleum; and (iii) that natural gas will increasingly substitute for
industrial fuels. Increasing domestic petroleum prices and other
incentives for energy conservation should slow future domestic energy
demand and illegal exports.
43.       Exports.  Natural gas has displaced crude oil in Bolivia's
hydrocarbon exports (which provided about 60% of 1984 foreign exchange



- 13 -
earnings), largely through gas sales to Argentina made possible by the Gas
Pipeliae project (635-BO). These sales, based on a take-or-pay contract
extending to 1992, have recently been expanded while prices increased from
US$0.28/MCF in 1972 to US$3.70/MCF in 1986. The volume of gas exports
exceeded original expectations; and the pipeline was completed ahead of
schedule, below original cost estimates, and has been operating without
disruption. Under the project arrangements, an offshore trust account was
established to receive proceeds of the gas sales to Gas del Estado
(Argentina). It has served, as designed, for compensation of the 1969-70
Bolivian Gulf Oil nationalization; debt service to foreign lenders; and
YPFB's operational requirements. The arrangement worked well until 1982
when Argentina developed severe foreign exchange problems and Gas del
Estado fell behind on sales payments (although it has maintained timely
service on the Bank loan). Subsequently, the Governments of Bolivia and
Argentina concluded agreements to settle arrears on 1982-84 gas
deliveries, which were fully settled by early 1985. In addition, YPFB
ships LPG to Brazil under a sales agreement which originated in 1979. It
calls for LPG deliveries of 18,000 metric tons per year (tpy) but the
Brazilian authorities have taken all the LPG that could be exported.
Present sales arrangements provide for deliveries priced at US$255 per
ton. New bilateral agreements provide for increasing these sales to
100,000 tpy but growing Bolivian domestic demand and delays in developing
new gas fields have kept exports below that. The proposed project,
however, would increase the exportable surplus. For this reason, by June
30, 1987, YPFB would submit proposals to the Association for improving LPG
transport facilities in order to accommodate the increased volumes.
44.       The Governments of Brazil and Bolivia have long discussed
possibilities of the sale of 400 MMCFD of gas for the Sao Paulo area. With
the Association's assistance, appraisal drilling has established that
Bolivia has sufficient reserves for the planned exports to Brazil while
still meeting domestic needs. The two countries collaborated in the
prefeasibility and preliminary engineering study for a gas pipeline from
Santa Cruz to Sao Paulo (for which the Bank was executing agency) but
project implementation arrangements have not been developed, and the recent
fall in oil prices has affected the economics of the proposed line.
Development Strategy
45.       Bolivia's main objective in the oil and gas subsector is to
increase domestic output of liquids in order to maintain self-sufficiency
in petroleum supplies. If it fails to reverse the declining production,
the country could easily become a net oil importer, for which it lacks both
physical infrastructure and foreign e:xchange. To avoid this, the
Government invested some US$150 million in 1979-83 for development of gas
condensate fields and enhanced recovery at oil-producing fields, in
addition to exploring for additional oil reserves. It opened areas
previously reserved for state development to foreign oil companies and
assuLed them also a share in gas export markets. The Government aims to
manage petroleum products demand by improving pricing policies and to
encourage substituting LPG and natural gas for kerosene, diesel and fuel
oil. Also, the Government recognizes that Argentina is unlikely to seek to
maintain the existing level of Bolivian gas imports beyond 1992. On these
accounts, the Government has set as a major objective the identification of



- 14 -
new gas export markets, together with increased condensate production.
These objectives are consistent with the conclusions of the Bank's energy
assessment study ("BOLIVIA: Issues and Options in the Energy Sector," No.
4213-BO).
46.       This strategy is reflected in YPFB's tentative investment program
of US$511 million for 1985-88 which was prepared prior to the drop in oil
prices. The program is larger than has been achieved lately, although it
represents a considerable reduction over YPFB's initial plans in 1985. It
would have to be further reduced because of the Government's financial
difficulties; reduced oil prices and the high risk of exploration.
Exploration and development activities dominate the program but a large
part would be allocated to pipeline construction and other infrastructure.
It includes completing development of the important retrograde gas field at
Vuelta Grande, which the proposed project would help support and similar
low risk, high return gas projects. The Association, as well as YPFB's
management consultants, are now reviewing the content and priorities of the
program, as well as its funding. A major focus would be on reducing YPFB's
exploration in stratographic traps and associating itself instead with the
private sector in riskier technological ventures. Agreement was reached
during negotiations that, not later than 60 days before the start of each
fiscal year, YPFB will present its investment program for the subsequent
year to IDA for review and comment, and its proposed financing plan. This
review would be linked to the Bank Group's comprehensive assistance on the
mediumrterm development strategy (ref. para. 33). Also, any borrowing for
an investment project outside the financing plan of more than US$10 million
equivalent would require IDA approval.
47.       The Government plans to rely more on the private sector in the
future for expanded exploration and development of hydrocarbon resources.
There has already been some consideration of a possible new commitment by
Tesoro, which is discussing with the IFC the exploitation of several
oil/gas fields recently discovered in the Chaco. Private sector confidence
is recovering as the Government has moved to redress the previous uncertain
policy towards foreign oil firms and slow payments to the contractors, and
is permitting the latter to export their petroleum output. With Bank
assistance, the Government is reviewing its legislation regarding private
sector activities and considering opening joint ventures. As a followup,
assurances were obtained during negotiations that the Government would
consult annually with the Association on measures designed to expand
exploration and development including enhanced private companies' activity.
48.       In order to help the Government realize these goals, the
Association in March 1986 approved a US$500,000 PPF advance for preparation
of a proposed Hydrocarbon Development Project, which would finance studies
for: ti) new investments to increase domestic production (development of
the Escondido, San Roque, and Cascabel fields); (ii) elaboration of a more
comprehensive sector strategy; and (iii) examination of improved incentives
for private investment promotion and joint venture schemes.
49.       Petroleum Pricing.  In the past, there had been a need for major
policy changes in Bolivia to correct the inappropriate pricing of energy
resources. The Governments throughout most of the 1970's and early 1980's
kept internal petroleum prices low. As a result, exploration drilling
declined and few new fields were discovered. Energy demand increased
faster than GDP during the 1970's without the required incentives for



- 15 -
conservation and fuel substitution. The distortion also encouraged
unofficial petroleum exports, undermined YPFB's financial position, and led
to costly consumer subsidies of petroleum products. By the end of 1983,
petroleum prices for the composite barrel were about US$17.60 at the
official rate and about US$4.40 at the parallel rate (or about 14% of
international prices).
50.       To correct these distortions, recent administrations have moved
to realign domestic petroleum prices more closely with international and
regional levels. Throughout 1984-85, there were substantial increases,
following discussions with the Association on the advisability of raising
the composite barrel's price, in connection with advancing the proposed
project. The current authorities did so in October 1985, increasing the
composite barrel's price above international levels and pegged it to the
US$. This price was increased from US$17.71 equivalent in April 1985 to
US$36.60 equivalent in March 1986 when international prices were US$20.50.
This large differential has considerably reduced unauthorized exports and
domestic market demand. The Government plans further adjustments and has
expressed its intention to maintain suitable petroleum prices. In this
connection, assurances were obtained during negotiations that the
Government would maintain average petroleum prices at least at
international levels in US$ terms, and discuss annually with the
Association the relationship between international and domestic prices.
51.       Role of the Bank Group.  The Bank Group's involvement in the
sector has been oriented towards supporting Government efforts to obtain
more appropriate product pricing and ensure a more balanced public vis a
vis private sector development of hydrocarbon resources. Past activities
have concentrated on improving the data on Bolivia's reserves, and defining
a better strategy for utilization of these resources in the Bank's energy
assessment study. In addition, the Bank has also helped to focus the
Government's attention on maintaining YPFB's competence and favorable
climate for private companies in the petroleum field, as it did initially
by facilitating the compensation agreement covering the nationalization of
Gulf's fields. The Bank has also been working with both Bolivia and Brazil
on the proposed gas pipeline project as well as the extension of their
bilateral LPG sales contract.
52.       The proposed project is a priority investment identified by the
energy assessment study to meet domestic fuel demand and expand gas
exports. Moreover, the proposed credit is designed to support efforts by
YPFB to promote a better balance between liquids and gas production in the
development of the sector, and establishes the basis for annual reviews of
the sector investment program with the Government. It also would
contribute to strengthening YPFB's scarce technical staff and auditing,
which should help to increase the company's efficiency and effectiveness.
Further, the proposed project would serve as a basis for continuing the
policy dialogue with the authorities, particularly concerning sector
planning; petroleum product pricing; gas utilization, including regional
cooperation in gas projects; and encouragement of private sector
contributions to oil and gas development. It would complement the Bank
Group's present technical assistance on YPFB's organization (ref. para. 54)
and Bolivia's private sector framework (ref. para. 47).



- 16 -
Institutional Setting
53.       The Minister of Energy and Hydrocarbons (HEH) is responsible for
energy planning and policies and regulates the exploration, exploitation,
industrialization and use of energy resources. MEH supervises the
operations of YPFB and the private oil companies active in Bolivia.
Petroleum product pricing is decided by MEH. In the past, the absence of
an overall energy development plan and frequent changes in the
administration have impaired MEH's functions and deterred the development
of policies and programs to meet energy sector requirements. The new
Government is committed, however, to develop a national energy plan by end
1986.
54.       YPFB.  The state-owned Yacimientos Petroliferos Fiscales
Bolivianos, as the sole petroleum concession holder, is responsible for
hydrocarbon exploration, production, transportation, pipeline construction
and operation, refining and distribution as well as imports and exports.
It contracts operations with foreign oil companies. YPFB is well
experienced in all phases of the oil industry, and produces the bulk of
Bolivia's oil and gas output. The present Government has decided to re-iiew
YPFB's operations, investment program and scope of activities so as to
improve its efficiency, which the Bank is assisting as executing agency of
a UNDP project. Consultants examined reorganization alternatives in
November 1985; a more comprehensive study is now underway. The Bank is
also advising the company on gas strategy, and has assisted YPFB on the
company's insurance coverage. Assurances were obtained during negotiations
that the Government will carry out a study on the operations and efficiency
of YPFB by June 30, 1987, and present this to the Association for review
and comment by September 30, 1987 together with a plan and timetable for
achieving efficiency improvements.
55.       YPFB has generally been a well managed company and adequately
staffed with highly trained and experienced professionals. In recent
years, though, YPFB's management deteriorated and it lost many of its best
engineers and geologists. Several department heads have been removed in
the last several years for political reasons, while the erosion of salaries
led others to shift to private companies. The company will need to redress
their loss. Accordingly, YPFB has agreed to carry out a study of its staff
compensation policies by December 31, 1986; to present IDA by March 31,
1987 an action plan which would be initiated by June 30, 1987. In
addition, lack of foreign exchange has impaired YPFB's ability to finance
essential imports and has required the use of makeshift substitutes with
some loss of efficiency. This will be lessened by the provision of US$11
million under the Reconstruction Import Credit for the spare parts,
equipment and materials needed to increase production and ensure continued
operation and maintenance of producing wells, processing plants,
refineries and pipelines.
56.       YPFB's budgeting and accounting system is adequate and complies
with standard industry practices. Its computerized system effectively
monitors income and expenditures in the main profit and cost centers; the
accounts and material coding systems are good and are well usee. YPFB's
internal audit unit audits all departments and cost/profit centers except
the Materials Department which has its own internal auditor. Overall,



- 17 -
YPFB's external and internal auditing practices are satisfactory, but the
latter would be improved by incorporating the regular auditing of the
Materials Department. YPFB has agreed to do so.
Financial Aspects
57.       YPFB's net income was modest in the late 1970's, because of low
domestic prices but it has since improved largely as a result of gas
exports to Argentina. These enabled the company to finance about a third
of its US$440 million investment program in 1979-83 from internal cash
generation. Its net income compared to sales increased from 4% in 1979 to
over 25% in 1983, but then fell to 19% of sales in 1984.
58.       YPFB's financial condition as measured by the quick ratio
(current assets excluding inventories divided by current liabilities) has
improved considerably, rising from 0.7 in 1979 to 1.4 more recently.
YPFB's long-term debt/equity ratio also has been improving (48/52 in 1979,
20/82 in 1982, 14/86 in 1984). The situation however is not entirely
satisfactory since the Government's foreign exchange shortage has limited
YPFB's ongoing operations, and the company has had difficulties collecting
its gas export receivables from Argentina.  Also, YPFB's statements are
somewhat misleading since there has not been suitable monetary correction;
in addition, local costs and revenues were distorted by the overvalued
exchangr rate.
59.       For the period 1986-1990, the projections show that YPFB should
remain in good financial condition, mainly as a result of the Government's
petroleum pricing policy. This should increase its income from domestic
sales from about US$146 million in 1983 (28% of total income) to about
US$326 million by 1990 (52%), and permit YPFB to pay substantial dividends
to the Government. Cash generation is expected to exceed US$100 million
per year through 1991 although YPFB's funds are presently tight because, in
order to sustain the stabilization program, the company has prepaid taxes
equal to 73% of domestic and 70% of export sales this year, and the
Government is now also restricting YPFB's access to its cash balances. The
financial ratios also are projected to remain strong with debt service
coverage exceeding 2 for every year, the current ratio remaining above 2
and the quick ratio above 1.1. The debt/equity ratio is expected to
increase slightly but not to exceed 35/65. Moreover, although YPFB's
investment plans call for a large increase, about 45% of its proposed
outlays relate to IDB-assisted operations and the proposed IDA-financed
Vuelta Grande project. To ensure sound financing of the investment
program, assurances were obtained during negotiations that the Government
would enable YPFB to maintain debt service coverage of 2.0, a long-term
debt/equity ratio of 40:60 and a quick ratio of 1.1.
60.       Experience with Past Lending.  The Bank Group's past support to
the sector totalling US$39.3 million, began with the 1971 loan (635-BO) for
construction of the gas pipeline to Argentina. As noted above, the project
was successful and its benefits far exceeded the original expectations
(ref. Project Performance Audit Report No. 593, dated December 13, 1974).
In February 1980, IDA approved a US$16 million Credit to finance a Gas and
Oil Engineering Project which led to the confirmation of 1.6 TCF of
recoverable gas reserves, initiation of secondary oil recovery in the
Monteagudo field and delineation of the Vuelta Grande reservoir, the field
with Bolivia's largest reserve of liquid hydrocarbons.



- 18 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
61.       The proposed project emerged from the identification of the
aforementioned prospects of developing the Vuelta Grande gas reservoir
economically. In order to help realize these prospects, the Bank's Project
Preparation Facility advanced US$1.0 million in March 1981 for a gas
recycling simulation study, basic and detailed design studies, and the
preparation of bidding documents for a gas processing plant. The proposed
Vuelta Grande project was appraised in December 1980 and the first round of
negotiations took place in Washington from April 28 to May 1, 1981.
Further project processing was then delayed, however, by the deterinration
of economic conditions in Bolivia. The project was reappraised in March
1985 and was re-negotiated on May 14-19, 1986. The Staff Appraisal Report
'Bolivia - Vuelta Grande Gas Recycling Project," No. 3385-BO dated June 4,
1986 is being circulated separately to the Executive Directors. A
supplementary project data sheet is presented in Annex III.
Project Objectives and Description
62.       The proposed project would help exploit an important gas
condensate field and thus enable YPFB to produce considerable additional
liquid fuels and LPG.  At its peak, annual product_..on would provide about 2
million barrels of condensate (about one quarter of Bolivia's annual
petroleum product needs) and 1 million barrels of LPG, together worth about
US$35 million in depressed April 1986 prices. The condensate would be used
locally to help avert domestic shortages of petroleum while the LPG output
would enable Bolivia in 1987 to almost triple the volume of export sales to
Brazil last year. The experience of carrying out these works would advance
Bolivia's technology in gas recycling and secondary oil recovery. The
Government's agreement to maintain adequate petroleum product pricing would
expand production so as to enable the private sector to export more output,
and encourage their further investment. In addition, the proposed Credit
would help advance a project which would have a major impact on Bolivia's
balance of payments. The Association's participation therefore would help
improve the Government's capacity to service its external accounts and thus
facilitate Bolivia's renewed access to normal commercial credit.
63.       The project would complete the development of the Vuelta Grande
retrograde gas condensate field through the drilling of 6 wells (2
production and 4 injection), the installation of a gas processing plant,
and the laying of gathering lines and injection lines. In Vuelta Grande,
all liquid hydrocarbons exist in gas form in the reservoir and appropriate
reservoir pressure must be maintained in order to permit condensate
production by recycling dry gas into the reservoir. Field conditions are
suitable to recycle gas over a twenty year period, allowing recovery of
more than 23 million barrels of condensates and nearly 1 million tons of
LPG (11 million barrels equivalent). After the recoverable liquids have
been extracted during the recycling period, the reservoir would enter a 10
year "blow down" period, i.e. gas would b' -roduced at the rate of 120
MMCFD (without re-inJection) and shipped f --norts or domestic demand.
The gas processing plant would have a desib         ity of recycling 90 MMCFD
which a review of the reservoir model indicate      - field could sustain.
Ultimate recoverable gas reserves are estimated aL 8 TCF of gas. Should



- 19 -
a sizeable gas demand develop (possibly by implementation of the gas
pipeline to Brazil), it would also be possible to stop recycling of gas
after, for example, 10 years and instead to begin exporting 120 MMCFD of
gas. This alternative would increase project benefits but for purposes of
project appraisal, the more conservative 20 year recycling alternative has
been taken.
64.       Implementation.  Project preparation of Vuelta Grande is well
advanced. The 15 wells already drilled have established the gas water
contact, confirmed the fault lines and defined the extension of the field.
Intercomp (USA) prepared a preliminary reservoir engineering study based on
the results of the first wells and later a more detailed reservoir
simlation study. Basic and detailed engineering of the gas recycling and
LPG plants were prepared in 1983 by Trentham Corporation (USA), financed
under the aforementioned PPF. In June 1983, YPFB inaugurated a pilot plant
at Vuelta Grande which is now producing 24 MMCFD of gas and producing 1,200
BD of condensate. Additional wells are to be brought on stream, increasing
the output to 2,000 BD. The operating data to date increase the confidence
in the project. The project is expected to be completed by December 1988.
To help meet this target, YPFB has agreed to establish a project account
that should ensure the continuing availability of domestic funds for
project expenses, in conjunction with a US$2.0 million Special Account to
be financed by the Credit.
65.       YPFB would carry out the project with the further assistance of
Trentham Corporation consultants. A Project Unit has been created to
coordinate execution and start-up of the project; it is headed by a project
coordinator who reports to YPFB's Production Manager. Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that the qualifications and experience of the
Project Coordinator and the Unit's geologists, engineers and accountants
shall remain satisfpctory to the Association. In addition, YPFB would
consult with the Association before removing any member of the unit during
project execution.
Cost Estimates and Financing Plan
66.       The total estimated cost of the remaining works to be completed
is US$47.8 million (exclusive of taxes and duties from which the project is
exempt) with a foreign exchange component of US$31.8 million. This
estimate excludes the US$47 million of investments YPFB has already
incurred for exploration, field development and the gas plant. The project
cost calculations, based on December 1985 prices, include physical
contingencies of 10%. Price escalation has been calculated on the basis of
7.2% for 1986, 6.8% in 1987 and 1988 and 7.0% in 1989 for imported
components. The proposed IDA Credit of US$15.0 million would cover 47% of
the remaining foreign exchange component and less than a third of total
estimated financing requirements. This financing share is considered
justified by the Government's lack of access to alternative foreign
exchange sources, and YPFB's previous project expenditures. YPFB would
meet the US$16.8 million balance of the foreign exchange costs from a
combination of US$6.0 million of counter-trade arrangement proceeds from
the Government of Argentina, mainly for equipment for the gas plant system
and well drilling, and the rest from the revenues of gas sales. It would
also cover all local currency expenditures.



- 20 -
67.       US$1 million of the Credit would reimburse the Association for
the PPF advance (see para. 61) provided for the preparation of the
project. YPFB would receive the proceeds of the proposed Credit for
repayment in 12 years (including 3 years of grace) at an interest rate of
9.5%, and would carry the foreign exchange risk on the Credit. A condition
of effectiveness of the proposed Credit would be the signature of a
subsidiary agreement between the Government and YPFB, satisfactory to the
Association.
Procurement and Disbursement
68.       The proposed Credit would finance (a) services for drilling 2 of
the remaining 6 wells to be completed; (b) equipment, spare parts and
materials for the gas processing plant; and (c) engineering services to
prepare equipment specifications, tender documents, and supervise reservoir
engineering and the assembly and construction of the plant. About 61% of
the goods and services provided by the Credit would be procured under
international competitive bidding procedures, in accordance with Bank
guidelines. Of the balance, about US$5.5 million worth of goods and
services would be procured through limited international tendering. Only a
small number of companies offer the services needed for the Vuelta Grande
wells, such as electrical logging, cementing, and well testing, estimated
to cost US$2.4 million. The modification of three existing compressors
which would be used in the gas plant is estimated to cost US$2.0 million.
Procurement of materials that are highly specialized and in limited
international cupply is estimated to cost US$1.1 million; individual bid
packages for these goods are estimated to cost less than US$250,000.
Bidding documents for items costing more than US$250,000 would be approved
by the Association before issuance. Advance contracting of US$2.2 million
is proposed to cover the foreign cost of the ongoing consulting services
for the gas plant (which was started under the PPF), and long lead items
for the gas plant. It is recommended that retroactive financing be
permitted for the engineering services, subject to an aggregate maximum of
US$500,000. In order to help lessen the delays which have obstructed the
execution of previous Bank Group operations, assurances were obtained
during negotiations that all items to be procured for completion of the
proposed project would be procured by YPFB under procedures acceptable to
the Association, and purchases would be reviewed solely by the Ministries
of Finance and Energy. These provisions are to be incorporated in a
procurement manual, satisfactory to the Association, whose ratification
would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed Credit.
Project Benefits and Risks
69.       Since project implementation is advanced (the field has been
operating with a pilot plant for several years), the benefits of
incremental investments are high while the risks are smaller than they
would normally be. The price of oil and the capital cost are the key
variables In the analysis of benefits which does not consider the
incremental natural gas production for export that would begin in the 21st
year. The calculation assumed a constant well head price for condensate of
US$12 per barrel in real terms (equivalent to US$10/barrel of oil), one
third of the present retail price for petroleum products. The analysis



- 21 -
also assumed a US$20 per barrel CIF cost for projected import substitution,
with the difference reflecting Bolivia's limited import infrastructure. On
the basis of these factors, with YPF's past investments considered as sunk
costs, the wbase case" analysis shows the project yielding an economic rate
of return of 60% and financial benefits of 44%. A sensitivity analysis
indicates that, even under adverse conditions, the rates of return would
remain satisfactory. Moreover, even if the cost of imported oil fell to as
low as US$6 per barrel, the project would still have a satisfactory ROR
(ERR 28.1%, FRR 11.9%) under the sunk cost assumption. Further, the
project would generate substantial foreign exchange benefits from increased
LPG export returns and averting the cost of crude imports, amounting to the
equivalent of about 6% of current exports. The project would also provide
important unquantifiable technical and institutional benefits.
70.       Project Risks.  The drilling done to date at Vuelta Grande
establishes a high degree of confidence in the recoverable reserve
estimates although technical risks are inherent and reservoir behavior can
never be fully predicted. Another risk is that YPFB may find itself unable
to halt and reverse the loss of qualified technical personnel; this issue
is addressed through the elaboration of a program to strengthen the
stability of the technical staff. Further, YPFB should have no major
difficulties in meeting its project financing requirements and the proposed
grace period would require debt repayment to begin well after the project
is expected to enter into full production (mid-1988).
71.       Execution of the project might be impaired if the Government
could not sustain the implementation of the economic program or pursued
policies which would hinder the attainment of its objectives. There is
only a meager availability of foreign exchange and the serious lack of
qualified middle-level managers and technicians to implement the reforms.
Bolivia has shown, however, marked determination and commitment to pursue
the NEP, and the INF program and possible increased aid commitments from
other sources should alleviate the external financing constraint.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
72.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
June , 1986



-22-AN.
P8ag 1 of 6
201*1.                   1096.5~~~M  1096.5     1096.4                                    01RAKS
NM3T *1UC OL. U')
AGR1WLURAL.                        301.0      291.        303.4
ormcurii  (o)                       ...                   10.0             6873.9                   214.4.3
(xuLooRAn  oF OIL  UIVALW)         123.0      113.0       22.0              9.                       119.8
POPOllamm ~ ~ ~ ~     ~     ~      ~     ~     ~    ~     x Ax TIliilgn
Pw.     am l ms
P0N1ATI06,U5-UhL  (U5311m3)   3421.0         4325.0       034*.0
SURM P(UILATMOIL  OP 1U AL)         34.0       404.        43.1              67.7                      471 .
POAulOW P33M10
POPUI.A2  IN 23I*3 2000 (WILL)                            9.0
Az lmy POPUfLATO  CXILW                                  22.0
POPUIrZ  XU3II3                                           ..9
POLATo DEWITT
FlS sQ. M.                         3.1        3.9         1.3               40.0 o4.7
PII I. IN. AoL?. LAND             11.4        15.3       19.3               91.1                    145.9
ProUTA    An 32C13  (X)
0-14 Yu                          41.9       43.7        53.4               36.3                     31.2
u5-4  nI                          54.5       52.9        3.3                57.1                     51.5
3 me Alan                          33         3.3         3.2               4.2                       7.2
POILATZUM 0IN11 RATS2 (2)
TOTAL                              2.1        2.3         2A.                2.4                      1.5
33313                              1.1        4.1         3.3               32.                       34
C1l33 1993 am  CPU Ts300)           4.4        '.5 3       43.4               30.9                     234
ca      n 332  3t3 PER TOWN)        22.2       19.3        14.0 o. *.9
*-OS SIMOCTUIII 3*23                 34         3.2         3.0                2.0                      1.
FAMILY PLANING
4MP0h. 4334. (..0..)..                                                        .                        _
CZ r,0          o      E           ..         ..         2.0               453.
rman        - ona
10  or NM0 ru. MU CAPIA
( 149-71.100)                       93.0      101.0        70.0              109.A                    109.1
PU CAIPXtA uUrn. OVP
CALCles (C o0 3331323)            75.0       53.0        90.0              113.2                    131.5
-illS (Cm   PUX DAZ)             49.0        50.0        57.0                9.4                     92.A
0r MIl ANIM1AL AND PU            15.0        14.0       13.0 IX            3O.2                     34.
011  (AM   -) OLAl 3M               41.         32.A        1.0                4.6                      4.?
NULU
LIE  mP=t. AT SIlST (231)           42.7       43.9        31.0               64a                      57.2
1176T MM. RA*2  (rU 23s)           167.0      134.3       123.0              39.7                      33.3
ACCtSS T0 541 MAYU (%p0W)
TOMAL                              *-        33.0        37.0 /a            43.3                     70.2
33IUU1                             ..        92.0        69.0              75.5                      39A
33311.                             ..         2.0        10.0               44.2                     57.0
ACC TO SEC     DIUSOSAL
(t 0o POPUATIU)
TOTAL                              ..         12.0       1.OA              3M.3                      59.6
g3as"                              ..        25.0        37.0               73.5                     55.9
AL                                 ..         4.0         4.e0 7?           25.3                     47.5
POPULAlON *PtI P1(SI9XA*          3630.0     2020.0         ..              1909.7                   1070
POP. P1U USIG   30                510.0o      Ln0.0         ..                0.2                     70.5
POp. PU UOSPIAL 333
TOTAL                            570.0      430.0         .3. 32.0                                  36.3
UUSD                            270.0      230.0  -2..                      2.0                    201.
123AL                          9160.0      2030.0         ..               71.7.                   4519.7
*         A3SSSIS Pwn    HOMOSPI TAL           ..          ..         ..                27.5                     20.0
AV3ACI SIZE OP  OIIWILD
TOTAL                              ..          ..         4.4 /*
SUDN                      .           ...7;
lUlAL                              ..          ..         * J 7              .*.
AWU=  N0. or P3soNiUOO.
TOTAL                              ..          ..
533*3..                               ..         ..                 ..                       ..
RL                                 ..         ...
P1E1311AC  OF OIELi-u  513 ELECT.
TOaAL                             22.0/I      ..         33.o /
Ein                               76A 7t      ..
L*                                 SA07f      ......



23 -                                      A          I
Page 2 of 6
J2IJVUi                - IOMAL INZIMqA cuIKNU   AvDAI) t
ICITIDDI INCOM                          M DD. l   c
i,.oLk     i97Af    =ThaL          LAT. AWIuArc  6a              EUAOP
ADJUSTE  IIIMAMLN  MATXOS                                                    106.7                     101.9
IPIDUIAI     TOTAL                64.0       76.0        56.0               0.162
HAZE             ~~~71.0     91.0        93.010.102
VuIIL                  30.0        62.0       76.0              104.6                      97.5
SIJWMAXf. TOTAL                  12.0        24.0       34.0               44.2                      57.5
MALI             ~~~~~13.0   28.0        3'.0              42.7                      64.9
FImuz                   9.0        20.0        31.0              "4.                       30.0
vocATIONA  (I0 aIICSolIDAI          13.7        11.3        ..13.3                                      21.0
PUPIL-TIASIER RATIO
rI mA!                            27.0       27.0        23.0               29.9                      23.1
SICODA!?     713.0                    14.0                          16.7                      19.1
ppAUUUU   Sf S11OUSA      P          2.0        4.         3.                 46.0                      54.2
MMIL VITWSA   POP0                          28.           : 0              *a.                      U.
RADIO Uc111333/U0U3AIS POP  72.7   92.9       575               321.3                     170.7
TV C                            ,1h3fA1D Po1             59.6              112.4                     149.3
iutIazsTn  CIRCULATION                                                                                  7.
ru Tc_US_ P'IULATI                 26.1                   46.3                1.1                       .0
CNMA MWAL At DU         70rWCAP                             3.7 IL             2.4                       2.7
TOAL LANKO0    CTHUU)             1193.0      1413.0     1916.0
IiiwU    Cl'1)                    18.6        19.8       22.7               23.6                      36.3
*AOIICL7.1J  (C1nT)               61.0       55.4        49.7 7i            31.4                      40.8
IEUSTR  (EUTM                     16.1        21.1       24.2               24.3                      23.3
pAarxCIPATI  am  CUcuIT)
TOTAL                             34.9        32.7       31.5               33.3                      43.1
57.3       5331        50.1 1 3                                    35.1
iRNi                              12.8        12:       141               1539                      31.4
IcOiUKC oU     UC! R10               I.3         1.4        1.5                1.3                       0.9
Pma9   or PR1VATE Du
IcuV2D w
R1 - 35    01 o IsIOIIS            .          36.0 J      ..
K-TIM 24S OF NEUSIS                .          3 59.0
LOsU     2I Z  O0 o ISU            ..         *.o. 4.0
LOOIS *t 0?  UShO  W                          13.0        ..
MrMA      SOIXT  PWRS  
EsTIAMAD RWATIV   POUNIST I30
LEML CSS MA CAIA)
a                                  ..          ..         ..               519.J
SRfAL                              ..          ..         ..               359.7
ZSTIIWD POM. BMW ABIOLUTI
PovrTY IOmX   LIIL (C)
UUAM                               ..          ..         .                   ..
DAL                                ..          ..       ',                    ..
N OTIS
Ia  Yb. ra  awae  for *eeh Inteaor *rm pepalal.o.- ce l5bteI        ttutc _-e    C.vermo couree
sg the tadlcater. deoedsen avallaUIty of data _a  s eoe umfor
/b   Unles otbazrs  noted  Dta fer 1iO  refor to *~  er betwee  1939 nd191; Dta for 1970" betwee
1969 ad  1971; md dat; for "Im  laea  lalae" bat_s  1981 a_d 1b63.*-
jc   1977; Id 1960; /- 1976; /f 1963;L   99;j         1979;p    h om,
JUNl. 1953



-24-                                                   ANNEX I
Page 3 of 6
DEFINITmONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Noim: AsJs. die data madradmwn frm usom genely judge the mat autho nutve and elible. at should aso be noted that they my not be mntermuon lly
comparable becaue af the lackt of standdize  dednaltona and concepts uaed bv dilferent countrm in collecing the data. The datis are. nonethe    uehfd to
*descnbe order of magnitude indidote trends. and churattenze certan major diferences between countries.
The feference gnrouparellA   the san country groupof the iubiect country and III Aacuryi group with somewhit higherAverge income than theco_uny
groupoet hesubjectcounstrytexc.ptor frHih Income oil Exponers" roupvhere -MiddleIncomeNorth Afnc and MiddleEast"aschosen becaeusofstronger
cia.culturnt .ifimuMsL In Lhe reterence group data the aerAges are population weighted anthmetic means iar ecath .nidicator And ,hown only when majority
afthe coumnes in a group has data for thit indicator Sinie the cover.age oicouatris among the indicatonr dependsondtheialadbility ofdata and is not uniform.
caution mug be esercstl in relaung averags ulonc indicatwr w anothcr. These averages am only useful t cumparing the value ofonc indiawr at a time anang
the country and reference groups
AREA (thousand sq.kin.)                                            Crude Iirth RaIe yper thuscaudj-N umber of live births in the year
Total-Total surface area comprising land Area And inland waters:  per thousand of' mid-year population: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                         Crude Deatr Rate (per troiemdJ-Number of deaths in the year
Agflcuhural-'Estimate of agricultural area used temporarily or     per thousand of mid-year population: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
permanently for crops. pastures. market and kitchen gardens or to  Gross Reproduction Rate-Average number of daughters a woman
lie fallow. 1960. 1970 and 1982 data.                              will bear in her normal reproductive perioc if she experiences
present age-specific fertility rates: usually fiv--year averges ending
GNP PER CAPITA (UISS)-GNP per capita estimates at current         in 1960. 1970. and 1983.
market pnces. calculated by same conversion method as Vorild       Famiy lani-,4cepturs. Annua (shosud.  -Annual num-
Baaic .4rlas 11981-83 basis); 1983 data.                           ber of acceptors of birth-control devices under auspices of national
ENERGY CONSUMPTION  PER CAPITA-Annual apparent                     family planning program.
consumption of commercial primary energy icoal and lignite.        Family Plarnuing-Usen r(percnt of mried iawoe e)-The percen-
petroleum. natural gas and hydro-. nuclear and aeothermal clec-   tage of mamed women of child-bearing age who are practicing or
tncty; in kilograms of oil equivalent per capita; 1960. 1970. and  whose husbands are practcing any form of contraception. Women
1982 data                                                         of child-beanng agte are generallv women aged 15-49. although for
some countnes contraceptive usage is measured for other age
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTlCS                                   groups.
otalA Population. Alid-Year (thousamitu-As of July 1: 1960. 1970.  FOOD AND NUTRRMON
and 1983 data.
PoplaJRatio o' urban to tota  IndexofFood Pdution Per Capita t1969-7l-a 100)-Inde of per
(ia-baa Population (pa-ernast of reta" J-Rauo o  uroan            capita annual production of a11 rood commodities. Production
population: ditferent defintions of urban areas may atTect compar-  excludes animal reed and seed for agriculture. Food commodities
abIlity of data among countries. 1960. 1970. and 1953t data.       include primary commodities le.g. sugarcane instead of sugar)
Population P,.j,a.,                                                which are edible and contain nutrients (e.g. coffee and tea are
Population in vear 2000-The projction of populauon for 2000.      excluded): they comprise cereals root crops. pulses. otl seeds.
made for cach economy separately. Starting with information on     vegetables, fruits, nuts. suarcane and sugar bects. livestock, and
total population bv age and sex. rertilitv rates. mortalitv rates. and  livestock products. Aggregate production of each country is based
intemational migration in che base year 1980. these parameters     on national avenge producer price weights; 1961465. 1970. and
were projected at five-year intervals on the basis of generalized  1982 dat.
assumptons until the population became stationary.                 Per Caj*a Supply of Calies (percent ofrefiremenr-Comput-
Stationary populurion-ls one an which age- and sex-specific mor-   ed from calorie equivalent of net food supplies available in country
tality raes have not changed over a long period. while age-specific  per capita per day. Availabie supplies comprise domestic produc-
fertility rates have simultaneously remained at replacemnent level  tion. imports less exports. and changes in stock. Net supplies
I net reproduction rte - I 1. In such a population. the birth rate is  exclude animal feed. seeds for use in agnculture. quantities used in
constant and equal to the death ratc, the agc structure is also   food processing. and losses in distribution. Requirements were
constanL and the growth rate is zero. The stationary population    estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for normal activity
size was estimated on the basis of the projected characteristics of  and health considering environmental temperature. body weights.
the population in the year 2000. and the rate of decline of fertility  age and sex distnbution of population. and allowing 10 percent for
rate to replacemt level.                                           waste at household lev'1: 1961. 1970 and 1982 dat.
PIpidazon .Uomenrurm-ls the tendencv for population growth to      Per Capita Supply of Arorei (gra    per dy)-Protein content of
continue bevond the time that replacementlevel fertility has been  per capita net supply of food per day. Net supplv of food is defined
achieved: that Is. even after the net reproduction rate has reached  as above. Requirements for all countrnes establshed by USDA
unity. The momentum of a populaton in the vear r is measured as    provide for minimum allowances of 60 grams of total protein per
a rauo of the ultimate stationary populaton to the populauon in    day and 20 grams of animal and pulse protein. of which 10 grams
the year r. givenr the assumption that fertility remains at replace  should be animral protein. These standards are lower than those of
ment level from year t onward. 1985 data.                          75 grms of total protean and 23 grams of anim31 promin as an
Populaion Density                                                 average for the world. proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per sq.km.-Mid-year populauon per square kilometer t 100 hec-     Supply: 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
tares) of total area 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.                    Per Capita Prwein Supply Fron Anima and Pu-Proten supply
Per sqJtm. agriculzrural and-Computed as above for agricultural   of food derived from animals and pulses n grams per day: 1961-65.
land only. 1960. 1970. and 1982 data.                              1970 and 1977 data.
Popaion Age Stnaer  (perceat--Children 10-14 yearsl. work-         0did (ages 1I-4 Dearh Rate (per rhoarsad)-Number ofdeaths of
ingagetl5-64vears).andretired 65vearsandoveriaspercentage         children aged 1-4 years per thousand children in the same age
of mid-vear population: 1960. 1970. and 1983 dtam.                 eroup in a given vear. For most developing countries data derived
from life tables: 1960. 1970 and 1983 data
PoPulto Growt Rae (pmernjoalAnnual growth rates o1
total rmd-year population for 1950-60. 1960-0. and 1970-83.        HEALTH
Populto  Growth Rare (percennt-rbian-Annual growth races           Life Ezperaay at Birth (years-Number of years a newborn
of urban population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and I97083 data.         infant would live if prevailing patterns of mortaiity for all people



- 25 -                                              ANNEX E
Page 4 of 6
at the tme of of igs birth wee to say te same throughout its life.  Pup-reache Ratio - prnav. and mcodarv-Total students ca.
1960. 1970 and 19113 data,                                     rolled an pnmary and secondary lvels divided by numbers of
oeMt mwfra       w Ren per thmoad)-Nurnber of infants who die    teaces in the corresponding levels.
before reaching one year of age per thousand live births in a given
yar 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                  CONSUMPTION
4cew, ro SWfe War (percst of peprulaom)--t.al. urn . and       Passener Car (per thousand peprlesriou,-Passenger cm com-
r* ul-Number of people ItoaL urban. Atd natal) with rcasonable  pnse motor cars seating less than eight person;: excludes a.mbul-
access to safe water supply lindludes treated surface waters or  ances. hearses and military vehicles.
untreated but uncontammnated water such as that from protected  Radio Rwiweir  (per thousand pepaldarin-AII tvpes of receivers
borehols. srnngs and sanitay welisl as percentages of their Lpec-  for radio broadcasts to general public per thousand of population:
tive populations. In an urban area a public rountain or standpost  excludes un-licensed receivers in countnes and in vears when
located iot more than 200 mcters from a house may be considered  registmuon of radio ss was m  ect data tor ce.t years nay
1s being within reasonable access of that house. In mrau areas n re      ompradio sets was cnes ata ishec   yas  may
sonable accs  would imply that the housewi or members of       not be comparable sice mast countries abolshed licensng.
housilhold do not have wo spend a disproportionate part of the d  TVRecewr (per rhusadpepuparii-Tv  xrcevers for broadcast
in fetching the family's water needs                           to general public per thousand populanoni excludes unlicensed TV
.recevers in countnes and in years when registration of TV ses was
Access re Ezcrter Divposal percejar of p.paneeto-eu,raL   r.   in effect.
and rau-Number of people (total. urban. and rural) served by
eacreta disposal as perentages of ther respective populations.  'p'   CircraOJn (per rthusand pepuitdon-Shows the aver-
Excrea disposal may include the collection and disposal, with or  age circulation of daaly general interest newspaper.- defined as a
without treatment of human excreta and waste-water by water-   penodical publication devoted pnmanly to recording general news
borne sstmems or the use of pit privies and similar installauons.  It is considered to be 'dailyv if it a pears at [lst four tunes a week.
Pbopie. per P*isian-Populauon divided bv number of prac-       Ciem    Anua .4trendace per Capita per Year-Based on the
using physicians qualified from a medical school at umversity level.  number of tickets sold durine the year. including admissions to
Popalelb per Niming Person-Flpulation divided by number ot     drve-an cnemas and  iobale unts.
practicing male and female graduate nurses. assistant nurses,  LABOR FORCE
pracical nurses and nursing auxiliaries.lORFOC
Spmacai purm and nursingl auxruor.                             Total Latb  Force Ithousanduj-Economicallv active persons. in-
(totaL urban. and nual) divided by oa enn respecuve nurnb.    of  cludinz armed farces and unemployed but excluding housewives.
hospital bedsav. abd rla publicvand priyth  general anduspecnaied  students. etc. covering population of all ages. Definitions in
hospitals and rehabilitaion centers. Hospitals are establishments  anous counsnes are not compambic 1960. 1970 and 1983 data
permanently statEed by at last one physician. Establishments proar-  female  percrrJ-Female labor force as percentage ol total labor
iding principall' custodial care are not inclided. Rural hospitals.    force.
howeve. induc health.and medical cters not permanentl staffed  .4gricawe (percenti-LAbor force in farnung. fomstry. hunung
by a physician but by a medical assistnt nurse. amdwife, etc.;  and fishing as percentage of total labor force: 1960. 1970 and 1980
which ofer in-patient accommodation and providc a linuted range  data.
of medical faclitines.                                         Intvy (percenat -Labor forcc an mining, construction. manu-
4d-isuions per Hospital Red-Total number of admissions to or   tactunne and electricity. water and gas as pernutage of total labor
dischargs from hospitals divided by the number of beds.        force. 1960. 1970 and 1980 data.
Patcxro Rare epercent)r-raa  mak. andfenm&-4articipation
HOUSlNG                                                        ur acuvity rates arm computed as totaL male. and female labor force
.AVOWe   r Of HofiAUe   (peons per hoHold)--fal. Whan,         as percentages of totaL male and tfmale populatio  of all agcs
and rurae-A household consis ofa group of individuals who share  rspectvely 1960. 1970. and 1983 daa. These ar based on LOas
living quarers and their maun meals. A boarder or lodger may or  participation rates rdeccing age-sex structure ofthe populanc. and
mav not be included in the household for statistical purpose   long time trend. A few estimates are from national sources
Average NVau,er of Person per Rwm_toral urban, and rnua-       Eoank Dependency Ratio-Ratio of population under IS. and
Averge number of persons per room in all urban. and rural      65 and over. to the working age population Ithose aged 15-64).
occupied conventional dwellings. respectively. Dwellings exclude
non-permanent structures and unoccupied parts.                 INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PercAraqe of DwelEnq wish Eketricity-rooaL urban and rura-     Pernae of Total Disposable brme (barh in cash md kind)-
Conventional dwllings with electricity in living quaers as percen-  Accrnag to percentile groups of households ranked by total house-
tae of totaL urban. and rural dwellings respectively.          hold income.
EDUCATION                                                      POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
A4kmd E _a.w  Ratios                                           The following estesmaes are verv approximate mcasures of poverty
Plnav school - roraL, male and femal-Gross totaL male and      levels, and should be interpreted with considerable caurton.
female enroalment of all ages at the prmary level as percentags of  Es&im d Absolue Poverty tnom  Lod I LESS pr capita p--rban
respeive primary school-age ponulatons. While manv countries   mid rural-Absolute poverty ncome level is that income level
consider primury school age to be 611 vears. othrs dto not. The  below which a mimnmal nutntionall. adequate diet plus essential
differences in country practes in the age and duration of school  non-food requirements Is not affordable.
are reflected in the atios gevn For some countries with universal  Esimated Relaive Poverty lncomw Leel t USS per capitn)--urbn
education grass enolment may exceed 100 percent since some      nd ru Rural relauve poverty income level as one-third of
pupils ar bdow or above the countrys .standard primary-school  average per capita personal income of the country. Urban level is
agc.                                                           denved fmm the rurai level wtth adjustment for higher cost of
Secanalr solol - rorcl male and fem   Cornputed as above:      living in urban areas.
secondary educaton require at least four vears of apprved pr,  Esimted Populn Bedow .4bsolaae Poverry Incom  Lewd (per-
mary instruction: provides general. vocatonaL or teacher traimnin  cent j-wran and rurail- Percnt of populaton a urban and rural
instructions for pupils usually of 12 to 17 vears of age: correspond-  who are absolute poor.-
eice courses are genmly excluded.
Vocaiona Enollm ui percent of secondway-Vocatuonal institu-              Comparatve Analvsis and Data Division
lions indude technicaL industrial or oder programs which operate       Economic Analtsis and Projecuons Department
indepedendy or as departments of secondary institutions.                               lune 1985



-26 -
lYp s of 6
ECiad.1L3 111111. 19363                                     mUj- IIEmIml
Amok                       _mc  bUo  lAtU IT)                        lit Prjitl.,
I.4icar                         1"1~~'Nili  M  At
Cwrut Ptcagl
t :c34            196      131      12       193 I3I    l    t 19 4  19M 3  1917    1go
NUttOlhK ACMETS
Srm    atic Pr?dsct                             327              -4.4      4.3      -.       -7.3    -3.1    -Ll
ricultwo 11                                    "I                1.!     4.9       4.4    -3.9    17.7        3.2      ..
IdAstrY It                                     9                 0.      -3.9    -9.7    -L2    -3.9    -4.3
Samcn                                         1 37              -2.2      1.t    -L.11    -1.!      -        -.3    -LI
bEmspti                                        2an                41.2      0.7    -3        -7.0    -1.2    -1.         .
arm  lvututu                                     33              -32.      1LL    -39.3    -7.4   -15.7    43.2
Iqirts of ki  d J                                513             -21.3    17.0   -352        -3.4    -9.2       4.4
Elwts of ki_   me                                 12              -ids      LI      -6       -7.0    -7.3   -17.4
km    itic  rnap a6                                               -1.9    -4.5    -0.3       -L      -30.2    -4.3
PIIICEI 1196100
FEurt Pgsi l1m                                                 103.1    10l.3     97.3    94.9 *    04.0   9*A         3.2   104.1
taut Pnco hIm                                                  109.9   0L47    10L12    161.9    10.L    97.3   IW.7    139.3
rin  of Trade iii                                               93.3    93.41    967       93.1   104.0    93a        73.3 7..9
VW& of u at mot Pm. 3-D                            brag ha-   i  1ms ID
197       9       1935    399                      1-   19164   19-
kmus Dmt c PrOijct                              300.    104.    1.    10.0                             3.1    -4.6       3.0
Aqrlcultw  21                                  .La    IL3      2.4    2L9                          13.1    -2.J3
Iadstry 2/                                    29.7    34.4    30.4       23.3                       13.9    -7.2       .
Swcn     V                                    5S.      44.4    40.0    39.4                         19.1    -2.3
Cr    *,o                                      31.2      9.4     79.9      0.0                        4.1    -LS-    L4
6rus  1t                                        24.4    3L6       17.0    1L7                         4.!      -4.7      3.3
lawbt  Of kam  ud MI                            24.      20.1    34.3    17.4                         -4.4    -7.3       4.9
ruWts if   ds M                                 21.3     2L55   17.1       26.9                        0.2    -7.3       7.3
k-m  atisc Smmw                                 IL      20.4    20.1    13.3 5                       -L5      -          .0
PUILIC FTUa                                                            h  lOf UP
5193     t l90   193      1913     191      19
Carrt Ihu                                                 ILI     15.3     19        4.9      4.9      4.7
cmrut  zittn                                             1L5   -17.9       21.3     2LO      27.0     3.9
Surp lus    o ( W iiat t-l                               -3.4    -2.4   -10.4   -19.1        22.1     -.2
Cauatal E    itro                                         15       4.:      L9       2L3      2.4      1.3
tStdl bZiat  -                                           _L-      -7.0   -13.1   -17.5   -24.3    -9.t
Pulc Eutpms
Ct t  Wrpln  1                                            1.2      2.1      Le       1.3    -L5        2.0
Cptil Ezpitru                                             Lb       3.2      4.4      LO       Li       LS
.-rall hfsat t-l                                         -2.2    -0.3    -3.5    -1.5    -4.9         -0.!
110Pla    al Pilic 3K!ur   Osral Sffit                   -9.0     -7.9   -t4.4    -,9.0   -29.2   -30.0
OTIS USICAIS 1
397-75  1975-16190-U   I93-90
l[C  1 yow                                               4.0      L.3    -LI        L.0
krsh fNgt1a  suv  la"                                     0.4    -0.2       0.3      0.4
1Iort Elcicty                                             3.1    -1.7       1.9      I.e
1/ Factw cat.
21 Fr I97!, t owkt pcs  fw    Mr             , at iactmr cu
Nurd i1, 190



-27 -                                         ANNbEX I
Page 6 of 6
LI   IF PfT,  IK. UIU CE! S MIT
(11in ills of .LS. jallsn at current prlcn)
Actul           Est.                    PrjKetud
1930    193    1         195    19k       1917    19K      191m    1
3U1n OF LF mPuNM
Exports of look ad NS                       1032.5    2.2    312.0   713.7   11.2   71.7   UL2   967.2  1154.2
1mpet of goods aJd F                         71.9   641.1   592.3   171.5   737.0   129.0    3.3  1I0.   1211.7
bRwc blan                                    262.6   211.1   22.7    47.2   -5.3   -66.3   -71.1  -102.4   -4.5
Fator ervics (nt)                           -293.6  -423.1  -43L1   -06.7  -372.4  -323.1  -339.4  -30.1  -33.0
N1t transfws                                  12.7     0.2    21.3    14.5    22.0    15.7    16.3    17.0    17.6
Cerrt IccAt hlanc                            -39.3  -176.1  -110.6  -36.0  -4.2  -3M.7  -394.2  -45.5  -32.t
Private Direct Imvetet                        40.?              7.0    10.0    25.0    26.7    2L.       30.6    32.8
Offidal Trnsf s (net)                         46.3    66.0      6.7    65.5    83.0    96.1    12I.9   110.2   113.1
Official ILT Lans (nt)                       248.2    53.1  -174.5  -2m.1   -6.    29.4   234.2   3.4   311.3
Disbursemets                               429.6   507.1   159.3   105.9   246.0   336.1    3L         423.0   421.2
b_payesets                                 111.4   454.5   334.3   344.0   312.3    76.7    7.6    92.6   109.4
0th. Capital                                -194.3   377.9   401.5   543.7   344.5    -0.3    -0.1    -0.1         0.1
O.anp in Rer    -   inctra)                 -102.3  -320.2  -120.1   -36.1    20.0    -.2   -21.4   -25.6   -2.?
smog9  3 LIMITEII9
1990    1991    192      1993    1
Puhlic HLT Ias                               397.0   34.6   145.3   492.3   253.1
11                                          50.0       .      0.0     0.0      0.0
IDA                                         16.0     0.0       0      0.0      D.0
thr Nultilateral                            61.7      7.9   117.4   232   1103
suveuts                                     90.5   243.0    11.9   202.1   143.3
Sqpliers                                     7.9    17.2       .9     0O0      2.5
Fiiiacial lntitutiou                       190.9   126.5      9.1    17.5      1.5
Ctual DMlt Otstaoding o. kc. 31, 194
ENTSL BUT                                    Oiubud hly               Pec=t
M1                                         304.4                      9.6
INA                                         93.7                      3.
Other Ncltilateral                         35.7                       12.
Gaveunts                                  15b1.1                      64.7
Sapplius                                    67.7                      Lo
Fincial Intitetians                        732                        29.3
D    1 An EDUT SNIE
1990    19.1    12    199         1
Pulic hdb 0tstandin1 ad Didbre              2227.0  2677.6  2767.3  3105.0  320.5
lntest o public debt                       163.9   171.0   190.9   17L.    201.3
1|_avean public jilt                       126.5   110.3   145.L   109.4   119.4
T&aI pblic det service                     290.4   231.3   236.7   M2.2   320.7
Public NILT debt sevice as I of aprts         29.1    27.9    31.7    3L1    39.5
ragp  trn  of public debt
Intret n Z  cprir yr                         9.6     7.7      6.3     6.2.   6.5
Amertlims as I prior yewr                    6.6      5.0     4.0     4.0      3.1
1I   debt   mting & disbursed 31             23.1   231.0   301.9   365.1   304.4
13 13 as 2 MIIIL b plic debt 33 31            10.7    10.5    10.       9.3      9.5
1    debt wv. aZ hILT public debt av 31    4.7         6.9      9.3      .5    10.9
31  Wclus Il
hly 1, 91U



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BOLIVIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of March 31, 1986)
--    Us$-
(Amount less cancellations)
Loan No. Year   Borrower    Purpose                     Bank     IDA    Undisbursed
8 loans and 12 credits fully disbursed                 190.1    89.85
Credits
933       1979    Bolivia     Omasuyos-Los Andes Rural
Dev.                            3.0          1.41
940       1979    Bolivia     National Mineral
Exploration Fund                7.5          5.80
948       1979    Bolivia     Santa Cruz Water Supply
and Sewerage                    9.0          2.53
Loans
1324      1976    Bolivia     Water Supply & Sewerage   5.2                   0.5
1404      1977    Bolivia     Education & Vocational
Training               12.0                  1.4
1423      1977    AASANA      Aviation                  25.0                  1.36
1489      1977    Bolivia     Urban Development         17.0                  1.54
1510      1978    Bolivia     U.1a Ulla Development      9.0                  5.62
1587      1978    Bolivia     Highway Maintenance       25.0                  1.92
Total                                        283.3   109.4
of which has been paid                        65.1     4.4
Total now outstanding                        218.2   105.0
Amount sold                    .05                     -
of which has been repaid       .05             0.0     -
Total now held by Bank                       218.2   105.0        22.08



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of March 31, 1986)
Fiscal                                                     Amount in US$ million
Year       Obligator              Type of Business        Loan   Equity   Total
1973    Plasmar, S. A.        Cables and Plastic Product   0.3      0.1     0.4
1976    Banco Hipotecario
Nacional           Capital market                         0.3     0.3
1976    Banco Industrial
S. A.              Development Financing                  0.6     0.6
1978    Molino Andino, S.A.  Food and Food Processing       2.3      -      2.3
1981    Cerveceria Boliviana
Nacional S.A.      Food and Food Processing      5.7       -      5.7
Total                         8.3     1.0     9.3
Repaid, cancelled or sold    7.3      0.4     7.7
Held by IFC                   1.0     0.6     1.6
Total undisbursed             ---     -.-     --



- 30 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
BOLIVIA
VUELTA GRANDE GAS RECYCLING PROJECT
Supplementary ProJect Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project:                4 months 1/
(b)  Project prepared by:                              YPFB/consultants
(c) First presentation to the Association and
first Association mission to consider project:
(d)  Departure of appraisal mission:                   March 11, 1985
(e)  Completion of negotiations:                       May 19, 1986
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:                    July 30, 1986
Section II:  Special Association Implementation Actions:   None
Section III: Special Conditions
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that:
(a)  the Government would maintain domestic consumer prices for the
composite barrel of petroleum products at international levels;
annual consultations would be held with the Association to review
relations between Bolivian and international prices (para. 50);
(b)  the Government would consult annually with the Association on
the private sector's participation in exploratior. and development
Cpara. 47);
(c)  YPFB would annually review with the Association itB capital
investment program and related financing sources not later than
60 days before the start of each fiscal year. Any borrowing for
an investment project outside the program of more than US$10
million equivalent would require the Association's agreement
(para. 46);
(d)  YPFB would maintain at all times a minimum quick ratLo of 1.1,
debt service coverage of at least 2.0 and a long-term debt/equity
ratio of no more than 40:60 (para. 59);
1/  The dates shown in Section I apply to the processing of the project
after the delays discussed in para. 61.



- 31 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(e) YPFB would carry out a study of its salary policies by December
31, 1986; an action plan to stop the loss of further key staff
would be sent to the Bank by March 31, 1987 and be initiated by
June 30, 1987 (para. 55);
(f) YPFB would prepare by June 30, 1986 a plan for improving its
efficiency for review and discussion with the Association by
December 31, 1986 (para. 54); and
(g)  as conditions of effectiveness, the Government and YPFB would
have signed a subsLdiary loan agreement satisfactory to the
Association (para. 67); and would have ratified a manual of
project procurement procedures, also satisfactory to the
Association (para. 68).



IBRD 144291R4
*r ).SuAFrEz                                            62-                                    62-
-  SUARtEZ                                                                                                                                       BT.4SO                       A      Z  I L
v      PAIA 0os       C--NTA  doSA  A W
I<APA0FANI-         EErAI r5NIW                                                                                                                              r          /}  3 EN I  
~0NAE]A>~--Sont:                                                                                                                                      IA , /LA irA   f
a] . PA    S A N    T A C  R U; A    N                              T A C R U A    CUZ,
8  ORAAA E                                 Sn J's  
- D4NfA J    EMLEAP                            E                                                                                      >                                 ORUF0O           L     
'A _LomPrto                                                                  JK |                   RAGUAY
TATARP,Ei                                                                                                                                    u        '
'+TOro    ORuhdZ           S                                                      
/ osoI        H ;  |     s b - 8ofJr/                                       B      LB 0  L I V I A(
-'     \\t       :            'C.F--B 0/
ANgEA                AL                                    V                                      VUELTA GRANDE GAS RECYCLING                                                                         2D
-       J                    /.              S     DEEV GAR AND  /OS               -     YEFS G6S AND CONDENSATE FIELDS
CUeEO                                               5    .  ... .. / -                  Y PRe OIL FIELDS  -   DEER Ok FIEL DS      .                           B  R  A   Z   I L
.1 e.-/l                             .  CONTRACOOS GAS            CONIIACTOIS GAS AND CO-DESSADS FIELDS
4.aPOR VeN   D                        __   PROPOSED GAS PlI-                         PIOOSED GAS IPIELIUES
CAMAIINDI  l>VUfi/A GPANDF                    EA.IMA
/AA NLT   *VDCLT O       _NG                    -4-I| RAILROADS                                FAILEDADS 
j>CAAGLAA*   I IrA/GUAT/                                 F--- EIISTING GAS IPAlelI---   EZISrlNG GAS EIFEEIINES 
LIA      AS .A                                                                                  E I GrS   OILCOAE -11   F EF D C S PIEIE
z|@AVEPT/EElIF_.                                DEFAFEIESAT OSOU[       r          = -   DEPARTEN G OADRIES                                              N
TOnDij               d.a  pYCOAIDAOO         |/                             ITRERTLAFIONAL SOI                    INTEINAIIDNAL EGUADAFIES
I  .   1 A  /G /-)
VOADiOA      _      .                                    D         TA       1.                 D         SD       IDA        I5A
90 (  0                                   _                     p  A   R                              P  A   R  A  G  U  A  Y
A  R'LG  E N T I N A                                       D2                                 __62_                                                                              sr



