Documenit of
-he World Bank
FOR OFFICAL USE ONLY
Rbmt No. 12515
PROJECT COMPLElION REPORT
BOLIVIA
VUELTA GRANDDE NATURAL GAS RECYCLING PROJECT
(CREDIT 1719-DO)
NOVEMBER 18, 1993
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No:        12515
Type: PCR
Trade, Finance, Industry and Energy Operations Division
Country Department III
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and me) be ugd bv reipients only In dte peformance of
their official duties. its contes may not otherwise be disdosed wtidt World Bank authorLuation.



Cuncy Uiit   Bolivian Peso (BP) = 100 cas  unt1986
Bolivlio (Bs)    100 8entvs as of 1987 and beyond
Avera  Exchang Rt in Bolivian Peso per a US$
1986 (AppIsal Date): US$I.O = BEp 1,922,000
1992 (PM .):        US$1.00  =   Bs 4.1
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
Januay  to December 31



w
t{§IIi                                           32;%1               U ] 
I   1OX tn§OoO0]ljjou,,fll r 
GlueDti3lStESlg 11111R Ei  A                                   *Ui



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
wasingto". 2D43S
USA
Offic of 1ixgctOt-0eu.rai
operations Evaluation
No*vember 18, 1993
MEMORAhDUM TO THE EXCUTIVE DIREATORS ANM  TiE  PRESIDENT
SUBJECTs    Project Completion on Bolivia
Vuelta Grande Gas Recvclina Prolect (Credit 1719-3O)
Attached is the "Project Completion Report on Bolivia - Vuelta Grande
Ges Recycling Project (Credit 1719-BO)" prepared by the Latin America and the
Caribbean Regional Office, with Part II provided by the Borrower.
The project aimed at recycling gas from the Vuelta Grzande field in
order to maximixe recovery of petroleum liquids for domestlc consumption and
production of gas for export. Institutional strengthening of YPFB (the national
oil company) was also included. In spite of a five-year delay in loan processing
due to the interruption of Bank lending to Bolivia (between 1981 and 1986), the
project was ultimately completed satisfactorily. However, initils production has
been significantly lower thWm expected, due in part to complex reserioir
characteristies. No ERR w   re-estimated on the grounds that detailed operating
cost data was not available. Project sustainability can only be assessed as
uncertain given the precarious financial prospects of YPPB. Studies financed
under the project did not result in as radical a restructuring of TP8B as was
originally eanvisaged, but significrat progress is currently being achieved in the
context of the preparation of PSD projects.
Overall, the project is rated as satisfactory, its institutional
impact as partial and its 4ustainability as uncertain.  The PCR is reasonably
thorough but it should have included a tentative economic reevaluation of the
project (based on a possible range of operating cost figures).
No audit is planned.
Attachment
This domunt has a restricted dlstrlbat--n and my be used bl recIpfents only in the prfortmm  of
their MfIcieal dutfes. Its contents my not-otherfils be ditosed without ortd Bank uthorSaton.



5QWL~~~~MELKflQNWD3VWONL
a:a
Pu.&a. ..... .....................*......  ... .................
E&1 PiOiicr REVIEW PROM IsDA'sPESECTIVE
.........................                ........         1
PousukantSd edvtcu           ....***.........................*....                       1
LO nLe.da   n.d Duct"=...*.....*..... .....i...............                              1
^  ~~tawm .......... .-. ...... .*-...... .v ...... ¢.*.*v............. w    s-- ...wS.... 
Cusmenfts    o Pe.v*a AAYPvB         f  ............*. .               ........          1
WAtdecb        h                                              ...............     17
H,sam   .,,,,    ...................,.......                                           12.
.0  sima     anddD... . ... .    13
4.Poect ImLenzentdo  Iniaos....... . . . . . . .                                             12
5.PoeteotadIaciag                           .S1
1.Rlw    M      rdts .,...........,................................ 16
2~~., -poe     iial   .........  ,,.... , ..........,., 8
4. PojPeac hwi_w    ..............                                0............              19
.5    roe   Cats wd FW cg.......................    19
6. ProjectResults                .................................  ........                    21
7. Stausof Projea C             .....    .....                                          ,   22
S. 'Use ofIDAResou= ........              .......................  24
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by tecipints only in the perormanCe
8t.ieir official duAties. Its contents may no
oftohrieb   icoe,ihu   ol .w   ad ido .



TabloofCont  (Conttd.)
No.
1. curt Production Profile for On Condensa  and LPG
Compad to Pojec Appraa Esated                      .................          25
2. Fi.x St. .for*YPFB...                                                            26



-I.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
2RWQmE mLmflm1ERaw
VUELTA GRAND;E-NAlUL GAS REBC=aNG RIC
WC=E 171g
This is the Project Completion Rep  (PCR) for the Vulta   nde Natural Gas Recyling
Project for which IDA approved Credit 1719-DO, for SDR 12.8 mlion (equvalent at apprasal to
US$15.0 million), on June 23, 1986. rTe closing da4  was postod to December 31, 1990, about a
y   and a balf behind schedule. IDA disbursed lmost all of the crdit amount except for SOR
32,440.72. This amount was cancelled, at the request of the Boroe, on May 2, 1991, when the
lst disbursement was made and the loan account closed.
TMe Trade, Finance, Industry and Eneg Division of the Latin Anrica and the Caribbean
Regional Office and the Borrow, Yacimientos Petroliferos Fiscales Boviano (YPFB), prepared the
PC  joiny. IDA prepaed the Prefc  Evaluation Summary, Part I (IDA's evaluatin) and Part m
(Stadstical Informon). The Borrower pred an evaluation of the project from its own pse
(Pa II) and reviewed parts I and m. Part n also includes commens the Bofrower made on Part 1.
The Borrower gave no specific commen  on Part m.
IDA initated the prnwaon of ti PCR during te IDA's final supervision mision for
the project, in Octoe 1991. h is based, inmter alis on the Staff Appraia Report; the Credit and
Guaantee A8_s; Suevision Rqeos; corspondence bewe  IDA and the Borrwer,
intews of IDA staff invlved in th implemeotaobn of tho project; and internal IDA



.
( .
ld l S f
. { {
l



-      ' ~       ~~~~~~ -ii
UA=a
Di= k- m d
1.      Bolivia, at the time of fina project appis (1986), faed an imbalance betwern demand
and supply in the hydrcabo sector and the propet of bewoming a ne import of hydrocarbons.
In 1983, a UNDP/DA energy    _    for Bolivia had wade a number of e   da     to
address problems n the development of th hydrocabon sector: (a) maig new exrt marke for
gaS a high priority (b) avertng an oil supply deficit by improved demand m t, development
of   ing condensa  fields and investmts to substitute gas for oil; and (C) in  actions to
support h aoremenonedans including the strengthening of the Ministry of Energy
-and Hydrocabo  (MEE) In energy  r  pla    and coordinton, tnhaning he capability of
YPFB staff and developing of a contactual framework t encounr   prvate sector partiipaion in
hydrocarbon  hvetmnt Despite serious social, e oneic and political prblms that disrpted the
G-overnment's management capability, the Bolivian Govmeat, at pmject appraisal, had taken
imortant steps in response to the          (par 2.2). Following the onery  s
the Govermet devdeope a hydrocarbon str   that: (a) focussed on       selfmsuciny in
oil suy by increasng liquids produtio, conolling demand growthand sbit   gas for oil
products where vible and (b) increasing e*,tus of gas to provideor   excange for development
projecs. The Vulta Grande Gas Recycling project was an integral pa&t of this strategy, since it was
to help alleviate oil suly constra  and assist YPFB in maianng a _suinabe staff capability to
execute the enhanced rovery project.
Qbjcives
2.      IMe objectives of the project were to: (a) aist tht Borrower in developing its natal
hydocabon resource at the Vuelta Gravde field in order to mainain adequate producton of
petroleum products to met the needs of the domestc maret; and 0) develop greater export capacity
Proect Imuemnwatimond Regulu
3.        The proje  expeenced several problems in           including a major delay
between original appraisa and project approval,  problems in gas recovery, some unforse
logisdical difficuties and initial problems in prour    due to the unfamiliarity of YPFB stff with
IDA procurement procedures (paras. 5.1-5.3). Despite these problems, the project achieved most of
its objectives, though to a lesser degre tan omiginaly planned at appraisal. Gas Ondeate
production has been less than exps i 4, averagi 539,000 lBbI annually, or less than one thid the
original appraa estmate. During me same perod, the SAX had indicated average amnaul LPG
production of about 73,000 metric tons but YPFB statistics indicate no LPG prodtion durIng 1986
88 with pwduction beginning at about 26,000 mt in 1989 and rsing to about 40,000 mt by 1992.
This large discrepancy results from several facoos including: (a) an overly optmistic forecast; (b)
diappointing reseoir ch    cs and (c) surface problems such as poor cmpress  reliability
and problems with the system for striping liqu  from the gas By the closing date of the project,
YPFB bad driled 20 production wells ad 8 injects inludiw  two produc  and fur injeos
financed under the credit. Some of the newly-drled wels have been producing at a lower me t
expected,- while one injection wel is taking less dry gas t   orginally planned.  is unexpected



oiu 
resvoir beavior eains party th dfenc bkeen actual  d planed gas production and
liquids exracin  Overal, e operation of the Vudta  ande gs proesn plant is sasftory
and YPB is in the proess f fin tuning ts prodwir .ed.
4.       Mhe project proced a restuctudug study *ich rulted in a stralning of YPF's
organIzatIonal strutue with some reductions in uwnesy sta* and prlimary acions In the area
of privtizatlon, such as the gas market  fiucdon. However, the stdy did DOt produce the larger-
scale sector ructing orig y envsaged concrin the extent of prvatzaton and significant
transformatio of YPFB and its rols In the hydrorbo sctor (pan 6.3). YPFB staff teceived
training in do opeatio of gs procesn ad  fection planU. Ihe osff did a credible job in the
operation of the complex Vuelta Gnde Aidd and procing fildes and have demo ad  thewr
capability to coduc simi  operatons fo te development o Aw prosing fieds.
5.       Ihe total cost of tte project amoted to US$89.5 m=ion, COmpared to US$ 944 million
as eStimae at appraisal. DA ficed US$16.6 million equvalent (19 percent), including the US$I
mllion PPF YPFB used to prepare tbe projct. YPFB fnaed the ntualift  US$72.9 million
ealent (81 perce). The act  total prect cost was US$4.9 milln lower ta the aprai
estimate du maily to the fact that the original esme included high physical and price
contigencies. Table SA in Part m gives the llocation of the estmawd and acoa costs by
Individua project copnenL  IDA disbused ely all of the oiginal credit amount of SDR 12.8
mllion. Part Il Table 3 providt  cumutive timated and actualh   schedue.
Suwddb of ad= A,
6.       The  s p      ing f y shou d operate smohy at 80 pece  dedgn cacity
generang amumal reves in the ore of US$140 to 150 millon, for anoter si  r eight ys
deedi  on market conditions. In addt, YPFB h  developed a tecal capabliy to detem
the char istic of gas reirs and obtain optimal recovery of LPG and naturl gasolne from the
Pas plat  Futhmore, YPFB has made imrove          to its operation and       practdes,
usig high industry standards. Thrfr the producti  capablity of the So procesing shd be
maintainedthroughout the ecoomi life ofte F   Yprocess fciie constructed under the project, as
long as fnancial resces reWai availabe fo    t and te acqisition of mo  spar par.
However, YPB lacs a long-term visio of isdf as a corprt entty and IDA bas been engaged in
diogue about a project which woud help the Govenen (a) reduce ho bariers to pVat setor
entry into the hydrocarbn sector, (b) defn the log-term rQle of the goverment in te sector, (c)
explore incetves for icesing prate sector patcipato; (e) re ce and downsize and
evenually privati  YPFB's operations; () develop  d monitor         and safety standards in
the sector, and (g) sengthen the Governmens capability to implemet spcific refoms and acdon
plans (paa 7.1).
7.       The    enpmi   experince and results of fti project indicated the following lesns
that need to 4 taken int cosideraon for ftre hydrocarbon project in Bolvia or in other
countries. 'Tese are as follow:;
(a) i lbg      to       gm                               iNW mn m. Given the.
complexity of the Vudta Gand projec ti     ad detd evaluaon we  Cucial elemen  to its
success.    s iterruptionof theproject for           reasos was d         to theproject
Despite  As diffsculti with the         mc iton in Bolivia, the prepaation of the project



-iv -                        -;         -
was wel advanced aod was both wcommcly ad anciattractim   A dea of almostfiv
yeirs bad n adven effect on the p  e    rfi of the poect f  two  asons. t durg the
intrm peiod btwM  appas  ad eqpris, YP1B lacked the bowlhow and funds for
euipment reqr  to secre opa  exracton of iquid and njection of g  from tthe field,
During th  prod, It woud have be  usel if the IDA at lea ha provie a smai techial
assitac Credit to gulde YF  technically and pr     production prctices which ha  di d"
the output of the Vuelta  rand field ad have affected the perfomc  of sh gas-bearing reservoirs.
Seond, reapraisal work on the fid was not sufflciently c eve and did not give emugh
attenton to tedhia pobm  withe gas resw oir. As a result of deays, the lack of equipment
ilablWt aod   ufflcient thnical ays, th  Wd most liWy wl coniue to produce below the
optimumlvel t ci ld have acheved w   earler ipl        of the prj
(b)  W                                   b       i                    b *
Dleeas Bolivia was not acedworthy teeive tRD finds, the coury bad to boro  IDA finds,
which have lied availabDiy of resores. As a reut IDA sort of the proiect was insuffcizen
given YPFB's shortage of both foreign exchange amd domedc curency. YPFB, because of li'ited
fimds, tried to cut cost by purasing used  upme  or u_suitable equipment from other fieds and
operations (compressors); some of tds equipment was not apa for the projet and this praice
contributed to some of the technical problems and deys.
i,e) Give sufficien tio SWO I& jeM        of MA    AMM     to d    k grILc tmeaWl,mkn
sure W2A r o         ociesare &lId    nd    id do  a M          X  Maie
mehanism  is in place within the   n. It would have bee prudent fbo IDA to give more attention
to maldng sure that YPFB undestood al op    a pects of IDA procument procedues, such as
the orgaization of a procuremet semin. Thi cud ha  helped avoid misu,d    that led
to delays. Furthmoe, during projec     i           Govenm changed ts own
prcrement procedures, inisting one  use of an exten, id      promen   agecy. This
added another bureacratic layer to the process, which involvWd MI, the Project Unit in YPFB, the
Miistry of Finance and the Cena  Bank.
(d) Mdake Igid g   uatil e   al Uam=or   gar athfe groectaWri  mroess
The lack of comprehensive logiscal plannig for the transport of heavy equ_pmt for the project led
to significant delays and incrased project costs.
(e) Ensure that phvsical accnin  systems are adea to odce the renoired dao for evluation
of =joject Derce.  According to Section 4.01 of the Project Agreement, YPFB was required to
maintn separate records reflectng the operatons, rource nd expenditures on the projet. YPFB
kept satisftory records on the project finances (.e., the Prect Account and the Special Account).
However, YPFB did not have all the facilites in the feld to diagegae production from wells
included in the project from those not related to the project and, as aresult it was not possible to
calculate an ex-post rate of return on the pro!ect.



I.~~~
*'S  5           EMWFOMMSE2z=
.  . . ... . .     ...  .  .  .
~~~~.~~1
2.1      BolviIa occupies about a million km2 In the southern cone of Laftn Amerkca and a lapg
part of this land area (41 percen) contains sedimentary basins. Thre basin (Beni, Sant Crux-
Chaco and Altipaom) have geologIcal conditons for petroletum reserves but there have been oil
discverie only In the Santa Crus-Chaco basin. Botivi* at the thme of fina project apprasal (1986),
faced an. imbdalac between demand and supply in Its hydrocarbon sector. Natual gas reseve were
babnd ant, ftot 4.1 tdillion cubic fee (fCP), equivaent to abou 700 mIllion barres (Bibl) of
Oil. However, deanid in both domestic and foreigp markets was limited,t  nl 
milion cubic feet per day (MMCFD). In contrat to gas reserve, oil reeves were modest, with
declining production rate. Oil reserve, in 1985, totalld 154 mllion BM, enoug to las about 17
years based on the prodction level at the time. Oil procduton peake In 1973 at 47,400 barrels per
day (BD) and declined therafte to about 25,000 BI> by 198. Export of oil, which were 32,500
BD in 1973, dropped drastically fo -only spot sales of izaphtha and gasoline in 1980 and siopped
completey soon thereafter. Domdeti sales of petroleum products grew rapidly during 1974-78 at an
aveage of about 1 1 percent per year, but the growth rne declined to only 3.5 peren during 1979-8O
and wiis neary stgnan at the time of aprasa (end 1980) due to the slow econmic growth. Tbe
-forecast of medium-term petroleum product growth 't the time of apprisa Was an average q thre
percent anually, takng into account the combined Impact on demand of the expected economic
recovery and increase in domestic petroleum product prices tD equialen border prices.
2.2      In 1983, a UNDPIIDA energy aesm    aean*    fiut  dt
problems in the development of the hydrocarbo secto. In summary, the Asv    recommended
(a) makn newexport marktsfor guasahighprirty (b) avertigan oilsupply deficit by Improved
demand mantagement., development of exisfti  condenate fields and investements  subsatitt gas for
oil;, and (e) insttutonal actions to suppot the afrmnioe  ecmedations including
stregtheingMEs  anrysectorplaninmg anori ation,ehacng thecpaiiy fYFRsa



-2 -
and developing of a contrt  fawwor to  urage priva  SeCtOr pacpaOn i hydroca
investnmnt. Despit serious SOCil, ecoomic and pol   probleu that dspted th Government's
mangement capability, the Bdivian Government, at project apras  ha take Imorn step in
reponse to theong
Hy4rocabon Sector Srte
2.3      Folowing the energy         t e Government developed a hydrocarbn secor s
that: (a) ficussed oan maintanig self-Sufficieny in oil supply by incas  liquis production,
corolling demand gowth and substtutg gs- for oil products whe viabe and (b) Iceig
expots of aS to pwvide foreign  ange for developmet projec. Ihe Vudta Grande Gas
Recyclin project was   utegra part of this strate, since k was to help alleviate O supply
consStant nd help YPFB to maintain a suse staff capability.to execute the necessary enhanced
recovery worI
2.4       he Mstry of Energy and Hydc          (M     is te Governntt insttion
responsle for spervg the ene   secor. M          i  the nond oil company Yactieatos
Petroliferos Fiscaes Bolivianos (YPFB) and the privWte operators. In addition to YPFB, two prvae
Operators were producng oi in Bolivia at the time of project appraisal: the Occidental Petoleum
Cporaion and he Tsoro iBovia Group, which Mobil Oi Coroation had acqied in 1985. Shell
Oil Company had acpired an exploration permit in 1982 and wa exploring the Bil basin. ME
as Wa supevisn the couy'8s power utite: th              owned EmPres Nacional de
Electricidad (ENDE) and the pdvat Boin Pwer Company.
2.5      Since 1936, YPFB has opated as the state oil company. It is responsble fr hyrocar
exploratin, prducto              ipeln constction and operat, reiing, distribution,
marketing, impoh and exports. In addiion, YPPB has te autoity to ente in  operaion
contacts with foreig oil compaides. Ie Government, in 1985, decided to reorganie YPFB to (a)
make its opeaion more eficient, b) limit the scop for Dtional oil company acdviies, (c) expand
the role of the priv  sector in both ups_tm and     operatin and (d) ulttly increase
revemns from peroleum production. IDA, at the requst of tke Govemen, misted in the effo.
In 1985. consulta  ben a study on reorganizing h compny, with fi ing from the Und
Nations Developmen Progtam (UNDP); the IDA Grop acted as the designated impl g
agency. Problems with the or       included ovesafing rdatve to prduction levels, politc
interference with staff positxons, and  e deletious impact of the pe8sos devalua    on salaries.
YPFB's budget   d acunting systmS wre adquae in ie with standard idsy practice.
2.6      Financl          of the company indicated   s afinanc  perfoma  lhough
the StaffAppraisal Report (SAR) for the project cted the poteni adverse impa of the high
nationy environmet and the lack of a cleary-defaied policy of asset reauation. WPFi's
revemnes were domin    by itasS exports to Argenra, which inasd from 40.6 percent of total
revenues in 1979 (US$ 258.7 miion) o 72.2 percen of tot revenuos in 1984 (USS 527 mflion).
YPFB's planned hnve5tme program for the pedod 1975-1988 amod to USS 511 million of which
US$ 212 mdillon (41.5 pet) ad US$ 133.9  ilon (26.2 pecen) for production and explaon,
respectively. The remaining 32.3 pcet of the progmwas f  seondary recovey,
pipelinesand distribution -he compn's strategM  was to concentr  on downsam acvites and
rely one prl  teector inc gly to povide th dsk capital for explob     Howeve, ,the



-3-
difficult sal ad economic conditions resulte in a vey casd atiude for th privat so A
number Of Inentona  i companie had exptedha t In opetating in Bolivia but greate
private  or pa      ohinged upon               to the inv     clim ate Incling the
Proleum Law, the conacta famwork and evidec   of timely settem  of p. Realizing
the impce of promoting prvate seor activq, te Govenmnt plaed to con             the dialogu
with IDA on prive sector pm        including modificatio  of peroleum lesslaon to allow for
joint vres i development operations.
2.7      Suprem  Decree 21060 of Augt 1985 on the New Ecoomic Polty, required that YPFB
prepae to transfr the ditbution and mating of poaum products and gs to prvt companes.
YI   and the pite sectr signed leea  f  perleum prduct oues ad the Govemen agred
to natulgas dibut   concessions (particuy in Santa Cru). Th pria  sector wa party
responsible for rai sales of poleum products, and YPB wss leasing some sevice stations uder
a costplus system. However, refining and pipeline trport rmained toaly under YPFB contro.
In addit   prva  na l gs dist&utig comas were estabsed, particularly in Sam Cu, to
distr      gas to industrial customa   under specl arngmes with YPFB. This activity eventally
became toy pia and expanded to other cities.
iadionale for IDA InolvebeM
3.1      In 1980, an IDA Credit of US$ 16 mion had  aced an 0i and Gas Engineing
Projec Which helped dscove 1.6 tcf of recverable gas resev, Impemented secondary recovery in
Montgudo field and deineated the Vuelta Grade fd. IDA swppot of the Vuelta Grande project
was crucial becase Bolivia had no  ocess to the iteaional capital matke since  ion of its
staedby         with the IMF in May 1981. Bolivia had been unable to covinceo  rcl
banos to fnane the Vuet Grande project despite Its ecoomicr
objective of IDA support was to hm ov Boivs balance of paymnt and te country's
creditworthine  for commecial lending. IDA had enga   In a diope with the Government
focussing o imont enr  Secn polc issus epecy priig. By proct apprai, te
Government had inceased domestic prices a             levels. Also the Govnme  had
requestedADA    a    i rergizng YPFB and rvewing the comtry's petoleuma legim  and
contactual famework, to make    sector more efficient,    a  revnues and   additonal
pria  compne to the oil secor. Ds conued ivlvement in ihe sectr, throu  the proat,
represented a stabilizing fator in the telat betwee the Govent and the oil companes. At
the same ime, IDA had been e   i         Argeta, Boliva and Brzil to icea  regiosa
cooperaionIn hydocarbon developmet and tade. Over the log tem, IDA expected ta its role
could become even more important wih inceag scwpe for sizeable  as trad among the couies
of Latin Amica's Southern Cone.
3.2      YPFB prepared the project with financ al     from IDA. Followi  the dcvery of
the Vuelta Grad field in 1978, YPFB had drilled fiA    wls, i    te producers, three
injeors and tm  dry holes. Ptoject praion  wasw   advanced at oiginal proect a il
(1980). The detiled engering Wampled and a pflot plant was opeati   cc         y. A US
consuting rm had prepared a prelimny resevoer             stdy, followed by a mo  detailed -
reseoir      t  sudy. In 1983, anothe US couti firm prpared th bs nic 



-4-
the gas rccling and LPG plants, which    IDA Project Prearon Faciity of US$ 1 million
fianced.  he pilot plt began opeation in 1983 and, at the dtme of proect reappraisal, W
reqcling 24 MMCFD fom four wells and producing 1,200 BD of comde  . YPFB was to
disassemble the pilot plant aftr start-up of the project and use the pilot plant in othe YPFB projects.
3.3      IDA odginally appraised the project in November 1980 and negoed it in Fbruary
1981, but defered project apprva and finang becas  of the deterioradon in Bolivia's etenal
finances, leading tD the suspension of the stand-by arrangement witi the ltnational Moneay Fund.
IDA reappraised the ptoject in March 1985 and updated its   i early 1986 after economic
measure had rule i satisfctory petroleum price levels and      ly improved the outlook fo
the Bolian economy.
P!roject Doi= Featares
3.4      The desig of te project was comple. It required (a) a through anlysis and
understandig of the past, presen and ft  pre     of the Vuelta Grande field and (b)
development of the most eftectve    ioarework to ensure efficien project
implementation. The implementtioD of he project w  to tae place wih the     of the
consulting xin   had done the deaed egieeing work for the gs recding and LPG producton
plants. The desp of the  nipl_ o phase iuded a Project Ui          dinate the stat-p and
executon of the project. The head of the uni was to be a Project Codinatr rep g to hie
Production Manager. YPFB was to conslt with IDA be     removing any member of the unit
Furthermoe, the desip called for YPFB to establish a Project Account tD ensu  a contied flow of
funds to meet the local expenses of suppliers and conmrs.
cot' Esfmatio
3.5      The final cost estmate of the project was US$ 94.4 million inlbuding USS 46.6 million of
ives        ta YPFB ardy had incued. Becas of extmely high inflation rates in Bolivia, the
project cost esmate was e ssed only in US dolars. YPFB based the cost for the gas procin
plant on detailed        studies and those for the production wls, injecdon wells, and pipelines
on detaied lists of materias and serices and experenc with similr  projet in Bolivia.
O uft GrndeFe
3.6      Te preparon of the gas rewvery project focussd on the Vuelta Grande field since it
was the field- with the largest mrseres of cre oil and condese In Bolivi. Ihis retrogrWe gas
condeste  eld, located in the prvince of Chuqsaca, was discovered in 1978.  h gas it produces
is rich in liquids from sd resevoirs in the Tpeua, Cangapi and Yega fotmaion. These
reservoirs occur at deptis vaying betw    2200 m and 2600  . The fiMld is approxly 2.5 knm
by 8 km In areL It isa atlini stucture which s bounded by afault to the Wet  The gu is
recced after being stripped of its liqis cont  to maintain the reservoir pressure and to avoid
retrograde condensation of the gas liquids in the reseroir, thus ensurin opmal liquid recovery at
the surface. The wells driled had established the gas-water contact, conimed the faiut boudaies
and defned te extenLsion of te field. YPFB, in 1983, bWa opeatng a pilot plant at Vuelta
Grande, which was producing 24 MMCFD of gas and 1,200 Bbl of condensate. During project
prepaatin, the feld was pioducing at a daily ra  of -y 94 MMCF of gis, with the
recovery of 2,500 Bbl of condens, 1,200 bbl of nat    gasolie and 1,200 Bb of LPG. Abo  79
MMCFD of dry gas was ailable for reinjection into the field. Because of the need for liquids and



-S-
ihel-lmaid sailability of cmpreion capacity, part of ths gas was sold for export whil a minimal
po  was flarD
IV.                                        .
4.1      Ihe objective of the project were to: (a) assist the Borrowr in developing its naural
hydrocarbon resources at the Vudta Gande id in order to mant  adequa  produedon of
peolum products to me  the needs of te domestc market and (b) develop grater  pot capacity.
4.2      The comen  of the project were diied into three par. Part A covered the
development of the Vudta Grande reatgrade gas coate  Ied, whh iolved producing gs
condesate fm th feld, stripp     qds from it and rjecting the remaiing dry gas to reco
oil and gas reserves. The con thi ds part conprised: (a) drlltg i wlls (tw for
produco and for for injecdon); (b) preparg and installing a -l  proe g ad iection pla
and stat tnhe gas rcycding operatio  (c) layn gs gahing and injectn Ins; and (d)
coasubting connections to the main oil pipeline. Part B conisted of stdies on (a) the staff poicies
of YPFB and odtr methods for Increasing th efficncy and effecdvens of the compWsay
mnar, techical and prfssionl staff and (b) the acvi, operations and efficiency of YPFB.
Part C comisted of conultat sices to asist YB h  (a) construction of tgas procwi  and
iection plant, @) reevoir engnaing, and (c)  tg of YPFB staff In t h        of the gas
procssn and injecti  plant.
ecMt Cost and F
4.3     -h estimad total cost of the project was USS 94.4 million, including h ve_alteady
incurred by YPFB. Of this total, the estmed foign exchangect was USS 66.9 milio, or 71
percent of the total IDA made a credt of SDR 12.8 million~ to the Repubi of Boivia, dte
Borrower, which entered into a subsidiary loan    with Yo B for the preeds of the Cri
For the receipt of these proceds, YPFB abo entered Ino a project   with IDA. Ihe
proceeds of the Credit were to finance about 23 percen of the prejesct'sfe    excne  componen.
YPFB was to finance the remanig US$ 79.4 mion. YPPB could not obtai any other typ  of
foreig financing becae Bolivia was not crdwortby. Consee ty, I nanced thi remning
amount with its own resources. YPFB receved the credit for repaynt In12 yeas, including th
years of grace, at n iateret rate of 9.5 pen and also Carried the fog exne risk betwee
the US dollar and the Bolivian peso. The signathre of a subsidiay loan a
IDA, betweea the Governent and YPPB was a condition of thoe creit's effectvens.
4.4      All iems financed under the project were t be subject to IDA pcuement gidelines,
outlined in a procurem  man. The Project Unit cread withi YPWBM  with the  sistace of
consuln, was to draft a bidding         , tde the           and receie .bids. Mhe
1. Eql   -aido dmstoaboUS$ 15 n'iH-n



-6-
Govermen had the overall reit for pcuemt under the project and established a
,i i          u      d     i t_commte, iuds  from th Miistry of Energy, the Centa Bank and
dte Genea Maager of YlE, to open and evauate bids.
EweclEd atRWsk
4.5      Mm SAR comideredth e technical riss associaed with th project to be hfiy small, given
dug thst 1he hof the project was well aanced at appraisal, including the opeaton of a
pilot gas pocs  plant. Ihe ptoject's ecnomic evaluaton was made both on a sunk cost basis,
which xcludes past iwestm   in eploraton, engineing, and develnt, and on a fll-cost
bais, which includes thes past costs. The evauation al  did sesivit analyses on changes i the
price of oi and capital costs. Thes    yses found the rat of return ms sensitiv to changes in
the prc of oil. Using the low price of US$ 10 per Bbi at project 1re s, the base case
ecomic rates of return (ERR) were 60 pern oan a sunk cost bads and 20.7 prent on a fall cost
ba',. Tecorponding Inancial rates of tur       ) were 43.0 percent and l3.8 percent
repcvdely. Ibe analyses notedthat even with oil pdrs as low as US$ 5 per Bbl, on a umnk cost
basis, the ER1R would be 20 pert and the FRR 13 percet Te evaluation indicated that there
wrem some project riss smming fom Bolivia's overall political social and economic siuato
which, in fte case of d, could affect the imp       ln schedule and benefits of the
project. However, the evaluation suggested th the risks were mitgated by the fact ta the
Goement had indiad pla  to return the conty to modest ecomic growth and dt  the project
was not controersal.
V.
DelM in die fe -
5.1         The original api  and neoation of the project tok place in 1980181 but IDA
defred approval of the Credit becas of Bolias difficult macoeoconomic situation and the reated
susesion of the IW  Stndby Agreement  A reappr     of the project took place in March 1985,
followed by an-updating, in eady 1986, after Boliv  had taben economic meaures (NEP) to bring
petroleum product pre to satsactory leves. Th Govetnmn offered to increa  its patcpation
in the fndig   of the project and a new financing plan wa agreed up  with the p  of IDA.
New negotiations took place in May 1986 and the credit was   roved the following month. It was
signed on S    s  11, 1986, and became effecive on December 11, 1986. Mhe oigina   closing
date of the project was June 30, 1989. However, there were delas in ordering te mris due to a
lack of familiarity with MA        procedures, in            and       rt of some hey
equpent, and finaly, in the wdding and the   s of LO strage tas and contol
insuments. Becas of these delas and the ral     that the o  al project tmable was too
tight, IDA extended the closig dat to December 31, 1990.
echdc  Problems
5.2      The project's gas recovery facties begAn opeation In Augst 1989, but below die
production desig level of 120 MMCFD, paty because of lower gas roduction due to technical
problems with the resvoir and the dming of the projct (pars. 6.1 and 6.2). Also, in hinds , the
onral production etnates we  very opmstic The project also  denced the usu  delays
assoied with brnging new equipnent on stream, suh as tuboexpanders and compresion staions.



en8                              In



-8-
minimum_balac of US$250,000 equivalet in the account In addin the projea pwvided for the
establishm   of a Special Account, with an Initia dqeosit of SDR 1.7 miion In foreig cuec, in
order to speed up paymes to suppliers and service compaies. YPFB's pnce   handling
thae accounts was .sastory.
VI. RESUi- -
bIncre NAMdcafIbon Liquids ardn ud LPG En=rs
6.1.      From the beging of the project in 1986 through 1989, YPFIs production data for
co _date and LPG refiected prodution associated exclusivy with the project However, actua
gus from 1990 onward hwe included produco rultg  fom addition  wells ad productiom
instaaion fcties not included in the project.  herefore, in Annex 1, which compares the 20-yer
production profile estmated in the SAR with the rised production profile based on projet results,
figures beyond 1989 are all estmates. But the revised production profile indicates average condensa
production during 1986-92 at 539,000 Bbl annaly, less than one thrd the original apraisal;
estmate. For LPG, durig the same perod, the SAR projected  age annual prodction of about
73,000 metric tons (mt). However, the reised profile shows no LPG produtn during 1986-88
with producon beginnng at about 26,000 mt in 1989 and risng to about 40,000 mt by 1992. There
have been viruly no exports of LPG to date. The lare discrpcies between esmated and actual
production result from seval factors includhW. (a) a overly opim c forecast; (b) a disappoing
reseroir characteistcs and (c) surfae problems such as poor     reliabilit and problems
with the system for stripping liquids from the gas. By te cosWg date of the project, YPFB had
drilled 20 production wels and 8 injectors iuing the two produces and four injectors financed
und  the crdt  Some of the newly drlled wells have been poducing at a lower rat ta expected,
while one injection well is taking less dry gas than origaly planned. This unexpected resewoi
behavior explains pardy the difrn  betwe  actual and planned gas production and liquds
extacon. Overall, the operation of the Vuea Grande gas procen plt is satsfactry  d YPFB
is in the process of fine tuing its productin level.
6.2      The main gas reservoir, the Tapecua Sand, shows a permeabity which is signdficany
lower dam fte project's appraisal work had establised. ThI deficiency In permeability afft gas
production from the Tapecua reservoir in severa ways. First, the gas moves with greater dlMclty
twad the producing well. Second, the inWjected dry gas does not seem to dispse easily in the sand
and conributes to the drying out of the wet gas contied in the resetoir. Howeve, certain
remedia msures could impwve recwvery. One measure would be to fure the  maion  around
the producing and injection wells andor drilling additional welis with lawer dimeter, locang the ?
injectors closer to the producers. An imdiate consequence of these reseroir problems is that the
gas plant, in which the condet  are reovaered from the gas, and the reinjecton fachles are
operated at only 70 percent of the desg capacity of 120 MMCFD.
ImBr(ving Stf Polio and geraional Efliec o
6.3      The project produced a restructuring study which resulted in a steamlinn of YPFB's
organizonal structue with sme reductions in unnecesay staff and prelimnary priazaton
actions, focussing initially on he gas market  functi  However, the stu4y did not produce the
large-scale sector restructuring originally envisagd, notably, more extenmive privatizatlo and
sigca                 of YPFB and its rol in the ftydrocarbon sect.
.\ . .~ ~~~1-



-9.\
6.4      YF  sff received tmrng  the operation of gs pocesig ad injection-phlas. eTh-
staff did a crediblejob in the operaion of he comlex Vuelta Grand field and posing failkities
and have deo      ted  ir capability to COduc simia opeaons for the development of other
promin fiedds.
6.5      IDA made sarl atepts to obta  don th economic and fncil bfit of
te prject. YPF  prepae sWom  xpot calculaion of befs but these incuded poduction nd
inm  data that do Ot reate spcif y to dte poect  Unfostately, YIPFB did not maintain 
sufficiety dsgegated accounting system for physical production and costs, which are neceary for
a _memlg  ex-post calculan of economc and financial ates of retun  on the proect itse.
Furthermore, the SAR does not provide fill background -$omatlon to easure consiteq of
-.an,alysis.
6.6      Overall, YFs finncal peduring poject eecuton was good. From 1986 to
1992, YPF's operado   hw  posive net Income; howev, there was a liquidit problem,
stating in 1989, which sul   from the Governmens decion to transfer to he Tresuy, on a
daily bas, 65 percent of payme  received from domestic gas sales and 67 percent fiom gas sales to
Argenta. The imp   of t  action was that YPFB, on sera occaions, was uable tOD pay
contacos or service compae for gasm puaes. Ihes tasr contue to cause liquidity
problems for YPFB. Tho project included a  mber of fna-cia   va, outined In Par M ,
Setio 7, with whi  YX gery co  .ed
6.7      Projectio  of YPFBs financal situation   1992-2000 show a god bu  precarious
financa itu  becaw  of te increase II invesmn pgmn, the repaym  of its iongterm
deb and h lare rasfe  to te Governmetequird by lw, YFBis liy to perience a tg
lqiiy siato which coudhinder It operations. Fthem      , YPFWs revenues depend heavily
on gas expt to Argentia, which have decind fom nearly 7 MMCFin 198 too dy about 1
MMCF currnllty. The   Indiat       hatBoliviayat be-ableto con       to exptga to
Argen  aft  the end of 1993.- In contrst, domye    esti   of refined patoun poducts and gs
sales have increased, as a hae  of totl renu, from 53.7 percent in 1987 to 67 percen In 1991.
Ihe decline in expot iom  relted fkom a deeae In ga    s togeher w   a drop in the price of
gas sold to         Theieue in destic sals income is due to a ombined Xnceain
qunties sold and In the price of t  products.  he projected finnil    show a fidy
bety financalposition for YPB. Net saes ar expectd tO grw  in con      tm  at anaviae
yry rat of 5.8 percet. Operatig  come and net rul     uld be positive each y. Gross
internal cash       should be eough to cvr YPF's debt srvice. Howe, deWequity ratios
show an ieasing trend which may create problems in the log run. Annex 2 provides a
compario of YPFB's acu  financial         dUrig the project period with wse which the SAR
had projected.
7.1        The gas proc g fcilt  should oper  smoothly at 80 perent deg capcity
geneating anl ees in *h order of US$140 to 150 millio  for noher six or eht years. ,



-10-
depending on market c  ldons. YPFB has dewdoped a technial capability to deterne *e
a        i of gas resevoi a  obtain optim  re:overy of LPG and na l gasolie fomthe gas
pln.Furthemore, YPFB has made Improvqenwts ito its operation and ma  practice,usn
high hdustry standards. Theeo  th producton cabiity of the gs process  should caninu
hroughout eeconomic 1  of the pocen    cilitie costred under the projec  s loa g as
fnncal reso rcesran aviable f1r matmna    ad the a      ion of mor Wpare pt.
*owevr, YPFB lacks a long-etm vison of Itself as a corp   entity and IDA and YPFB bave
egagd in diaoge on a proposed operatio whh aims to hep th  ovenmetb (a) rduce the
barrers to priva   esnty It the hydrocbon sector, (b) define te longem role of the
gvenm      the sor; (c) epoe nets &       r fnceasing prva  so  paricipation; (e)
recture and downsize and  m p      }vate YPB's operations; ( dveop and motor
and sft  standards in te sector; and sg) "sIgthen the   v a    capability to
implement speific reoms and action plas.
VIIL
8.1      Overall IDA perfrmace wa atisfatry, aogh the fiveIyar delay bee the
project's initial appai p4 its apprval was dtu_ to the outoome of the project, as noted in
parn 13.1. IDA maintained a dialoge and closrelaionship wh YPFB fom idencation
roghoutthe life of the project. The project w appr4sed i les ans on after is
detfcation. Howeve, the project was r  submitted to the Board becaue of theuqn*  of the
IM  Stand A br  e     fo Bolivia. IDA tried,            for see  yeas, to revive the
project on the basi of -securing loan financin trough an denlw mgw After the Bolivian
GovernMent itated econmi reforms and procd  to implement aDem, IDA agred to exempt the
Vuela Grande Projet fom th overall restiction on IDA leang to Bolivia and proceeded with a
reappraisal.
8.2      MA asistanc heped to  ie project eeo     Sce tho  begnning of poject
nep    d the IDA phyed an impota role in strengthenn YF    6thou  th ceation of a
Prject Unkit  coordinate the          and excutio of the projec  IDA was.also
intruentalin the design and eof a Proje  Account wh  YB, to ea  the
companys tight financial stua  and  sue a sufficent flw of buds tO meno th lcal  po af
spliers and contaco. Trou  tho provi    of a Spocial Account, IDA helped to   e fagst
disbursements, sie YPFB ugeny needed such funds wh a mimum of   I           restictioms.
Also, IDA assistd in strengthening YBs         includn budLgetig, am t
adminitive procedrs, especialy the impa         of an exteal audit stem by orgning
semina for the Prect Unit b addiion,    o_      0 3f the auditrs h1 e helped -YP
improve is recordn and reporting system.
&3       Mc number of project spervsion misso  was adequt  averagitW to three miSsions
per year (ful or partil) from projec effectivenes to th closing date. IDA supervisin of the project
str  even bore the redt became effective (eD_e 1986). This was pole becuse IDA was
arady supervising otr opeat     Initially, supervion repors focused mainly on dw tchbnica
aspects of the project, and wer bre on the analysis of the financal is fing Y . DA  first
fill financia review of YPFB took place duing the suevison mio in Ocober 1989, whIch
assessed YPFBs snacial Situaio and reviewed the Impln     of the finanil cenan of the
Credit Agreemen  Howv, durn 198647, IDA snsons rized hat In order to
impove the timdeinss i   s the wof progss nd aditin  epo, it      esary t
organiz a semi  on compace with prject covenants on audis. IDA araged for a special



*~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 -tl
mission IR h ltr patt of 19899 o Infor bo1h th Brwm ad itditors of the             f1r
the selectg audit firms and the scope of the audit r   r e by MA.
9.1      Mm Borwe for te prje  was t  Government ofBolva nd YT            was ihe
memtg agen  for th Borow. YP   w efficieln in   preparation and desig Of t
projec, with ae ate    c ,from IDA. Throug t the Impe            period YPFB developed
satiscty appraisal procedue ad capabilities for" gs  l evaluation. Mm efcie  opeaon of
th Projec Unit was a ky 1ftior In th Imp       of h projet, althou  there We  some
minor delys. YPB made significant inprv      In int           nfoao system and
reuctued ts accouning, budgeting, and nfrmation systm. Mhe  oved
fbation system bas faitad the p        oof evee frecat  d cos    fDog  r each of
YPFB's acdviies, nd complies with stadad indusry prtic. As a res  of  ctd       hanges
*t  occurrd unde the project, YPB ma  some mov         to its op     and curty has a
staff of hWy taned, experienced professionals.
9.2      YPFB has conted to Imp    its procurement prcur  ad knowledg of 1DA!s
Procurement Gildels. Afte some i l delays in pocemet becaus of the un           of
ypri staff with IDADs po       procedur, ter was notable pgrea duig 1989-90.
Consulta  were selcted on te -basis of lists which IDA aved along with an evaluaton of the
tenical merts of the propos  received. Concerning ptojec covenants, outlned In Part I, Secton
7, the Bormw  compied with al the covens in th Credit Agme  nd YPFB comlied with
genaly complied with the cenants in. oh Proect A  _      alo  ther wero a few are
where YPFB's compliance was not completo.  he _ wvennt overning the domesic sdal prices was
tD ensure  th e pric of a composite barrel of peroum prodswod compa  fably (nO
overall subsid n) with import prices for a simior composit bad deiveed in La Paz. It Is
worth noting  at ially YPFB did no comply with ti covenat beas of alwated infltio,
currcy devaluao  and overl polical condition. But bee 1989 and 1991, YPPB did
comply in terms of the price leve for the composite barr of per m produc, alough cross-
subsidies existed for certain products, notbly  e ad diesel o.YPFs accounts and reords
wer sa cto  expt that eompany-did  t mai     a pbhsicalsystmwich
sepaated the productio of wel ided in the project om  t    ouide ho project (pa  6.5).
Finally, YPPB ubmitted the reqred audit reoKts but    _ wid deay.
9.3      As an ini step in th privatization of the hydrocarbon sector, YPB  inatd a structural
reol_dzadon which nluded nw procedursto ta  mot elective            deiioswithn a
competitive evirnentY.P B is ntrsted In cotiug to impe its peration ftr and is
planning to include a technical astac componn in dte proposed Nwatl Gas EMport Project.
This would help impoe its corporate planng and budgetg sy . Rega          the restuct
of YPPB, the Governm  of Boliviahas take two mjor        tohelp YPPB divest Iself of
operatons moe sutale to privae sector opeaon. () prvaizaon of all poleum product
marketg outlets; and (i) pivatiat  of al natural gas disbuion poin  witi major urban
centers, partculay in Santa Cr. --



- 12-
10.1     During the pWec       IDA   d   B
maintained a dose         and good             about some of h constrnts of project
inipi         The reationsi was bfici for th ahievement of the phys    objectives of the
project Furthermre, IDA, in the LOa  phase of prOec srvson, was fm In ts effortd to
egthn YPB's fina l pebrmne and, in he ong rnm its                 capacity. IDA staff
woring with YPB hwed flexibility in implementg *  Cri onditon and ageed to cha
when the situatio so warranted. YPF.3 maam  eprs  appreciation for this flexibility ad
for te  cial advice povided by IDA staff, eseay on Isses such as defiing h optimal
instiuonal framework for the hydrocabn subsecor, the or     and paon of YPFB ad
tho draftg of th new Hydrocaron Law.
Xi. CQN&LTANI SEIC
11.1    Loca and f1or    contaCt, consultant and suppliers pefomed wil under the project.
The cnultnt conaced to evlluate the reservoi          study and labt to perm a reservir
simulation, did good quat work and were efficiet in assistng YPFB's Project Unit.
kmL DThIXUAMUA3 AMDAIA
12.1.    The legal ag       and the SAR we  adequate aud pved- us    during project
i_bmp    t    Howev, the loor            its proress r     s, with some delays and did
not always realect a complete picte of its fi il siato   Superviso repom provided a good
e pictur of the projects tchi  matters, but only in the latter prt of the project cycle
di it begin to cncea   mr on the       ond  financial aspects of the Bomwer. Tbe final
tecic   and fnancl rer were well pepard and very useM. Data needed for the Preparation
of the PCR wer smetm  not readly avalWe beu  of incomplete files and long delas by the
Borrower in providn dat needed.
xm LSSON IABA 
13.1  The imple an  perience and resut of ths project indicat  the fiiowig lessods  at
need to be takn io consieration for future h     projes in Bolivia or in other countris.
These re as  lOWS:
complexity of the Vuelta Grande project. timng and detailed ev   were cucial eleme to itS
success. IDA's interupdon of the project fr mc  reasons was dermet to the projec
Despite IDAWs difficulties with the macroeconomic s   in Bolivia, the prep in of the project
was well *dvavced and was both e micaly and nncialy a tive. A dey of ti      hfive
years had an adverse effct on the perormance of the project fr two resos. PFst, during  e
interim     betweenp         and reappraisal, YPFA lacked the knwwbow anindsfa or
equipmen  requiredto secure optimum extraction of qu     reeionf gas from the Aeld.
Durig thatperd, it wouldlhave been usei If he IA at leasohad  ided a mall teccal
-  . .  -   .        .>                                r~~~~~~~~~~~~~ . -e



- 13-
assstnc credit to guide YPPB technically and preen productio prcice wich ha"e diminshd
the outut of the Vuea Grande Aid and bave aected the peobra   of the gas-baing rerir.
Second, reraisal work ok the fidd was not suffciendy        v and did not give nough
attention to technical problems with he gas reewir. As a rult of delas, the lsa  of equimen
vaiabily and nfficies techical alysis, he field most lidy will coni   to produce below the
oimum leved It could hae acheved witheair i            of the ptoject.
Becaus Bolivia wa not crdiworthy to recive  RD fods, the country had to bomw MDA  nds,
which hae limied avaiabirity of reoes. As a resut, IDA support of the proect ws isfficiet
given YP s shortage of both foreign exchag ad domesc cuqrr . YPFB, becuse of limIted-
funds, tried to cut costs by purchasing usd equipme  or unmutble equipment from other idds and
Opeat   (compressors); som  of this eqipment was not arpriate for the proect and this practce
contuted to some of the tenical problem  and delays.
(c) geint anion0 e   md  tof b=a           O gme  m      n to thie =WXedt mtablXle, 1dg
IpeD)A Dct  go3uee ar cll deft                  W do ave nms imd
meaism h in pc wth  ts c          . k woud have ben prude  for IDA to give more  tion
to mak   su  ha YPFB undeood all opeaonal aspocts of IDA proment procedures, such as
the organzation of a procurement seminar.  is could have heped avoid misund       led
to delys. Fumoe, duming project iml  the Govenmen changed its own
proem         oc ,  siting on the use of an exeral, Indpedent            agency. This
added another bucratic layer to the process, which IWvoved MM, the Project Unit in YPFB, the
Mnistry of Fince and the Cetntal Ia
(d) M    
The lack of comprehensive logistca planning for the trnxpt of heavy equipent for the project led
to significan delays and inteae projeat coss.
of t%AcceDting to Seto 4.01 of the Proect Agreemn, YPFB was required to
maintain sepae records rflecting th operations, reurces and expenditures on te project. YPFB
kept saisfactory records on the project f ces (i.e., the Project Account and the Spei Account).
However, YPFB did not have all tie facilities in the ield to disregate prduction from wells
included In the project from those not related to the project and, as a result it was not possible to
calculae an ex-post rate of return an the project.



:1  jul                II:
U
I.
ii
'         0
u                               flea Ru
w  - U3'wi .                         Iii
I                     Iii             i!IiI,
I iiiu"                 Ii!
Ii
;i      0            1
*tt I iiIjU $ 1'4 Ij
I £iwitj
                  a 0.
'41"4'8  U                                   ii
id.                                ':3"



Commnta PRecived on the PCR
in Decmb  1992, IDA reeved commet on Pat I of ft PCi but no specifc
commen   on Part ]IL Mh comments on Part I coneed the  p      t  of the proJect and wero
as follors:
A.       Mh  inital producto of the field took place with a pilot plant which only bad a system for
searton and dehydrion. ad not with a cryoic pl  as IDA had previously Indicated.
B.       Ipbnort  factors in the dday wer the tiw it took t open lhe letters of credit with some
of the bak, especially in the p n, by the Guaantor, of the Guae Agreemet.



-               -  -.~~16--
PARUM
1. Related IDA
__ ~~~~~ EApiv                                               _       _      _'    , ,,.,,
3025-BO.            To proide tcbc             1980     Closod       Credit of US$16.0
OnGand Oil                 t to YPFB in                              minion was closed on
Engnerig POiect   th preraion of crade                              FIbuuy 26, 1984.
oilaud natralgSo
______   development proc                                        .
1818-BO.            To rEhaitat DNDE,          1987     In proges    Credit of USW.8
Pow. Rehabilian   the electi powe                                    uillio w il be closd
Pioect.             autority, and conawuct                           oa December 31, 1994.
now substations and
11~~                 ~      ~~~ 1  .issio                             -     _.m.,
Proposed Public     To res&uctr the        Not           under       Credit of US$ 50
Entepise Refom      public    Rise NO,a             . pt_             mili
and Privat Sector   and promote heo
Devlpe  Piect  paticipation of U'
private seato in the
_       _.u                                     _     _______-
Prposd              To resuctu  the        Not           Uer              of  US$25
Danglsion            ydrocrbon scto.       applicable.                       ,
Restctring nd
En&I.ee      ._  P .*,. _                                             _     _     _    _
-~~~~~~~



- 17 -
SIWACAL  MATION
2. a
l03/2380          )3/23/80     -
P____________   R07/10180                      07/10/80
Apprai                       12/10/80          12/10/80
Credit Negoatn               04/28V81          04/28(81
Rer   Mison                  025/85            03/2S/85
Credit Re0n 05/14/86                           05114/86
Boad Apprval                 063/86            0-2386
Credit Signature             09111/86          09111/86
Cr ditEffetivem              12112/86          12/1f286
C--edit Compl.etio           1231/88           04/30/91
Credkt Closg                 0613089,          12/31/90
1.      OrIginly th proec was appased In Decmber 1M ad th fr round of ngoiation
took place in April-May 1981. Fuer poject procs  was ddayed, howeve, by the
deterioratm of eonmic condiio  in BollIa. Ibe ptoject was rapsed in Marc
1985 and was re-ngotated on May 1986.
2.      Mm Credit wasepected to be dosedby lu  30, 1989. Howeve, due to delays n the
supply of mateas and          Wit was ot closed uI Jmune 30, 1991.



- 18-
EMRL
3..
3. Cnnatdve Eand Actud Cred' D5  s  *
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   .           . .
1986187   1            1.8           - 
2            4.3            .507        11.8
3            6.7           2.338        34.9
4            9.1           2.539        27.9
1987/88   1            11.3          3.870        34.2
2            13.6          6.565        48.2
3            14.3          6.56S        45.9
4           15.000         8.408        56.1
1988189   1             -            9.938        66.3
2             _           13.097        87.3
3             _           14.745        98.3
4             _           15.878       106.0
1989190   1             _           16.301       108.6
2             -           16.348       109.6
3             _           16.348
4                          6.441       109.6
1990191   1             -           16.466       109.8
2             _           16.466       109.8
3             _           16.466       109.8
4             -           16.582       110.5
When accnmted fo in SDR, tot credi aouxnts to SDR 12,767,559 or
99.75 peent of the negotated crdit of SDR 12.8 miUion. An amount of
SDR 32,440.72 was cancelled on May 2, 1991..



* 19-
Mam
4. Project Iwmtgigeu1a4 Ind
. 
1. Stu  Of galy pcIe             Dec. 31, 86           Ma. 1988
2. Prelmnay Organ on              June 30, 87           Apr. 1988
and RttIg Pin
3. Final            Plan         Sept. 30,87            Nov. 1991
uding  metable                                  _
5. ftect f,8 and 
A.       ' Cogs
utss wdahon eqwes)
P - rect gem                                   ... ..                    Di g g 
-: ExploDrmX (3) 11  O.S         2.0    IS2    O.S.        S.1    S.6    3.1
.. i DevispxDrSing I1.1            35.4   505       2.0      25.0   27.0  -23.5
.(18)1_                             _  __                                      _   _
Gas Pwcesing Plant        6.8      23.6   30.4   23.1        19.2   42.3   11.9
Surface PFalities         2.5        -      2.5    3.2        3.0    6.2    3.7
5    .-                                                                      _    _......     . 
Total Bas Cost           24.9      61.0   85.9   28.8        52.3   81.1   -4.8
Physical Condgency        1.3       2.3    3.6    -
Priem Conngenc            1.3       2.6    3.9                            _
Total Project Cost       27.5      65.9   93.4'
PPF      ng              -          1.0    1.0       _        1.0    1.0
TOTAL COST         27.5       66,9   94.4   28.8       53.3   82.1  -12.3
j/ bn       dblovwq a 2 udfinehan wdbs.
ZInld 17 poduom, 8 i*zom 4 wesbwa si am uwel1.
IN$h~ km Include gabduig lines, piouetiwon W~itlds, and  n
I1.a SWu, Go"l id"e YPP' &mncsma ialemeinta pee Pat a.



-20 -
S.  Pttiecm          aCntd Fahi?
B.
(SDRR )000)
(1) Works underPrtA(t)                        690                       0          0
(2) Goods and Works Under Par A(2)           7,410                 10,7           10.538
(3) Coultants' Sevices                       1,800                  1,100          1.073
(4) PPF Refunding                             860                   1,123          1.123
(5) Unaocated                                2,040                      0          0
TOTAL                             12,800                 12,800          12
11 Rei.dde Aplo 3, 1989.
I To this Iu   uld be added        SDR 35.000 for oh.sulaceas fis dtgm.
in total _nd it amount is SDR 12,767,55938 afer .ansa*iao of SDR 32,440.72 aan M  2. 1991.



-21 -
LI~~i
6.      P
A. xAM&
1. Drilig 2 producers          09/30/1986    06/30/1989
2. Drilling 4 injectors        1213111986    01/3111989
3. Buldig of gs plant          0613011989    0811989
4. IsWaation of                0913011987    0211989
productonfacilities
S. Enginedng ad spvisin    06301988    011989
- gas pant
.                                      .~~~~~~~B
Economic Rate of RRtm       60.4 percen (smuk cost)  NA
(ROR)
,  , -  ,    - _    ~20.7 percat (fdl cost)   NA
The underlying assmpto  for dte ERR anysis are fund in para 4.5 of the SAR.
An actual ERR was not calated for the reas  noted in pars 6.5.
C. F
F(iancial Raft of           43.9 percen (suk cost)  NA
(ROR)__                          _  _  _  _ _  _    __  _  _   _  _
13.8 Pct (fil cost)   NA
Ihe unelying           tbr the ERR analysis  e found in pats 4.5 of the SAR.
An acta ERR was not calculated for the ro    noted in pa  6.5.



-22 -
PART M
7. Stts  of Project C:ovenaL
~~W.rjacL$greuuent~~~~~~   - - e-or----v-o--o-- dt .          __---__   ,__________
.3.04(a)          0YPFB sha ey out a study of it staff  oles.                   
3.040b), (c) and (4)   After completing th gaff polwy stuudy, YPPB s
finush the rets to IDA and propose a pminar pa 
of tctu for  Wmoving the staff eboeveas and                     j                 _
fEica  te S maagIal, tcnicalad  professiona 
hokves. YPF Dahl -nish Anl phn of action to DA by  I
the end of Mach 1987 and begin  pln       oftho o the
i plan by the end of Jue 1987.                                            .
No late tha Octobe 31 of each year, YPFB shal        Costpliod 
rnevw km Annual Captal nvstmt Plan with IDA and  I
the Borre, inlug flancin; requirements an                       I
I pdainclorewoh                                     __I__
3.06              jYPFB shl not incu any debt if kt wil caus YPFBa    I  Conpile
It raio of debtto equity to be graerths 40 to6.    i
I Furthermoro, YPFB wil obtain DA!s consat bdfore
makig any investmen not inauded in the Annual Capital           t
Invesment Plan, which would cause YPFB to incur debt  j         j
of US$ 10 mi'llinn or more.
3.07              j YPFB shall notYF  inwu ny debt unles a reasonable  s  Complied
& forecsst shows that net renues wi be at lea  tw  timesa 
the edmaed debt sevice rqurmens on all debt.       __
3.08               YPFB agme to mainin a ratio of quick asse to cua  I  Complid  I
liabilte of not les than 1.1. Also, YPFB wMM iw,  
bI e Octobe I of ach fsal yam wh_or no it is4t- 
gliSy to meet thc requ _"ot if not, Wm Swapplp 
3.09              £ YPFB shl maintain i lepi existec and not sell, ea _   Compiled
i or tnosfr (dispose) any of its assets reued forthe d  o
eeficin opeation of its busines, incldin the projc. a____    ______
3.10                YPFB shall    cae to cary out its operato  in     i  CompHid
conformity with appropriateronmental stndrds.                     _      _!
3.11               YPFB shl open and main,  utilrth  project's Clsing s  Conped 
Dat, a Prjec Account, in na l curency, with the    I
aIcentialBank
0  ~         ~~~~~~~ I Cca,§,l,
4.01      t         Y        shall mainn seprt  cods an accounts in j     PArtially    P hyica acounting
accorncewith sound acouting praes.                   Complied  *     no suffiently
I of                           _ yea.I    ,
4.01(bM           tYPFB shall, h bv km acc  outse financa taent a_       C p              Some
audied by independen tor aepableto I)A. 
4.0ID(bxiii YPFB shall furih IDA with a certfed copy of the audit      Complied  a        Some delay
f reporttonatasaccountesor, aer fourninhafer the end! 
___ __ __ !_  of  iscl year.                                     ;          .
! IDA may reasonably equire..



0~~~I I   11lleS Itl0a Is
- ---------  -e--a -e  
901~~~        e                               ee eeeeee
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~   A
.f~ ~   ~ ~ ii'i                              i  i!    J1IIe



-24-
8.  of IDA R
A. Stff
Throug Appaisa                          n.a           34.9
Appi_ Through Bord Aprov                              167.9
BordA AErovvl t g -Effetivmu            U.S.          77.7
Suvision                                 L            92.6
Total -                                    .          373.1
.~~~~~B Miin
P     qparation     Q06/80           3              ECK, FNA, OR                2
Appas                11180           5           ECN, INA, 10a, OTH             3
Re-Appraisa          03185           6         ECK, LNA, NaR, LEG, OTH           3
Supeviio             0/86            6           ECN, PNA, MOR, OTM             3
Survsion             i6/87           S              ECN, FNA, EGR               2
Suprvio              02188           3              ECN, FNAL ER                2
S vio                06188           6           ECN, FNA,NEGR., OTH            3
Suevisn              09188           3              MR, FNA, EOR                2
Super n              02189           3              MR, PIA, EGR                3
Supevisi             06/89           3              MR. PNA, E0R                2
Sprvis               10189           2                 EGR, FNA                 2
Superevisio          02/90           2                  OR PNA                   1
Spsiwa               06/90           3               OR, 1EK, PNA               2
Supvis               06/91           4           BON, ECN, FNA, OTH              2
Supervision'         10/91           2                 NOR, ENA                 2
* include msviin for two pectws: RIC I and RIC I.
Specatie  EaginesrrsOR Econowistm"ECK; Eci al AnadystmFNA  L.gal-LI0; Ohe=0Tf.



-25-                         Annex I
COMPARED TO PlOELI= APPRAISL        STL
1        1986         1,971     587      84,230      -
2         1987        1,971      602     84,230  :
3         1988        1,971     596      84,230      -
4         1989        I,800     1,029    76,923    26,288
5         1990        1,650      611     70,510    29,353
6         1991        1,450     456      61,110    39,762
7         1992        1,200     488      51,280    40,985
8         I993        1,200      565      51,280    41,347
9         1994        1,130     398      48,290    36,995
10       1995    -  1,130       378      48,290    34,396
11       1996         1,050     360      44,872    32,745
12       1997         975       349      41,624    329106
13       1998         900       326      38,461    31,139
14       1999         825       310      35,214    29,611
15       2000         750       295      32,O51    28,052
16       2001         750       281      32,051    25,338
17       2002         675       254      28,803    24,641
is       2003         675       242      28,803    24,641
19       2004         600       230      25,641    22,002
20       2005         525       219      22,393    21,814
SrO=: SAR and YPFB



-26                             AAnex 2
-.                   . .     Page I of 4
YPFB
CQZPARAnE TCOME STAfM  MN  (1991-1993)
(in USS Wliu
1991                 1992                1993
SA1     AC=AL    SAR    ACrUAL    ASIR    ACTUAL
.  ,% ; :j~      6SERV?E43.7                  7;7       6527      61.9      39=4
1 2 Dom>e
3 Gas                               21.1       24.5      21.1      31.3      2i.i       23.5
4 Oil Producs & LPG                322.9      4t8.1     331.9     489.9     348.4      492.1
5 Expor
6 Gas              -293.1                     22.7      293.1      IIg.8      0.0      197.6
7 LPG-                               6.6        2.2 C.6             0.9       0.0        2.2
Oil Products
9 Opeatiag Expenses                532.9      456.7     553.4     481.1     443.1    SS.2
Royulties and Taxes               193.1      176.8     195.8     187.4     110.9      196.8
1,z1 Pcbas ft Catrcon               50.5       72.9      59.3      77.3      59.3       81.1
12 Production                       61.8       30.7      64.3      32.5      60.1       34.2
13 R.obng                           90.2       15.7      93.8      i6.6      9715       17.5
14 Tsport and M1  ug                64.5       30.8      67.1      32.6      51.4       34.3
15 Deptociation and Depleton       . 64.0      793       64.0      81.1      54.4       85.2
16 Gen Adm.E xpaes                   8.8       50.5       9.1      53.5       9.S       S6.2
17 OPEAXIG INCOME (1-9)            110.8      280.8      99.3     160.7    (73.6)      215.2
1i OT    EXPE?NSES                  11.2        3.2       9.5       6.5       8.0        6.8
19 Aorizsti0O                        0.5                  0.5                 0.5
20 Long-Tem Debt Savice              14.2      15.3      12.       18.6      11.0       18.9
21 Non-oper. (imcom) Expe8*     -   (3.5)     (12.1)     (3.S)    '(12.1)    (3.5)     (12-1)
22 NET ICOME (17-18)                99.6      277.6      89.8      154.2    ($1.6)     208.4
.~~~~~ -                                                      -



-27                              Annex 2
Pag  2 of 4
RrPFB
Pt. NDS PLOW STATEMENTS (1991-1993)
(in USS Miflica
1991                 199                 1993
SAR      ACrUAL    SAR       ACTUYAL    SAR    ACrTJAX
..._ A  AlO- - -T  
e .A..60.   OF FUNh.DS
2 Not Incom                        99.5      227.6       89.8     154.2    (81.5)      208.4
3 Dpeciaion and D4 pt              64.        79.3.      64.0      81.8      54.4       85.9
4 Amorzation                        0.5        3.4       O0.        3.2       0.5        0.S
S TarAL FROM OPERAXIONS            164.0     360.3      1S4.3     239.2      26.6)     294.8
6 Sh  Capital                       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
7 Lougum= Debt I=a3                 0.0       .42.2       0.0      85.8       0.0       58.3
8 Totl Other Sou=es                 0.0       42.2        0.0      85.8       0.0       S8.3
9 ToTAL SOURCES                   164.0      402.5      154.3     32.0    (26.6)       353.1
10 APPLICATIONS
1 Additions to Fixed Ase          100.0       98.2      100.0      86.9       0.0       97.5
12 Additions to Odtr Assu           0.0       (7-9)       0.0     (12.5)      0.0       0.0
13 Total Addidous                 100.0       90.3      100.0      74.4       0.0       97.5
14 L.T.D. Repymnt                  22.5       13.4       19.8      16.8      19.8      22.5
15 Dividends Ptid                 -82.3        0.0       84.S       0.0      76.3       0.0
16 Chaugo in WorAng CWl            (40.8)     17.0      (50.o0)    (62.5)   (122.7)    (72.8)
17 Tasf. to Govemeat                         281.8                296.3                305.9
17 TOTAL APPLICATIONS             164.0       402.S    154.3      325.0    (26.6)      353.1
I               .      -S''-        .av-                 m



-28-                            Annez 2
Patg 3 of 4
BALANCE SEr (1991-1993)
USS mon)
-~        ~                        -         -3 m                           -
M.     ACrUAL    SAR        ACrUAL    SAl  ACrUAL
I' ASSETS                        1794.2    1392.4    17875    1338.4   1602.T    1450.3
2 Smptlu Cas,                     74.1      26.2       24.5      26.3      95.5      27.6
3 bGum  Cab                       18.0       1.5       18.8      15.9      14.9      16.7
4 Total Cash                      92.1      27.7       43.3      42.2    110.5       4.3
S Aounts sReceivable             229.0     138.4      232.2     139.6    131.5      146.6
6 ;iventoies                     221.1     189.9      224.4     194.4    128.1      204.1
7 Total Cume Auts                342.2     3S610      499.9     376.2    370.1      395.0
8 Totd Fixed Assas              2106.9    1602.2    2206.9    1705.3   2206.9    1807.6
9 Les AM    Depredo              906.0     756.8      970.0     798.3   1024.4      86.2
10 Net Fvxed Asset              1200.9     845.      123.9      907.0   1182.5      96i.4
11 Od erAssets                    83.1     S59         83.1      SS.4      83.1      94.2
12 Less A==um. Aortion            31.9       0.3      34          0.2     32.9        0.3
13 NetFixed Assets                31.1      56         50.7      55.2     S0.2       93.8
13a LT. Acc. Recve                 .       110.7
14 LABLTIES                     1794.4    1392.4    1?87.4    1338.4   1602.7    1450.2
15 Accouats Payable              138.1      97.3      125.8      99.6    118.7      104.6
16 Royalties and Taxe Paye                  24.7                 23.7                24.9
17 Cuttent NeL LTD.               19.8      26.6       19.8      28.5      19.8      29.9
18 DiviendsPaybl                  84.6                76.3         .
19 Current Liabilities           222.5     148.6     221.9      151.8    138.5      1S9.4
20 Emisig L.T.D.                  95.3                 91.6                87.8
21 Les Current Matuities           3.7                  3.7                 3.7
22 New Long-Term Debt            228.8     1S3.3      212.7               196.7
23 NewCu*ntMat Uities             16.1     275.1       16.1                16.1
24 Not Long-Term Debt            304.3     1S3.3      284.S     296.6    264.7      314.4
25 Shr Capital                   175.6     898.3      175.6     158.5    175.6       58.4
26 Retained Eaings              1092.0    UVC ti    1105.4      898.4   1023.9      9S2.3
27 Tol Equity                   1267.6    *2U^.      1281.0    1056.9   1199.5    1011.1
28 Tasf. Surplus                           198.8                296.3               305.9
29 Adjust Pat.                 .2..4                                                271.3



-29-Ae  2
PMs* 4 of 4
YPFB
PW.ANCIAL RATIOS (1987-1993)
1991                1921993
SAR    ACrUAL       SAR      ACTUAL       SAR~   ACrUAL
2 LIQtJWIrY
3 Quick Ratio                      1.42       1.32       1.4        1.27      1.34       1.43
4 Cumet  RtIio                     2.4        2.4        2.3        2.5       2.7        2;5
S LEVERAGE
6 (%) EquityiToal Libablitics    70.64%     75.52%    71.67%     78.97%    74.84%      69.72%
7 LTD Equity                     18.05%     14.57%     16.60%     0.00%     16.40%      0.005
8 DEBT COVERAGE
9 Tms Inte   Earned                9.84      27.33      22.40     18.92       9.27      19.10
10 Tl m  Det SeMee Cmvemg          2.9       92.3        1.3      211.0       3.4      130.3
11 OPERAnoNS
12 (%) COS/Sal
13 (%) Opuradoo                  17.21%     38.07%     15.2%     25.04%   -19.92%      29.87%
14 (%) Net                        7.80%     26.40%     7.01%     1449%      4.80%      20.61%
s15 (O Net   e/u                 15.47%    37.645    13.76%      24.03%   -22.08%     28.93%
16 PROFIT BR.AKE       
17 ()Ses Pce                      G1.05      6149       83.33     73.95    117.75       69.18
,~~                                              -         -          -          - _ ._          



