OFFICIAL
[  DOCUM   N      REDIT NIMBER 1719 BO
Project Agreement
(Vuelta Grande Gas Recycling Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
YACIMIENTOS PETROLIFEROS FISCALES IBOLIVIANOS
Dated    ;                         , 1986


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1719 BO
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                              , 1986, between
the INTERNATIONAL DEVELO MENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and
YACIMIENTOS PETROLIFEROS FISCALES BOLIVIANOS (YPFB), an entity
wholly owned by, and established and operating under the laws of,
the REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA.
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA (the Borrower) and the
Association, the Association has agreed to make available to the
Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to twelve
million   eight   hundred   thousand   Special    Drawing   Rights
(SDR 12,800,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that YPFB
agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are
set forth in this Agreement;
(B) by a Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and YPFB, the proceeds of the Credit
provided for under the Development Credit Agreement will be made
available to YPFB on the terms and conditions set forth in said
Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
WHEREAS YPFB, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto Lereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement, the
Preamble to this Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. YPFB declares its commitment to the objectives
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development


﻿-2-
Credit Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the Project
with due diligence and efficiency, in conformity with appropriate
administrative, managerial, financial, engineering and petroleum
industry practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the Project.
Section 2.02. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement.
(b) Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, YPFB shall procure the goods, works and consul-
tants' services for the Project in accordance with the YPFB
Procurement Manual.
Section 2.03. YPFB shall carry out the obligations set forth
in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General
Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services,
plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land
acquisition) in respect of the Project.
Section 2.04. YPFB shall enter into and duly perform all its
obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, YPFB shall not take or concur
in any action which would have the effect of amending, abroga-
ting, assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any
provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) YPFB shall, at the request of the Associa-
tion, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under
this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b) YPFB shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit, or the performance by YPFB of its obligations under
this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.06. YPFB shall: (a) maintain through Project
completion, a Project Unit with membership and responsibilities


﻿-3-
acceptable to the Association, for purposes of coordinating    and
supervising  implementation  of  the Project; (b) provi.-      the
Project Unit with adequate staff, funds, resources and facilities
to carry out its coordinating, supervising and other responsibi-
lities under the Project; (c) appoint a Project Coordinator who
shall head the Project Unit and who shall have qualifications and
experience satisfactory to the Association; and (d) cnsult with
the Association, and obtain the consent of the Association, prior
to making any changes in the membership or responsibilities of
the Project Unit.
Section 2.07. YPFB shall cause the Project Unit to provide
quarterly reports of the progress of implementing the Project,
within forty-five days after the end of each quarter in YPFB's
Fiscal Year.
. Section 2.08. (a) In order to assist YPFB in the instal-
lation and initial operation of the gas processing plant under
Part A.2 of the Project, YPFB shall assign consultants' services
under Part C of the Project, to the Project Unit, through com-
pletion of the Project.
(b) The consultants referred to in the preceding paragraph
shall be hired not later than July 30, 1986.
Section 2.09. YPFB shall take all action necessary or appro-
priate to assist the Borrower in complying with the requirements
of Articles III and IV of the Development Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of YPFB
Section 3.01. YPFB shall carry on its operations and con-
duct its affairs, including the operations and affairs of the
Subsidiary, in accordance with sound administrative, managerial,
financial, engineering and petroleum industry practices, under
the supervision of qualified and experienced management, assisted
by competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. YPFB shall operate and maintain, and shall
cause the Subsidiary to operate and maintain, at all times, their
respective plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and
from time to time, prompt'y as needed, make all necessary repairs
and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound financial,
engineering and petroleum industry practices.


﻿-4-
Section 3.03. YPFB shall take out and maintain with respon-
sible insurers insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.04. YPFB shall:
(a) under terms of reference satisfactory to the Associa-
tion, carry out, by not later than December 31, 1986, a study of
the staff policies of YPFB;
(b) promptly upon completion of the study, furnish to the
Association for its review and comment, the results of such study
and propose a preliminary plan of action to increase efficiency
and effectiveness of the managerial, technical and professional
staff levels of YPFB;
(c) taking into consideration the results of the study and
the comments of the Association, by not later than March 31,
1987, propose a final plan of action for achieving such improve-
ments and a timetable for the implementation of such plan,
acceptable to the Association; and
(d) implement such plan in accordance with the agreed time-
table, provided, however, that such implementation shall begin
by not later than June 30, 1987.
Section 3.05. (a) By not later than October 31 of each year,
YPFB shall review, together with the Borrower and the Associa-
tion, the Annual Capital Investment Plan for the Fiscal Year,
and to be carried out during the next Fiscal Year, as well as
YPFB's overall financial situation; such review shall include the
specific financial requirements for implementing each such Plan,
potential private sector promotion and investment, proposed
pricing action, and any other financial measures that may be
taken during the next Fiscal Year.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, YPFB
shall take all action and measures necessary to carry out each
such Annual Capital Investment Plan.
Section 3.06. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, YPFB and the Subsidiary shall not incur any debt, if after
the incurrence of such debt, the ratio of debt to equity shall be
greater than 40 to 60.


﻿-5-
(b) For purposes of this Section and Sections 3.07 and
3.08:
(i) the term "debt" means any indebtedness of YPFB or
the Subsidiary, maturing by its terms more than
one year after the date on which it was originally
incurred;
(ii) debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a
loan contract or agreement, or other instrument
providing for such debt, or for the modification
of its terms of payment, on the date of such
contract, agreement or instrument; and (B) under a
guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement
providing for such guarantee has been entered
into;
(iii) the term "equity" means the sum of the total
unimpaired paid-up capital, retained earnings and
reserves of YPFB and the Subsidiary, not allocated
to cover specific liabilities; and
(iv) if it shall be necessary to value, in terms of the
currency of the Borrower, debt payable in another
currency, such valuation shall be made on the
basis of the prevailing lawful rate of exchange
at which such other currency is, at the time of
such valuation, obtainable for the purposes of
servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such
rate, on the basis of a rate of exchange accept-
able to the Association.
(c) YPFB and the Subsidiary shall obtain the consent of the
Association, prior to undertaking any investment or any commit-
ment to invest, which is not included in the relevant Annual
Capital Investment Plan and which would result in incurring debt
of the equivalent of $10,000,000 or more.
Section 3.07. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, YPFB and the Subsidiary shall not incur any debt, unless a
reasonable forecast of the revenues and expenditures of YPFB and
the Subsidiary show that the estimated net revenues of YPFB and
the Subsidiary, for each Fiscal Year during the term of the debt
to be incurred, shall be at least two (2) times the estimated
debt service requirements of YPFB and the Subsidiary in such


﻿-6-
year, on all debt of YPFB and the Subsidiary, including the debt
to be incurred.
(b) For the purposes of this Section and Section 3.08:
(i) the term "net revenues" means the difference
between:
(A) the sum of revenues from all sources related
to operations and net non-operating income;
and
(B) the sum of all expenses related to opera-
tions, including administration, adequate
maintenance, taxes and payments in lieu of
taxes, but excluding provision for depre-
ciation, other non-cash operating charges,
interest and other charges on debt;
(ii) the term "net non-operating income" means the
difference between:
(A) revenues from all sources other than those
related to operations; and
(B) expenses, including taxes and payments in
lieu of taxes, incurred in the generation of
revenues in (A) above;
(iii) the term "debt service requirements" means the
aggregate of repayments (including sinking fund
payments, if any) of, and interest and other
charges on, debt; and
(iv) the term "reasonable forecast" means a forecast
prepared by YPFB for itself and the Subsidiary,
not earlier than twelve months prior to the incur-
rence of the debt in question, which both the
Association and YPFB accept as reasonable and as
to which the Association has notified YPFB of its
acceptability, provided that no event has occurred
since such notification which has, or may reason-
ably be expected in the future to have, a mate-
rial adverse effect on the financial condition or
future   operating  results   of  YPFB   and   the
Subsidiary.


﻿-7-
Section 3.08. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, YPFB shall maintain a ratio of quick assets to current
liabilities of not less than 1.1.
(b) Before October 31 in each of its Fiscal Years, YPFB
shall review, on the basis of forecasts prepared by YPFB that
shall be acceptable to the Association, whether it would meet the
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) in respect of such Fiscal
Year and the next following Fiscal Year and shall furnish to the
Association the results of such review upon its completion.
(c) If any such review shows that YPFB would not meet the
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) for YPFB's Fiscal Years
covered by such review, YPFB shall promptly take all necessary
measures (including, without limitation, adjustments of the
structure or levels of its prices) in order to meet such require-
ments.
(d) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) the term "quick assets" means cash, all assets,
excluding inventories, which could in the urdinary
course of business be converted into cash within
twelve months, including accounts receivable,
convertible  securities, and   pre-paid, expenses
properly chargeable to operating expenses within
the next Fiscal Year; and
(ii) the term "current liabilities" means all liabili-
ties which will become due and payable, or could
under circumstances then existing be called for
payment, within twelve months, including accounts
payable, customer advances, debt service require-
ments, taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, and
dividends.
Section 3.09. (a) YPFB shall, at all times, maintain its
legal existence and right to carry on operations, and shall,
except as the Association shall otherwise agree, take all steps
necessary to acquire, maintain and renew such licenses, consents,
franchises or other rights, necessary or appropriate, for its
operations and the implementation of the Project.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of any of


﻿-8-
its property or assets which shall be required for the efficient
operation of its business, including the carrying out of the
Project.
Section 3.10. YPFB shall take and cause to be taken, all
action as shall be required to ensure that its operations,
including the Project, are carried out in conformity with appro-
priate pollution control and ecological standards.
Section 3.11. YPFB shall:
(i) establish by the Effective Date of the Credit, and
maintain until the Closing Date, in the Central
Bank of the Borrower or in a commercial bank
acceptable to the Association, a Project Account
in national currency, on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association;
(ii) make payments out of the Project Account exclu-
sively for expenditures for goods, works and
consultants' services required for the Project;
and
(iii) deposit into the Project Account: (A) an initial
deposit of the equivalent of $1,000,000; and
(B) at two month intervals, beginning the second
month after the establishment of the Project
Account, an amount at least equal to the aggregate
of payments made during the previous two months
for expenditures under the Project not financed
from the proceeds of the Credit; and (C) all
amounts necessary to maintain a minimum balance in
such account of the equivalent of $250,000.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) YPFB shall maintain records and accounts
adequate to reflect, in accordance with consistently maintained
sound accounting practices, its operations and financial condi-
tion and the operations and financial condition of the Subsi-
diary, including separate records and accounto to reflect the
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project.


﻿9
(b) YPFB shall:
(i) have its accounts, financial statements (balance
sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements), and the accounts and finan-
cial statements of the Subsidiary, for each Fiscal
Year  audited, in    accordance  with   appropriate
auditing   principles  consistently   applied,   by
independent    auditors    acceptable     to    the
Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than four months after
the end of each such year: (A) certified copies of
the financial statements for such year as so
audited and (B) the reports of such audits by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said accounts and financial statements
as well as the audits thereof, and such records,
as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of Statements of
Expenditure, YPFB shall:
(i) maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this
Section, separate records and accounts reflecting
such expenditures;
(ii) retain, until at least one year after the Associa-
tion has received the audit report for the Fiscal
Year in which the last withdrawal from the Credit
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii) enable    the   Association's   representatives   to
examine such records; and
(iv) ensure that such separate accounts are included
in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b)


﻿- 10 -
of this Section and that the report thereof con-
tains, in respect of such separate accounts, a
separate opinion by said auditors as to whether
the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn in respect of
such expenditures were used for the purposes for
which they were provided.
Section 4.02. YPFB shall extend its internal auditing to
include the Material Departments of YPFB, and any other depart-
ment or subsidiary that may be created by YPFB.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of YPFB thereunder shall terminate on the earlier
of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) the date thirty years after the date of this
Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
YPFB of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in 'ull force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between


﻿- 11 -
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                   Telex:
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For YPFB:
Yacimientos Petroliferos Fiscales Bolivianos
Casilla 401
La Paz, Bolivia
Cable address:                   Telex:
YACIBOL                           BX 5267
La Paz, Bolivia
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of YPFB, or by YPFB on behalf of the Borrower
under the Development Credit Agreement, may be taken or executed
by the President of YPFB or such other person or persons as the
President of YPFB shall designate in writing, and YPF' -hall
furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the aut-,j-ity
and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.


﻿- 12 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
YACIMIENTOS PETROLIFEROS FISCALES BOLIVIANOS
By
Authorized Representative


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE I
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.   Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   Bidders for the works included in Part A of the Project
shall be prequalified as described in paragraph 2.10 of the
Guidelines.
3.   To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be
grouped in bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of
$250,000 or more each.
Part B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In  the   procurement  of  goods   in  accordance  with   the
procedures described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in
Bolivia may be granted a 15% margin of preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56
of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2
thereto.
Part C.   Other Procurement Procedures
Well services under Part A (1) of the Project, goods and
services required for modification of existing compressors for
use in the Vuelta Grande gas processing and injection plant under
Part A (2) of the Project, and goods which are proprietary in
nature and of limited international supply under Part A (2) of
the Project, may be procured under contracts awarded through
limited international bidding procedures on the basis of
evaluation and comparison of bids invited from a list of at least
three qualified suppliers eligible under the Guidelines from at
least two countries, and in accordance with the procedures set
forth in Sections I and II of the Guidelines (excluding
paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55 and 2.56 thereof), provided, however,


﻿- 14 -
that the estimated cost of each such contract is less than the
equivalent of $250,000, and the aggregate amount of all such
contracts does not exceed the equivalent of $5,500,000.
Part D.   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of prequalification:
With respect to the prequalification of bidders as provided
in Part A.2 hereof, the procedures set forth in paragraph 1 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
(a) With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $250,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
When payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished
to the Association prior to the making of the first payment out
of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. When payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 3 to
the Development Credit Agreement.
(c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraph.e (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized withdrawals from the "redit Account on the
basis of statements of expenditure. Su. contracts shall be
retained  in accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this
Agreement and Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of the Development Credit
Agreement.
3.   The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.


﻿- 15 -
Section II. Employment of Consultants
In order to as sist YPFB in carrying out the Project, YPFB
shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience, terms
of reference and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satis-
factory to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for
the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World
Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


