OFFICIAL
DCREDIT NUMBER 1719 BO
Development Credit Agreement
(Vuelta Grande Gas Recycling Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated             ; /       :/   , 1986


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1719 BO
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated         L; '/                , 1986, between
the REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA (the Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B) the Project will be carried out by YACIMIENTOS
PETROLIFEROS FISCALES BOLIVIANOS (YPFB) with the Borrower's
assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will
make available to YPFB the proceeds of the Credit as provided in
this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has e-reed, on th'e basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the
Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Association
and YPFB;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
ection 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment %.redit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985
(General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this
Agreement and are hereby incorporated as if fully set forth
herein, with the modification that the last sentence of Section
3.02 is deleted.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several- terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth, and the 'following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and YPFB of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;


﻿-2-
(b) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and YPFB pursuant to Section
3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time
to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements
supplemental to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(c) "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(d) "Project Account" means that account referred to in
Section 3.11 of the Project Agreement;
(e) "Project Preparation Advance" means the project pre-
paration advance granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to
an exchange of letters, dated March 13, 1981, between the Bor-
rower and the Association;
(f) "YPFB Charter" means the Decreto Ley of the Borrower,
dated December 21, 1936, that created YPFB, and the term includes
YPFB's By-laws ("By-laws"), as approved by Decreto Supremo     No.
15122 of the Borrower, dated November 18, 1977 and Decreto
Supremo No. 15888 of the Borrower, dated October 19, 1978;
(g) "Fiscal Year" means the fiscal year of the Borrower or
of YPFB, both of which begin on January 1 and end on December 31;
(h) "Project Unit" means the Proyecto de Explotacion Vuelta
Grande unit, created as part of YPFB by resolution of the General
Manager of YPFB (Disposicion Administrativa de Gerencia General,
No. 195/82), which shall have responsibility for coordinating and
supervising the implementation of the Project, pursuant to
Section 2.06 of the Project Agreement;
(i) "Annual Capital Investment Plan" means the YPFB invest-
ment program for each Fiscal Year, as approved by the Board of
Directors of YPFB, beginning with the 1987 Fiscal Year of YPFB,
and each Annual Capital Investment Plan approved by said Board of
Directors thereafter, through Fiscal Year 1991;
(j) "Subsidiary" means Compania Yacibol-Bogoc Transpor-
tadores, an entity wholly owned by YPFB;
(k) "national currency" means the currency unit of the,
Borrower; and


﻿-3-
(1) "YPFB Procurement Manual" means the manual for procure-
ment for the Project referred to in Section 3.02 (b) of this
Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions set forth, or referred to,
in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various cur-
rencies equivalent to twelve million eight hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 12,800,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Asso-
ciation, for expenditures made, or if the Association shall so
agree, to be made, in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars, a Special Account in a commercial
bank acceptable to the Association on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association.     Deposits into, and payments
out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(c) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and pay to itself the amount required to repay the
principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges
thereon.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1989 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue


﻿-4-
from a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit
Agreement, to the respective dates on which amounts shall be
withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be
cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semi-annually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each June 1
and December 1, commencing December 1, 1996, and ending Decem-
ber 1, 2036. Each installment, to and including the installment
payable on June 1, 2006, shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of
1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter
shall be one and one-half percent (1-1/2%) of such principal
amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
Section 2.09. The Central Bank of the Borrower is designated
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any
action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this


﻿-5-
Agreement and to this end, without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, shall cause YPFB to perform in accordance with the
provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of YPFB
therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action,
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other
resources necessary or appropriate, to enable YPFB to perform
such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any
action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit to
YPFB under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be entered into between
the Borrower and YPFB, under terms and conditions which shall
have been approved by the Association and which shall include,
inter alia, those terms set forth in Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish
the purposes of the Credit, and except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate
or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule I
to the Project Agreement.
(b) The Borrower shall, with the participation of YPFB,
prepare, issue and put into effect, a manual, satisfactory to the
Association and consistent with the Guidelines referred to in
Section I, paragraph A.1, and Section II of Schedule 1 to the
Project Agreement, setting forth the procedures that shall be
followed and conditions that shall be applied by YPFB in the
procurement of goods, works and consultants' services for the
Project (the YPFB Procurement Manual).
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05,
9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to in-
surance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records
and reports, maintenance and land acquisition) in respect of the


﻿- 6 -
Project shall be carried out by YPFB pursuant to Section 2.03 of
the Project Agreement.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall take, or cause to be taken,
all action necessary or appropriate, to ensure that YPFB shall be
provided with sufficient foreign exchange to purchase the goods
and services required to carry out the Project.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall take, or cause to be
taken, all actiun necessary or appropriate, to maintain domestic
sales prices of the Composite of Petroleum Products at such
levels as shall be required to ensure economic utilization of
such products. To this end, the Borrower shall maintain the
Domestic Weighted Average Prices of the Composite of Petroleum
Products at a level at least equal to the International Weighted
Average Prices for such Composite of Petroleum Products in each
of its Fiscal Years.
(b) For purposes of this Section:
(i) "Composite of Petroleum Products" means all grades
of gasoline, diesel, fuel oil, kerosene, jet fuel,
and liquified petroleum gas;
(ii) "Domestic   Weighted  Average  Prices" means   the
average of the prices charged in the territory of
the Borrower, for each of the products forming the
Composite  of   Petroleum  Products, during    the
relevant Fiscal Year, adjusted to reflect the
period of time such prices prevailed for each such
product and weighted to reflect the share each
such product had as a percentage of the total
volume of domestic sales of the Composite of
Petroleum Products; and
(iii) "International Weighted Average Prices" means the
average of the daily prices published by a
reputable  industry   report  acceptable  to   the
Association, for each of the products forming the
Composite of Petroleum Prices, shipped from
Caribbean ports or such other trading basis
proposed by the Borrower and acceptable to the
Association, during the relevant Fiscal Year,
adjusted to reflect the period of time such prices
prevailed for each such product and weighted to


﻿-7-
reflect the share each such product had as a
percentage of the total volume of domestic sales
of the Composite of Petroleum Products.
(c) The Borrower shall: (i) prepare, or shall cause YPFB to
prepare, a report comparing the Domestic Weighted Average Prices
of the Composite of Petroleum Products with the International
Weighted Average Prices for such products and provide the same to
the Association within one month after the end of each of its
Fiscal Years; (ii) meet, and shall cause YPFB to meet, with the
Association, promptly thereafter, and at all such other time as
the Association shall reasonably request, to review such prices
and any report thereof;   and (iii) take, or cause YPFB to take,
promptly after any such review has determined that the price
levels required by paragraph (a) of this Section have not been
achieved, all necessary measure (including without limitation,
adjustments of the structure or levels of prices for the Com-
posite of Petroleum Products), in order to meet such requirement.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall meet, and shall cause YPFB
to meet, annually with the Association and at all such other
times as the Association shall reasonably request, to review
measures to expand and encourage exploration and production in
the petroleum industry in Bolivia, such as enhanced private
sector involvement.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall:
(a) under terms of reference satisfactory to the Associa-
tion, carry out, by not later than June 30, 1987, a study of the
activities, operations and efficiency of YPFB;
(b) promptly upon completion of the study, furnish to the
Association for its reviewq and comment, the results of such study
and a proposed preliminary plan for improving the efficiency of
YPFB;
(c) taking into consideration the results of the study and
the comments of the Association, by not later than September 30,
1987, propose a final plan for improving the efficiency of YPFB,
and a timetable for the implementation of such plan, acceptable
to the Association; and
(d) implement such plan in accordance with the agreed time-
table.


﻿-8-
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall: (a) meet with the Asso-
ciation and YPFB in accordance with Section 3.05 of the Project
Agreement; (b) take all measures necessary or appropriate to
ensure that YPFB shall carry out each Annual Capital Investment
Plan; and (c) take all measures necessary or appropriate to
ensure that YPFB shall comply with Sections 3.06, 3.07, 3.08,
3.09, 3.10 and 3.11 of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to
be maintained, separate records and accounts adequate to reflect,
in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting
practices, the operations, resources and expenditures in respect
of the Project.
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i) have the accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of
this Section, including the Special Account, for
each Fiscal Year audited, in accordance with
appropriate   auditing   principles   consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than four months after
the end of each such year, a certified copy of the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning the said accounts and the audit thereof
and said records as the Association shall from
time to time reasonably request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, separate
records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;


﻿-9-
(ii) retain,   until   at  least  one   year  after  the
completion of the audit for the fiscal year in
which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account
was   made,   all   records   (contracts,   orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii) enable    the  Association's   representatives   to
examine such records; and
(iv) ensre that such separate accounts are included in
the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section and that the report thereof contains,
in respect of such separate accounts, a separate
opinion by said auditors as to whether the
proceeds of the Credit withdrawn in respect of
such expenditures were used for the purposes for
which they were provided.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) YPFB shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement;
(b) as a result of events which have occurred after the
date of the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary
situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that
YPFB will be able to perform its obligations under the Project
Agreement;
(c) the YPFB Charter shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and
adversely the ability of YPFB to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement; and
(d) the Borrower, or any other authority having jurisdic-
tion, shall have taken any action for the dissolution or dis-
establishment of YPFB or for the suspension of its operations.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:


﻿- 10 -
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower; and
(b) the events specified in paragraphs (c), (d) and (e) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and YPFB; and
(b) that the Borrower has taken all actions referred to in
Section 3%02 (b) of this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions, satis-
factory to the Association, of counsel acceptable to the Asso-
ciation, to be furnished to the Association:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly executed and
authorized or ratified by YPFB, and is legally binding upon YPFB
in accordance with its terms;
(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly exe-
cuted and authorized or ratified by the Borrower and YPFB and is
legally binding upon the Borrower and YPFB in accordance with its
terms; and
(c) that all necessary actions have been taken by the
Borrower and YPFB to ensure that the YPFB Procurement Manual is
lawful under the laws of the Borrower and the YPFB Charter, and
is legally binding upon the Borrower and YPFB in accordance with
its terms.
Section 6.03. The date


﻿- 11 -
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the
General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Articles
III and IV of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the
date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or
on the date thirty years after the date of this Agreement,
whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this
Agreement, the Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section
11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Finanzas
La Paz
Bolivia
Cable address:                        Telex:
MINFINANZAS                          BX 5332
La Paz, Bolivia
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                        Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145  (WUI)


﻿- 12 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
/ ~~             /31t~.
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By                 25
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Works under                 690,000         100% of foreign
Part A (1) of                              expenditures
the Project
(2) Goods and Works           7,410,000         100% of foreign
under Part A (2)                           expenditures
of the Project
(3) Consultants'              1,800,000         100% of foreign
services under                             expenditures
Part C of the Project
(4) Refunding of                860,000         Amount due pur-
Project Prepara-                           suant to Section
tion Advance                               2.02 (c) of this
Agreement
(5) Unallocated               2,040,000
TOTAL              12,800,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign expen-
ditures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other
than that of the Borrower, for goods or services supplied from
the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that


﻿- 14 -
withdrawals in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent
of SDR 430,000, may be made in respect of Categories (1), (2) and
(3) on account of payments made for expenditures before that date
but after April 1, 1986.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to assist the Bor-
rower in developing its natural hydrocarbon resources at the
Vuelta Grande field in order to maintain adequate production of
petroleum products to meet the needs of the domestic market; and
(b) to develop greater export capacity.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Development of the Vuelta Grande retrograde gas
condensate field
Prod: tion  of   gas  condensate  from   the  Vuelta   Grande
field, stripping liquids therefrom and reinjection of dry gas
with the aim of recovering oil and gas reserves from the field,
by:
1.   drilling  of   six  wells  (two   production  and  four
injection wells);
2.   preparing and installing a gas processing and injection
plant and starting the gas recycling operation;
3.   laying of gathering and injection lines; and
4.   constructing of connections to the main oil pipeline.
Part B:   Studies
Studies of: (a) the staff policies of YPFB and other methods
to increase the efficiency and effectiveness of the managerial,
technical and professional staff levels of YPFB; and (b) the
activities, operations and efficiency of YPFB.
Part C:   Technical Assistance
Consultants' services to assist YPFB in: (a) construc-
tion of the gas processing and injection plant; (b) reservoir
engineering; and (c) training of YPFB staff in the operation of
the gas processing and injection plant.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1988.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 3
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "Eligible Categories" means the Categories
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
(b) the term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit allocated from time to time to the Eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and
(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to SDR 1,710,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit
Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments
out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible
Expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a) On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit in the
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the
Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit
into the Special Account such amounts as shall be required to
replenish the Special Account with amounts not exceeding the
amount of payments made out of the Special Account for Eligible


﻿- 17 -
Expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Asso-
ciation from the Credit Account under the respective Eligible
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall
have been justified by the evidence supporting the request for
such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, such
and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably request,
showing that such payment was made for Eligible Expenditures.
5.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be
made by the Association when either of the following situations
first arises:
(i) the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made directly by the
Borrower from the Credit Account in accordance
with the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section
2.02 of this Agreement; or
(ii) the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allo-
cated to the Eligible Categories, minus the amount
of any outstanding special commitment entered into
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions with respect to the Project,
shall be equal to the equivalent of twice the
amount of the Authorized Allocation.
(b) Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the
Eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Associa-
tion shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further with-
drawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of
such notice have been or will be utilized in making payments for
Eligible Expenditures.
6.   (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2


﻿- 18 -
of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association deposit into the
Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment
or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No further
deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made
until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for Eligible Expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount for crediting to the
Credit Account.


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 4
Terms and Conditions of the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement between the Borrower and YPFB
1.   Term. The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit
to YPFB for a term of twelve (12) years, with a grace period not
to exceed 3 years.
2.   Interest Rate. The interest rate charged shall be: (i)
nine and one-half percent (9.5%) per annum; (ii) fixed for the
term of the subsidiary loan; and (iii) charged at least semi-
annually on principal amounts withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time.
3.   Currency. The subsidiary loan shall be: (i) denominated in
dollars and repayable in national currency; and (ii) the exchange
rate shall be determined as of the date each payment is made and
shall be reasonable and acceptable to the Association.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


