 IEG
                                                                                                Report Number: ICRR14841

                  ICR Review
                  Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                        Date Posted: 12/01/2015

               Country: Madagascar
             Project ID: P090615                                                    Appraisal               Actual
         Project Name: Second Multisectoral          Project Costs (US$M):                      30.0                 35.7
                         Sti/hiv/aids Prevention
                         Project
  L/C Number:                                         Loan/Credit (US$M):                       30.0                 35.7
      Sector Board:      Health, Nutrition and        Cofinancing (US$M):                          0                    0
                         Population
          Cofinanciers:                              Board Approval Date :                                07/12/2005
                                                              Closing Date:          12/31/2009           09/30/2014
         Sector(s):       Other social services (65%); Health (35%)
         Theme(s):        Population and reproductive health (29%); HIV/AIDS (29%); Other social protection and risk
                          management (14%); Gender (14%); Participation and civic engagement (14%)

Prepared by:              Reviewed by:              ICR Review                Group:
                                                   Coordinator:
Judith Hahn Gaubatz       Judyth L. Twigg          Joy Behrens                IEGHD

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:

    According to the Project Appraisal Document (PAD, page 14) and the Development Credit Agreement (page 21),
    the project objectives were as follows:

        To support the Government of Madagascar 's efforts to promote a multi -sectoral response to the HIV /AIDS
         crisis; and
        To contain the spread of HIV /AIDS on its territory .

    In December 2011, the project was restructured (level 2). The project objectives remained the same, but key
    project indicators and targets were changed. (Note: Although the Mid-Term Review for the project took place in
    December 2008, and recommended restructuring, the ensuing political crisis and suspension of Bank activity in
    the country did not allow the restructuring to take place until December 2011. Beginning in January 2010,
    however, project operations on the ground reflected the revised project indicators and targets recommended in
    the Mid-Term Review.)

    In June 2012, Additional Financing (AF) was approved for the project, at which time the project objectives were
    changed as follows (Project Paper, 2012, page iii and Financing Agreement, page 5):

        To increase the utilization of STI /HIV/AIDS, maternal and child health , and nutrition services in the project
         areas.

    Therefore, this review assesses the project according to the original project ("original project") and the two
    restructurings ("original project under revised targets" and "revised project").

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
Yes
If yes, did the Board approve the revised objectives/key associated outcome targets?
Yes
Date of Board Approval: 06/14/2012

c. Components:

   1. Harmonization, donor coordination, and strategies (Appraisal: US$ 1.5 million; AF: US$ 0; Actual: US$ 2.9
   million): This component aimed to support the national government in leading HIV/AIDS prevention and care
   efforts in the country, through the National AIDS Council (CNLS). Activities included: establishing mechanisms
   for donor coordination, including on the M&E system; updating the National HIV/AIDS Strategic Plan; developing
   a more focused communications strategy to promote behavior change; and developing sector strategies in a
   select number of sectors (education, defense) that focus on high risk groups.

   2. Support for health sector response (Appraisal: US$ 3.5 million; AF: US$ 5.2 million; Actual: US$ 17.5 million):
   This component aimed to support activities led by the Ministry of Health, given the focus on treatment of sexually
   transmitted infections (STIs) and HIV. Activities included: training on STI diagnosis and treatment; provision of
   STI treatment kits; establishment of voluntary counseling and testing centers; care and support services for
   people living with HIV; anti-retroviral treatment; prevention of mother-to-child transmission of HIV; and treatment
   of opportunistic infections.

   3. Fund for STI/HIV/AIDS prevention and care-taking activities (Appraisal: US$ 16.5 million; AF: US$ 0; Actual:
   US$ 6.8 million): This component aimed to scale up funding for sub-projects that were financed under the prior
   Bank HIV/AIDS project in the country. NGO and civil society organization proposals were to be submitted to the
   Fund for STI/HIV/AIDS prevention and care, which would approve sub-projects in the areas of condom
   distribution, behavior change communication, care and support for people living with HIV, care for orphans and
   vulnerable children, peer educator training, and reduction of stigma and discrimination. This component also
   financed management of the Fund through an external financial management agency.

   4. Monitoring and evaluation (Appraisal: US$ 3.0 million; AF: US$ 0.4 million; Actual: US$ 5.5 million): This
   component aimed to support the development of a national M&E framework for all HIV/AIDS efforts in the
   country. Activities included: monitoring of performance indicators; implementation of a management information
   system; behavioral and sentinel surveillance; and impact studies.

   5. Project management and capacity building (Appraisal: US$ 2.5 million; AF: US$ 0.4 million; Actual: US$ 4.5
   million): This component aimed to support the institutional arrangements for the project, including staff,
   equipment, and technical assistance.

   Under the first restructuring (December 2011), the following changes were made:

        Component 2: Five specific NGOs were contracted to help deliver HIV/AIDS services, particularly among
         high-risk groups. In addition, there was added support for STI control activities, care and treatment for
         people living with HIV/AIDS, and support for laboratories and blood transfusion centers.
        Component 3: This component was closed, due to the Fund activities proving to be "less effective at
         targeting highest at-risk groups groups" as well as some governance problems (ICR, page 8).
        Component 4: Three additional studies to provide information on effectiveness of HIV/AIDS activities were
         included.
        Component 5: Financing for project management was added due to the lengthened project period.
        In addition, several key indicators and targets were revised to strengthen focus on outcomes among
         high-risk groups.

   Under the second restructuring and approval of Adidtional Financing (June 2012), the following changes were
   made:
     Component 2: US$ 5.18 million of Additional Financing was provided to continue HIV/AIDS services, but
      also to provide maternal and child health and nutrition services in selected poor and vulnerable districts.
     Component 4: US$ 0.42 million of Additional Financing was provided to ensure adequate monitoring and
      evaluation.
     Component 5: US$ 0.40 million of Additional Financing was provided to support project management and
      capacity building.

   Activities under the Additional Financing were intended as a bridge between this project and an upcoming
   emergency project. Due to the political crisis that arose in 2009, a Bank health sector project that had reached
   negotiations was pulled from the Board, and the transfer of a community nutrition project from donor support to
   full government funding did not take place. Due to these circumstances, Additional Financing was approved to
   sustain critical activities during preparation of the Emergency Support to Critical Education, Health and Nutrition
   Services Project (US$ 65.0 million, approved November 2012). The project activities under the original
   objectives were largely completed at the time of approval of Additional Financing.

d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:

   Project cost
     The actual project cost was US$ 35.7 million, compared to the appraised cost of US$ 30.0 million, plus US$
        6.0 million in Additional Financing. The ICR (page 42) indicates that the final costs were reported as US$
        37.1 by the Borrower, while the Bank's system shows US$ 35.7 million as the actual disbursed amount.
     Following the 2011 project restructuring, Component 3 was closed. The remaining funds (approximately
        US$ 9.0 million) were reallocated to Component 2.

   Financing
      The project was financed entirely by an IDA Credit of US$ 30.0 million. Additional Financing in the form of a
       Credit of US$ 6.0 million was approved in June 2012.

   Borrower contribution
     There was no planned Borrower contribution.

   Dates
        December 2008: The Mid-term Review was completed, resulting in recommendations that were expected to
         be formalized in a restructuring paper soon thereafter. However, the ensuing political crisis (see bullet point
         below) prevented Bank staff interaction with any ministerial appointees. While the official restructuring was
         not formalized until December 2011, the decision to change the implementation model was initiated at this
         point.
        January - March 2009: An internal political crisis led to a military-based transfer of power and the
         establishment of an interim de facto government. The entire Bank portfolio in the country was subject to
         OP/BP 7.3 (Dealing with De Facto Governments), and disbursements were suspended. On humanitarian
         grounds, disbursements for certain projects were allowed to resume in November 2009 (including
         Components 2, 4 and 5 of this project). The ICR (page 8) reports that in practice, most of the project
         changes recommended in the 2008 Mid-Term Review were put in place at this time.
        December 2009: The project closing date was extended from December 2009 to December 2011, due to
         the delay in activities caused by the political crisis.
        December 2011: The project restructuring proceeded after the portfolio suspension was lifted earlier that
         year. Key project indicators and targets were revised. The project closing date was extended from
         December 2011 to December 2012.
        June 2012: Additional Financing of US$ 6.0 million was approved to increase support for HIV/AIDS,
         maternal and child health, and nutrition services in selected poor districts. As noted above, this financing
         was intended to bridge the gap in the Bank's support to the health sector until the follow-up Bank emergency
         support project was approved in November 2012. The project closing date was extended from December
         2012 to September 2014.
        August 2014: The project was restructured with minor modifications to the baseline data and targets.

3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:

   Original project
   During the project period, the HIV prevalence rate was estimated between 0.4- 0.7% in the 15-49 year-old age
   group but was significantly higher among specific populations including sex workers (1.3%), injecting drug users
   (7.1%), and men having sex with men (14.7%) (ICR, page 24). Rates of sexually transmitted infections (STIs)
   were notably high, both in the general population and among these same high-risk groups, constituting a key risk
   factor in the spread of HIV. The government had demonstrated strong commitment to addressing HIV/AIDS
   since 2000, but significant capacity building efforts were needed to strengthen its ability to lead the national
   response and maintain prevalence under 1.0%. The project objectives are relevant to the series of three National
   Strategic Plans for HIV/AIDS (2001-2006, 2007-2012, 2013-2017), as well as to the Bank's corporate priorities to
   combat HIV/AIDS. As noted in the ICR (page 5), the project documents elaborate on the more specific focus of
   this project, compared to the prior Bank project (Multi-Sectoral STI/HIV/AIDS Prevention Project I), namely care
   for people living with HIV and behavior change among high risk groups; however, this focus is not reflected in the
   statement of objectives.
   Therefore, relevance of the original project objectives is rated Substantial.

   Original project under revised targets
   Relevance of the project objectives under the revised indicators and targets remains Substantial.

   Revised project
   Additional Financing was approved as a means to mitigate the impact of an ongoing political crisis on the general
   population, particularly the poor. It also represented the most viable option for continuing to provide urgent Bank
   support in critical health and nutrition sectors. The revised project objective, under the Additional Financing,
   reflected these purposes. It remained relevant to the Bank's Interim Strategy Note (FY 2012-2013) following the
   political crisis, which identified the re-establishment of basic service provision in human development sectors
   (and hence reducing vulnerability) as a priority. The revised objective did not have any specific outcome
   objectives (i.e. improved health, improved nutrition), but instead focused on the short-term purpose to provide
   basic health and nutrition services.

   Therefore, relevance of the revised objective is rated Substantial.

b. Relevance of Design:

   Original project
   Project interventions were likely to contribute to the intended outcomes of strengthening the multi-sector
   response and combating the spread of HIV. Technical assistance was to be provided to national and
   sub-national governments to lead the HIV/AIDS efforts, including coordination of activities across donors and
   sectors, development of communication and sector-specific strategies, and utilization of M&E data. The project
   design included a separate component for the health sector, which played a growing role both in HIV prevention
   and in provision of treatment and care to people living with HIV. As HIV prevalence data indicated that groups at
   highest risk of transmitting HIV were specific sub-populations (sex workers, military personnel, truck drivers),
   prevention efforts needed to be targeted. However, while the project design acknowledged the need for targeted
   prevention efforts, it relied on NGOs or local associations without clearly established capacity or effectiveness to
   implement these critical efforts.

   Therefore, relevance of the original design is rated Modest.

   Original project under revised targets
   The project design was significantly revised at the time of the first restructuring. The health sector was given
   greater autonomy to implement activities and ensure more integrated HIV/AIDS care and treatment. The
   targeted prevention approach was improved by contracting with experienced NGOs and dropping the Fund for
   STI/HIV/AIDS prevention ("Fund") as the primary means for reaching high risk groups.

   Therefore, relevance of the original design under revised targets is rated Substantial.

   Revised project
   Project interventions were likely to achieved the intended outcome of providing basic health and nutrition
   services, in order to stem the decline in human capital development following the prolonged political crisis. The
   project activities were targeted to the 26 poorest districts, according to a 2011 poverty map and 2008/2009
   Demographic and Health Survey. These activities were highly relevant as an emergency response to the country
   situation.

   Therefore, relevance of the revised design is rated High.

4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):

   To support the Government of Madagascar 's efforts to promote a multi -sectoral response to the HIV /AIDS crisis
   (original project, original project under revised targets )

   Outputs
     Technical assistance to the multi-sectoral National AIDS Council (CNLS), including the development of
       planning tools and information sharing among donors.
     Update of the national HIV/AIDS communication strategy, including studies on supply and demand for care,
       condom promotion strategies, and awareness-raising among local leaders.
     Revision of the national M&E Plan, including development of information system and tools and training of
       M&E specialists at central and regional levels.
    Preparation of anti-retroviral treatment guidelines.
    Conducting of epidemiological surveys, behavioral surveys, and lot quality assurance sampling surveys.

Outcomes
  The National Strategic Framework for HIV/AIDS was reviewed and updated for 2007-2012.
  Sector-specific HIV/AIDS strategic plans were prepared and implemented by the following ministries:
    National Defense, Civil Service, Education, and Health/Family Planning. Six other ministries either did not
    prepare plans or had plans that did not meet the CNLS standards; the ICR (page 16) notes that this was due
    to lack of ownership and/or lack of specificity in activities. However, the four engaged ministries were
    among the most critical sectors involved, and while project funding for these activities closed in 2009,
    relevant work continued to be carried out during the remaining project period, including through other donor
    support.
  Information and education campaigns were conducted to promote condom use, promote reduction in sexual
    partners, reduce stigmatization of people living with HIV, and encourage STI/HIV screening and testing.
  A final independent verification survey of five NGOs specifically targeting high-risk groups (sex workers,
    military, and youth) showed that overall performance was satisfactory, as reflected by the percentage of
    performance targets met (ranging from 76.7% to 117.9% for four NGOs, the fifth NGO meeting 63.9% of
    targets. The ICR (page 30) reports that the fifth NGO had particular challenges working with military
    personnel, as the target population changed entirely during the project period due to military movements).

Achievement under the original project is rated Substantial. Although fewer sector ministries prepared strategic
plans than expected, the ones that were most engaged were most critical to HIV/AIDS prevention and treatment
efforts.

As there were no revisions to indicators or targets under this objective, the rating remains Substantial for the
project under revised indicators.


To contain the spread of HIV /AIDS in its territory (original project, original project under revised targets )

Under the original design, the project was implemented in 22 regions, covering approximately 5.8 million people.
These included 761 communes, or 2.8 million people, that had been identified as particularly "vulnerable." The
activities were carried out by the national government (including the Ministry of Health) and NGOs/civil society
organizations.

Under the 2011 restructuring, the original project design was revised such that five specific NGOs were
contracted to target sex workers, military personnel, and youth. Project activities after this restructuring focused
on 120 communes (which included 72% of "vulnerable" communes) in 16 regions. These targeted groups
amounted to approximately 150,000 people.

Outputs
  Training for 990 health center staff on provision of STI/HIV services.
  Distribution of 15 million condoms by the end of 2009, and an additional 17.6 million condoms by the end of
    the project period. The target was 500,000 condoms annually.
  Promotion of HIV testing and provision of testing and screening services. The number of voluntary
    counseling and testing centers increased from 49 in 2004 to 779 in 2009. The number of people receiving
    services increased from 11,146 in 2005 to 427,800 in 2008. 127,092 people from high risk groups were
    tested in 2014.
  Provision of over 1.7 million STI treatment kits by the end of 2009, and an additional 3.5 million kits by the
    end of the project period. The target was 175,000 kits annually.
  Provision of anti-retroviral treatment and drugs to treat opportunistic infections.
  Approval of 2,817 sub-projects implemented by NGOs and civil society organizations. These sub-projects
    included behavior change communications targeted to high-risk groups, promotion of STI/HIV screening and
    testing, and promotion of condom use. However, due to allegations of corruption, activities were suspended
    in October 2008 and subsequently dropped in the 2011 restructuring.

Outcomes

Knowledge
    The percentage of sex workers who can cite three methods of HIV prevention increased from 50.0% in 2005
     to 74.0% in 2012. This achieved the original target of 75.0%. In project areas, the percentage increased
     from 63.6% in 2010 to 72.2% in 2013. This achieved the revised target of 67.0%.
    The percentage of military personnel who can cite three methods of HIV prevention increased from 48.0% in
     2005 to 62.9% in 2012. This fell short of the original target of 85.0%. In project areas, the percentage
     decreased from 74.6% in 2010 to 41.3% in 2014. This fell short of the revised target of 78.0%.
    The percentage of truck drivers who can cite three methods of HIV prevention increased from 52.0% in 2005
     to 58.3% in 2009. This fell short of the original target of 85.0%. (There is no data reported in project areas
     or beyond 2009. According to the restructuring paper (2011), activities targeting truck drivers were dropped
     due to duplication of efforts with the Global Fund.)
    The percentage of youth aged 15-24 years old who can both correctly identify ways of preventing sexual
     transmission of HIV and reject major misconceptions about HIV transmission increased among females from
     19.4% in 2005 to 22.5% in 2009, and remained at 22.9% in 2012. This fell short of the target of 40.0%.
     Among males, the percentage increased from 15.7% to 26.0%, and remained at 25.5% in 2012, also falling
     short of the target of 35.0%. In project areas, the percentage who can cite three methods of HIV prevention
     increased among females from 49.8% in 2010 to 70.1% in 2014 and among males from 48.3% to 72.2%.
     This achieved the revised targets of 56.0% for females and 54.0% for males.

HIV screening and testing
    The percentage of sex workers in project areas who received an HIV test and knew their results increased
     from 53.8% in 2010 to 83.4% in 2013. There was no target provided.
    The percentage of military personnel in project areas who received an HIV test and knew their results
     increased from 48.7% in 2010 to 73.0% in 2013. There was no target provided.
    The percentage of youth aged 15-24 years old who received an HIV test and knew their results increased
     among females from 8.7% in 2006 to 15.8% in 2012. This fell short of the original target of 22.0%. Among
     males, the percentage increased from 7.7% to 15.7%, also falling short of the original target of 20.0%. In
     project areas, the percentage of youth who received an HIV test and knew their results increased from
     13.9% in 2010 to 47.4% in 2013. There was no target provided.

Behavior - general population
    The percentage of adults aged 15-49 years old who reported the use of a condom in their last sexual
     encounter with a non-regular partner increased among females from 4.6% in 2005 to 7.4% in 2009. This fell
     short of the original target of 12.0%. Among males, the percentage decreased from 13.1% to 7.6%, falling
     short of the original target of 26.0%.
    The percentage of adults aged 15-49 years old who reported having sex with a non-regular partner in the
     last 12 months decreased among females from 16.8% in 2004 to 2.1% in 2009. This surpassed the original
     target of 9.0%. Among males, the percentage also decreased from 38.1% to 16.0%, achieving the original
     target of 20.0%.

Behavior - high risk groups
    The percentage of sex workers in project areas reporting the use of a condom during their last encounter
     with a client increased from 78.1% in 2010 to 86.3% in 2014. This fell slightly short of the original target of
     90.0%, and achieved the revised target of 86.0%.
    The percentage of truck drivers who reported the use of a condom in their last sexual encounter with a
     non-regular partner remained at 54.0% in 2005 and 52.1% in 2009. This fell short of the original target of
     75.0%. (There is no data reported in project areas or beyond 2009. According to the restructuring paper
     (2011), activities targeting truck drivers were dropped due to the duplication of efforts with the Global Fund.)
    The percentage of military personnel who reported the use of a condom in their last sexual encounter with a
     non-regular partner increased from 56.0% in 2005 to 63.6% in 2009. This fell short of the original target of
     75.0%. In project areas, the percentage increased from 43.7% in 2010 and 66.0% in 2013. This nearly
     achieved the revised target of 70.0%.
    The percentage of youth aged 15-24 years old in project areas who reported the use of a condom in their
     last sexual encounter with a non-regular partner increased among females from 5.4% in 2005 to 52.7% in
     2014. This surpassed the revised target of 45.0%. Among males, the percentage increased from 12.2% to
     58.8%, surpassing the revised target of 47.0%.

Prevalence
    The prevalence of syphilis among sex workers decreased from 16.6% in 2005 to 15.8% in 2012. This fell
     short of the original target of 13.3% and the revised target of 15.0%.

Achievement under original project targets is rated Modest. There was evidence of increased knowledge about
HIV prevention, although some shortfalls in achieving targets. There were also substantial improvements in HIV
screening and testing. However, there was mixed evidence of behavior change among the general population,
and while there was some evidence of behavior change among critical high risk groups, attribution to project
interventions is unclear given that targeted interventions were largely implemented after 2009 and that baseline
data collected prior to the restructuring was not specifically in project areas. In addition, there were shortfalls in
achieving several targets.
    Achievement under the revised project targets is rated Substantial. Attribution of behavior change outcomes
    among high risk groups to project interventions is stronger (due to timing of targeted interventions and collection
    of data from project areas specifically), and more targets were met.


    To increase the utilization of STI /HIV/AIDS, maternal and child health , and nutrition services in the project area
    (revised project)
    The activities introduced under the Additional Financing were implemented in 143 health centers and 659
    nutrition sites in five regions, targeting 560,000 people.

    STI/HIV/AIDS
    See outputs and outcomes reported above.

    Maternal health
    Outputs
      Provision of an integrated package for pregnant women at local health facilities, including antenatal care,
        treatment of syphilis, prevention of mother-to-child transmission of HIV, provision of iron and folic acid
        supplements, and tetanus vaccinations.

    Outcomes
      The number of pregnant women receiving antenatal care during visits to a health care provider increased
        from 57,242 in 2012 to 140,989 in 2014. This surpassed the target of 127,547. Of these, the number of
        pregnant women in project areas who attended their first antenatal visit during the first trimester increased
        from 13,925 in 2010 to 43,112 in 2014. This nearly achieved the target of 44,642.
      The number of pregnant women in project areas receiving iron folic acid supplements increased from 81,994
        in 2012 to 184,482 in 2014. This surpassed the target of 114,792.
      The number of births in project areas attended by skilled personnel increased from 14,348 in 2010 to 39,442.
        This surpassed the target of 33,358.

    Child health
    Outputs
      Provision of an integrated package for children under five years old at local health facilities, including
        promotion of breastfeeding and nutrition, provision of Vitamin A supplements, vaccinations, mosquito nets,
        treatment of diarrhea and malaria, and integrated management of childhood illnesses.

    Outcomes
      The number of children aged 0-24 months in project areas who obtained adequate minimum weight
        increased from 47,704 in 2011 to 51,834 in 2014. This surpassed the target of 50,215.
      The number of children receiving immunizations increased from 52,810 in 2010 to 132,226 in 2014. This
        surpassed the target of 96,850.
      The number of children under five years old in project areas treated for diarrhea increased from 16,500 in
        2012 to 32,203 in 2014. This surpassed the target of 28,000.

    Nutrition
    Outputs
      Implementation of a community nutrition strategy, including development of communication and
        record-keeping materials.
      Training of community nutrition assistants in the provision of nutrition inputs such as nutrition counseling,
        growth monitoring, and referrals for severe malnutrition.

    Outcomes
      The number of children under five years old receiving Vitamin A supplements increased from 310,010 in
        2012 to 772,324 in 2014. This surpassed the target of 499,608.
      The number of children aged 0-24 months in project areas who obtained adequate minimum weight
        increased from 47,704 in 2011 to 51,834 in 2014. This surpassed the target of 50,215.
      The number of children under five years old in project areas enrolled in the growth monitoring and promotion
        program increased from 161,259 in 2012 to 193,975. This surpassed the target of 189,717.

    Achievement is rated High for utilization of STI/HIV, maternal health, child health, and nutrition services due to
    significant surpassing of nearly all targets.

5. Efficiency:
   The PAD (page 23) does not include an economic analysis of this project specifically, but refers to the analysis
   conducted for the overall Multi-Country HIV/AIDS Program for Africa (Report No. 20727).

   The initial project period was marked by shortcomings in implementation performance, including lengthy delays
   at the start of the project (two years) due to inadequacies at quality at entry, allegations of corruption in the
   implementation of component 3 (see Section 9b) and a political crisis that led to project suspension (January -
   November 2009). In addition, the component supporting the Fund for STI/HIV/AIDS Prevention was eventually
   closed down after it had already disbursed US$ 6.8 million with limited results.

   However, there were notable gains in efficiency following this initial period, particularly through the strengthened
   focus on and improved implementation of targeted HIV prevention interventions. This shift in focus was initiated
   following the Mid-Term Review, at which point approximately 43.1% of the project Credit had disbursed.

   The ICR (Annex 3) presents an economic analysis of the project's key interventions. Specifically for the targeted
   interventions, a cost benefit analysis was conducted (in which benefits are calculated as the total number of
   productive life years saved, averted loss of productivity, and averted high cost of treatment, while costs are
   represented by the project costs for these targeted interventions). The low estimate of benefit/cost ratio is US$
   4.7 / $1, while the high estimate is US$ 6.4/ $ 1. These data indicate efficient use of project resources for these
   targeted interventions.

   For the treatment interventions for people living with HIV/AIDS, the estimated benefit/cost ratio is estimated at
   US$ 9.8/ $1. For the maternal and child health interventions, there was no economic analysis conducted;
   however, these activities are generally acknowledged to be highly cost-effective and in the case of this project,
   were effectively implemented.

   Therefore, given the substantially improved efficiency of the project following the de facto restructuring in
   December 2009, overall efficiency is rated Substantial.

a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
   re-estimated value at evaluation :

                               Rate Available?                           Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

   Appraisal                        No
   ICR estimate                     No
                                       * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome:

   Original project - Moderately Satisfactory
   Relevance of the project objectives is rated Substantial, while relevance of the project design is rated Modest, as
   the need for targeted prevention efforts among higher risk groups was recognized but the design relied on NGOs
   or local associations without well-established capacity or effectiveness to implement these critical activities.
   Achievement of the objective to promote a multi-sectoral response is rated Substantial, as the key sectors of
   health, education and defense were actively engaged. Achievement of the objective to contain the spread of
   HIV/AIDS is rated Modest due to some evidence of behavior change among critical high risk groups; however,
   attribution to project interventions is unclear given that targeted interventions were largely implemented after
   2009 and that baseline data collected prior to that was not specifically from project areas.

   Original project under revised targets - Satisfactory
   Relevance of the project objectives and design are Substantial. Achievement of the objective to promote a
   multi-sectoral response remains Substantial. Achievement of the objective to contain the spread of HIV/AIDS is
   Substantial under revised targets due to stronger attribution of behavior change outcomes among high risk
   groups to project interventions (due to timing of targeted interventions and collection of data from project areas
   specifically) and achievement of more (revised) targets.

   Revised project - Satisfactory
   Relevance of the revised project objectives is Substantial and relevance of the project design is High.
   Achievement of the revised objective to increase the utilization of STI/HIV/AIDS, maternal and child health, and
   nutrition services is High due to strong evidence of increased utilization, including the surpassing of most targets.
   Efficiency of the project over the project period is rated Substantial. Despite shortcomings in the initial project
   period (lengthy implementation delays (two years), a period of suspended disbursements (nine months), the
   closing of a key activity that had limited effectiveness (US$ 6.8 million disbursed), there was a marked
   improvement in efficiency following the Mid-Term Review. The implementation model was shifted to targeted
   HIV prevention activities among high risk groups, and the maternal-child health interventions under the Additional
   Financing are widely considered to be highly cost-effective.


   Overall outcome
   The project showed greatly improved performance over time. However, a variety of constraints and obstacles
   meant that there were moderate shortcomings in the operation’s achievement of its objectives. According to
   OPCS/IEG harmonized guidelines, the overall outcome rating of a restructured project is determined by
   weighting the proportion of the Credit that disbursed before and after each restructuring. The project disbursed
   US$ 26.7 million (out of US$ 35.7 million), or 74.8%, prior to the first restructuring; US$ 0.9 million, or 2.5%,
   between the first and second restructurings; and US$ 9.6 million, or 26.9% after the second restructuring.
   Therefore, the weighted overall outcome rating is Moderately Satisfactory .

a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:

   The current Bank project (Emergency Support to Education, Health and Nutrition Services Project, approved
   December 2012) continues support to health, nutrition and HIV/AIDS services in the immediate term. However,
   although government commitment and leadership remains strong, implementation capacity of the National AIDS
   Council has not been firmly established. In addition, the availability of financial resources - both external donor
   support and government budget - is likely insufficient, including for the National AIDS Council.

  a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Significant

8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

a. Quality at entry:

   This project was prepared as a "repeater" of the prior Multi-country AIDS Program for Africa (MAP) project for
   Madagascar (2001-2007), which had helped to establish a multi-sectoral framework and implement activities
   such as information and education campaigns to prevent HIV transmission. Lessons learned from the prior
   project were incorporated into the repeater project design, including strengthening and clarifying health sector
   involvement and ensuring more effective use of M&E to inform strategy and action plans. Project preparation
   took place in 2005 (due to strong government demand for a repeater project and the project team's estimation
   that the prior project would be fully disbursed by December 2005). However, the predecessor project did not
   end up closing until December 2007; therefore, some key findings did not emerge until after the project had
   been prepared. These included: the need for more focused project objectives and the ineffectiveness of the
   Fund to finance civil society sub-projects (in part due to the complex oversight structure). Other shortcomings
   in quality at entry were the incomplete revision of the Procedures Manual for the Fund and the failure to
   conduct planned analytic work (demographic and epidemiological profile to identify "hot spots," a
   cost-effectiveness analysis to identify sub-projects most likely to impact behavior in high-risk areas, an
   institutional assessment). The risk assessment also appeared inadequate, identifying only one risk as
   significant or higher (inadequate health sector capacity); two notable underestimations were the lack of civil
   society capacity to implement sub-projects that effectively reached high-risk groups, and inadequate
   institutional capacity of the National AIDS Council (CNLS) to coordinate the response, both of which
   contributed to significant delays and/or shortcomings in effectiveness. The M&E framework was overall
   adequate, although initial indicators were not specific to project areas.


  Quality-at-Entry Rating:                      Moderately Unsatisfactory

b. Quality of supervision:
   The first two years of the implementation period were marked by limited activity and supervision, as the Bank
   team focused on managing the prior MAP project, which did not end up closing until December 2007. (Note:
   Despite limited progress, the project was given ratings in the satisfactory range.) However, the Bank team
   took the opportunity of the Mid-Term Review, which took place in late 2008 and included participation by the
   President, to recommend proactive and significant revisions. The Mid-Term Review had identified the
   following key issues with the original project design and implementation: (i) inadequate targeting of at-risk
   groups; (ii) weak health sector response: and (iii) insufficient availability and use of data for evidence-based
   decision-making. It also recommended clarification and streamlining of the National AIDS Council functions,
   and the establishment of a separate Special Account for the Ministry of Health to provide greater autonomy
   and timeliness in acquiring critical supplies. The Mid-Term Review took place in December 2008, at which
   point the implementation changes were implemented; however, the ensuing political crisis and suspension of
   Bank activity in the country did not allow the official restructuring to take place until December 2011.

   In addition, the Bank team responded promptly to allegations of corruption regarding the Fund (for civil
   society sub-projects) by suspending implementation of this component pending investigation. A Special Audit
   carried out in January 2009 identified ineligible expenditures incurred as a result of inadequate book-keeping
   and accounting practices on the part of the civil society organizations and weak supervision by the
   management agency; therefore, US$ 745,569 was requested for reimbursement, which was paid by the
   government in November 2012. The Fund was eliminated, as it was deemed "not effective in delivering key
   interventions to target populations" (Project Paper, 2011, page 4) and also suffered from the aforementioned
   governance issues; instead five NGOs were contracted to carry out specific prevention and care services.



  Quality of Supervision Rating :               Moderately Satisfactory

  Overall Bank Performance Rating :             Moderately Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

a. Government Performance:

   The government at the highest level - the Office of the President - has consistently demonstrated strong
   commitment to combating HIV/AIDS, including by establishing supportive institutional structures and
   developing national strategic plans to coordinate and lead HIV/AIDS prevention efforts. The government also
   responded to the corruption allegations in the Fund and identified and reimbursed ineligible expenditures
   before project closing. However, a major political crisis in 2009 led to a suspension of regular Bank activity,
   including more timely processing of the project restructuring, which might have resulted in an overall project
   outcome in the satisfactory range.


  Government Performance Rating                               Moderately Unsatisfactory

b. Implementing Agency Performance:

   The project implementation unit (PIU) in the National AIDS Council (CNLS) had gained some implementation
   experience from the prior project; however, challenges remained due to the "complex top-down hierarchical
   organizational structure, and multitude of staff with unclear roles and mandates, resulting in high staff
   turnover" (ICR, page 15). There was limited progress during the first two years of the project period, including
   delays in launching key activities, hiring consultants, and approving work plans. Following the
   recommendations of the Mid-Term Review, project implementation responsibilities were shifted to an existing
   PIU in the Ministry of Health, and implementation progress improved considerably with most activities
   implemented as planned. In particular, activities supported under the Additional Financing were implemented
   satisfactorily.

   As previously reported, there were allegations of corruption in the Fund, which led to the suspension of
   activities and contracts with the Financial Management Agency responsible for managing this component. A
   Special Audit identified ineligible expenditures incurred as a result of inadequate book-keeping and
   accounting practices on the part of the civil society organizations and weak supervision by the management
   agency; the amount was subsequently reimbursed, although the Fund activities were subsequently closed
    due to deemed ineffectiveness. No other major problems were reported with fiduciary management or
    safeguards compliance.


  Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                     Moderately Satisfactory

  Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                        Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

a. M&E Design:

   The original results framework was technically sound and consistent with the principle of a single national M&E
   system, receiving validation by the UNAIDS Thematic Group in April 2005. It included indicators for targeted
   high-risk groups, for which outcomes were critical to monitor, and which measured behavior change outcomes
   that could be more strongly linked to project interventions (as opposed to the outcome of combating the spread of
   HIV). The project design included a separate component dedicated to M&E, highlighting the emphasis on
   developing M&E capacity and evidence-based decision making. However, original indicators were not specified
   for project areas, and therefore attribution to project interventions was not clear.

b. M&E Implementation:

   During the December 2011 restructuring, the results framework was revised to reflect the increased focus on
   behavior change outcomes among high-risk groups and to refine target figures. Several indicators were also
   added at the time of the Additional Financing to reflect the new project objective and activities. Critical
   surveillance activities were carried out as planned. However, a notable shortcoming was the failure to adequately
   evaluate civil society subprojects. As reported in the ICR (page 16), "exceedingly large numbers of applications
   approved were less than US$ 3,000, thus making it virtually impossible to carry out any evaluation of these and
   also raising the possibility of systemic avoidance of oversight."

c. M&E Utilization:

   The ICR (page 21) reports that the data generated by the project-supported surveys was utilized by the National
   HIV/AIDS Commission to implement its revised National Strategic Plan for 2013-2017.

M&E Quality Rating: Substantial




11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:

   The project was classified as Category "B" due to medical waste issues. The safeguard policy on environmental
   assessment (OP/BP 4.01) was triggered, requiring the preparation of a waste management plan. The plan that
   had been prepared for the prior MAP project was used, which included the provision of equipment and training for
   health staff. The ICR (page 22) reports that implementation of the plan was rated moderately to fully Satisfactory
   during the entire project period.

b. Fiduciary Compliance:

   Financial management: As reported above, a series of independent audits for activities of the Fund identified a
   number of ineligible expenditures. Following the reimbursement of such expenditures by the government, the
   Fund component was closed, including the contract with the Financial Management Agency. Financial
   management responsibilities were subsequently shifted from the Executive Secretariat of the National AIDS
   Council to the Ministry of Health, in part to strengthen internal controls. Overall, financial and audit reports were
   submitted on a regular and timely basis, with recommendations from Bank supervision teams implemented.
   Other than the major issues with the Fund ineligible expenditures, which were repaid by November 2012, there
   were no other problems reported in the ICR.
    Procurement: During the initial project period, the Executive Secretariat of the National AIDS Council (CNLS)
    was responsible for all procurement. When the government had to deal with the issues of repayment of ineligible
    expenditures, the project management and procurement responsibilities were shifted to the Ministry of Health.
    Procurement performance was rated moderately to fully Satisfactory during this latter period, with no major
    problems reported in the ICR.

c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):

    None reported.

d. Other:



12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review                   Reason for
                                                                                       Disagreement/Comments
                     Outcome: Moderately                    Moderately
                              Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
          Risk to Development Significant                   Significant
                     Outcome:

           Bank Performance: Moderately                     Moderately
                               Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
       Borrower Performance : Moderately                    Moderately
                               Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
               Quality of ICR:                              Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:

    Lessons drawn from the ICR (pages 40-41), adapted by IEG:

         "Repeater" projects can offer the opportunity for quick preparation and avoiding gaps in support, although
          care needs to be taken to sequence them properly and ensure lessons are applied to the repeater project.
          In the case of this project, the initial implementation period saw limited progress because the predecessor
          project was still being completed. In addition, the quick preparation period did not allow time for additional
          analytical studies to be carried out, which could have provided important lessons for the design of the
          repeater project.
         A strong results chain includes outcomes that can be directly linked to project interventions in project
          areas. In the case of this project, the refinement of the M&E indicators helped to strengthen these links,
          although the project objective was overly broad.
         Best-practice HIV/AIDS project design recognizes both the importance of targeting high risk groups with
          prevention efforts and the identification of implementing agencies (i.e. NGOs) that have the capacity to
          reach those groups. In the case of this project, the latter was not effectively carried out in project
          preparation, and therefore efforts to improve behavior among those groups fell short during the initial
          project period.

14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes      No
15. Comments on Quality of ICR:


    The ICR provides detailed information on the background and external circumstances affecting the project. It is
    notable in its candor, particularly in assessing the shortcomings in Bank and Borrower performance. The quality
    of the data is satisfactory.

a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
