OFFICIAL          (
DOCUMENTS
The World Bank                                          1818 H Street N.W.           (202) 473-1000
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT   Washington, D.C. 20433      Cable Address: INTBAFRAD
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION                   U.S.A.                      Cable Address: INDEVAS
July 30, 2013
H.E. Hery Rajaonarimampianina
Minister of Finance and Budget
Ministry of Finance and Budget
BP 61 Antananarivo
Madagascar
Excellency:
Republic of Madagascar: IDA Credit No. 5124-MG
(Additional financing for the Second Multi- Sectoral STI/HIV/ AIDS Prevention Project)
First revised disbursement Letter dated July 27, 2012
Additional Instructions: Disbursement
I refer to the Financing Agreement (the "Agreement") between the International Development Association (the
"Association") and the, Republic of Madagascar (the "Recipient") for the above referenced project of even date
herewith. The Agreement provides that the Association may issue additional instructions regarding the withdrawal
of the proceeds of Credit 5124-MG ("Financing"). This letter ("Disbursement Letter"), as revised from time to time,
constitutes the additional instructions.
This Disbursement Letter is a First Restatement of the Disbursement Letter dated July 27, 2012 for the above
referenced project to restate Section II (vi) related to the amount of the ceiling.
In addition, the address where withdrawal application should he sent is stated in Section II (ii) has also been
updated. All other provisions of the Disbursement Letter and attachments dated July 27, 2012 except as amended
shall remain in force and effect.
The attached World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects, dated May 1, 2006, ("Disbursement Guidelines")
(Attachment 1), are an integral part of the Disbursement Letter. The manner in which the provisions in the
Disbursement Guidelines apply to the Financing is specified below. Sections and subsections in parentheses below
refer to the relevant sections and subsections in the Disbursement Guidelines and, unless otherwise defined in this
letter, the capitalized terms used have the meanings ascribed to them in the Disbursement Guidelines.
I.      Disbursement Arrangements
(i) Disbursement Methods (section 2). The following Disbursement Methods may be used under the
Financing:
*   Reimbursement
*   Advance
*   Direct Payment
*   Special Commitment
(ii) Disbursement Deadline Date (subsection 3.7). The Disbursement Deadline Date is 4 months after the Closing
Date specified in the Financing Agreement. Any changes to this date will be notified by the Association.
(iii) Disbursement Conditions (subsection 3.8). Please refer to the Disbursement Conditions in Section IV.B.1 of
Schedule 2 to the Financing Agreement.


﻿II. Withdrawal of Financing Proceeds
(i) Authorized Signatures (subsection 3.1)
An authorized signatory letter in the Form attached (Attachment 2) should be furnished to the Association at the
address indicated below providing the name(s) and specimen signature(s) of the official(s) authorized to sign
Applications:
Banque Mondiale
Rue Andriamifidy L. Razafimanantsoa
Anosy (pr6s du Minist&e des Affaires Etrangres).
Attention: Haleh Z. Bridi
Country Director
(ii) Applications (subsections 3.2 - 3.3). Please provide completed and signed (a) applications for withdrawal,
together with supporting documents, and (b) applications for special commitments, together with a copy of the
commercial bank letter of credit, to the address indicated below:
The World Bank,
Loan Department,
Kenya Re Towers, 10th Floor,
Upper Hill, off Ragati Road,
Nairobi,
Kenya
(iii) Electronic Delivery (subsection 3.4) The Association may permit the Recipient to electronically deliver to the
Association Applications (with supporting documents) through the Association's Client Connection, web-based
portal. The option to deliver Applications to the Association by electronic means may be effected if: (a) the
Recipient has designated in writing, pursuant to the terms of subparagraph (i) of this Section, its officials who are
authorized to sign and deliver Applications and to receive secure identification devices ("Tokens") from the
Association for the purpose of delivering such Applications by electronic means; and (b) all such officials
designated by the Recipient have registered as users of Client Connection. If the Association agrees, the Association
will provide the Recipient with Tokens for the designated officials. Following which, the designated officials may
deliver Applications electronically by completing Form 2380, which is accessible through Client Connection (http
:///clientconnection.worldbank.or). The Recipient may continue to exercise the option of preparing and delivering
Applications in paper form. The Association reserves the right and may, in its sole discretion, temporarily or
permanently disallow the electronic delivery of Applications by the Recipient.
(iv) Terms and Conditions of Use of Tokens to Process Applications. By designating officials to accept Tokens and
by choosing to deliver the Applications electronically, the Recipient confirms through the authorized signatory letter
its agreement. to: (a) abide by the Terms and Conditions of Use of Secure Identification Devices in connection with
Use of Electronic Means to Process Applications and Supporting Documentation ("Terms and Conditions of Use of
Tokens") provided in Attachment 3; and (b) to deliver the Terms and Conditions of Use of Tokens to each such
official and to cause such official to abide by those terms and conditions.
(v) Minimum Value of Applications (subsection 3.5). The Minimum Value of Applications for reimbursement,
direct payment and special commitment is USD 20% of the DA Ceiling (see (vi) below).
(vi) Advances (sections 5 and 6).
*   Type of Designated Account (subsection 5.3): 1 Segregated Account
*   Currency of Designated Account (subsection 5.4): US Dollars


﻿*   Financial Institution at which the Designated Account Will Be Opened (subsection 5.5):
BNI MADAGASCAR
74, RUE DU 26 JUIN 1960 ANTANANARIVO
Swift: CLMDMGMGXXX
*   Ceiling (subsection 6.1): US Dollars 1,500,000.
III. Reporting on Use of Financing Proceeds
(i) Supporting Documentation (section 4). Supporting documentation should be provided with each application for
withdrawal as set out below:
* For requests for Reimbursement:
o   Records evidencing eligible expenditures (e.g., copies of receipts, supplier invoices) for payments
for goods against contracts value at US$200,000 or more for services of consulting firms against
contracts valued at US$200,000 or more; for individual consultant services against contracts
valued at US$100,000 or more; and for Training and Operating Costs valued at US$ 50,000 or
more.
o   Statement of Expenditure in the form attached (Attachment 4) for all other expenditures/ contracts;
and
o   List of payments against contracts that are subject to the Association's prior review, in the form
attached (Attachment 5)
* For reporting eligible expenditures paid from the Designated Account:
o   Records evidencing eligible expenditures (e.g., copies of receipts, supplier invoices) for payments
for goods against contracts value at US$200,000 or more for services of consulting firms against
contracts valued at US$200,000 or more; for individual consultant services against contracts
valued at US$100,000 or more; and for Training and Operating Costs valued at US$ 50,000 or
more.
o Statement of Expenditure (SOE) in the form attached (Attachment 4) for all other expenditures /
contracts; and
o   List of payments against contracts that are subject to the Association's prior review, in the form
attached (Attachment 5)
*   For requests for Direct Payment: records evidencing eligible expenditures, e.g., copies of receipts,
supplier invoices
(ii) Frequency of Reporting Eligible Expenditures Paid from the Designated Account (subsection 6.3):
Monthly
(iii) Other Supporting Documentation In3tructions
Copies of the bank statement of the Designated Account (DA) and a reconciliation statement for this Account should
be submitted with each Application for advances to the DA. (Attachment 6).
All other supporting documentation for SOEs should be retained by the project management or Recipient and must
be made available for review by periodic World Bank missions and internal and external auditors.


﻿IV. Other Important Information
For additional information on disbursement arrangements, please refer to the Disbursement Handbook available on
the Association'; public website at https://wwxw .worldbank.org and its secure website "Client Connection" at
https://clientconnection.worldbank.org. Print copies are available upon request.
From the Client Connection website, you will be able to prepare and deliver Applications, monitor the near real-time
status of the Financing, and retrieve related policy, financial, and procurement information.
If you have not already done so, the Association recommends that you register as a user of the Client Connection
website (https://clientconnection.worldbank.or ). From this website you will be able to prepare and deliver
Applications, monitor the near real-time status of the Financing, and retrieve related policy, financial, and
procurement information. All Recipient officials authorized to sign and deliver Applications by electronic means ire
required to register with Client Connection before electronic delivery can be affected. For more information about
the   website  and   registration  arrangements,  please  contact  the   Association  by   email   a
clientconnection@worldbank.or .
If you have any queries in relation to the above, please contact Faly Diallo, Field Finance Officer at LOA-
AFR@worldbank.org using the above reference.
Yours sincerely,
Wolfgang M. T. Chadab
Senior Finance Officer
CTRLA, World Bank


