jDocument of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 18090
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
EMERGENCY DROUGHT RECOVERY PROJECT
(CR. 2460-KE)
June 29, 1998
Agriculture Operations
Eastern and South Africa
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
At Completion: US$ 1  KSh 61.9
At Appraisal:   US$ I = KSh 35
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
Government of Kenya
1 July - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADF                         African Development Fund
ALRMP                       Arid Lands Resource Management Project
ASAL                        Arid and Semi-arid Lands
DRP                         Drought Recovery Program
EDRP                        Emergency Drought Recovery Project
GOK                         Govermment of Kenya
IFAD                        International Fund for Agricultural Development
OP                          Office of the President
PMU                         Project Management Unit
Vice President               Mr. Callisto E. Madavo
Director                    : Mr. Harold E. Wackman
Sector Manager              : Ms. Sushma Ganguly
Team Leader                 : Ms. Christine Cornelius



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
EMERGENCY DROUGHrT RECOVERY PROJECT (EDRP)
(Cr. 2460-KE)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE ..................................................I
EVALUATION STMMARY ...................................................II
PART I: PROJECT IMLEMIENTATION ALSSESSMENT .....................................................1
A. STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES ....................................................1
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES ................................................... , . 2
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT ..........................6.......................6
D. SUSTAINABILIT  ...............................................................................7
E. BANK PERFORM[ANCE .......................7..7
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE ............................7
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME ............................8
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS ..........................         .8
L. KEY LESSONS LEARNED ...............................................................................10
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES ........................................12
APPENDICES:            A. Mission's Aide-Memoire
B. Government's Contribution to the ICR
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bankc authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
EMERGENCY DROUGHT RECOVERY PROJECT (EDRP)
(Cr. 2460-KE)
P'REFACE
1.    This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Emergency Drought Recovery
Project (EDRP) in Kenya, for which IDA Credit 2460-KE in the amount of SDR 16.4 million (US$ 20.0
million equivalent) was approved on February 23, 1993, and became effective on April 28, 1993. The
project was financed using the above new credit and amendments to existing credits, namely Cr 1758-KE
(Animal Health Services - US$ 2.5 million), Cr 1974-KE (Rural Services Design - US$ 2.75 million) and
Cr 2199-KE (Second National Agricultural Extension - US$ 2.0 million)'. The Mid-Term Review took
place in April 1994. The credit was due to be closed on June 30, 1995, but was extended twice to a final
closure date of June 30, 1997 to complete the roads rehabilitation component. On April 2, 1998, an
amount of SDR 0.967 million remained undisbursed, and was cancelled.
2.    This ICR was prepared by a mission from the FAO/World Bank Co-operative Programme, on
behalf of the Africa Agriculture Operations Group 1 (AFTA-1) of the World Bank. Preparation of the
ICR commenced with the mission's visit to Kenya from November 23 to December 5, 1997. This report
is based on material gathered from the project files and supervision reports, as well as discussions with
the Bank and Government of Kenya (GOK) staff associated with the project. These included staff from
the Project Management Unit Secretariat, the uDnit established under the project to coordinate the
implementation of the project, and officials in the Department of State Corporations, Relief and
Rehabilitation, Office of the President. Informalion was also gained from field visits to two regions of
Kenya to assess the impact of the project in both the arid and semi-arid districts.
3.    The Government contributed to the preparation of the ICR through discussions on the mission's
Aide-Memoire, and prepared the Governmenfs "Project Completion Report" annexed to this ICR.
Actual IDA disbursements: Cr. 2460 ($19.73 million), Cr. 1758 ($1.12 million), (Cr. 1974 ($5.86
million) Cr. 2199 ($3.32 million).



ii
IMPLEMENTATIOIN COMPLETION REPORT
]KENYA
EMERGENCY DROUGH rRECOVERY PROJECT (EDRPI
(Cr. 2460-KE)
EVALUAT1ION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    The Emergency Drought Recovery Project (EDRP), which became effective in April, 1993, was
conceived as a two-year support to GOK's overaill Drought Recovery Program, with the objectives of (i)
alleviating the impact of the drought that the region had experienced during 1991 and 1992 through
measures which would start to regenerate the productive capacity in agriculture and livestock production
for ASAL populations, and improving water supply, basic health services and access to and within four,
later increased to five, arid districts; and (ii) assisting in enhancing institutional capacity at district level to
deal (over the longer term) with the effects of drought. A broad sectoral approach was taken that included
support to agriculture, animal health, human health, water supply (both for livestock and people) and road
infrastructure. This was in addition to enhancing central and district capability in drought management
and environmental conservation.
2.    Although the majority of activities were concentrated in the focal districts of Mandera, Marsabit,
Tana River, Turkana and (after the mid term review) Wajir, a total of 28 districts benefitted to some
extent, particularly in relation to agricultural inputs.
Implementation Experience and Results
General
3.    There was inherent difficulty in managing activities across such a wide sectoral range. Partly for
this reason, the project was extended twice, with the final extension to accommodate completion of the
roads component. The use of three existing IDA credits allowed for quick start-up. In addition, the fact
that the project was also financed from other IDA credits and an IFAD loan meant that the funding
available for individual components terminated at different times during the project's term. Since IDA Cr
2460, the main credit financing the project, closed at June 30, 1997, this has been taken as the project's
completion date although disbursements for agricultural inputs for the short rains 1997 continued to
February 1998 through a category created under IDA Cr 2199 (National Extension Project II) which is
scheduled to close on June 30, 1998.
Achievement of Objectives
4.    The project has partly achieved all of its objectives, though not all in the full measure that was
anticipated at appraisal. On balance, the project had positive and long lasting impact from the smaller,
more targeted components. The project fell sho,rt in the physical infrastructure that was envisaged at
appraisal under the road component and had a limited impact in helping farmers rebuild through the



iii
provision of agricultural inputs. Efforts made under the water, livestock, health and drought
management components were fully satisfactory. This was due to a combination of factors detailed
belowv. The project's greater achievements were in institutional development and community
participation. The project (a) set up a decentralized coordinating mechanism within the structure of
Government that is capable of assuring-cross-sectoral development activities that meet community
aspirattions, and (b) laid the groundwork for longer-term development project in the arid zones of Kenya
in the form of the Arid Lands Resource Management Project (ALRMP) that became effective in 1996.
Major Factors Affecting the Project
5.    The outcome of the project was influenced by the following main factors:
*     time it took to change the entrenched attitudes on the part of line ministries (especially the
technical departments) on what constituted priorities and approaches in the development of the
districts concerned - attitudes which seldom reflected the needs of pastoralists and resource-poor
farmers;
continuing drought conditions through to the 1997 long rains in many of the areas covered by the
project;
*     the delays inherent in Govermnent and Bank procedures which prevented actions being taken
within the time constraints of an emergency project.
the diverse nature of the components incorporated in the project as noted above which made it
more difficult to integrate activities in a timely sequence.
on the positive side, the commitment of Government staff and the contribution of the
Government's policies and actions contributed substantially to the progress made in institutional
development, and hence to social services and community participation in the focal districts.
Sustainability
6.    The project was not designed to be sustainable, except in so far as its institutional framework
(inclusive of staff, sensitized participants and some physical infrastructure) was to be a contribution to
future programmes and projects. The latter requirement was met in full, with the emergence of the
ALRMP.
Bank Performance
7.    Overall the Bank's performance was satisfactory. Since this was an emergency project,
preparation had to move fast, and it is conmmendable that the process moved from identification to
Presiclent's Memorandum in a matter of weeks. The overall response of the Bank to the emergency
situatiion was satisfactory. Overall, the supervision of the project was satisfactory. Staff from the resident
mission in Nairobi were generally responsible for supervision, and this enabled day-to-day contact
between the task manager and the Project Management Unit (PMU) Secretariat, and efficient
commiunication on issues of substance with senior government officials. This direct communication
enabled the Bank to work closely with project managers in enabling a certain level of flexibility in the



iv
direction of the project as circumstances on the ground altered. This flexibility contributed to the project's
successful implementation of the longer-term activities, namely drought management, and water and
livestock associations for animal health.
Borrower Performance
8.    Borrower performance was satisfactory in both the preparation and the implementation of the
project. The implementing agency, situated as it was in the Office of the President (OP), was well placed
to coordinate intersectoral inputs from line ministries. However, the implementing agency suffered, like
Bank task managers, from the complexity of the project. On balance, compliance with covenants and
commitments was satisfactory. However, in May 1997, after receiving information on possible misuse of
funds under one of the roads contract, the Bank requested the Government to conduct an investigation.
After substantial delays, the Controller and Audlitor General produced an audit report in April 1998
which identified questionable certification of payments under the two roads contracts, and possible fraud
under the contract for the transport of fertilizer. The matter is still being pursued by the Bank.
Project Costs
9.    At appraisal, the costs of EDRP were estimated to be US$ 29.55 million. In addition, the
provision of farm inputs, financed by the IFAD Coast ASAL project, estimated to cost US$ 2.50 million,
were added as part of the EDRP after the effectiveness of Cr 2460-KE. Therefore the estimated total cost
of the project was US$ 32.05 million. The most significant deviation from the estimated cost was in the
procurement and distribution of agricultural inputs. The cost of these activities was over 50% higher than
that expected, mainly due to continuing failure of the rain, repeat distributions of seed through to 1997.
Reduced expenditure on other components and movement in the SDR exchange rate enabled higher
allocations to agricultural inputs within the overall financing envelope. The actual total cost of the project
was US$ 34.34 million.
Assessment of Outcome
10.   The outcome of the project's many components and areas of activities was mixed. The project
had a satisfactory outcome in the five pastoral, focal districts, while impact in most of the other semi-arid,
non-focal districts was less apparent. The impact of agricultural inputs was negligible, while there were
successful outcomes from the livestock componeint in these districts through the establishment of
sustainable user associations. While the roads and agriculture components were partially satisfactory,
they did not achieve their stated objectives. The roads component had little impact on drought relief or
on drought recovery.
11.   From a balance of the above results, the overall outcome of the project was marginally
satisfactory.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned
Findings
12.   The response of the Bank to emergency situations was well tested in this project. The time taken
in the formulation and effectiveness of the Bank's support proved that the Bank can react in an



v
appropriate time frame. But from then on, the project was subject to the usual Bank and Government
proce(dures on procurement and contracting, not appropriate to emergency response. In addition, the
project was extended to enable the continuation of activities, designed in the context of an emergency,
beyond the period of the emergency. As the height of the emergency passed, the nature of the project
changed. The greater successes of the project relate to the longer-term impacts in drought management,
institutional development and community participation, as opposed to the impact of emergency assistance
to rebuild the agricultural economic base following the drought. This was due to the flexibility afforded to
the direction of the project through close interaction between the PMU, the Office of the President and
Bank staff.
Future Operations
13.   The drought management activities under EDRP formed the basis of the ALRMP and will be
continued and built on under this project. ALRMP, effective in 1996, is a five-year project, covering the
whole of northern Kenya. Its three main components are drought management, marketing and
infrastructure (mainly for marketing livestock and other grassland products) and community
development. The system of development support that was instituted under EDRP, i.e. decentralized
support and community participation, stands an excellent chance of being sustainable. The formation of
water user associations for village water supply, and the formation of livestock drug users associations to
manage revolving funds set up from the proceeds of the sale of drugs financed by the project, are two
notable achievements in community participation in development activities. However, this sustainability
still requires further devolvement of decision making from the OP to community-based organizations.
The agricultural component of EDRP was not, by its nature, designed to be a sustainable activity, and the
other sectoral components, health and infrastructure will require appropriate budgetary resources to
sustain them.
14.   In response to a government request for emergency assistance to assist in the reconstruction of
infrastructure after severe flooding, the Bank appraised in April/May 1998 an El Nino Emergency Project
for Kenya. Lessons learned from EDRP and other projects in the Kenya portfolio have been incorporated
in the design of this project, including innovative project management arrangements, the tender design,
evaluation and award process, and contract supervision.
Lessons Learned
15.   The main lessons to be learned from the implementation experience of the project are as follows:
*     Emergency projects need to be formulated so that they meet priority needs and, as with non-
emergency projects, local consultation and assessment is a necessary part of the design process to
identify priority needs. In environmentally and socially diverse areas (such as Kenya),
operational decision making need to be taken locally and not by parent ministries.
*     In distributing agricultural inputs following drought, these inputs should not go through the same
channels as famine relief. The quantities that will reach farmers should be sufficient to have an
impact on the household/farm economic base. Detailed targeting based on needs or vulnerability
needs to be in the forefront of the design of relief input distribution.



vi
*     Rapid disbursement is essential for emergency projects and standard Bank and Government
procedures can cause delays in delivery in an emergency situation.
*     The time scale required for road improvements means that this type of activity can rarely be
accommodated in a two-year project. Road improvements in an emergency situation take too
long to execute to have much impact on short-term relief.
*     Mismanagement of funds, when detected,, needs to be dealt with swiftly and decisively. The
Bank should raise the issue of any possible misuse of funds with the Government at a high level
to ensure a proper response. Careful supervision from the field assisted in the detection and
proper follow-up.
*     Drought relief in pastoral areas is likely to require support for societal restocking, resource
sharing and for keeping selected animals alive for rebuilding herds later. Encouraging cropping
is usually counter-productive, as the only sites suitable for cropping are key areas for dry season
grazing. Also veterinary drugs have limited value in the context of drought recovery when
animals are starving.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KiENYA
EMERGENCY DROUGHT RECOVERY PROJECT (EDRP)
(Cr. 2460-KE)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
1. The EDRP was conceived in late 1992 as a response to the GOK's overall Drought Recovery
Program (DRP) which was prepared with assistance from UNDP in cooperation with the UN Disaster
Management Team. The DRP set out a frameworlc, sectoral investments, priority districts and the overall
management arrangements to deliver both short-term emergency needs and medium-term investment
needs. From a total two-year funding requiremeni of some US$ 85 million, EDRP represented the
majority of the longer-term investment program of the DRP, equal to a total of US$ 29.55 million. This
was financed from a new credit (Cr 2460-KE - US$ 20 million) and amendments to existing credits,
namely Cr 1758-KE (Animal Health Services - US$ 2.5 million), Cr 1974-KE (Rural Services Design -
US$ 2.75 million) and Cr 2199-KE (Second National Agricultural Extension - US$ 2.0 million)' . The
GOK contributed to the DRP directly by providing agricultural seeds in 1993 to a value of US$ 2.3
million. The Government's fragile macro-economic situation and budgetary constraints at the time
prompted the Government to seek external support for the recovery program. The project met the Bank's
criteria for emergency lending, i.e. the need to focus on recovery, the temporary nature of the emergency,
the necessity for short and medium term actions, and prospects for mitigating the impact of future
emergencies.
2.    The objectives of the project were (i) to alleviate the impact of the drought experienced during
1991/2 through measures which would start to regenerate productive capacity in agricultural and
livestock production for the ASAL populations, and to improve water supply and basic health services,
and provide access to and within the arid districts of Mandera, Marsabit, and Turkana; (ii) to assist in
enhancing institutional capacity at district level to deal with drought. The project also had a longer-term
objective of beginning the process of tackling the underlying causes which make ASAL populations
increasingly vulnerable to drought situations.
3.    These objectives were to be achieved through six components as follows: (i) agriculture - a
package of seeds, fertilizers and chemicals, with agricultural implements in some districts, sufficient to
plant an area of half a hectare; (ii) livestock - the purchase and distribution of vaccines, drugs and
equipment in 10 districts; (iii) drought management and environment; (iv) infrastructure - spot
rehabilitation of 450 kms of access roads in three districts; (v) water - new and rehabilitated boreholes
and wells; (vi) health - improvements to clinics and health facilities, rehabilitation of vehicles and supply
of drugs and medical supplies. These components' were selected on the following criteria: (i) able to
target a package of investments to benefit victimsi of the drought, (ii) able to be implemented within the
l Actual IDA disbursements: Cr. 2460 ($19.73 million), Cr. 1758 ($1.12 million), (Cr. 1974 ($5.86
million) Cr. 2199 ($3.32 million



2
24 month time frame envisaged; (iii) responsive to the DRP and incremental to ongoing or planned
Government and other donor assistance.
4.   Project objectives were clearly articulated, and fitted GOK's Drought Recovery Programme, but
they weire not all equally realistic within the framework of a two-year emergency operation. Also,
dividing the project into sectoral components obscured and complicated the real purpose of the project.
This point was made during the MTR (in April 1994), when it was recommended that, for the remainder
of the project term, activities be organized according to whether they relate to community mobilization
(the backbone of drought recovery), sectoral support (inputs to enable line ministries fulfil essential
tasks), or emergency operations (bringing instant relief, as circumstances require). The result was a
complex. multi-sectoral project - tightly prescribed and working within standard procurement and
disbursement procedures - that sought to test innovations and bring relief at the grassroots level over a
two-year period, while leaving technical control largely in the hands of headquarters staff of line
ministries.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
5.    The project was complex and there was inherent difficulty in managing activities across such a
wide sectoral range. Partly for this reason, the project was extended twice, with the final extension to
accommlodate completion of the roads component. The use of three existing IDA credits allowed for
quick start-up. In addition, the fact that the project was also financed from other IDA credits and an
IFAD loan meant that the funding available for individual components terminated at different times
during the project's term. Since IDA Cr 2460, the main credit financing the project, closed at June 30,
1997, this has been taken as the project's completion date although disbursements for agricultural inputs
for the short rains 1997 continued to February 1998 through a category created under IDA Cr 2199
(National Extension Project U) which is scheduled to close on June 30, 1998
6.    The project has partly achieved all of its objectives, though not all in the full measure that was
anticipated at appraisal. On balance, the project had positive and long lasting impact from the smaller,
more targeted components. The project fell short in the physical infrastructure that was envisaged at
appraisal under the road component and had a limited impact in helping farmers rebuild through the
provision of agricultural inputs. Efforts made under the water, livestock, health and drought
manageiment components were fully satisfactory. This was due to a combination of factors detailed
below. The project's greater achievements were in institutional development and community
participation. The project (a) set up a decentralized coordinating mechanism within the structure of
Govermnent that is capable of assuring-cross-sectoral development activities that meet community
aspirations, and (b) laid the groundwork for longer-term development project in the arid zones of Kenya
in the form of the Arid Lands Resource Management Project (ALRMP) that became effective in 1996.
7.    The achievement in the institutional development objectives was substantial. The project operated
with a decentralized district focus with the aim of ensuring, as far as possible, that the project did not
incur high overhead costs at central government level. The overall operational costs of the PMU
secretariat amounted to 10% of total project costs, in line with that anticipated at appraisal. The
decentralized system which was established in the Office of the President (OP) for the coordination of
developmient and emergency relief, comprising the Project Management UJnit (PMU) Secretariat at HQ



3
and coordinators and staff in each of the focal districts, was new to Kenya, but had'shown its value by
1995, and was further built on by ALRMP.
8.    Physical objectives varied in achievement and overall achievement was partial. For each of the
components, the objectives are evaluated as followvs:
Agricultural inputs
9.    The provision of seeds and other inputs was financed by CR 2460, Cr 1974, Cr 2199 (NEP II),
the IFAD Coast ASAL project, and the Government of Kenya. The success of this component was
dependent on favourable rainfall following the 1991-92 drought, which did not fully eventuate. Whilst the
project management made attempts to include drought-tolerant crops and varieties among those
distributed, these seeds were not available in Kenya at the time, again as a result of the 1991/92 drought.
There is also a strong bias towards maize in Kenya, not always the most appropriate crop in semi arid
zones but reflects the dietary preference of most K enyans. As a result, seeds appropriate for normal to
good seasonal conditions were procured and distributed. The quantities of agricultural inputs were
distributed too widely and in too limited quantities to have a significant potential impact on household
income.
10.   Inputs of 1.5 times the value estimated at appraisal were distributed, due mainly to an extension
of the period of distribution up to 1997 short rains in response to continuing drought. Because the farm
inputs provided used the same distribution methoidology as government famine relief, the procurement
and distribution systems used did not always deliver appropriate seeds on time to the most needy in the
community, and the inputs did not produce sufficiently useful yields in the "recovery" year(s) since these
were again subject to poor growing conditions. During the latter part of the project, and as an election
year approached, this component assumed an evert greater political role since the distribution became the
responsibility of the famine relief committees. Continued pressure was put on the Bank by the
Government to make use of excess funds under the existing projects to finance additional seasons of seed
distribution. Although a large quantity of fertilizer was distributed in the first year, this was not a farmer
priority in drought recovery under the circumstances. In addition, there was contract fraud with the
transporter who moved the fertilizer from Mombasa to the districts. Rarely did the most needy farmers
derive any benefit from this component and its impact on the economic recovery of drought stricken
farmers was minimal. Generally, this component was unsatisfactory.
Livestock
11.   The initial impact of the veterinary inputs, financed under the Animal Health Rehabilitation
Project (Cr 1758), was also minimal. Inputs were not specified in terms of packages appropriate to the
varying needs of the districts concerned. The Department of Veterinary Services designed a standard
package for the 10 districts covered, irrespective of the livestock population or the relative numbers of
cattle, camels and small stock. The priority given to vaccination was in line with national and regional
priorities but not with the needs of drought stricken pastoralists. The project reversed this less than
satisfactory start by assisting in establishing community-based livestock associations in ten disticts,
which sold the drugs to users on a partial cost-recovery basis, and used the sale proceeds to establish
revolving funds. Therefore it bec,ame possible to ensure that subsequent purchases more closely met the
needs of local livestock owners. The associations concerned require further guidance, but at project



4
completion there were 17 associations in operation, some of which now hold cash balances of up to US$
10,000 equivalent. The outcome of this component can therefore be rated as satisfactory.
Drought Management
12.   The project was instrumental in extending the type of drought warning system already established
in Turkana to three further districts. In parallel, a Dutch funded project expanded the system to am
additional three. This component, both in its original concept and its realization, laid the foundation for
further clevelopment under ALRMP of a comprehensive drought management system, now fully
institutionalized in government. The establishment of the PMU in the Office of the President, which
serves as a focal point for the development of policy for arid and semiarid lands, and as the coordinator
for projects dealing with drought has had an impact. In addition, the provision of training courses in
community participation were also investments in longer-term development, but involved relatively little
capital outlay.
Environment
13.   The environmental sub-component attached to Drought Management achieved some success in
tree planting around stock watering points, but the provision of grass seeding in demonstration plots was
largely misplaced in the context of emergency drought recovery. Apart from training and water point
protection, which are useful at any time, the other inputs needed more careful planning than was possible
during the limited time-frame of EDRP.
Infrastructure
14.   Road rehabilitation, under the infrastructure component, deviated most substantially from
appraisal expectations. The component was poorly designed and even with perfect execution was always
destined to over-run the project's two-year term. This problem was compounded through inefficient
contractjing and management arrangements organized from the Ministry of Public Works and the Office
of the President in Nairobi
15.   The preparation of this component was unsatisfactory, since ihe proposals were not based on
detailed site-specific investigations, and the estimated unit costs were significantly underestimated. This
led to a major scaling down of the works to be undertaken within the available budget. It was unrealistic
to expect road repair design to have been completed and contracts let and executed in the allotted project
time. Some contracts were not satisfactorily completed even with a two-year extension for this
component. At the end of the day, three of the four roads contracts for spot improvements, designed to
repair critical bottlenecks, were substantially completed. The fourth was a complete failure.
16.   In May 1997, after receiving information on possible misuse of funds under one of the roads
contracts, the Bank requested the Government to conduct an investigation. After substantial delays, the
Controller and Auditor General produced an audit report in April 1998 which identified questionable
certification of payments under the two roads contracts, resulting from collusion between the contractors,
supervising engineers and civil servants. Another fraud involving the transport of fertilizer was
identified, again perpetrated through collusion between the contractor and civil servants. The Bank has
been persistent in following these cases with the govenmment, and has requested the Government to
prepare am action plan satisfactory to the Bank on the three cases before we proceed with the proposed El



5
Nino Emergency Project. The Bank may requesi: Government to provide early repayment of the amounts
in question.
17.   Whilst some useful works have been completed, involving improvements in the condition of
segments of roads, these works did little to improve overall access within the districts. Spot
improvements would have had to be highly selective and executed with speed and efficiency for the funds
allocated to have any impact on drought recover(.
Water
18.   Water supply constituted the most directly useful component in the context of emergency drought
relief Communities benefited from improved drinking water supply in both urban and remote areas. In
addition to permanent installations, short-term emergency supplies were delivered by water bowsers to
isolated communities. A total of 27 water users associations were established to manage and operate the
new pumps and distribution systems and, whilst many require further technical and managerial training, a
sound basis has been set for continued future operations of the systems.
19.   Livestock production in the focal districts also benefited from the improved water supplies
provided under the project. This too was supporled by the establishment of user associations. The switch
of emphasis which occurred during project implementation, from new supply points to the rehabilitation
of existing supplies, meant that fewer new water points were installed than originally envisaged, but with
the advantage of avoiding further proliferation of settlement and further disruption of the seasonal
grazing patterns on which (in the arid zone) environments sustainability depends.
Health
20.   The project distributed drugs and medicines, and improved the health care infrastructure and
transport facilities in five districts. These activities contributed to overall improved health care in to these
districts which receive very little in terms of support from the center, and in general their implementation
was satisfactory.
Project Costs and Financing
21.   At appraisal, the costs of EDRP were estimated to be US$ 29.55 million, to be financed as
follows: the new 1DA credit (Cr 2460) US$ 20.00 million, amendments to existing credits (US$ 7.25
million) and the Government of Kenya US$ 2.30 million. In addition, the provision of farm inputs,
financed by the IFAD Coast ASAL project, estimated to cost US$ 2.50 million were added as part of the
EDRP after the effectiveness of Cr 2460. ThereiFore the estimated total cost of the project was US$ 32.05
million.
22.   The most significant deviation from the estimated cost was in the procurement and distribution of
agricultural inputs. The cost of these activities Nvas over 50% higher than that expected, mainly due to the
continuation of distribution of free seeds through to 1997. Reduced expenditure on other components and
movement in the SDR exchange rate enabled higher allocations to agricultural inputs within the overall
financing envelope.



6
The actual total cost of the project was US$ 34.34 million made up as follows4
Component/Item                 Estimated Cost       Actual Cost
(US$m)              (US$m)
Agricultural Inputs                10.00               16.22
Livestock Inputs                    2.50                1.36
Drought Management and              2.65                1.33
Enviromnent
Infrastructure                      7.50                7.79
Water                               5.15                4.23
Health                              2.00                1.47
Project Management                  1.10                1.94
Unallocated                         1.15
Total                              32.05               34.34
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
23.   Extraneous factors impacted on the project in several ways, sometimes to a substantial degree.
Continuing drought was a major factor in extending the period of the inputs distribution component.
However, the poor growing seasons also limited the impact of the seeds and other inputs distributed,
though probably not the extent commonly claimed - drought is blamed increasingly for hardships that are
due to over-exploitation of natural resources.
24.  'Ihe line ministries (especially the technical departments) held entrenched attitudes on what
constituted priorities and approaches in the development of the districts concerned. Often these did not
reflect the true needs of pastoralists and resource-poor fanners either in re-establishing their enterprises
following the drought, or in the longer-term prioritization of problems in drought-preparedness.
25.   I[mplementation delays were significant, and led (after an initial extension to June 1996, to cover
for start-up delays) to a further extension to mid-1997. These were requested, and allowed, to permit
completilon of contract works.
26.   Cumbersome government procedures (e.g. the tendering process) and the application of standard
development credit procurement procedures in an emergency situation caused delays. This led to seeds
reaching; farmers well after the optimum planting date. There were also delays in civil works, especially
roadworks, which resulted from consultant/contractor performance.
27.   Government policies and actions contributed substantially to the progress made in institutional
development, and hence to social services and community participation in the focal districts. The OP was
committed to drought relief and the coordinating role described, which has led to the positive contribution
of the project in these areas.



7
D. SUSTAINABILIrY
28.   The project was not designed to be sustainable, except in so far as its institutional framework
(inclusive of staff, sensitized participants and some physical infrastructure) was to be a contribution to
future programmes and projects. The latter requirement was met in full, with the emergence of the
ALRMP. The longer-term sustainability of that project is discussed under "Future Operations". It has a
good chance of contributing positively to long-term pastoral development in northern Kenya.
29.   The system of development support that was instituted under EDRP, i.e. decentralized support
and community participation, stands an excellent chance of being sustainable. The formation of water
user associations for village water supply, aind the formation of livestock drugs users associations to
manage revolving funds set up from the proceeds of the sale of drugs financed by the project, are two
notable achievements in community participation in development activities. However, this sustainability
still requires further devolvement of decision making from the OP to community-based organizations. In
addition, priority needs to be given to establishing a comprehensive system of process monitoring and a
concept of development pathways by which the districts and communities concerned will move into the
next half-century.
30.   The agricultural component of EDRP was not, by its nature, designed to be a sustainable activity,
and the other sectoral coniponents, health and infrastructure will require appropriate budgetary resources
to sustain them.
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
31.   Overall the Bank's performance was satisfactory. Since this was an emergency project,
preparation had to move fast, and it is commendable that the process moved from identification to
President's Memorandum in a matter of weeks. Whilst some aspects of the design were unrealistic, the
overall response of the Bank to the emergency situation was satisfactory.
32.   The first formal, substantive supervision mission was in fact the mid-termn review, which took
place within a year of project effectiveness as planned. Staff from the resident mission in Nairobi were
generally responsible for supervision, and this enabled day-to-day contact between the task manager and
the PMU Secretariat, and efficient communication on issues of substance with senior government
officials. This direct communication enabled the Bank to work closely with project managers in enabling
a certain level of flexibility in the direction of the project as circumstances on the ground altered. This
flexibility contributed to the project's successful implementation of the longer-term activities, namely
drought management, and water and livestock associations. In addition, when possible fraud (as detailed
above) was detected, the Bank moved quickly to have the officers involved dismissed from the project
and an investigation started. Overall, the supervision of the project was satisfactory.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
33.   Borrower performance was satisfactory in both the preparation and the implennentation of the
project, given the economic and social constraints under which the GOK Drought Recovery Programme
was operating. The implementing agency, situated as it was in the OP, was well placed to coordinate
intersectoral inputs from line ministries. Nonetheless there were problems. The implementing agency



8
suffered, like Bank supervisors, from the complexity of the project. This was evident, not just in the
dependence of the PMU Secretariat on sectoral advice that did not always fit pastoral areas, but also in
accounting within an array of four separate credits. The PMU Secretariat, and the government audit
system, were often late in reporting, but managed usually to produce requisite reports/audits by the
ultimate deadline. Such deficiencies were the product of workload more than of any other factor. In
addition, when possible fraud was detected the government moved quickly to dismiss officers who were
implicated. On balance, compliance with covenants and commitments was satisfactory.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
34.   The outcome of the project's many components and areas of activities was mixed. The project
had a satisfactory outcome in the five pastoral, focal districts, while impact in most of the other semi-arid,
non-focal districts was less apparent. The impact of agricultural inputs was negligible, while there were
successful outcomes from the livestock component in these districts through the establishment of
sustainable user associations. The livestock component owes its satisfactory rating not to the original
veterinary packages that were distributed, but to the fact that, through cost-recovery, revolving funds
were established in the districts concerned, which EDRP then brought under community control. Both
livestock associations and water users associations were established as potentially sustainable
mechanisrns. The infrastructure (roads) component was the most unsatisfactory. The number of
kilometres improved is largely irrelevant, since there has been no discernible impact on the delivery of
drought relief or on drought recovery. The agriculture component was also unsatisfactory although it is
to be expected that there were pockets in which the effects of the project would have been satisfactory.
The outcome of the project's contribution towards institutional development and community participation
was highly successful.
35.   The response of the Bank to emergency situations was well tested in this project. The time taken
in the formulation and effectiveness of the Bank's support proved that the Bank can react in an
appropriate time frame. But from then on, the project was subject to the usual Bank and Government
procedures on procurement and contracting, not appropriate to emergency response. In addition, the
project was extended to enable the continuation of activities, designed in the context of an emergency,
beyond the period of the emergency. As the height of the emergency passed, the nature of the project
changed. The greater successes of the project relate to the longer-term impacts in drought management,
institutional development and community participation, as opposed to the impact of emergency assistance
to rebuild the agricultural economic base following the drought. This was due to the flexibility afforded to
the direction of the project through close interaction between the PMU, the Office of the President and
Bank staff.
36.   From a balance of the above results, the overall outcome of the project was marginally
satisfactory.
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS
37.   The drought management activities under EDRP formed the basis of the ALRMP and will be
continued and built on under this project. ALRMP, effective in 1996, is a five-year project, covering the
whole of northern Kenya. Its three main components are drought management, marketing and
infrastructure (mainly for marketing livestock and other grassland products) and community



9
development. There is provision also for training and studies on pastoral land tenure and NRM, which
are expected to lead to subsequent legal refonn.
38.   The focus in drought management has been to extend earlier pilot experience in Turkana to other
districts, in context with the Dutch-funded DP'IRP. The challenge now is: (a) to engage the pastoral
community in early warning monitoring, so that they appreciate its value and participate increasingly in
gathering monitoring data; (b) to refine existing monitoring procedures so that they are understandable
and manageable by pastoral communities; ancl (c) to ensure that the government response to early
warning is immediate and appropriate to the nature of the alert. Flows of information and divisions of
responsibility have to be such that the government response comes, as appropriate, from both local and
central tiers.
39.   Continuing community development i[s assured under ALRMP by its designation as a discrete
project component. Success, however, cannolt be measured just in the number of groups and community
microprojects assisted. Associations established under EDRP need continued guidance, and
encouragement needs to be given to the evolution of forms of organization that are fitted (legally,
constitutionally and in other respects) to the tasks which are, and will be, undertaken. This implies
emergence of district or regional organizations that can address the wider issues of pastoral NRM and can
achieve economies of scale in matters such as drug procurement. Moreover, inputs to local organizations
and groups need to be judged in relation to their possible impact on the regional economy, especially on
the viability of mobile pastoralism.
40.   Critical to the success of ALRMP will be the establishment of a system of process monitoring
that enables the project to adjust its progress over the years in accordance with changing circumstances.
Equally important is the formulation, for each focal district, of likely development paths, which provide a
special as well as a socio-economic framework for screening individual development proposals.
41.   ALRMP faces other challenges too. In drought management, it is necessary to build on the
existing early-warning systems (inherited fronn the Dutch-funded DPIRP and expanded geographically
under EDRP), by ensuring that it is manageable by pastoral communities and that each stage of alert
automatically triggers an appropriate government response. In marketing and infrastructure, marketing
must he made directly supportive of drought rnanagement; in community development, groups and
associations (including those established under EDRP) need to be guided towards forms of organization
that, legally and constitutionally, enable them to fulfil their intended role. It also needs to be assured that
support for local groups does not impact negatively on the mobility of regional pastoral systems, and that
district or regional associations emerge that can exercise economics of scale in drug procurement and can
contribute towards regional NRM in the pastoral areas.
42.   In response to a government request fDr emergency assistance to assist in the reconstruction of
infrastructure after severe flooding, the Bank appraised in April/May 1998 an El Nino Emergency Project
for Kenya. Lessons learned from EDRP and other projects in the Kenya portfolio have been incorporated
in the design of this project, including innoval:ive project management arrangements, the tender design,
evaluation and award process, and contract supervision.



10
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
43.   The key lessons to be learned from the project are:
(a)    Emergency projects need to be formulated so that they meet priority needs and, as with non-
emergency projects, local consultation and assessment is a necessary part of the design process.
In environmentally and socially diverse areas (such as Kenya), the decisions on relevant inputs
need to be taken locally and not by parent ministries. The basic dilemma is that inputs and input
delivery need to be carefully targeted, with maximum local participation, and yet that process can
take longer than an emergency situation allows. The answer lies partly in drought preparedness,
and then in supplementing obvious requirements (food, water and medicines) with an open credit
which, subject to category restriction or approval, can be drawn upon instantly by locally-
accountable drought relief committees according to their prioritization of need.
(b)    There is justification for distributing free seed to impoverished farmers to assist in their
individual drought recovery, but two aspects need to be included in this strategy: firstly,
drought-tolerant crops should be included in the package distributed in order to reduce the impact
of continuing poor seasonal conditions; secondly, the quantities that will reach farmers (having
regard for social norms as well as the logistics of distribution) are sufficient to have an impact on
the household/farm economic base. Detailed targeting based on needs or vulnerability needs to be
in the forefront of the design of relief input distribution.
(c)    Rapid disbursement is essential for emergency projects and standard Bank and Government
procedures can cause delays in delivery. Real drought emergencies call for food aid, and relief in
the form of water and medical provisions. If money is required for mounting relief operations,
then it needs to be instantly available and not tied by procurement and disbursement procedures
that allow time to pass before help is extended. Moreover, decisions on how best to use the
money (within agreed categories of expenditures) should be taken locally and not centrally.
(d)   The time scale required for road improvements means that this type of activity can rarely be
accommodated in a two-year project. Road improvements in an emergency situation take too
long to execute to have much impact on short-term relief. Permanent improvement to the whole
road network would certainly help, but is unlikely to be an economic proposition in arid lands.
EDRP experience shows that, while some spot improvement is helpful, the nature of the arid zone
is such that "spot" road improvements often result in the emergence of a new trouble spots
elsewhere on the same road. The best approach would seem to be to include spot improvement
witlhin the scope of funds available for relief operations, but to let districts decide where the
priority lies and then to engage in road works (by force account or local contract). Many of these
recommendations have been taken into account under the proposed E.l Nino Emergency Project.
(e)    Mismanagement of funds, when detected, needs to be dealt with swiftly and decisively. The
Bank should raise the issue of any possible misuse of funds with the Government at a high level
to ensure a proper response. Careful supervision from the field assisted in the detection and
proper follow up.
(f)    Drought relief in pastoral areas is likely to require support for societal restocking, nesource
sharing and for keeping selected animals alive for rebuilding herds later. Encouraging cropping



11
is usually counter-productive, as the only sites suitable for cropping are key areas for dry season
grazing. Also veterinary drugs have limited value in the context of drought recovery when
animals are starving.



12
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
TABLES
1. Summary of Assessment
2. Related Bank Loans/Credit
3. Project Timetable
4. Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual (US$ millions)
5. Key Indicators for Project Implementation
6. Key Indicators for Project Operation
7. Studies Included in Project
8A. Project Costs
8B. Project Financing
9. Economic Costs and Benefits
10. Status of Legal Covenants
11. Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
12. Bank Resources: Staff Input
13. Bank Resources: Missions



13
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of objectives          Substantial      Partial    Negligible   Not Applicable
Macro policies                         L             9            l             HI
Sector policies                         I            7           E               7
Financial objectives                                  Z 7          7            F          :
Institutional development             E7            7              7            F
Physical objectives                   F             m              7             
Poverty reduction                     [I                          7             z
Gender issues                         [n  ]7                                     D
Other social objectives                7E                        Fl             Fl
Environmental objectives              [j1                         E             [ E
Public sector management               rl                        LI             L]
Private sector development            El            E              o      
Other (specify)                          l         [                 l          Z
B. Project sustainabilit2              Likelv        Unlikely    Uncertain
Hi~1
C. Bank performance                  satisfactorv    Satisfactorv   Deficient
Identification                                                F' 
Preparation assistance              E            [             E
Appraisal3                          E                          El
Supervision                           l                        El1
2 Emergency relief operations excluded.
3 As an emergency operation, preparation and appraisal were merged.



14
Hi~~
D. Borrower ierformance              satisfactorv   Satisfactorv   Deficient
Preparation                        L            E      
Implementation                                 [.-          E-I
Covenant compliance                            [ u          E-
Operation (if applicable)                      E]           LI]
Hi2l                                         Hi2hlv
E. Assessment of outcome           s a          Satis          Unatisfactoa    unsatisfactory
l Actual Rating: Marginally Satisfactory



15
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title           Purpose              Year of approval             Status
Preceding operations
1. Animal Health Service   Support the development        1987            Closed
Project (Cr 1758-KE)    of viable and sustainable
institutional framework
for animal health
services.
2. Rural Services Design   Test the feasibility and       1989            Closed
Project (Cr 1974-KE)    approaches to
implementing innovative
investment to resolve
constraints on agricultural
development.
3. Second National      Strengthen major                  1990            On going
Agricultural Extension  components of thz
Project (Cr 2199-KE)    national extensionl
services.
Following operations
1. Arid Lands Resource    Strengthen and support          1995            Ongoing
Management Project (Cr.  community-driven
2797-KE)                initiatives to reduce
poverty and to conserve
the natural resource base
in arid districts.



16
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle                 Date planned             Date actual/
j=                           latest estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)       November, 1992        November, 1992
Preparation & Appraisal (Emergency Operation)    December, 1992        December, 1992
Negotiations                                     January, 1993         January, 1993
Board presentation                               February 1993         February 1993
Signing                                          March, 1993           March, 1993
Effectiveness                                    April, 1993           April, 1993
Midterm review (if applicable)                   January, 1994         June, 1994
Project completion                               June, 1995            June, 1997
Loan closing                                     June, 1995            June, 1997
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ millions)
FY93/94         FY94/95      FY95/96       FY96/97       FY97/98
Appraisal estimate               0.7           10.5         20.0                -
Actaal                           3.07           6.29         13.4              17.32         19.73
Actual as % of estimate        439%            60%          67%                 -             -
Date of final disbursement  March31, 1998                         ,



17
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
1.   Key implementation
indicators in SAR/ President's        Estimated                         Actual
Report
Agricultural Inputs
Seeds (tons)                            2,400                            7,000 (estimate)
Fertilizer (tons)                       15,000                          12,155
Handtools                         US$ 700,000                       US$ 10,000
Irrigation Pumps                            0                               42
Animal Health -                            US$2.2million                      $4 million through re
Veterinary Drugs
Infrastructure -                            421km                        .  100km
Road Construction
Water
New Boreholes                              11                                8
Rehabilitate Boreholes                    17                               22
Dam/Pan desilting                         15                               27
Urban Water Supply                         6                                6
Rural Water Supply                        65                               70
Shallow Wells                              0                               63
Water Troughs                              0                              25
Health
Facilities Rehabilitated                  12                               12
Environment
Water Point Protection                     8                                9
Grass Seed Plots                          15                                2
Drought Monitoring -
Districts                                  3                                6



18
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
I.   Key operating indicators in
SAR/President's Report                 Estimated                         Actual
Not Applicable                     Not Applicable                   Not Applicable
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as defined
Study           at appraisal/redefined4            Status             Impact of study
1. Livestock restocking    To investigate potential and    Completed       Minimal
methods for restocking
following drought.
2. Veterinary Drugs     To investigate methods of   Completed               Substantial - led to
establishing community                             creation of revolving
based revolving funds.                             funds.
3. Soc io-economic      Investigate socio-economic    Completed             Background
study of Tana River     status of populations.                              information.
Redefined at mid-term review; replaced infrastructure studies previously specified in the MOP.



19
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal estimate (US$M)            Actual/latest estimate (US$M)
Local       Foreign      Total         Local       Foreign       Total
Costs        costs                     Costs        costs
Item
Agriculture                                 10.30                                   16.32
Livestock                                    2.60                                   1.36
Drought                                      2.76                                   1.33
Management
Infrastructure                               7.80                                   7.79
Water                                        5.36                                   4.23
Health                                       2.08                                    1.47
Project                                      1.14                                    1.94
Management
TOTAL              N/S          N/S        32.055         N/A          N/A         34.44
N/S - Not specified
N/A - Not available
S Original project costs of US$ 29.55 million as set out in MOP, plus US$ 2.5 million from IFAD Coast-ASAL Project.



20
Table 8B: Project Financing
=_________________    Appraisal estimate (US$M)            Actual/latest estimate (US$M)
Local    Foreign   Total          Local      Foreign rotal
costs     Costs                   costs       Costs
Source
IDA                                             27.25                               30.03
IFAD                                             2.50                                 1.81
Domestic contribution                            2.30                                2.50
TOTAL                    N/S        N/S         32.05        N/a         N/a        34.34
Note: IDA Coritribution made up as follows: Cr 2460 US$ 19.73 million; Cr 1758 US$ 1.12 million; Cr 1974 US$ 5.86 million; Cr
2199 US$ 3.32 million.
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
As this was an emergency operation, no economic impact was assessed at appraisal. The economic benefits
from the project in the short-term as set out in the MOP centered around the accelerated recovery of
agricultural production. The economic impact of the project's activities in distributing agricultural inputs
was probably less than that anticipated at preparation/appraisal due to the continuing poor growing seasons.



21
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Kenya
Emergency Drought Recovery Project
Original     Revised
Covenant  Present  fulfillment date  fulfillment   Description of
Agreement   Section    type     status                    date        Covenant         Comments
DCA         3.01(b)  M         C               -            -      The Borrower shall  Complied with
carny out the project
in accordance with
the implementation
program set forth in
Schedule 4 of the
Agreement
DCA         3.03     M         CD       Januay 31 1994  June 30,   Mid term review   Complied with delay
1994                        due to operational
constraints.
DCA         4.01     F         C        -               -          Financial covenants, Generally complied
records and accounts with.
M = Management
F   = Financial
C   = Complied with
CD = Compliance after delay
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement number and title                 Describe and comment on lack of compliance
Basically there was compliance with the applicable Bank
Operational Manual Statement.



22
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of                      Planned                  Revised                 Actual'
project cycle        .                                                                        l
Weeks        US$         Weeks        US$        Weeks       US$
Preparation                             NA                        NA    24.8        67,000
/Appraisal/Board
Approval                                                                                      l
Supervision                             NA                        NA    74.4        178,100
Completion                              NA                        NA    10.4        39, 900
TOTAL                                                                  109.6       285,000
1/ Includes travel costs.
N/A = Not available - not recorded in the FACT System



23
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance rating
Stage of                     Number                  Specialized     Implemen-       Develop-
Project cycle       Month/        of       Days m      staff skills      tation          ment         Types of
Year      persons      field     represented        Status       objectives     problems
Through Appraisal /1    Nov/Dec,       8          14     FA, Ag, Eng,           . 
1992                              Ec, Op
Appraisal through     February,         -         -
Board approval /      1993
1. Mid term review    April, 1994      7         20      Op, RM, Med,          S               S            P, F
Eng, Proc, Ec
2. Supervision        December,        2          16     Op, Anth               S              S             F
1994
3. Supervision        June, 1995        I         10     Op                     S              S             F
4. Supervision        Aprtil, 1997     4          7      Op, Li Anth,           S              S          P, PM, FC
=RM
Completion2            December,       2         10      Ec, RM                 S              S             PM
1997                    __
/I Emergency Operation.
/2 Undertaken by FAO/CP.
Abbreviations:
Ec = Economist
Ag = Agriculturalist
FA = Financial Analyst
RM = Range Management Specialist
Med = Medical Specialist
Eng = Engineer
Proc = Procurement
Anth = Anthropologist
Li = Livestock Specialist
OP= Operations Officer
P = Procurement
F = Financial - Counterpart funds
FC = Financial Covenants
PM = Project Management



KENYA
EMERGENCY DROUGHT RECOVERY PROJECT
APPENDIX A
AIDE MEMOIRE



FOOD AND AGRICULTURE. ORGANIZATION
OF THE UNITED NATIONS
Investment Centre Division
KENYA: Emergency Drought Recovery Project
(EDRP - IDA Credit 2460-KE)
Implementation Completion Report - Aide-memoire
Introduction
1.    A mission6 from the FAO Investment Centre visited Kenya from 23 November to 5 December,
1997 to prepare the Implementation Completion Report for the Emergency Drought Recovery Project
(EDRP) under the FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program. The mission worked closely with staff of the
Project Management Unit Secretariat, Department of Relief and Rehabilitation, Office of the President, the
unit established under the project to coordinate the implementation of the project. The mission visited two
regions of Kenya to assess the impact of the project in areas of different agricultural and pastoral systems,
and socio-economic status. In Machakos District, the mission held discussions with the District
Commissioner and District agricultural staff, members of the Location Social Dimension of Development
(SDD) committees and visited farner beneficiaries of the agricultural inputs supply component of the
project. In Turkana, one of the four focal Disiricts, the Mission was accompanied by the Task Team Leader
and held discussions with the Project coordinator and district officials in water, public works, health, roads,
agriculture and drought management. The mission visited sites and communities which had benefited from
the project.
2.    A wrap-up discussion was held with the Permanent Secretary, Department of State Corporations,
Relief and Rehabilitation, members of the 1'MU Secretariat and Bank staff on 4 December. This aide-
memoire is a record of the missions findings and conclusions that were discussed at that meeting.
3.    The mission would like to record its appreciation for the cooperation and assistance shown by all
officers and staff of the Government with whom the mission has been working. In addition, the mission
greatly appreciates the assistance and cooperation of the staff of the Resident Mission.
Project Objectives and Components
4.    The project, which became effective in April, 1993, was conceived as a two-year input to assist the
GOK's overall Drought Recovery Program, with the objectives of (i) alleviating the impact of the drought
that the region had experienced during 1991 and 1992 through measures which would start to regenerate the
productive capacity in agriculture and livestock production for ASAL populations, and improving water
supply, basic health services and access to arid within four, later increased to five, arid districts; and (ii) to
assist in enhancing institutional capacity at district level to deal (over the longer term) with the effects of
drought. A broad sectoral approach was taken that included inputs to agriculture, animal health, water
supply (both for livestock and people) and to road infrastructure. This was in addition to inputs to enhance
central and district capability in drought management and environmental conservation.
Tim Lamrock, Economist/Mission Leader (FAO/CP) and David Pratt, Arid Lands Management Specialist (Consultant).



5.    Although the majority of activities were concentrated in the focal districts of Mandera, Marsabit,
Tana River, Turkana and (after the MTR) Wajir, a total of 28 districts benefited to some extent, particularly
in relation to agricultural inputs.
Achievemient of Objectives
6.     The project fulfilled all of its objectives to some extent, though not all in the full measure that was
anticipated at appraisal. The project fell short in the physical infrastructure that it was to provide and had
only a limited impact in helping farmers and pastoralists economically rebuild their activities following the
drought. This was due to a combination of factors detailed below. The projects greater achievements were in
institutional development and community participation. The project (a) set up a decentralized coordinating
mechanism within the structure of Government that is capable of assuring cross-sectoral development
activities that meet community aspirations, and (b) laid the groundwork for a longer-term development
project in ithe arid zones of Kenya in the form of the Arid Lands Resource Management Project (ALRMP)
that became effective in 1996.
Implementation Experience and Results
General
7.     The credit became effective in April, 1993. There was inherent difficulty in managing activities
across such a wide sectoral range. Partly for this reason, the project was subject to a series of extensions.
The final extension, to June, 1997, was made particularly to accommodate the roads component. In addition,
the fact that the project was also financed from other IDA credits and an IFAD loan meant that the funding
available ior individual components terminated a different times during the project's term. Since IDA Cr
2460, the main credit financing the project, closed at 30 June, 1997, this has been taken as the project's
completion date although disbursements for agricultural inputs, an EDRP activity, are still continuing since
the source of these funds, IDA Cr 2199 (National Extension Project II) has not yet closed.
8.    The project operated with a decentralized district focus with the aim of ensuring, as far as possible,
that the project did not incur high overhead costs at central government level. The overall operational costs
of the PMLJ secretariat amounted to 10% of total project costs, in line with that anticipated at appraisal.
Agricultural Inputs
9.    The provision of seeds and other inputs was financed by CR 2460, Cr 1974, Cr 2199 (NEP II), the
IFAD Coast ASAL project, and the Government of Kenya. Inputs of nearly twice the value estimated at
appraisal were distributed, due mainly to an extension of the period of distribution up to 1997 short rains in
response to continuing drought. The quantities of agricultural inputs were distributed too widely and in too
limited quantities to have a significant potential impact on household income. The procurement and
distribution systems used did not always deliver appropriate seeds on time to the most needy in the
community, and the inputs did not produce sufficiently useful yields in the "recovery" year(s) since these
were again subject to poor growing conditions. Although a large quantity of fertilizer was distributed, this
was not a farmer priority in drought recovery under the circumstances. Rarely did the most needy farmers
derive any benefit from this component and its impact on the economic recovery of drought stricken farmers
was minimal.



Livestock
10.   The initial impact of the veterinary drugs, financed under the Animal Health Rehabilitation Project
(Cr 1758), was also minimal. The Department of Veterinary Services designed a standard package for the 10
districts covered, irrespective of the livestock population or the relative numbers of cattle, camels and small
stock. However, the project did assist in establishing community-based livestock associations, which were
allowed to exchange drugs for those appropriate io their needs, and to use the sale proceeds to establish
revolving funds. The associations concerned require further guidance, but at project completion there were
17 associations in operation, some of which now hold cash balances of up to US$ 10,000 equivalent. The
outcome of this component can therefore be rated as satisfactory.
Water
11.   Water supply constituted the most directly useful component in the context of emergency drought
relief Communities benefited from improved drinking water supply in both urban and remote areas. In
addition to permanent installations, short-term emergency supplies were delivered by water bowsers to
isolated communities. A total of 27 water users associations were established to manage and operate the new
pumps and distribution systems and, whilst many require further technical and managerial training, a sound
basis has been set for continued future operations of the systems.
Health
12.   The project distributed drugs and medicines, and improved the health care infrastructure and
transport facilities in five districts. These activities contributed to overall improved health care in these
districts and in general their implementation was satisfactory.
Roads
13.   Roads repaired under the infrastructure component proved to be the most contentious activity of the
project. It was unrealistic to expect road repair design to have been completed and contracts let and executed
in the allotted project time. Some contracts were not satisfactorily completed even with a two-year extension
for this component. Whilst some useful works have been completed, involving improvements in the
condition of segments of roads, these works did littl.e to improve overall access within the districts.
Drought Management
14.   The project was instrumental in extending lhe type of drought warning system already established in
Turkana to three further districts. This component, both in its original concept and its realization, laid the
foundation for further development under ALRMP. The establishment of a Project Management Unit
(PMU) in the Office of the President and the provision of training courses in community participation were
also investments in longer-term development, but involved relatively little capital outlay. The environmental
sub-component attached to Drought Managemeni: achieved some success in tree planting around stock
watering points, but the provision of grass seeding in demonstration plots was largely misplaced in the
context of emergency drought recovery.



Major Factors Affecting the Project
15.   The outcome of the project was influenced by following main factors:
*     the entrenched attitudes on the part of line ministries (especially the technical departments)
on what constituted priorities and approaches in the development of the districts concerned
- attitudes which seldom reflected the needs of pastoralists and resource-poor faTmers;
*     continuing drought conditions through to the 1997 long rains in many of the areas covered
by the project;
*     the delays inherent in Government and Bank procedures which prevented actions being
taken within the time constraints on an emergency project.
*     the diverse nature of the components incorporated in the project as noted above which made
it more difficult to mold activities in a timely sequence.
Sustairnability
16.   The system of development support that was instituted under EDRP, i.e. decentralized support and
community participation, stands an excellent chance of being sustainable. The formation of water user
associations for village water supply, and the formation of livestock drugs users associations to manage
revolving funds set up from the proceeds of the sale of drugs financed by the project are two notable
achievements in community participation in development activities. However, this sustainability still
requires further devolvement of decision making from the OP to community-based organizations. In
addition, priority needs to be given to establishing a comprehensive system of process monitoring and a
concept of development pathways by which the districts and communities concerned will move into the next
half-century.
17.   The agricultural component of EDRP was not, by its nature, designed to be a sustainable activity,
and the other sectoral components, health and infrastructure will require appropriate budgetary resources to
sustain them.
Lessons Learned
Emergency projects need to be formulated so that they meet priority needs and, as with non-
emergency projects, local consultation and assessment is a necessary part of the design process. In
environmentally and socially diverse areas (such as Kenya), the decisions on relevant inputs need to
be taken locally and not by parent ministries.
*     Rapid disbursement is essential for emergency projects and standard Bank and Government
procedures can cause delays in delivery.
The time scale required for road improvements means that this type of activity can rarely be
accommodated in a two-year project. In any event, the nature of the arid zone is such that "spot"
road improvements often result in the emergence of a new trouble spots on the same road.



Follow-up
18.   On retun to Rome, the mission will prepare a draft ICR to be forwarded to IDA by end-December,
1997.
Nairobi
5th November, 1997



KENYA
EMERGENCY DROUGHT RECOVERY PROJECT
APPENDIX B
GOVERNMENT CONTRIBUTION TO TEIE
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT



01-JUL.'98(WED) 09:44   WB OP UNIT  FAX:254-2-260384  P.002
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
THE EMERGENCY DROUGHT RECOVERY
PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT



01-JUL.'98(WED) 09:44  WB OP UNIT               FAX:254-2-260384             P.003
EKEflGEKCY DIOUGHT  EC ERY 12}tCt;llFUHCH1   ERP)
Kenya has experienced droughts of different severity all of
which have devastating effects though different in intensity.
Of all the other natural disasters like floods, lighting,
epidemics, earthquakes etc. drought has been most recurrent
phenomena and has had worst effects on the Kenya population.
Most affected is the Arid and Semi - Arid Lands (ASAL) which
cover about 80t of the country, or 473,000 sq.km. Of these,
the most vulnerdble areas to drought are those that fall in
the zone with probability of obtaining up to 300 mm rainfall
which are classified as Arid area.
Drought in Kenya has been so common that different communities-
give it names suggestive of what the scenario was like within
that drought period. For example the drought of 1943/44 was
referred to as "the cassava famine" in parts of Kenya which
practice agriculture. What it was referred to in pastrol
areas in North Eastern Kenya is not available. The drought of
1964/65 was called "Gari Gari Saar" in North Eastern meaning
vehicles was used to save some animals. The drought of
11992/93 referred to as "Kamaharin" (in North Eastern) which
means nothing was left, was the worst in 50 years, affecting
2.7 million country wide. Its effects was particularly
compounded by influx of refugees mainly in North Eastern
Province - the backbone area of the Emergency Drought Recovery
Project (EDRP).
The Emergency.Drought Recovery Project was developed to a
request in september 1992 from Gcvernment of Kenya for
assistance in its overall Drought Management Strategy. its
objectives are (a) to alleviate the impact of 1991 to 1993
drought through meagures which would start to regenerate
productive capacity in agriculture and livestock production
for the ASAL populations, to improve water supply and basic
health services, and provide access to and within the.arid
d:Lstricts of Mandera, Marsabit, Turkana, Tana River and latter
Wajiir; and (b) to assist in enhancing institutional capacity
at the district level to deal with drought. The long term
objectives was to begin the process of tackling the underlying
causes which make ANAL population increasingly vulnerable to
drought situations. The loan became effective in April 1993
anid closed in June 1996 save for extension on infrastructure
component.
The major EDRP components of-Agriculture, Livestock and human
health, water supplies and Environment had a direct
significant effect on the socio-economic status of almost 1.4
million peoole in the ASAL areas.



01-JUL.'98(WED) 09:45  WB OP UNIT               FAX:254-2-260384           P.004
,BASELINE
During the drought of 1990/912 line ministries could not cope
with magnitude of service requirements arising from the
drought situation.   Human arnd animal health deteriorated,
community water dupplies were overstretched and brokedown and
fragile environment conditions worsened.
EDRP was instituted to assist line Ministries to cope with the
situation. It was realised that there was a need to instil
sustainability in all project outputs if long term gains were
to be achieved.
The following data is provided in order to provide a baseline
of physical achievements of the Project.
WATER SECTOR
Boreholes Drilled (Succ Ues llJt
Mandera                   1
Marsabit                  7
Borehgles Drilled (UnsuaccessfulX)
Mandera                   1
Marsabit                 -1
Rehabilitation of Water su):la.s
1.   Generating sets/Pumos/SitaXters
= Dber-
Mandera              7
Wajir                9
Tana River           2
Marsabit             3
Turkana              17
Garissa              2
1



01-JUL.'98(WED) 09:45  WB OP UNIT               FAX:254-2-260384            P.005
2.   R.2Air of Pumping zcruirments
Mandera              5
Wajir                5
Marsabit             5
Turkana              7
3.   Water storaae tanks construction/
rehabilitation       If.UM.r
Mandera              12
Wajir                11
Tana River           5
Marsabit             3
Turkana              17
Garissa              1
4.   Pump Rouse Construction/Rehabilitation
Number
Mandera              3
Wajir                4
Tana River           2
Marsabit             9
Turkana              14
Garissa              .
5.   Layina of water Rives/fittinas
Number
Mandera              30km
Wajir                0.5km
Tana River           lOkm
M . arsabit              lOkm
Turkana              SOkm
Gari sa              2.4km
6.  CQnstruction of water trouahu
Mandera              11
Wajir                7
Maruabit      -      7
ii



01-JUL.'98(WED) 09:46  WB OP UNIT               FAX:254-2-260384            P.006
7.   Construction of Shallow wells/ca22na
Mandera              7
Wajir                35
Marsablt             4
Turkana              17
8.   Construction of-water kioisLs_
commercial water Doints-
NumkLX
Mandera -17
Marsabit             2
Turkana              9
9.   Provision of Mater meteta
:'umkLqr
mandera              3 water supplies
300 for Mandera Urban
10.  Water P,an construction
RtUM~It
Wajir                5
Tana River           2
11.  Water Pan Desiltino
Handera              9
Wajir                6
Marsabit             5
12.  Water Bowse
AGRICULTURE SECTOR
1.-  Prgviuion of seed/fertil-izer (1993-96)
SeedLs     Fertilizer
(MT)      (Tonnes).
Wajir           -    43.1       40
Mandera         -    22.7      80
Turkana         -    110        295
Tana River           -    200        390
Marsabit        -    Yes       Yes
iii



01-JUL.'9O(WED) 09:46  WB OP UNIT               FAX:254-2-260384            P.007
2.   Transport capacity buildina
Wajir           -    iNo. L/R Rehabilitated
Mandera         -    INo. L/R Rehabilitated
3.   Provision of tools
Wajir           -    Assorted
Mandera             it
Turkana
Tana River  I-
Marsabit        -
4.   SuDDlY of Irriaation PumIs                                    I
Mandera         -    l5No.
Tana River      -    27No.
5.   Traininag of  armers
wajir           -    2-groups of 30
Mandera         -    Yes
Tana River      -    27 groups
6.   Relabllitation 2J Irrication schaemos
Turkana         -    5No.
RAGE AND ENVIRONMENT SECTOR
1.   Water Point- Protection
wajir           -    4No.
Mandera         -    5No.
2.   gzass seed roadcastina
Wajir          1- 0.2km2
Mandera         -    I plot (Pino)
3.   Eneray Savin-
Wajir           -    SNo. White wash'burning pits modified
to cut down number of bags used for
burning.
iv



01-JUL.'98tWED) 09:46  WB OP UNIT                FAX:254-2-260384            P.008
4.   TransDort caRacit' -bui d.ng
WaJir      -    4No. L/Et repaired
Mandera   -    INo. L/FI rehabilitated
Tana River-    lNo. L/Rl 
Marsabit  -    lNo. L/I'"
lNo. Lorry repaired
5.   Trainina (Environmental, EAucation)
Wajir      -    Yes
Mandera   -    Yes(28 groups of 15)
Tana River      Yes
Marsabit  -    Yes
6.   Provision of Tools
Wajir      -    Yes
Mandera   -    Yes
DROUGHT MANAGEMENT SECTOR
1.   Training of Drought Manaaement Officer
Wajir      -    1
Mandera   -    1
Tana River -   1
2.   Trainina of Drouaht Monitor
Wajir      -    18
Mandera   -    18
Tana River -   10
3.   Provision of Eauiinment :Cor effective Drouahft Monitorina
Wajir      -    2 vehicloss and 2 motor bikes
Mandera   -    2 vehicles and 3 motor bikes
Tana River -   2 vehicles and 2 motor bikes
v



01-JUL.'V9HRED) 09:47  WB OP UNIT               FAX:254-2-260384            P.009
ASSESSMENT 'OF FACTORS
The fundamental long term benefit of EDRP however, is in the
evolution of longer term process in the management of drought,
and the initiation of well grounded socio-sconomic development
procedures in line with the drought cycles, in the arid
districts.
The objectives of EDRP were achieved t2irough:
1.   The creation of organizational arrangements' i.e  project
support units which were formed both at the National and
District level to coordinatelproject activities in an
integrated manner.  The district was headed by a District
Project Coordinator assisted by a skeletal staff. The
unit was responsible for giving leadership direction and
a time based target framework.
2.   Enhanced financial arrangements - 100% IDA financing and
an increase in District Cash Flow (weekly) to cope with
the project demand. In addition, project funds were
controlled centrally by the project support unit to
improve accountability.
3.   Provision of a philosophical approach to implementation,
i.e community participation.
4.   Project's placement in the Office of the President (OP):
OP as an implementing agency added to the projects'
ability to mobilize support from other departments
including sustained support from Provincial
Administration.
Close supervision and follow up:
The project benefited from regular supervision and follow-up
from both the project support unit, Nairobi and the Task
Manager from World Bank. In addition, the project benefited
from the wealth of experience and encouragement from the many
visitors and missions who visited at different times. one
might add that EDRP might have been the most closely
supervised project in Kenya, as supervision missions have
traversed the most remote places in follow-up of programme
activities.
In depth details of project implementation, budgetary
iallocations, constraints are given in the subsequent chapters
that follow.
xiii



01-JUL.'98(WED) 09:47  WB OP UNIT              FAX:254-2-260384           P.010
Turkana        -    Worth Ksh.3,382,545/40
Wajir          -    Worth Kshs.2,300,000
Marsabit       -    Worth kshs.2,100,000
SunDlv/ReDair of Medical Rgulpments
Mandera        -    Anaesthatic Machine  )
-    Air conditioner       )     *  repair
-    Physiotherapy         )
-    Extraction fans       )
Wajir          -    Anaesthetic Machine          )   repair
-    EPi refrigerators 14 No.
-    X-ray radiation protection )
Tana River     -    Lighting Generator  ) repair
Turkana        -    Gen set 37 KVA for Lokitaung    ) supply
-    Gold room equipment              )
Marsabit       -    Electrical change over switch
Battery Chargers                )  supply
Stazidby Geneset
(60 KVA)
-    Electrical control panel        )
LIVESTOCR SECTOR
Supply of Veterinary Druas
STATION      DRUG                                _
___________ NORIDIUM  ETHIDIUM    VERIBEN  SAMORIN  CYMELARSON BUTALEY
MANDERA _   99,000    150,000       25,480   500      2,200       30
MARSABIT    35,000    210,800      25,200   1,000    12,900       30
TURKANA      85,000    150,000     4,000    -         2,000       100
WAJIR        74,000    130,000     -         1,000    1,000       15
TANA RIVER  201,000   7,000        35,540   500       -           100
ISIOLO       65,800    80,000      3,000    500       1,000       -
SAMBURU -   61,000    80,000       -         -        1,200       25
GARISSA     -100,000   5,000       20,050   130       500         25
LAIXIPIA     51,200    50,000      30;000   -         -           100
BARINGO      110,000   20,000      5,000    -         -           100
TOTAL        724,200   906,200     153,320  3,630    33,600       425
LU PY SKIN DISEASE VACCINE
450,000 doses worth Xsh.1,0100,000 distributed to 23 districts
country wide.
viii



01-JUL.'98(WED) 09:48  WB OP UNIT               FAX:254-2-260384            P.011
Rehabilitation of sub-District KosDital
Turkana        -    1
Wajir           -    1
Moyale         -    1
Rabilitation of dispensaries
Mandera        -    2         -
'Tana River      -    1
Wajir           -    10
Turkana        -    2
Construction of Water TaBks (Ferro Cement at
Hospitalidispensaries
Wajir           -    I
Mandera        -    4
Turkana        -    I
Construction of VIP Toilets
Wajir           -    6
Mandera        -    52
Tana River     -    25
marsabit       -    46
Turkana        -    31
construction of TR Manvatta
Mandera        -    20
Marsabit
Turkana        -    10
Tana River     -    . Unit of 4 beds
-    rehabilitation of 13 huts
Medical Druca DistrPibuted
Mandera        -    Assorted drugs worth kahs.2,6031000
Tana River     -    Assorted drugs worth ktls.4,686,597/50
vii



MADSECUIi



S U D A N5 
EMERGENCY DROUGHT RECOVERY PROJECT
/                                                           F                                > PROJECT DISTRICTS
Ld_, /   I'                                                                                                                      N/
X (~~~~~~~~~
l~ ~~~~~ ~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~    T H  I 0  Pt                                                   I 'A  %        u         
Li          MANDERA~~~NDAI
Ld~~~~~2
U G  A  NDA                                      FR                                           I C
A-4n~~~~I
4~~~.. .o    _lO  -W                                                '                                    
-PROJEn DISTRICT5S                  t                    l b \   2| -                                                 -      S     ADA
n  ko ES   v  MAlrts \  \   \    KIb_iL-                                                        O Ct ^ h~~~~~~~IDIAA
nnE vl   erslE P>cslzE   g  ,   \   |~~~~~OCEA
as_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ow7 r,i. we *01
_,.   ..                                k       r,?                    \                      taF~~~S54          0    C__                  ,.'
~~~~~~~~~~N'.'' - -_h
Z TS wP 1 1_W Pv  Tl  k s sedl a_EiE   KIUIEEnrzED,  , 4,D  , 60    82D    l D   \  /  J/              O                             a,



