Page  1
                                                   CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2460 KE
                   Development Credit Agreement
               (Emergency Drought Recovery Project)
                              between
                         REPUBLIC OF KENYA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        Dated March 1, 1993
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2460 KE
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated March 1, 1993, between REPUBLIC OF KENYA (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the
Association).
      WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project; and
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated
January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the
Page  2
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "ASAL area" means arid and semi-arid lands within the
territory of the Borrower;
      (b)   "payment mechanism" means the payment mechanism
introduced by the Borrower for purposes of the Project in order to
ensure prompt and effective utilization of funds from the Special
Account to meet expenditures for goods and services to be financed
out the proceeds of the Credit;
      (c)   "PMU" means the Project Management Unit referred to in
paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
      (d)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
      (e)   "MoLRRWD" means the Borrower's Ministry of Land
Reclamation, Regional and Water Development.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to fourteen
million six hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 14,600,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association, including appropriate protection against set-off,
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1995, or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
Page  3
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each February 15 and August 15
commencing August 15, 2003, and ending February 15, 2033. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on February 15,
2013, shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
      (b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a)  The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency, in conformity with appropriate
administrative and financial practices, and with due regard to
ecological and environmental factors, and shall provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required
for the Project.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4
to this Agreement, and the implementation plan agreed upon with the
Page  4
Association.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. (a)The Borrower and the Association shall, not
later than January 31, 1994, undertake a joint mid-term review of
the Project, during which they shall exchange views generally on all
matters relating to the progress of the Project and the performance
by the Borrower of its obligations under this Agreement and, in
particular, (i) performance by the Borrower of its program of
distribution of agricultural inputs for the 1993 planting season,
including details of quantities delivered by district and impact on
the district's agricultural production, (ii) details of the
performance and impact of the animal health vaccination program,
(iii) progress under Part C of the Project (Drought Management and
Environment), (iv) progress under Part D of the Project
(Infrastructure), including details of performance under
rehabilitation contracts, the status of procurement of spares and
other equipment, provisions for future maintenance of roads
rehabilitated under the Project, and the status of execution of
studies, (v) progress under Parts E (Water Management) and F (Health
Services), and under the related action plans agreed upon with the
Association, and proposals for modifications to such action plans,
(vi) the central and district level organizational structure for
Project implementation, (vii) payments and commitments under the
Project, and the operation and effectiveness of the payment
mechanism, (viii) the status of the recovery process in the ASAL
area districts, and (ix) proposed modifications, if any, in the
design of the Project, or in the allocation of funds amongst the
various components or sub-components of the Project.
      (b)   Not later than one month prior to such mid-term review,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, for its comments, a
report, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request,
on the progress and status of the Project, and giving details, in
particular, of the specific issues to be considered at such review
and referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section.
      (c)   Following such mid-term review, the Borrower undertakes
to act promptly and diligently, in order to take any corrective
action deemed necessary to remedy any shortcoming noted in the
implementation of the Project, or to implement such other measures
as may have been agreed upon between the parties in furtherance of
the objectives of the Project.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) of this Section including those
                   for the Special Account for each fiscal year
                   audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                   principles consistently applied, by independent
                   auditors acceptable to the Association;
            (ii)   furnish to the Association, as soon as
                   available, but in any case not later than six
                   months after the end of each such year, a
                   certified copy of the report of such audit by
Page  5
                   said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                   as the Association shall have reasonably
                   requested; and
            (iii)  furnish to the Association such other
                   information concerning said records, accounts
                   and the audit thereof as the Association shall
                   from time to time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in
                   accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                   records and accounts reflecting such
                   expenditures;
            (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the
                   Association has received the audit report for
                   the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal
                   from the Credit Account or payment out of the
                   Special Account was made, all records
                   (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
                   and other documents) evidencing such
                   expenditures;
            (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to
                   examine such records; and
            (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
                   included in the annual audit referred to in
                   paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                   report of such audit contains a separate opinion
                   by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                   expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                   together with the procedures and internal
                   controls involved in their preparation, can be
                   relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Effective Date; Termination
      Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning
of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
      (a)   the Borrower has satisfactorily completed full
implementation of its seed distribution program for the 1993
planting season; and
      (b)   for the purposes of the PMU secretariat, a Project
Coordinator, a technical advisor, a financial officer and a
procurement officer, each of whom shall have qualifications and
experience acceptable to the Association, have been duly recruited
and have assumed duty.
      Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
Page  6
      For the Borrower:
            Ministry of Finance
            P.O. Box 30007
            Nairobi
            Kenya
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   FINANCE                    2282 MINFIN
                   Nairobi                    Nairobi
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   INDEVAS                   248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                             197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                         REPUBLIC OF KENYA
                         By /s/ Denis D. Afande
                                         Authorized Representative
                         INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                         By /s/ Francis X. Colaco
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
Part A of the Project
(1)   Agricultural inputs        510,000        100%
      and distribution
Part C of the Project
Page  7
(2)   Civil works                510,000        100%
(3)   Vehicles and               440,000        100%
      equipment
(4)   Consultants' services      295,000        100%
      and training
Part D of the Project
(5)   Civil works              4,765,000        100%
(6)   Vehicles and spare         330,000        100%
      parts
(7)   Consultants' services      365,000        100%
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
Part E of the Project
(8)   Civil works              1,530,000        100%
(9)   Equipment and spare      1,455,000        100%
      parts
(10)  Consultants' services      255,000        100%
      and training
(11)  Vehicles                   220,000        100%
Part F of the Project
(12)  Civil works                400,000        100%
(13)  Vehicles and               550,000        100%
      equipment
(14)  Drugs and medical          295,000        100%
      supplies
(15)  Training                   110,000        100%
Miscellaneous
(16)  Operating costs          1,530,000        100%
(17)  Consultants' services      190,000        100%
      (PMU)
(18)  Unallocated                850,000
                              __________
           TOTAL              14,600,000
                              ==========
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)  the term "agricultural inputs and distribution" means
agricultural tools, seeds and fertilizer, and the transport costs
involved in the distribution thereof;
      (b)  the term "training" means seminars, courses and other
training activities, as approved by the Association; and
      (c)  the term "operating costs" means the incremental
operating costs incurred under the Project on account of contract
staff salaries, office supplies, rent and utilities, vehicle
Page  8
maintenance and operation, air charter, and other travel and
transport costs.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of
$500,000, may be made in respect of Category (1) on account of
payments made for expenditures before that date but after December
1, 1992.
                           SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are to: (i) alleviate the impact
of the current drought in the ASAL area through (a) the regeneration
of productive capacity in agriculture and livestock production, and
(b) improved water supply, health services and access to and within
the ASAL area; and (ii) assist in enhancing future institutional
capacity at the district level to deal with drought.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Agriculture
      Acquisition and distribution of seed, fertilizer and hand
tools for families in the ASAL area.
Part B:     Livestock
      Carrying out vaccination and animal treatment programs in the
districts of Mandera, Marsabit, Turkana, Wajir, Garissa, Tana River,
Isiolo, Samburu, Baringo and Laikipia, including the acquisition of
vaccines, trypanocidal and clinical drugs, and vaccination equipment
and supplies.
Part C:     Drought Management and Environment
1.    Establishment of a district-level drought management system in
the districts of Mandera, Marsabit, Turkana and Tana River,
including data collection and analysis, training of staff and
rehabilitation of district buildings.
2.    Implementation of a test program for water point protection
covering about 36 water points, including testing of alternative
protection approaches.
3.    Implementation of a program to establish grass seed bulking
plots in poor rangeland areas, including over-sowing of grass.
4.    Construction of about seven mini-spate diversions for
collection and spreading of water to promote increased availability
of livestock fodder.
5.    Revegetation and woodlands support activities, including
development of three water points per district and establishment of
fenced areas for revegetation and woodlands development.
6.    Increasing environment management education through seminars
to create community awareness for the environment and training of
district officers in rapid rural appraisal techniques.
7.    Support at divisional level to enhance the field mobility
range of extension officers, increase extension capability and
monitoring, and ensure better coordination by district coordinators
in the delivery of extension messages.
Part D:     Infrastructure
Page  9
1.    Rehabilitation of about 421 kilometers of earth and gravel
roads in the districts of Mandera, Wajir, Marsabit and Turkana.
2.    Improving maintenance capacity at the district level through
the rehabilitation of selected unserviceable equipment, and the
purchase of spare parts and camping equipment.
3.    Carrying out the following studies to evaluate additional
infrastructure requirements of the ASAL area districts: (a) tele-
communication improvements; (b) infrastructure requirements, such as
storage facilities, schools, dispensaries, hospitals, airstrips and
market places; and (c) evaluation of road rehabilitation needs.
Part E:     Water Management
1.    Rehabilitation of existing water facilities and development of
new water supplies in the districts of Mandera, Marsabit, Turkana
and Tana River, including the construction and upgrading of tradi-
tional shallow wells, roof and rock catchment systems.
2.    Improving management of water sources in the districts of
Mandera, Marsabit, Turkana and Tana River through the training of
community groups in operation and maintenance.
3.    Strengthening the operational capacity of MoLRRWD through the
purchase and rehabilitation of vehicles, plant and equipment for the
districts of Mandera, Marsabit, Turkana, Tana River, Garissa,
Isiolo, Samburu and Wajir.
Part F:   Health Services
1.    Strengthening the operational capacity of the Borrower's
health services in the districts of Mandera, Marsabit, Turkana and
Tana River, through: (a) the rehabilitation of buildings, equipment
and vehicles; (b) the acquisition of equipment, vehicles, drugs and
medical supplies, and vector control and non pharmaceutical
supplies; (c) staff training; and (d) monitoring of project impact.
2.    Improving access to and quality of health services through
training of community groups.
                               * * *
      The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1995.
                            SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines). For fixed-price
contracts, the invitation to bid referred to in paragraph 2.13 of
the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract award is delayed
beyond the original bid validity period, the successful bidder's bid
price will be increased for each week of delay by two predisclosed
correction factors acceptable to the Bank, one to be applied to all
foreign currency components and the other to the local currency
component of the bid price.  Such an increase shall not be taken
into account in the bid evaluation.
2.    To the extent practicable, contracts shall be grouped into bid
packages.
Page  10
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Contractors
      In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, the Borrower may grant a margin of
preference to domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1, goods manufactured in Kenya may be granted a
margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to, the
provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Items or groups of items for (a) civil works estimated to cost
the equivalent of $100,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $1,350,000, and (b) equipment and materials
under Parts A and F of the Project, estimated to cost the equivalent
of $100,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount
equivalent to $850,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on
the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance
with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.    Items or groups of items for (a) rehabilitation works under
Part E of the Project, estimated to cost the equivalent of $40,000
or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to
$1,650,000, and (b) goods estimated to cost the equivalent of
$40,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent
to $150,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Association.
3.   Spare parts of a proprietary nature, up to an aggregate amount
equivalent to $100,000, may be awarded after direct negotiations
with suppliers, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Association.
Part E:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
      (a)   With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of the
Special Account in respect of such contract.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Credit Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
Page  11
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Part F:     Pre-shipment Inspection
       For the purposes of the pre-shipment inspection of goods
imported under the Project, no price verification shall be conducted
in respect of those goods to which Part A of this Section applies.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
1.    In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected
in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank
review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures,
letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts
shall not apply to contracts estimated to cost less than $100,000
equivalent each. However, this exception to prior Bank review or
approval requirements shall not apply to the terms of reference for
such contracts nor to the employment of individuals, to single-
source hiring of firms, to assignments of a critical nature as
reasonably determined by the Bank, and to amendments of contracts
raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                      Implementation Program
1.    The Borrower shall: (a) maintain and operate a Project
Management Unit, whose role, functions and composition shall be
acceptable to the Association, to be primarily responsible for
supervision of implementation of the Project; (b) ensure that all
key positions within the PMU secretariat (including that of Project
Coordinator) shall be filled at all times by persons whose qualifi-
cations and experience shall have been determined by the Association
to be both acceptable and appropriate; and (c) establish and operate
district steering groups, whose terms of reference shall be
acceptable to the Association, to be responsible for implementation
at the district level.
2.    For purposes of carrying out the Project, the PMU shall, not
later than May 31 of each year, submit to the Association a proposed
training program, giving details of proposed training activities
under the Project for the forthcoming twelve-months' period, and,
subject to the approval of the Association, shall proceed thereafter
to implement such program.
3.    Not later than three months after the Effective Date, the
Borrower shall, in conjunction with the Association, review the
operation and effectiveness of the payment mechanism and, if need
be, introduce and implement such modifications of the payment
mechanism, or of the applicable administrative rules and procedures,
as may have been agreed upon with the Association in accordance with
the results of such review.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (17) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
Page  12
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $2,500,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                   requests for deposits into the Special Account
                   at such intervals as the Association shall
                   specify.
           (ii)    Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                   the documents and other evidence required
                   pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
                   payment or payments in respect of which
                   replenishment is requested. On the basis of each
                   such request, the Association shall, on behalf
                   of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
                   Account and deposit into the Special Account
                   such amount as the Borrower shall have requested
                   and as shall have been shown by said documents
                   and other evidence to have been paid out of the
                   Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
Page  13
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request, or (B) deposit into the Special Account
(or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraph 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.
