Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB904 
Project Name 
GHANA MAP II 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
Health (75%);Central government administration (15%);Other 
social services (5%);Sub-national government administration (5%) 
Project ID 
P088797 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF GHANA 
Implementing Agency 
 
Ghana AIDS Commission 
PO Box CT 5169 
Ghana 
Tel: +233 21 782 262 Fax: +233 21 782 264 
sakyi@ghana.gov.gh 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[x] B   [X] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Safeguard Classification 
[
]
S
1
[
]
S
2
[
]
S
3
[
]
S
F
[x] TBD (to be determined)
 
Date PID Prepared 
October 29, 2004 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
April 15, 2005 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
September 12, 2005 
1. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
The Government of Ghana has been engaged in the fight against AIDS since the 1980s.  
The mean prevalence rate is about 3.8 percent for the country as a whole, but reaches 8.5 percent 
in some areas, and is even higher among vulnerable groups such as commercial sex workers. In 
response to these rates, the Government established the Ghana AIDS Commission in 2000 to 
better mobilize and manage resources for the fight against AIDS.  In 2001 the Government 
adopted the Ghana HIV/AIDS Strategic Framework for 2001-2005.  This defines the 
Government’s objectives at the national level and its principal means for reaching the objectives.  
Importantly, the Framework establishes institutional arrangements for the coordination and 
implementation of multisectoral HIV/AIDS programs in Ghana.   
 
The proposed Second Ghana AIDS Response Project (FY06) is consistent with the 
Country Assistance Strategy discussed by the World Bank’s Board in February 2004.  
Specifically, the proposed project would directly support the second key objective of the Country 
Assistance Strategy, which is the provision of services for human development  
 
The project team completed a mid-term review of the current (and first) Ghana AIDS 
Response Project at the same time as a review was conducted as part of the Interim Review of 
the Multisectoral HIV-AIDS Program (MAP). Both reviews found that the current project has 
established effective capacity to fight AIDS.  The reviews found that the Ghana AIDS 
Commission was effective in implementing the HIV/AIDS program; they found that most of the 
Page  2
decentralized government districts in Ghana have the capacity to conceptualize and implement 
good quality HIV/AIDS programs; and that over 3,200 NGOs and community-based 
organizations (CBOs) have made meaningful contributions to the fight against AIDS.  The 
Ghana AIDS Commission conducted   technical and financial audits for a significant number of 
NGOs and CBOs and the audits confirm that over 95% of the funds were used for their intended 
purposes. 
 
One key lesson from the on-going project is the benefit from scaling up activities in 
geographic areas with high prevalence rates. Another key lesson is the imperative for close 
monitoring.  The Ghana AIDS Commission tracks the resources mobilized from stakeholders.  
The Commission uses an M&E system as a management and decision-making tool.  This has 
lead to a more “hands on” dialogue between stakeholders at all levels in addition to better 
coordinating and targeting interventions.   
 
The key partners that support HIV/AIDS programs in Ghana are UNAIDS, DfID, 
USAID, DANIDA, the Global Fund, Clinton Foundation, UNICEF, and WHO. Their 
interventions complement Bank-supported interventions, although an overall “mapping” of the 
interventions remains to be completed.   UNAIDS and the UN Theme Group serve as the means 
for regular communication among the partners.  With heightened emphasis on the three “ones”, 
namely one national HIV/AIDS policy, one coordinating mechanism, and one M&E system, this 
is expected to play a heightened role in future. 
 
The continued participation of the World Bank in the struggle against HIV/AIDS in 
Ghana is necessary to realize the objectives of Ghana’s Poverty Reduction Strategy and to realize 
the Millennium Development Goal that calls for preventing the spread of the disease.  
Furthermore, Bank support is necessary to improve the quality of life of people living with 
HIV/AIDS, orphans of AIDS victims, and young children who are most vulnerable living in 
communities affected by HIV/AIDS.  This is because the World Bank is the major source of 
funds for the HIV/AIDS programs and has the institutional capacity to bring partner 
organizations together, mobilize funds, and advise how to battle the disease using a multi-
sectoral approach.  In particular, the Bank has experience and a comparative advantage with 
Community-driven Development programs, which are relevant for activities carried out mainly 
through local governments and by CBOs and NGOs at the local level. 
 
The Ghana AIDS Commission and other key stakeholders are fully committed to 
preparing the proposed project, in collaboration with all development partners. A joint review of 
the national response has been completed.  The recommendations of the joint review will form 
the basis for this follow-on operation.  Development partners have also shown a high degree of 
commitment to supporting a Sector Wide Program (SWAp) for HIV/AIDS as a means of 
ensuring a coherent, more sustainable dialogue with a longer-term vision.   
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
In line with the Government’s Strategic Framework, the main objectives of the project 
would be to improve the accessibility and use of prevention, care, and support services  
Page  3
ƒ
In high prevalence areas, and  
ƒ
Among priority risk groups, and  
ƒ
To those affected by the pandemic, especially for people living with HIV/AIDS and 
orphans and other vulnerable children, in particular young children (0-8)(OVC).   
 
To achieve the objectives the Project would support information, education and behavior 
change and communication activities.  About 98 percent of the adult population of sexually 
active age is aware of HIV/AIDS according to the 2002 Ghana Demographic and Health Survey, 
and this is partially attributable to the current Ghana AIDS Response Project.  Therefore, the 
information, education, and communication activities (IEC) would evolve and focus increasingly 
on behavior change and communication.   
 
The Project would also support prevention of mother to child transmission of HIV/AIDS, 
voluntary counseling and testing, and prevention of transmission through the medical system.  It 
could also fund anti-retrovirals.  Finally it would support PLWHAs and pilot innovative models 
of care for OVCs and young children infected and affected by the pandemic at the community 
level. 
 
The Project would enhance planning, management, and public participation at all levels 
to ensure its activities are successful.  In particular, it would mobilize, coordinate, and target 
available financial resources to ensure that each district and region in Ghana designs, 
implements, and monitors a strategy to prevent HIV infection.  It would also provide treatment, 
care, and support to PLWHAs and OVCs. Young children (0-8) have distinct  early child 
development (ECD) needs, which would be addressed under the proposed project.  The Project 
would monitor implementation by commissioning independent evaluations of the efforts of 
implementing partners, through biological and behavioral surveillance, and through routine 
reporting on the accessibility, coverage, and use of essential HIV/AIDS services.  The Project 
would then use the M&E system for strategic decision making and in particular for planning 
purposes.   Moreover the Project would stimulate participation in the fight to stabilize the 
pandemic among CBOs, NGOs, ministries, departments, and agencies, and in the private sector, 
and promote the exchange of information among these organizations. 
 
Since this project is being designed as a SWAp, development partners and other 
stakeholders will reach a consensus on one set of performance indicators to be monitored for 
2006-2010.  This indicators would be fully consistent with the overall direction and scope of 
Ghana’s National Strategic Framework which is currently being revised for the 2006-2010 time 
frame.  These indicators would be selected from such HIV/AIDS program indicators as 
mobilization of resources, coordination and targeting, participation, prevention (e.g., percentage 
of commercial sex workers targeted by the project who report using condoms during their last 
sexual encounter), treatment and care, mitigation of impact, and monitoring and evaluation.   
 
3. Preliminary 
description 
 
The proposed project would contain three broad components, which embrace closely 
related subcomponents. 
Page  4
(a) 
Support for Multisectoral HIV/AIDS Responses
.
The public-sector response.
 
The Ministry of Health (MOH) was excluded from the on-going 
project because it received funds from other sources.  The proposed Project would enable the 
MOH to deliver services to people identified through the voluntary counseling and testing and 
prevention of mother to child transmission programs  --which are supported by the Health 
SWAP.   
 
The proposed Project would also fund other ministries, departments, and public agencies so that 
they can continue IEC activities and prepare or implement workplace HIV/AIDS policies and 
action plans.  It would also support, when requested, care for ministry and public agency staff 
infected with HIV, and voluntary counseling and testing.   
 
The decentralized government response.
 
The proposed Project would work with Ghana’s 
decentralized governments: the district assemblies.  In particular, the Project would help districts 
prepare their  own AIDS plans and help build the financial, managerial and technical, capacity to 
implement community based activities initiated during the on-going MAP.  Moreover, the 
Project would support piloting of conditional cash transfers for the basic education and health 
needs of orphans and other vulnerable children, such as those under eight years of age.. 
 
The nonpublic-sector response.
 
Under the proposed Project, NGOs, CBOs and faith-based 
organizations would continue to engage in prevention and care activities, such as IEC, VCT, 
prevention of mother-to-child transmission, early child development interventions,  peer 
education, organizing associations of PLWHAs, and providing training, and hospice care.  With 
project support, traditional leaders and faith-based organizations could implement mid-size pilot 
programs for orphans and vulnerable children, including  young children (0-8).  The proposed 
Project would also include funds for HIV-AIDS activities in the private sector, which started late 
in the implementation of the predecessor project, as well as for preparation of a well-articulated 
private-sector strategy.  
 
(b) 
Capacity Building and Knowledge Management
.
The Ghana AIDS Commission has been successful in engaging thousands of stakeholders in the 
public and nonpublic sectors and in disbursing funds.  Nevertheless, the Commission must 
continue to provide training and enhance the communications network on HIV/AIDS (including 
Web sites).  The Project will support the Commission’s effort to create a platform for sharing 
experiences and best practices and to provide incentives to expand effective programs.  
 
(c) 
Coordination, Administration, and Monitoring
The Ghana AIDS Commission is responsible for coordinating the activities of the proposed 
Project and of donor HIV/AIDS efforts (with support from the Ministry of Health) . The project 
Page  5
team will look for ways to ensure that the Commission  does not continue to be overburdened by 
implementation related matters at the expense of the coordination of the National Response.  The 
Commission will continue to focus on partner coordination in many ways (dissemination of 
information on the various partner programs, agreement on annuals work programs and budgets 
for the Commission, etc.)  Thus, one option under consideration is to revisit the Commission’s 
organizational structure, which could be divided into two units: coordination of the national 
response and program implementation.   
 
The proposed Project would finance most of the Commission’s activities. Increased resources 
would be made available for M&E at all levels to ensure that it can continue to provide timely 
disaggregated information on the types of sub-projects, service providers, etc.
 
4. 
Safeguard policies that might apply 
 
[Guideline:  Refer to section 5 of the PCN.  Which safeguard policies might apply to the project 
and in what ways?  What actions might be needed during project preparation to assess 
safeguard issues and prepare to mitigate them?]
 
The only safeguard which could be triggered is the Environmental Assessment.  An 
Environmental Assessment of the Health Sector (which included HIV/AIDS) was carried out as 
part of the preparation of the IDA financed Health Sector Wide Support Project (SWAP).  It will 
be re-disclosed for this Project.  This Environmental Assessment included the preparation of a 
Waste Management Plan.  This Plan includes specific actions which need to be carried out in 
terms of medical waste disposal and management for the various types of health facilities in 
Ghana.  In addition, specific training programs are recommended for the various health workers.  
The implementation of these new policies and actions for waste management are expected to 
begin in September 2005.   
 
5. Tentative financing 
 
Source: ($m.) 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
25 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 2.5 
LOCAL COMMUNITIES 
4 
UK: BRITISH DEPARTMENT FOR INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT (DFID) 
10 
Denmark:  DANISH INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AGENCY 
(DANIDA) 
10 
TOTAL 51.5 
 
6. Contact point 
 
Contact: Eileen Murray 
Page  6
Title: Sr Operations Off. 
Tel: 5337+3106 
Fax: (233-21) 227887 
Email: Emurray@worldbank.org 
Location: Accra, Ghana (IBRD)
 
