Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB1619 
Project Name 
Multi-Secotral HIV/AIDS Program 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
Health (75%); Central government administration (15%); Other 
social services (5%);Sub-national government administration (5%) 
Project ID 
P088797 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF GHANA 
Implementing Agency 
 
Ghana AIDS Commission 
Ghana AIDS Commission 
PO Box CT 5169 
Ghana 
Tel: +233 21 782 262 Fax: +233 21 782 264 
sakyi@ghana.gov.gh 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[X] B   [ ] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Date PID Prepared 
May 16, 2005 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
June 6, 2005 
Date of Board Approval 
November 1, 2005 
1.  Country and Sector Background 
 
The first HIV infection was identified in Ghana in 1986.  Even before this first reported case, the 
Government had established the National Advisory Commission on AIDS (NACA) in 1985 and 
subsequently the National AIDS/STI Control Program in the Ministry of Health (MOH).  In 
January 2002 the Government established the multi-sectoral Ghana AIDS Commission (GAC) in 
the Office of President to coordinate the national HIV/AIDS response, with primary external 
support from the World Bank Multi-Country HIV/AIDS Program (MAP).  The national response 
to HIV/AIDS has since been recognized for having strong political support from the President of 
the Republic of Ghana and other high level government officials, as it has managed to effectively 
mobilize a large and diverse number of non-governmental organizations (NGOs) and other 
stakeholders in the fight against HIV/AIDS. 
 
HIV prevalence has remained relatively stable over the past decade hovering around 3%.  HIV 
prevalence data for 2003 for women attending antenatal clinics (ANC), which were part of the 
national surveillance system, show an increase of almost 50% from 2.6% in 2000 to 3.6% in 
2003.  The 2003 Ghana Demographic and Household Survey (GDHS) estimated the national 
prevalence at 2.2%.  ANC and GDHS data are not comparable since the former are for women 
attending ANC (who by definition are pregnant and thus have had unprotected sex) while the 
latter includes women and men who volunteered to be tested (and who may or may not have had 
sex, unprotected or otherwise), thus the discrepancy.  GDHS data show considerable variances in 
prevalence rates linked to geographic location, gender, marital status, employment, and 
education.  Surprisingly, there is no obvious and consistent relationship between HIV prevalence 
Page  2
and sexual behavioral risk 
among men
 (DHS 2003).  Non-sexual transmission of HIV is 
negligible for men and women. 
 
As in many other African countries, women have been more affected by the epidemic.  A more 
in-depth analysis of the GDHS data reveals that young women are disproportionately vulnerable 
to HIV infection.  Women are becoming infected at an earlier age than men, and prevalence rates 
are higher until the 40-45 year age bracket. 
 
2000-2005 National Response to HIV/AIDS
.
This strategic framework developed by the Ghana 
AIDS Commission was published in early 2000 to guide the national response.  Five key 
intervention areas were identified:  prevention of new infections, care and support for people 
living with HIV/AIDS (PLWHA); creation of an enabling environment for the national response 
(legal, social, political); decentralized implementation and institutional arrangements; and 
research, monitoring and evaluation (M&E).  The HIV/AIDS National Monitoring and 
Evaluation Plan was developed in 2001 on the basis of this framework. 
 
In February 2002, the National HIV/AIDS Control Programme (NACP) published Guidelines for 
Management of Sexually Transmitted Infections (STIs) to improve the quality of STI 
management in public and private health facilities and to contribute to the reduction of 
transmission of STI including HIV.  Also, in 2002, prevention of mother-to-child transmission 
(PMTCT) of HIV interventions were introduced on a pilot basis, and 2003 saw the beginning of 
national expansion.  By the end of 2005, it is estimated that 90 PMTCT sites will be operating. 
 
In 2004, the Government again demonstrated its commitment to the fight against HIV/AIDS 
when in 2004, the Cabinet approved a comprehensive National HIV/AIDS and STI Policy.  This 
Policy aims to create a favorable environment for all aspects of HIV/AIDS and STI prevention, 
care and support, to address the complex range of policy issues including the situation of OVCs, 
supporting AIDS education in the schools, promoting and protecting respect for human rights 
and ethics in the treatment and care of those infected and affected by HIV/AIDS and related 
research, in order to ensure that all stakeholders would be able to work towards a common goal 
of reducing the impact of HIV/AIDS on the individual, family and the community.  The 
HIV/AIDS National Strategic Framework has been revised for 2006-2010 taking into account 
epidemiological developments that led to a better understanding as to tackle the HIV/AIDS 
epidemic in the Ghana specific context. 
 
2. Objectives 
M-SHAP is a repeater to the IDA-financed GARFUND with one major enhancement 
–
it will 
promote the sector wide approach and will focus on harmonizing the various on-going and future 
programs while strengthening GAC’s capacity to efficiently monitor and coordinate resources 
and activities in support of the NSF II.  M-SHAP program development goals will be those of the 
NSF II which are to: 
 
·
maintain the new infection rate at current levels among vulnerable groups and 
preventing the spread of HIV/AIDS among the general population through a multi-
sectoral approach; and to 
Page  3
·
mitigate the impact of the epidemic on the health and socio-economic systems as well as 
infected and affected persons; and promote healthy life-styles, especially in the area of 
sexual and reproductive health. 
 
3.  Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
The continued participation of the World Bank in the fight against HIV/AIDS in Ghana is critical 
in achieving the objectives outlined in the GPRS to reduce new HIV/AIDS/STI transmission and 
reduce the impact of HIV/AIDS related morbidity and mortality.  Preventive efforts need to be 
continued and scaled up in order to begin seeing a reverse in the spread of the epidemic which is 
the 2015 MDG target, as increased treatment costs would have would have significant 
implications on the country’s development gains and the health care costs.  Furthermore, Bank 
support is necessary to improve the quality of life of people living with AIDS (PLWHAs) and 
orphans and vulnerable children (OVCs) who are most vulnerable.   
 
4. Financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 2.5 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
25 
DENMARK: DANISH INTL. DEV. ASSISTANCE (DANIDA) 
10 
UK: BRITISH DEPARTMENT FOR INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT (DFID) 
20 
 Total 
57.5 
5. 
Description.   
M-SHAP will support the NSFII and will focus on the following areas: 
 
·
Policy, Advocacy and Enabling Environment
.
This will focus on the review, formulation 
and enforcement of policies, the key one being the 2004 National HIV/AIDS and STI 
Policy 
 
·
Coordination and management of the decentralised response
.
This will support 
government entities such as Ministries, Departments and Assemblies (MDAs), Regional 
(RACs) and District AIDS Committees (DACs) to implement their sectoral mandates.   
 
·
Mitigating the social, cultural, legal and economic impacts.
 
Activities envisaged will 
increase the awareness of the socio-economic impact of HIV/AIDS on households and 
communities in parallel to skills development programs for women, PLWHAs and their 
families and other vulnerable groups. 
 
·
Prevention and behaviour change communication
.
Activities will deal with the 
identification of interventions that will promote behaviour change among high risk 
groups.  Voluntary counselling and testing, prevention of mother to chld transmission, 
and PEP will be promoted. 
 
·
Treatment, care and support.  
Programs focusing on the promotion of early diagnosis of 
HIV through VCT will be replicated.  GOG is also keen on scaling up significantly ARV 
Page  4
treatment
1
.
Improved access to quality management of opportunistic infections is 
envisaged through the availability of adequate laboratory equipment and technical to 
promote quality clinical care.  
Research, Surveillance, M&E.  
Activities will include the 
development of a monitoring database on HIV/AIDS indicators and programs based on 
the UNAIDS country response information system (CRIS).  This will be done in parallel 
to the continued strengthening of the M&E system for the decentralized response.  The 
timely compilation of decentralized data at the regional and national levels will be 
essential for designing more focused interventions.
 
·
Resource Mobilization and Funding Arrangements.  
This will include the establishment 
of common funding arrangements (e.g. pooled funds) for mobilizing and channelling 
HIV/AIDS resources for the national response. 
 
6. Implementation 
M-SHAP will be overseen by the GAC Secretariat which was established to implement the 
policy decisions of the GAC and to coordinate HIV/AIDS programs.  It is the executive arm of 
GAC and as such is the focal point in HIV/AIDS policy research, program planning, oversight 
and monitoring for national, regional and district level organizations.  
 
The M-SHAP will promote the sector wide concept and will focus on harmonizing the various 
on-
going and future programs while strengthening GAC’s capacity to efficiently monitor and 
coordinate resources and activities in support of the NSF II. 
 
The common implementation arrangements will allow the World Bank and three other 
cooperating partners (DANIDA, DFID and UNAIDS) to further streamline support and reduce 
transaction costs by pooling funds in a common AIDS account managed by the GAC.  Through 
this “AIDS account”  DANIDA, DFID, UNAIDS and the Bank will finance a portion of the 
agreed annual POW, which will be derived from the orientations of NSF II with annual priorities 
and targets.  This portion of the annual POW will constitute the M-SHAP.  GAC will provide 
one set of financial and technical reports to the funding partners (DANIDA, DFID, IDA, and 
UNAIDS), as one way of reducing transaction costs and reporting requirements. 
 
7. Sustainability 
Sustainability through behaviour change.  
Behaviour change and communication activities at the 
central, regional and district levels were a top priority in 2000-2004.  The GARFUND can be 
attributed to having participated in behaviour change endeavours as there are an increasing 
number of people have learned to protect themselves from HIV/AIDS.  They are also informed 
of how to get tested and what steps to take if they are found to be HIV positive.  Community 
based programs are likely to be more sustainable, due to the fact that once the community feels 
“empowered” and understands the need to take on some functions such as caring for PLWHAs, 
then they are likely to continue such activities regardless of the funding through community 
based safety net programs.   
 
1
There is commitment to provide access to universal low costs ARV treatment, but the enormous resource 
requirements have not been met 
–
once treatment has started, there needs to be a long-term financial commitment in 
order not to create false expectation. 
Page  5
On the operational side, the GAC and DFID have supported capacity building programs for 
district assemblies.  These programs focused on strengthening the competence of district 
assemblies in HIV/AIDS-related issues and providing them with the necessary technical and 
fiduciary skills to enable them to implement a substantial part of this program.  M-SHAP will 
place a heavy emphasis on capacity building at the district level so that by 2010, the bulk of 
HIV/AIDS interventions will be fully streamlined into the district planning and oversight 
process.  Districts have understood the importance of this and are allocating some of the funds 
allocated to them through the District Common Fund to HIV/AIDS.   
 
8.  Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country and Sector 
The following recommendations from the 2004 MAP Interim Review and lessons learned from 
implementing the GARFUND have been taken into account in the design of M-SHAP.  These 
include: 
 
·
The need for a renewed focus on targeted interventions for high risk groups.  
Currently, 
HIV prevalence in Ghana is highly concentrated among certain high-risk groups such as 
commercial sex workers, bars, hotels, conscripts and those living in “hot spots.” (e.g. border 
towns with bars and restaurants with a large transient population.)  Evidence from other 
countries at the same stage of the epidemic shows that reducing the spread of the infection 
among these high risk groups significantly attenuates wider scale heterosexual transmission.  
Evidence from the GARFUND shows that targeting of high risk groups and high prevalence 
areas is feasible.  For this reason, it is envisaged that activities proposed in the 2006 POW will 
focus on such groups. 
 
·
The need for a adequate management systems to coordinate the national response.  
An 
institutional analysis of GAC’s current organizational structure is being carried out to ensure that 
coordination of the National Response. 
 
·
The necessity of ex-posts audits.  
Due to the decentralized nature of sub-projects, it is 
important that at least 25% of projects are visited at random in order to determine if funds were 
spent for the intended purposes.   
Lessons learned from the implementation of the Health Sector Support Project.  
A
national 
health policy supported by all partners is critical to the success of a Sector Wide Approach 
(SWAp).  It is essential to ensure that steps should be taken in order to have the widest possible 
buy in among stakeholder buy into the new strategy, regardless of whether they contribute to the 
health account.  The NSF II has been prepared with a high degree of involvement from 
stakeholders and is now being disseminated widely throughout Ghana ensuring ownership even 
at the district level. 
 
9.  Safeguard Policies (including public consultation) 
 
Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project
 
Yes
 
No
 
Environmental Assessment
(
OP
/
BP
/
GP
4.01) [x] 
[ 
] 
Natural Habitats (
OP
/
BP
4.04)
 
[
]
[x] 
Pest Management (
OP 4.09
)
[
]
[x] 
Page  6
Cultural Property (
OPN 11.03
,
being revised as OP 4.11)
 
[
]
[x] 
Involuntary Resettlement (
OP
/
BP
4.12)
 
[
]
[x] 
Indigenous Peoples (
OD 4.20
,
being revised as OP 4.10)
 
[
]
[x] 
Forests (
OP
/
BP
4.36)
 
[
]
[x] 
Safety of Dams (
OP
/
BP
4.37)
 
[
]
[x] 
Projects in Disputed Areas (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
7.60)
*
[
]
[x] 
Projects on International Waterways (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
7.50)
 
[
]
[x] 
Environment 
 
Environmental Category: B 
The proposed project has been classifie
d
as category “B” for environmental screening purposes 
given the risks associated with the handling and disposal of medical wastes.   
 
10. List of Factual Technical Documents 
 
Ministry of Health 
–
Health Care Waste Management in Ghana   
Ministry of Health – 
Policy and Guidelines for Health Institutions 
Ghana AIDS Commission – 
Operations Manual 
Ghana AIDS Commission - 
Procurement Manual 
Ghana AIDS Commission – 
Accounting and Administrative Procedures Manual
 
11. Contact point 
Contact: Eileen Murray 
Title: Sr. Operations Off. 
Tel: 5337+3106 
Fax:  
Email: Emurray@worldbank.org 
Location: Accra, Ghana (IBRD) 
 
12. For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-5454 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
wb252543 
C:\Documents and Settings\wb252543\My Documents\Ghana MAP2\Project Information Document - Appraisal Stage.doc 
05/16/2005 9:00:00 AM
*
By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims on the 
disputed areas
 
Page  7
