Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATA SHEET 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AC843 
 
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: November 1, 2004 
 
I.  BASIC INFORMATION 
 
A.   
Basic Project Data 
 
Country: Ghana 
Project ID: P088797 
Project Name: GHANA MAP II 
Task Team Leader: Eileen Murray 
Estimated Appraisal Date: April 15, 2005 
Estimated Board Date: September 12, 2005 
Managing Unit: AFTH2 
Lending Instrument: Sector Investment 
Loan 
Sector: Health (75%);Central government 
administration (15%);Other social services 
(5%);Sub-national government 
administration (5%) 
Theme: HIV/AIDS (P);Participation and 
civic engagement (S);Population and 
reproductive health (S);Health system 
performance (S);Gender (S) 
Safeguard Policies Specialists in the task team:  Edward Dwumfour 
Loan/Credit amount ($m.):  
IDA: 25 
Other financing amounts by source:  
($m) 
UK: BRITISH DEPARTMENT FOR INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT (DFID) 
DANIDA 
10 
 
10 
B.  Project Objectives  
 
In line with the Government’s Strategic Framework, the main objectives of the project 
would be to improve the accessibility and use of prevention, care, and support services  
ƒ
In high prevalence areas, and  
ƒ
Among priority risk groups, and  
ƒ
To those affected by the pandemic, especially for people living with HIV/AIDS and 
orphans and other vulnerable children, in particular young children (0-8)(OVC).   
 
To achieve the objectives the Project would support information, education and behavior 
change and communication activities.  About 98 percent of the adult population of sexually 
active age is aware of HIV/AIDS according to the 2002 Ghana Demographic and Health Survey, 
and this is partially attributable to the current Ghana AIDS Response Project.  Therefore, the 
information, education, and communication activities (IEC) would evolve and focus increasingly 
on behavior change and communication.   
 
Page  2
2
The Project would also support prevention of mother to child transmission of HIV/AIDS, 
voluntary counseling and testing, and prevention of transmission through the medical
 
system.  It
 
could also fund anti-retrovirals.  Finally it would support PLWHAs and pilot innovative models 
of care for OVCs and young children infected and affected by the pandemic at the community 
level. 
 
The Project would enhance planning, management, and public participation at all levels 
to ensure its activities are successful.  In particular, it would mobilize, coordinate, and target 
available financial resources to ensure that each district and region in Ghana designs, 
implements, and monitors a strategy to prevent HIV infection.  It would also provide treatment, 
care, and support to PLWHAs and OVCs. Young children (0-8) have distinct  early child 
development (ECD) needs, which would be addressed under the proposed project.  The Project 
would monitor implementation by commissioning independent evaluations of the efforts of 
implementing partners, through biological and behavioral surveillance, and through routine 
reporting on the accessibility, coverage, and use of essential HIV/AIDS services.  The Project 
would then use the M&E system for strategic decision making and in particular for planning.   
Moreover the Project would stimulate participation in the fight to stabilize the pandemic among 
CBOs, NGOs, ministries, departments, and agencies, and in the private sector, and promote the 
exchange of information among these organizations. 
 
The project team would reach agreement with the development partners on the outcome 
indicators to be monitored to ensure consistency among programs and avoid costly parallel 
monitoring and evaluation efforts.   These indicators would be selected from such HIV/AIDS 
program indicators as mobilization of resources, coordination and targeting, participation, 
prevention (e.g., percentage of commercial sex workers targeted by the project who report using 
condoms during their last sexual encounter), treatment and care, mitigation of impact, and 
monitoring and evaluation.   
 
C.  Project Description  
 
The proposed project would contain three broad components, which embrace closely 
related subcomponents. 
 
(A). Support for Multisectoral HIV/AIDS Responses
.
The public-sector response.
 
The Ministry of Health (MOH) was excluded from the on-going 
project because it received funds from other sources.  The proposed Project would enable the 
MOH to deliver services to people identified through the voluntary counseling and testing and 
prevention of mother to child transmission programs  --which are supported by the Health 
SWAP.   
 
The proposed Project would also fund other ministries, departments, and public agencies so that 
they can continue IEC activities and prepare or implement workplace HIV/AIDS policies and 
action plans.  It would also support, when requested, care for ministry and public agency staff 
infected with HIV, and voluntary counseling and testing.   
Page  3
3
The decentralized government response.
 
The proposed Project would work with Ghana’s 
decentralized governments: the district assemblies.  In particular, the Project would help districts 
prepare their  own AIDS plans and help build the financial, managerial and technical, capacity to 
implement community based activities initiated during the on-going MAP.  Moreover, the 
Project would support piloting of conditional cash transfers for the basic education and health 
needs of orphans and other vulnerable children, such as those under eight years of age.. 
 
The nonpublic-sector response.
 
Under the proposed Project, NGOs, CBOs and faith-based 
organizations would continue to engage in prevention and care activities, such as IEC, VCT, 
prevention of mother-to-child transmission, early child development interventions,  peer 
education, organizing associations of PLWHAs, and providing training, and hospice care.  With 
project support, traditional leaders and faith-based organizations could implement mid-size pilot 
programs for orphans and vulnerable children, including  young children (0-8).  The proposed 
Project would also include funds for HIV-AIDS activities in the private sector, which started late 
in the implementation of the predecessor project, as well as for preparation of a well-articulated 
private-sector strategy.  
 
(B) Capacity Building and Knowledge Management
.
The Ghana AIDS Commission has been successful in engaging thousands of stakeholders in the 
public and nonpublic sectors and in disbursing funds.  Nevertheless, the Commission must 
continue to provide training and enhance the communications network on HIV/AIDS (including 
Web sites).  The Project will support the Commission’s effort to create a platform for sharing 
experiences and best practices and to provide incentives to expand effective programs.  
 
(C). 
Coordination, Administration, and Monitoring
The Ghana AIDS Commission is responsible for coordinating the activities of the proposed 
Project and of donor HIV/AIDS efforts (with support from the Ministry of Health) . The project 
team will look for ways to ensure that the Commission  does not continue to be overburdened by 
implementation related matters at the expense of the coordination of the National Response.  The 
Commission will continue to focus on partner coordination in many ways (dissemination of 
information on the various partner programs, agreement on annuals work programs and budgets 
for the Commission, etc.)  Thus, one option under consideration is to revisit the Commission’s 
organizational structure, which could be divided into two units: coordination of the national 
response and program implementation.   
 
The proposed Project would finance most of the Commission’s activities. Increased resources 
would be made available for M&E at all levels to ensure that it can continue to provide timely 
disaggregated information on the types of sub-projects, service providers, etc.
 
Page  4
4
D.  Project location  
[Guideline:  If the location is not yet identified, please indicate if there are alternative locations 
under consideration or how the location is to be determined during project preparation] 
 
Project activities will be implemented nationwide. 
 
E.  Borrower’s Institutional Capacity for Safeguard Policies  
[Guideline: Based on past experience and other available information] 
 
Experience from the implementation of projects in the Health and HIV/AIDS Sector 
clearly indicates that the Occupational Health and Environmental Unit of the Ghana Health 
Service has the institutional capacity to properly prepare and implement relevant safeguard 
pol
icies and action plans.  This Unit also taps into the knowledge bases of Ghana’s 2 teaching 
hospitals and other concerned stakeholders.  Recommendations from the Environmental 
Assessment for the Health Sector Wide Approach SWAP (which included HIV/AIDS) are 
currently being implemented by this  Occupational Health and Environmental Unit.  This Unit 
has been successful in mobilizing the key stakeholders to ensure full buy in of the Waste 
Management Plan.   
 
The Occupational Health and Environmental Unit of the Ghana Health Service currently 
has 3 full-time staff.  The head of the unit is a public health physician with training in 
occupational and environmental health.  The second is a public health physician and the third is a 
biochemist also trained in toxicology.  This unit oversees other staff trained in occupational 
health which are based in the Western Region, Kumasi, and in the Korle-Bu Teaching Hospital 
in Accra.. 
 
Key Line Ministries such as the Ministry of Local Government and Rural Development,  
the Inspectorate Division of the Ministry of Employment and Manpower Development and the 
Environmental Protection Agency all have staff which are involved in occupational and 
environmental health and who collaborate with the Occupational Health and Environmental Unit 
of the Ghana Health Service.  
 
II.  SAFEGUARD POLICIES THAT MIGHT APPLY 
 
Applicable?
 
Safeguard Policy 
If Applicable, How Might It Apply? 
[x] 
Environmental Assessment
(
OP
/
BP
4.01) 
An environmental assessment was carried out as part of the environmental assessment program for 
the Health Sector.  A Waste Management Policy is in effect which among other things includes 
recommendations for health facilities on waste management disposal.   
[
]
Natural Habitats
(
OP
/
BP
4.04) 
[
]
Pest Management
(
OP 4.09
)
[
]
Involuntary Resettlement
(
OP
/
BP
4.12) 
Page  5
5
[
]
Indigenous Peoples
(
OD 4.20
)
[
]
Forests
(
OP
/
BP
4.36) 
[
]
Safety of Dams
(
OP
/
BP
4.37) 
[
]
Cultural Property
(draft OP 4.11 - 
OPN 11.03
)
[
]
Projects in Disputed Areas
(
OP
/
BP
/
GP
7.60)
*
[
]
Projects on International Waterways
(
OP
/
BP
/
GP
7.50) 
Environmental Assessment Category:
 
[
]
A
[x] B   [ ] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
 
III.  SAFEGUARD PREPARATION PLAN 
 
A. 
Target date for the Quality Enhancement Review (QER)  
 
Not applicable.   
 
This project is going to processed as a repeater project using the new Guidelines for 
processing such operations which were revised on September 13, 2004 
 
B. 
For Simple Projects that will not require a QER, the target date for preparing a 
PAD Stage ISDS 
 
The PAD stage ISDS will be prepared by November 2004. 
 
C. 
Time-frame for launching and completing the safeguard related studies that may 
be needed. 
 
The Medical Waste Management Plan produced for the Health Sector  will be re-
disclosed under the project after consultations with public, private, and civil society 
organizations then disclosed in-country and at the Info Shop prior to project appraisal. 
 
The project team has accepted the responsibility for this being a transferred project. 
 
IV.  APPROVALS 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
 
*
By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims on the 
disputed areas
 
Page  6
6
T
ask Team Leader: 
Eileen Murray 
November 1, 
2004 
Approved by: 
 
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: 
Tom Walton 
November 2, 
2
004 
Comments 
Sector Manager: 
Alexandre Abrantes 
November 1, 
2004, 2004 
Comments 
