Document of
The World Bank
ReportNo. 25351-BR
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
PROGRAM DOCUMENT
FOR A PROPOSED
FIRST PROGRAMMATIC HUMAN DEVELOPMENT SECTOR REFORM LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$505.05 MILLION
TO THE
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
January 27, 2003
Human and Social Development Group
Brazil Country Management Unit
Latin Amenca and the Canbbean Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Real (R$)
EXCHANGE RATE
1999 R$1.79 = US$1
2000 R$1.95 = US$1
2001 R$2.32 = US$1
December 2002 R$3.71 = US$1
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AC                      Aten,ao a Crian,a (In-kind Assistance to Young Children Program)
AIH                     Autoriza,do de Interna,c&o Hospitalar (Authorization for Hospital Admission)
Agente Jovem            Youth Program
BA                      Bolsa Alimentaqdo (Nutrition Cash-transfer Program)
Banco de Pre,os         Price database
BEF                     Bolsa Escola Federal (Education Subsidy Program)
BPC                     Beneflcio de Presta,co Continuada (Continuos Payment Benefit)
CAS                     Country Assistance Strategy (Estrategia de Assistencia para o Pais)
CEF                     Caixa Econ6mica Federal (federal bank)
Centrais de Regula,do   Health Regulatory and Appointment Centers
CFAA                    Country Financial Accountability Assesssment
CONSED                  Conselho Nacional de Secretdrios Estaduais de Educa,do (National Council
of State Education Secretaries)
CPMF                    Contribuicao Provis6ria sobre Movirnentaqdo Financeira (Provisional
Contribution on Financial Transactions)
Dinheiro na Escola      Money to Schools Program
EC                      Emenda Constitucional (Constitutional Amendrnent)
ECD                     Early Childhood Development (Desenvolvimento Infantil)
ENEM                    Exame Nacional do Ensino Medio (Upper-Secondary National Exam)
Escola Inclusiva        Education Program for Children with Special Needs
ENSEJA                  Program to Improve the Quality of Education for Youth and Adults
FGTS                    Fundo de Garantia do Tempo de Servizo (Pension Fund)
FIES                    Programa de Financiamento Estudantil (Higher Education Loan Program)
FNAS                    Fundo Nacional de Assistencia Social (National Social Assistance Fund)
FNDE                    Fundo Nacional de Desenvolvimento da Educaqdo (National Education
Development Fund)
FUNDEF                  Fundo de Desenvolvimento e ManutenVfo do Ensino Fundamental e
Valorizaqdo do Magisterio (Fund for the Development and Maintenance of
Fundamental Education and Teacher Valorization)
Fundescola              Programa Fundo de Fortalecimento da Escola (School Improvement
Program)
GDP                     Gross Domestic Product (Produto Interno Bruto)
GoB                     Government of Brazil



HDI                     Human Development Index of UNDP (Indice de Desenvolvimento Humano)
HIV/AIDS                Human Immunodeficiency Virus/Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome
IDB                     Inter-Amencan Development Bank (Banco Inter-Americano de
Desenvolvimento)
IGF                     Imposto sobre Grandes Fortunas (Wealth Tax)
IMF                     Intemational Monetary Fund (Fundo Monetario Internacional)
IMR                     Infant Mortality Rate (Taxa de Mortalidade Infantd)
INEP                    Instituto Nacional de Estudos e Pesquisas (National Institute for Educational
Research and Studies)
INSS                    Instituto Nacional do Seguro Social (National Social Security Institute)
IPI                     Imposto sobre Produtos Industrializados (Tax on Industrial Products)
LAC                     Latin Amenca and the Caribbean Region (Regido da America Latina e
Caribe)
LDB                     Lei de Diretrizes e Bases da Educa,do Nacional (National Education Law)
LOAS                    Lei Orgdnica da Assistencia Social (National Social Assistance Law)
LSMS                    Living Standards Measurement Survey (Pesquisa de Standares de Vida)
MA                      Ministdrio da Agricultura (Mmiistry of Agriculture)
MPAS                    Ministerio da Previdencia e Assistencza Social (Brazil's Ministry of Social
Assistance)
MEC                     Ministerio da Educa,do (Brazil's Ministry of Education)
Merenda Escolar         School Feeding Program
MOH                     Ministerio da Satude (Brazil's Ministry of Health)
MS/SAS                  Gestdo Plena do Sistema Municipal (Full Management of the Municipal
System)
NCD                     Non-Communicable Diseases (Doen,as N&o-Transmissiveis)
NGO                     Non-Govenmmental Organization (Organiza,do Ndo-Governamental)
NOAS                    Normas Operacionais de Aten,do a Saude (Operational Regulations for
Health Care)
OECD                    Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
PAB                     Piso Assistencial Bdsico (Basic Health "spending-floor")
PAB-A                   Piso Assistencial Basico Ampliado (Expanded Basic Health "spending-floor")
PAC                     Programa de Agentes Comunitdrios (Community Agents Program)
Pacto de Aten,co Bdsica  Basic Health Agreement
PAPI                    Programa de Aten,do a Pessoa Idosa (Program to Support the Elderly)
PAPPD                   Programa de Aten,do a Pessoa Portadora de Deficiencia (Program to
Support the Disabled)
PCN                     Pardmetros Curriculares Nacionais (National Curriculum Parameters)
PETI                    Programa de ErradicaVi7o do Trabalho Infantil (Child Labor Eradication
Program)
PGRM                    Programa de Garantia de Renda Minima (Federal Minimum Income
Guarantee Program)
PISA                    Programme for International Student Assessment of the OECD (Programa de
Avalia,do do Aprendizado de Estudantes da OECD)
PNAD                    Pesquisa Nacional por Amostragem Domiciliar (National Household Survey)
PNAF                    Programa Nucleo de Apoio a Familia (Family Support Program)
PNCD                    Politica Nacionalpara Crian,as com Deficiencias (National Policy for
Children with Disabilities)
PNLD                    Programa Nacional do Livro Diddaco (National Textbook Program of the
Ministry of Education)
PPA                     Plano Plurianual (Multi-Annual Plan)
PPI                     Planejamento e Programa,do Inter-Governamental (Inter-Governmental
Budget Programming Agreement for the health sector)
PROESF                  Projeto de Extensdo de Saude da Familia (Family Health Extension Project)
PSRL                    Programmatic Sector Reform Loan (Emprestimo de Reforma Programatica)
Proforma,do             In-service training program for rural teachers
Provao                  Standard National Test for University Programs
PSF                     Programa de Sauide Familiar (Family Health Program)
i1



RGPS                    Regime Geral da Previdencia Social (General Regime for Social Security for
Private Sector Workers)
RJU                     Regime Juridico Unico (Pension Regime for Government Workers)
SADE-SUS                Servi,o de Atendimento de Demanda Espontdnea - Sistema Unico de Sauide
(Consumer Grievance System of the Unified Health System)
SAEB                    Sistema Nacional de Avalia,do da Educa,do Basica (National System for
Basic Education Evaluation)
SEAS                    Secretaria de Assistencia Social (Social Assistance Secretariat)
SEF                     Secretaria de Educa,do Fundamental (Secretariat of Fundamental Education)
SES                     Secretaria Estadual de Saude (State Health Secretariat)
SSE                     Secretaria Estadual de Educaa.do (State Education Secretariat)
SUS                     Sistema Unico de Saude (Unified Health System)
TAL                     Technical Assistance Loan (Emprestimo para Assistencia Tecnica)
UNDP                    United Nations Development Program (Programa de Desenvolvimento das
Na,cJes Unidas)
WHO                     World Health Organization (Organiza,co Mundial da Saude)
Vice President                               David de Ferranti
Country Director                                Vinod Thomas
Lead Economist                              Joachim von Amsberg
Sector Director                             Ana-Maria Arriagada
Sector Leader                           Maria Madalena dos Santos
Task Team Leader                               Alberto Rodriguez



BRAZIL
FIRST PROGRAMMATIC HUMAN DEVELOPMENT SECTOR REFORM LOAN
TABLE OF CONTENTS
LOAN AND PROGRAM SUMMARY              ..........              .v.......... 
1. INTRODUCTION.1
Objectives and Coverage of the Program ............................                            2
Links with Growth And Poverty Reduction                          .4
11.  RECENT DEVELOPMENTS ............................                          ... ...............  6
Macroeconomic Situation and Riss                              .8
Country Assistance Strategy Update ............... ................................... ...1:................ .....  10
III.  HUMAN DEVELOPMENT PROGRESS, REFORMS AND ISSUES ....................... .................... ............. ....   ....   .12
Education Reforms ...... . ........................................................... ................ ..................... ....... ...3.......... . ... 13
Health System Reforms ............... ......1................................ .................. ...4 ..................4........ ........... .. ....14
Reforms in Social Assistance ............. ... .............................................................................15... ..............I 5
Pending Issues and The Emerging Reform Agenda ......................... .  ...............1...6......... ............................. 16
IV. THE PROPOSED LOAN ...........................................................1................. .......................... ................... ..18
Conceptual Framework ...................                                                      18
Overview of Long-term Programmatic Approach ..................                                20
Links to the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) .................. 20
Links to Previous Adjustment Operation in Support for Social Sectors in Brazil ................ ..  21
The First Programmatic Human Development Sector Reform Loan...............         ...        23
Programs that Promote Accountability and Integrated Governance ..................             24
Compensatory and Equity-Enhancing Programs ..................                                 26
Quality And Efficiency Enhancing Programs ..............                                  .. 29
The Next Stages of The Proposed Human Development Sector Reform Program ..................    30
The Second Stage of The Human Development Sector Reform Program .................. 30
The Third Stage of The Human Development Sector Reform Program .................. 33
Descrption of Financial Assistance .................. 34
Program Implementation and Supervision .................. 35
Compliance with Bank Policies ................35.. ......................................................................................... ...... 35
Disbursements, Auditing and Fiduciary Environment ........3...5.............. ........................... ............. .......... ..... .35
Environment ................36
Benefits of The Proposed Loan................. 36
Risks And Risk Mitigation ...... ...... .                                                      36
ANNEXES
Annex 1: Letter of Sector Development Policy (Part I and II) ................ 38
Annex 2: Matrix of Objectives, Actions and Benchmarks ...............   .52
Annex 3: Education Sector: Performance, Reforms and Issues ................................................................................ 67
Annex 4: Health Sector Reforms ......................................................................................................... .............. ......... 76
Annex 5: Social Assistance in Brazil .............................................. .              87
Annex 6: Related Projects financed by the Bank and IDB ......................................................  104
Annex 7: Recent Analytical Work in The Human Development Sector in Brazil  .     ................................... 107
Annex 8 Selected documents ....................................................... 108
Annex 9: Protected Programs in the 2003 Budget ................................................  :  115
Annex 10: The Millennium Development Goals and Progress in Brazil  .............: .............................. 117
Annex I1: Fund's Relations Note     ................................................              118
Annex 12: IDB Social Sector Project           ..                        ................................................ 119
Annex 13: Status of Bank Group Operations .....                           ............................................ 120
Annex 14: Statement of IFC's Held and Disbursed Portfolio ................................................ 121
Annex 15: Brazil at a Glance ................................................. 123
This operation was prepared by a World Bank team composed of: Madalena Dos Santos (LCSHD), Joshua Gallu
(LCSHE), Veronica Jarrmn (LCSHD), Gerald La Forgia (LCSHH), Peter Lanjouw (DECRG), Kathy Lindert (LCSHS),
Marta Molares-Halberg (LEGLA), Roberto Tarallo (LCOAA), Luiz Gazoni (LCOPR), Kirsten Oleson (LCSEN),
Ronyse Avelino Pacheco (Consultant), Suhas Parandekar (LCSHE), Robin Hom (LCSHE), Anna Sant'Anna
(Consultant), and Joachim von Amsberg (LCC5A). The team was led by Alberto Rodriguez (LCSHE).
IV






BRAZIL
FIRST PROGRAMMATIC HUMAN DEVELOPMENT SECTOR REFORM LOAN
LOAN AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
Borrower:              Federative Republic of Brazil
Implementing           Ministry of Education, Ministry of Health, and Ministry of Social
Agencies:              Assistance
Poverty Category:      Poverty Targeted Intervention
Amount:                US$505,050,000 (Single Tranche)
Terms:                 Fixed spread loan in US dollars, with a tailored-made repayment
schedule.
Commitment Fee:        0.85% per annum during the first four years, and 0.75% per annum
thereafter on undisbursed loan balances.
Front-End Fee:         1% of the loan amount, to be financed under the loan.
Objective:             The proposed First Programmatic Human Development Sector
Reform Loan (First HD PSRL) supports an ongoing program of
human development reforms that tackle core sectoral issues of
targeting, resource allocation, and efficiency of spending. The human
development program contributes to reducing poverty and to
protecting the poor against adverse effects of economic crises, and is
also considered a key factor to achieve sustainable and equitable
growth. In addition to deepening key sectoral reforns, this Loan will
signal to the markets the commitment of the new administration to
sound economic and sectoral policies, and finance part of the nominal
fiscal deficit and the extemal financing requirements of the public
sector.
Description:           The proposed loan is the first to Brazil under its new leadership and
comes at a point of historic significance, with an economy poised to
deliver the promise of economic growth for all its citizens, and as a
nation confronting the challenge of proving its merit as a world-class
global competitor. The new Government is focused on social justice,
while at the same time committed to maintaining economic stability.
The intemational financial community, including the Bank, faces a
unique responsibility to strengthen its partnership with Brazil at this
crucial juncture. The success of past reforms in improving the
delivery of social services can now be taken to a new level, helping
Brazil overcome deep historical obstacles to its development, and
ushering in a sustained period of social progress rooted in sound
economic performance.
v



Brazil's historic opportunity comes at a time of an unusually adverse
external environment, which poses grave economic risks. The new
government needs to quickly build a record of credibility that will
enable Brazil to improve its access to international markets. The
current volatile situation with the markets cannot go on without
severely damaging the future prospects for economic growth and
social equity. It is possible for the incoming administration to
generate confidence by making prudent choices regarding fiscal and
monetary policy. As Human Development (HD) is at the forefront of
the government's policy agenda for economic growth and poverty
reduction, the establishment of sound policy measures in the areas of
education, health, and social protection is particularly important.
President Lula has appointed a competent economic team and has
clearly signaled the continuation of responsible economic and fiscal
policies. The inauguration speeches by President Lula, Finance
Minister Palocci and Central Bank President Meirelles have been very
helpful to reconfirm the intention of sound economic management by
the new Government. The speeches of Lula and his ministers
underscored the large social inequities and tough challenges ahead,
and an earnest promise to tackle them within fiscal responsibility.
They summarized the key challenge ahead: in the face of the severe
economic vulnerability, how to build and implement a compact for
social progress.
The proposed HD PSRL builds upon sound social policy reforms
carried out by the Government during the last decade and especially
in recent years. There have been substantial improvements in
education, health and social assistance outcomes since the Bank's
Special Sector Adjustment Loan (S-SECAL) of 1999 that selected 22
core HD programs for protection and evaluation. The proposed HD
PSRL supports a subset of these programs and additional ones that
have proven to be effective, and that are based on sound policy
principles. The policies embodied in these programs would be
maintained through the political transition without creating undue
rigidities for the new administration. The selected programs would
help sustain and scale up the improvements in service delivery and in
welfare outcomes. The impacts of positive human development
outcomes on growth and poverty reduction are well documented.
The first loan of the HD PSRL supports the following:
(i) The recent substantial progress on social policies and
outcomes: Over the past 3 years, the Government has
strengthened an mnovative set of programs at the federal
level to decentralize the delivery of social services, to place a
floor on basic education and health spending, and to reduce
inter-state and inter-municipality inequalities. It has also
developed institutional mechanisms to coordinate and focus
assistance to poor communities through a variety of programs
to improve assistance for disadvantaged populations.
vi



(ii) The protection of budgets and monitoring of
implementation of effective social policies during times of
transition and instability: In the face of macroeconomic
instability and a political transition with a new administration
taling power in January 2003, sound human development
policies are critical for guaranteeing continued growth and
poverty reduction. These policies involve effective targeting,
redistnbution of resources to benefit the poor, transparent
allocation of resources based on capitation, and successful
conditional cash transfers. While these sound policies have
strong support from political actors in Brazil, a core program
of protected human development expenditures will safeguard
them.   Through  the proposed  companion  Technical
Assistance Loan (TAL), a -system will be put in place to
monitor these expenditures and to evaluate indicators of
program performance.
(iii) The commitment by the new administration to the
continuation, improvement, and expansion of these effective
social policies to obtain better sector outcomes: Continuation
of sound policies and their improvement and expansion are at
the heart of the programmatic nature of this loan. The
Government's commitment to this end is a key element of our
support in this First Loan of the HD PSRL, including its
active efforts to enhance national household surveys to allow
for stronger evaluation and monitoring.
Benefits:              This Loan establishes a framework for dialogue on human
development with the Government, giving special emphasis to
results-oriented policies, and allowing the Government to benefit
from continuous technical assistance leveraged by the Bank. The
companion TAL will contribute to the building of the knowledge base
required for the advancement of the reform agenda and the
improvement of basic social programs and outcomes.  Specific
benefits mclude: (i) broader access by the poor and disadvantaged
groups to basic education, health and social assistance services
through improved targeting and program expansion; (ii) sounder
operation of public programs, through increased accountability, inter-
governmental policy coordination, transparent budgetary planning
and consumer voice; and (iii) enhanced quality and efficiency of
service delivery through the provision of incentives to reduce
disparities between high and low performing providers of public
social services.
Risks:                 Adverse Macroeconomic Circumstances:    Brazil will need to
maintain fiscal discipline in order to ensure debt sustainability in face
of external shocks and weakened investor confidence. This will
preclude major new spending initiatives and may require further
reduction of spending. The proposed operation is highly selective
with respect to the programs recommended for continued budgetary
Vil



support. In the event of worse macroeconomic conditions, the
proposed programmatic lending becomes even more relevant and
necessary as an instrument for strengthening the social safety net.
Risk of Weakening of Reform Consensus: The scope and pace of
the social sector reform program thus far has been sustained by the
efforts of the federal education, health and social assistance team,
working collaboratively with the states and municipalities, and the
support provided by the Congress and the Office of the Presidency.
Despite very strong commitment by the new administration to the
objectives, policies and program reforms supported by the proposed
operation, its implementation capacity remains untested. The broad-
based public support for the reforms, the extensive consultations with
the transition team for the new administration in the preparation of the
programmatic operation, and the assistance provided by the proposal
TAL mitigate this risk.
Impact of Policies: There is a risk that the protected programs will
not actually be implemented as agreed. However, this risk is
mitigated by the agreement to monitor and enforce expenditure
targets for the protected programs through the accompanying TAL.
There is a further risk that the selected programs may not achieve
their desired outcomes. While many of these programs have been
studied through Bank and academic analytic work, those which have
not will be priorities in the evaluative effort to be supported by the
accompanying TAL.
Financing Plan:        Not Applicable
Net Present Value:     Not Applicable
Project
Identification Number:  P080746
viii



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
PROGRAM DOCUMENT
FOR A PROGRAMMATIC HUMAN DEVELOPMENT SECTOR REFORM LOAN TO THE
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
I.      INTRODUCTION
1.   This Program  Document proposes a single-tranche First Programmatic Human
Development Sector Reform Loan (First HD PSRL) to the Federative Republic of Brazil in the
amount of US$505,050,000. The proposed Loan supports an ongoing program of human
development reforms that tackles core sectoral issues of targeting, resource allocation, and
efficiency of spending. It is anticipated that this Program will include, in addition to the proposed
Loan, up to two further loans depending on the pace and depth of future reform implementation,
for a total of US$1.5 billion. A new US$15 million companion Technical Assistance Loan (TAL)
is also being prepared to facilitate the monitoring of achievements and the design and
implementation
2.   The timing of this proposed programmatic lending poses challenges as well as
opportunities. While the very recent inauguration of the new Administration in January 2003 and
the ensuing transition period until its staff is fully in place poses risks, these are mitigated by the
fact that the First HD PSRL provides a unique opportunity for the Bank and the Government to
engage early on in meaningful dialogue on key human development policies and programs. This
early engagement is placing the Bank in a strong position to provide support at the critical time in
which policies are being discussed and designed. Recognizing the risks involved in the proposed
timing of the operation, the Bank has taken a flexible programmatic approach to the second and
third phases of the Reform Program. In particular, before proceeding to the next phase of the
Program, the benchmarks provided now for the second and third phase (see Annex 2) would be
complemented by key elements of the evolving policy program of the new Government. These
specific elements would need to be part of a credible program of actions that would be judged
effective to advance substantially toward the program objectives.
3.   The proposed HD PSRL builds upon sound social policy reforms carried out by the
Government during the last decade and especially in recent years. There have been substantial
improvements in outcomes in education, health and social assistance since the Bank's Special
Sectoral Adjustment Loan (S-SECAL) of 1999 that selected 22 core HD programs for protection
and evaluation. The evaluations of social programs have been carried out by the government and
have been complemented by wide range sector work carried out by the Bank, as well as by other
researchers. The proposed HD PSRL selects a large subset of those programs that have proven to
be effective, and that are based on sound policy principles such as capitation- based financing of
social services. The policy lessons learned from the recent programs would be maintained
through the transition without creating artificial rigidities for the new administration. The
protected programs would help maintain and scale up the improvements in service delivery and in
welfare outcomes. The effect of positive HD outcomes on growth and poverty reduction has been
well documented.
4.   The HD PSRL is also the first adjustment operation of a comprehensive lending package
(see para. 51 below), programmed by the Government and the Bank, supporting the new
Administration by addressmg priority reforms in key sectors of the Brazilian economy.



5.   The proposed HD PSRL has been prepared as the first of a programmatic operation
involving three phases. The first loan acknowledges Brazil's achievements in human
development, supports the continuity of the most effective programs, and protects the budget of
these programs.  The second loan would strengthen and expand social policies and programs,
while providing flexibility regarding the mechanisms the Government may employ to deliver the
particular policy or pursue the chosen objective. The third operation institutionalizes and
consolidates these policy reforms. For a comprehensive view of the Government's overall reform
program, please refer to Section [V. The Government's reform program is further elaborated in its
own Letter of Development Policy (See Annex I for Parts I and II of the Letter). The specific
actions supported by the proposed programmatic lending are described in Annex 2 (Matrix of
Objectives, Actions and Benchmarks).
6.   The proposed HD PSRL will help engage the new Administration in a sustained dialogue
on social policies and programs that have proven to be effective. These reforms, which involve
effective targeting, redistribution of resources to benefit the poor, transparent allocation of
resources based on capitation, and successful conditional cash transfers, enjoy broad political
support and are within the implementation capacity of the executive branch.
OBJECTIVES AND COVERAGE OF THE PROGRAM
7.   The basic objective of the proposed programmatic lending is to reduce poverty by
improving the quality and efficiency of public spending in education, health and social assistance,
and protecting the poorest and most vulnerable groups from adverse impacts of economic crises.
The increased quality of public social spending will enable the Government of Brazil (GoB) to
sustain and accelerate the rate of human development in the country while maintaining a
framework of fiscal responsibility. An especially fortunate aspect of the proposed Reform
Program is to have been able to identify sector cross-cutting issues in education, health and social
assistance and to focus on the issues of accountability, governance, equity, quality and efficiency
in public social spending which stand out as the most important ones.
8.   The specific objectives of the Reform Program are to:
*  Strengthen human development program  effectiveness through application of an
improved framework of fiscal federalism, including inter-governmental cost sharing,
better policy coordination, transparent budgetary planning and consumer voice;
* Reduce inequality by redirecting federal financial support to targeted interventions that
benefit the disadvantaged groups; and,
*  Eliminate disparities between high and low performing providers of public social services
through enhanced quality and efficiency.
9.   The proposed Program comprises:
(a) Actions to increase accountability and strengthen integrated governance including: (i)
evaluation and consumer feedback in the education and health sectors, increased
involvement of the community in decision-making and effective social mobilization; (ii)
effective and transparent federal financing framework for social programs; (iii) further
development of national standards and of the federal monitoring function; and (iv)
2



technical support to sub-national govemments and coordination among govemment
levels;
(b) Actions to enhance equity comprise the strengthening, and in some cases expanding,
federal transfers targeted to disadvantaged children and families, to poor school, and the
redirecting of public resources to benefit the poorest communities and population groups;
and.
(c). Actions to improve quality and efficiency of social programs through increased internal
efficiency by improving the utilization of available physical and human resources
allocated to basic education, health and social assistance programs.
10. Not included in the proposed HD PSRL are social protection areas that need to be
addressed but, because of their complexity, require more time to mature. The two most important
of these are social security and pension reforms, which are crucial components of fiscal reform,
and regulatory labor reform to address inefficiencies resulting from subsidies for labor tumover,
high levels of informality partly due to high minimum wage and costly benefit packages in the
formal sector and from high costs of labor litigation. These reform areas were purposely
excluded from the proposed HD PSRL. It is worth noting that announcements by the new
ministers for these two areas are extremely encouraging and indicate the new Government's
willingness to tackle necessary but very difficult reforms in both areas.
11.  Social security reform options were comprehensively assessed in recent Bank analytical
work. The new Government has already announced that it intends to propose to Congress
fundamental reforms of the social security system for civil servants, bringing pension benefits in
line with the much less generous existing system private sector workers. The Bank would
strongly support such reforms. Progress on social security reform would be considered under a
separate lending operation, which is currently under preparation (Second Programmatic Fiscal
Reform.Loan).
12. Labor market reforms are discussed comprehensively in a recent Bank report prepared
jointly with the Instituto de Pesquisa Econ6mica Aplicada (IPEA), a Government's think-tank.
The new Labor Minister has already made encouraging announcements regarding possible
reforms to improve Brazil's system of collective bargaining and reform labor regulation in a way
that would bring a larger share of Brazil's labor force under formal labor contracts. In addition,
the Ministry plans to pursue, with possible Bank support, programs and policy reforms to
improve youth employment opportunities.
13.  The proposed HD PSRL complements the assistance provided by the Inter-American
Development Bank (IDB) to Brazil in the social sectors. In particular, IDB is supervising a
Sector Program for Human Capital Development for US$500 million. The IDB operation
supports enhancements to four successful conditional cash transfer programs: Bolsa Alimentaado
(Nutrition Cash-Transfer Program - BA), Bolsa Escola Federal (Education Subsidy Program),
Programa de ErradicaVdo do Trabalho Infantil - PETI (Child Labor Eradication Program), and
Agente Jovein (Youth Program). Please see Annex 12 for a summary of the IDB loan. The HD
PSRL protects the budgets for these programs and for programs in health and education that are
not affected by the IDB operation. The HD PSRL also seeks conditionality regarding the
evaluation of the protected programs, including the strengthening of Household Surveys towards
program evaluation.
3



14. The protected programs constitute a small share of total social spending, but they embody
critical policy choices that are considered essential for progress on social outcomes as explained
in the sectoral discussion. The expenditure floors for selected protected programs under the HD
PSRL will interact with aggregate fiscal targets and ceilings on total expenditures (in particular
the primary fiscal surplus target at the core of the IMF Program) to concentrate public spending
on tested, poverty targeted programs and thus enhance the quality of fiscal adjustment.
15. The accompanying TAL is a critical complement to this proposed HD PSRL because it is a
key tool to strengthen our policy dialogue on human development with the Brazilian Govemment.
The TAL will also be a critical instrument to conduct in-depth monitoring and evaluation of the
programs protected under this loan, and of the policies implemented and enhanced under future
loans within this programmatic approach.
16. The preparation of this Programmatic Sector Reform Loan also benefited from extensive
recent analytical work completed by the Bank in collaboration with Brazilian authorities and
experts (for a list, see Annex 7), and represents a solid complement to a series of sector
investment loans at federal and state level that the Bank has recently approved or that are in the
process of preparation (see Annex 6).
LINKS WITH GROWTH AND POVERTY REDUCTION
17. The Government of Brazil remains unwavering in its commitment to halve the country's
rate of extreme poverty by the year 2015, a priority recently reaffirmed by the incoming
President. The essential prerequisites for the achievement of poverty targets are fiscal and
macroeconomic stability and renewed broad-based growth, combined with sound social policies.
18. While economic growth rates are expected to be modest in the short term, evidence from
the years 1999 and 2000 shows a significant reduction in poverty rates consistent with good
growth performance during that period. The sustained achievement of poverty reduction in the
present period will depend critically on continued macroeconomic stability and on the continuity
of the social reform program. World Bank analysis shows that human development, and
education in particular, will continue to serve as a fundamental pillar and essential instrument for
sustaining the long-term economic growth needed to meet Brazil's poverty reduction targets.
19. Brazil's social policies and targeted programs for economic growth and poverty reduction
channel investments to the poor through better education, health and enhanced social protection,
including transfer payments to the poorest families. To continue, strengthen and expand these
basic policies and programs is a central purpose of the proposed HD PSRL. The proposed
programmatic lending will complement other poverty reduction strategies, such as improved
access to physical capital through land reform and enhanced access to credit for small enterprises
and small farmers. In addition, the proposed lending supports efforts identified as critical for
Brazil's long-term economic growth, such as improved access to and quality of upper-secondary
education. Finally, the policy strengthening of the Bank's policy dialogue with the Government
will allow us to continue collaborating on new initiatives such as the recently launched Fome
Zero program, a program to fight hunger in which the Bank is actively engaged providing
technical assistance
20. The partnership developed between the Bank and the GoB in the area of economic growth
and poverty reduction through human development is based on extensive analytical work in the
health, education, and social assistance sectors, and has been supported in recent years by a set of
4



sector investment loans at the federal and state levels. In addition, two large reports on urban as
well as rural poverty in Brazil were completed in 2001 and ongoing work for state economic
memoranda in the poorer Northeast states includes extensive analyses of state level actions in the
social sector targeted to poverty reduction. Assessments of the Government's Bolsa Escola and
Child Labor Eradication Program have been completed, and the recent World Bank publication,
Brazil: The New Growth Agenda (2001), has helped solidify human development at the forefront
of the growth strategy. This partnership has contributed to the enhancement of human
development policies in Brazil that resulted in impressive outcomes in education, health and
social welfare. As mentioned earlier, Annex 7 presents a list of analytical sector work most
relevant for the proposed HD PSRL.
21. The proposed programmatic sector reform lending is an appropriate tool for promoting the
continuity of a policy framework that has resulted in positive outcomes in education, health, and
social assistance, thus contributing to economic growth and poverty reduction. Within this
positive policy framework, Bank sector investment loans have addressed specific needs in
disadvantaged geographic areas and have provided important technical and financial assistance to
the country. The proposed HD PSRL is an essential instrument for maintaining our dialogue
with the new Administration and providing the technical and financial support necessary for the
advancement of the reform agenda.
22. The proposed Reform Program directly attacks poverty through expanded access to basic
health, education and social assistance services for the poor, promoting the inclusion of the
excluded and underserved groups and enhancing the efficiency and quality of these basic
services. In addition, the proposed program effectively mitigates the adverse effects of economic
crises on the poor by strengthening Brazil's safety net programs.
23.  Poverty reduction will be accelerated through equity-enhancing actions that redirect
resources to targeted interventions benefiting the disadvantaged groups in the education, health
and social assistance sectors.  The proposed programmatic lending deepens the already
implemented sector reforms by supporting policies and programs with direct impact on poverty
reduction, including:
*  Incentives for the expansion of preschool and upper-secondary education in poor regions;
*  Improvement, expansion and consolidation of federal transfer programs targeted to
disadvantaged families, including the Bolsa Escola, Agente Jovem and Bolsa
AlimentaVdo programs;
*  Expansion and strengthening the Family Health Program (Programa de Saude Familiar -
PSF) which provides basic care services to underserved populations through a
community-based, outreach health care model;
*  Improvement and consolidation of subsidy programs for poor schools, including the
school feeding program and the basic education textbooks program;
*  Implementation of the National Policy for Children with Disabilities and minority
education programs for Indigenous and Afro-Brazilian children;
*  Further redistribution of public resources to benefit poorer communities and populations
in education and health;
5



* Improvements in the quality of education for youth and adults;
*  Measures to further reduce the health financing gap between rich and poor regions;
*  Improvement in targeting, monitoring and coordination of social assistance programs;
and,
*  Systematic evaluation of the impact of core social programs on poverty reduction.
24. Moreover, poverty reduction will be achieved through the provision of adequate budgetary
allocations for eighteen (18) core social programs that especially benefit the poor, thus ensuring
that the adverse effects of economic crises on the poor are minimized through the provision of an
effective safety net.
25.  The inclusion of the excluded from access to expanded human development opportunities
and the protection of the poorest can be accomplished with fiscal discipline and austere budgets.
The proposed programmatic lending supports improvements in the use of public resources by
enhancing the quality and efficiency of major education, health and social programs. The
measures to increase efficiency of public spendmg combined with the changing demographic
profile of the population are expected to generate savings that can be redirected to programs
targeted to poverty reduction in the short- and medium-term, without exceeding the budgetary
ceilings mandated by current financial constraints.
26.  Over the last two decades, Brazil has made rapid progress in some aspects of human
development --notably expanding access to primary education and improving its quality, and in
dealing with some threatening healthcare issues such as HIV/AIDS. While a healthier, longer-
lived, more educated citizenry is a goal in itself, even if Brazil's only objective were economic
growth, evidence still supports the case for a strengthened human capital effort. The recent
World Bank publication, Brazil: The New Growth Agenda, shows that investments in human
capital will continue to have the highest long run returns for Brazil. While the country has made
great strides in social sectors, the education and training level of the workforce remains an
obstacle to investment and to the climate for innovation. Just as human capital is a necessary
precursor for economic growth, maintaining a healthy productive citizenry requires resources
generated by that growth. The mutually reinforcing nature of the relationship between growth
and human development is at the heart of the HD PSRL strategy.
II.      RECENT DEVELOPMENTS
27. President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva was elected in October 2002 on a platform that
emphasized poverty reduction and growth. He also committed himself to a responsible economic
program, including tight fiscal policy to stabilize public debt, inflation targeting, and the honoring
of all debt contracts. Following an exemplary democratic process, Lula won the elections with a
strong mandate of 61% of valid votes. The subsequent transition period was also exemplary and
characterized by a high degree of goodwill and cooperation between the old and new
administrations. President Lula took office on January 1, 2003.
6



28. Brazil stands today at a point of historic significance, with an economy poised to deliver
the promise of economic growth for all its citizens, and as a nation confronting the challenge of
proving its merit as a world-class global competitor. The new Government is focused on social
justice, while at the same time committed to maintaining economic stability. The international
financial community, including the Bank, faces a unique responsibility to strengthen its
partnership with Brazil at this crucial juncture. The success of past reforms in improving the
delivery of social services can now be taken to a new level, helping Brazil overcome deep
historical obstacles to its development, and ushering in a sustained period of social progress
rooted in sound economic performance.
29.  Brazil's historic opportunity comes at a time of an unusually adverse extemal environment,
which poses grave economic risks. The new government needs to quickly build a record of
credibility that will enable Brazil to improve its access to intemational markets. The current
volatile situation with the markets cannot go on without severely damaging the future prospects
for economic growth and social equity. It is possible for the incoming administration to generate
confidence by making prudent choices regarding fiscal and monetary policy. As Human
Development is at the forefront of the govemment's policy agenda for economic growth and
poverty reduction, the establishment of sound policy measures in the areas of education, health,
and social protection is particularly important.
30. Policy reforms to support higher, sustainable growth and the lasting reduction of poverty
are of great importance for Brazil. Both areas have been central elements of Lula's election
platform. With regard to social policies, the new Government is moving quickly on two flagship
programs, the anti-hunger program Fome Zero and the youth employment initiative Primeiro
Emprego. While the details of these programs have not been finalized yet, they have the
potential-if well designed and implemented-to achieve substantial progress on two particular
social problems and meet the large expectations for fast social progress without requiring
additional expenditures that would be inconsistent with fiscal responsibility. With regard to
growth policies, an emphasis on productivity improvements and a better investment climate
would be most appropriate.
31. The encouraging messages from the first weeks of the new administration have been
coupled with the launching of important social sector initiatives. The Fome Zero program,
launched as a flagship program to fight hunger, can be an important complement to the health,
education, and social protection agendas. In many areas, the new government has announced its
commitment to sound social policies such as health decentralization, education evaluation,
community empowerment and participation, conditional cash transfer programs for the poor, and
capitation-based financing in health and education. Moreover, the new administration has also
expressed interest in enhancing the impact and effectiveness of other programs such as adult
alphabetization, university evaluation, family health expansion, integrated evaluation and
monitoring of social programs, and preventive vaccinations. Finally, the Government has also
indicated its interest in increasing the effectiveness of cash transfer programs by sharpening their
targeting and eliminating unnecessary overlapping. The broad programs and policies presented
by the new Government senior officials in this early stage of their tenure are consistent with the
policy matrix in Annex 2, and will be the basis for deepening the policy dialogue in the social
sectors, as those initially broad programs and policies are further discussed and defined.



MACROECONOMIC SITUATION AND RISKS
32. For the last eight years, Brazil has pursued sound macroeconomic and social policies. In
particular, Brazil has made substantial progress in its macroeconomic framework and institutions.
The first phase of economic stabilization in Brazil from 1994-1998 focused on monetary
stabilization and privatizations and followed trade liberalization in the early 1990s. The second
phase of stabilization from 1999 onward established a consistent and credible macroeconomic
framework, including a shift toward a flexible exchange rate, sound fiscal management, and an
effective inflation-targeting regime.
33. Growth above 4 percent in the year 2000 provided a glimpse of the real benefits of sound
macroeconomic management. The subsequent negative shocks of 2001 and 2002 served as an
unwelcome reminder that substantial vulnerabilities remained, despite the consistent
macroeconomic framework adopted by Brazil after 1998. In particular, the deterioration of
financial indicators during 2002 has been the result of the interactions between negative external
and internal factors. These factors are: (i) the vastly increased risk aversion in international
markets, (ii) high market anxiety about whether there would be policy continuity following
Brazil's presidential elections, (iii) Brazil's high external financing requirements, (iv) the level
and the indexation structure of domestic public debt, and (v) the remaining agenda of unfinished
refonns, including substantial rigidities in public expenditures.
34.  Since 1999, Brazil has targeted and achieved fiscal surpluses that were designed to stabilize
public debt. In 2002, the Government has exceeded its fiscal surplus target of 3.88%-of-GDP
marking the fourth year of overachievement of fiscal targets agreed with the IMF. Fiscal
responsibility at all levels of government has been institutionalized under the comprehensive Law
of Fiscal Responsibility and is likely to be sustained, a point reiterated by the incoming President.
35. Public debt, which is mostly domestic, has increased to about 57 percent of GDP, despite
fiscal adjustment. This increase has been the result of the currency depreciation and higher than
expected domestic interest rates, given that a large share of public debt is indexed to either short-
term interest rates or to the Dollar. While public debt is sustainable under a range of reasonable
assumptions and expected to decline gradually, the size of the debt and the debt service are
sufficiently large generate vulnerability in periods of high market nervousness.
36. Monetary stabilization has successfully eliminated price indexation of the domestic
economy. The inflation-targeting regime has been implemented well even though the inflation
targets for 2001 and 2002 were not achieved due to the unusually unfavorable circumstances
prevailing during the last two years. In particular, depreciation in 2002 has again put pressure on
price levels with 2002 inflation expected to have reached 10%.
37. On the external side, the depreciation has not only led to a compression of imports but also
more recently to a strong and broad-based expansion of exports. Following trade deficits from
1995 through 2000, Brazil attained a trade surplus of above $12 billion in 2002, which would
reduce the current account deficit to $9 billion or 2% of GDP, as compared to 4-5% in the years
since 1998. With growth of around 2% in 2003, the current account deficit could fall to as little as
$6 billion in 2003. Gross extemal financing requirements for 2003 would be $35 billion
(excluding the JIMF). While this figure is substantial in absolute terms, considering the adverse
international environment, it is much lower than requirements of $50-85 billion in each of the
four preceding years.
8



38.  More than half of Brazil's extemal debt is owed by the private sector. External debt is
moderate in size compared to GDP, but due to the relative closeness of the economy, it is large
compared to exports. Extemal debt in Dollar terms has been decreasing while the ratio of external
debt to GDP has increased due to the substantial depreciation of the domestic currency. Brazil
owes very little external short-term debt. External debt is sustainable under a range of reasonable
assumptions. External debt sustainability is further improving with the recent surge in exports.
39. Market volatility peaked in the months leading to the October 2002 elections. The
announcement of $30 billion stand-by arrangement with the IMIF in August 2002 helped stabilize
markets. The IMF agreement was approved on September 6th and made US$6 billion available
during 2002. Another US$24 billion will be available in 2003 conditioned to the continuity of
implementation of the agreed program by the new Administration. The agreement is based on the
maintenance of a 3.75 percent of GDP primary surplus target for 2003, or higher if required to
stabilize the public debt to GDP ratio, and the continuation of the inflation-targeting regime.
Brazil is in compliance with the conditionality of the LIMF Stand-by arrangement (see Annex 11
for the Fund's Relations Note).
40.  Substantial market improvements have resulted from the measures taken by the new
Government after the elections. President Lula has appointed an experienced economic team and
has clearly signaled the contmuation of responsible economic and fiscal policies. The
inauguration speeches by President Lula, Finance Minister Palocci and Central Bank President
Meirelles have been important to reconfirm the intention of sound economic management by the
new Government. The speeches of Lula and his ministers underscored the large social inequities
and tough challenges ahead, and an earnest promise to tackle them within fiscal responsibility.
They summarized the key challenge ahead: in the face of the severe economic vulnerability, how
to build and implement a compact for social progress.
41. The new Government has also announced that it plans to rapidly pursue key structural
reforms. This includes fundamental reforms of the pension system for civil servants as well as the
establishment of Central Bank autonomy. The recent announcements indicate that the
Government recognizes the window of opportunity to advance in these key areas during the first
year in office. Very important for the sustainability of fiscal responsibility, the Government also
signaled that it will enforce the fiscal obligations of states and municipalities.
42. Markets have reacted very positively to the first steps of the new Government. As of mid-
January 2003, the exchange rate has appreciated to R$3.30 (from R$4 in September 2002) and
sovereign bond spreads have narrowed to just above 1200bps (from 2500bps in September 2002).
The positive reaction of the international community to the strong election results and the post
election statements by the incoming president, coupled with the impact of the IMF agreement,
have allowed some breathing room for the new government to establish its track record of
responsible economic management and to conceive and initiate its agenda for growth and poverty
reduction.
43. If the positive announcements on responsible economic are followed through with the
implementation of a credible fiscal program and structural reforms required to sustain fiscal
adjustment, further market improvements would allow Brazil to enter a virtuous cycle of
improving debt and fiscal indicators, reinvigorating its investment climate, emphasizing
productivity improvements and in turn generating renewed economic growth. This would, in turn,
lead to a lasting reduction in vulnerability.
9



44. While the news of the last weeks is positive, the substantial risks remain. The market
deterioration in late January-caused by extemal market developments-serves as a reminder of
persistent vulnerabilities. Conscious of remaining risks, the Bank is monitoring the evolving
economic situation closely and in close contact with the Government, the IMF, and IDB.
45.  The new Govemment now has a window of opportunity to accelerate the return of market
confidence. Continued decisive and effective actions by the new govermnent during this period
will be essential. Intemally, the main challenges are now related to the consistent implementation
of responsible fiscal and economic management and the announced policies. In addition, the new
Govemment will depend on sufficient political support in Congress to approve key structural
reforms. It is important to note that Brazil faces very strong incentives to continue with measures
that will calm markets, as these are a prerequisite for the new Government to pursue its positive
agenda for growth and poverty reduction.
46.  In addition, extemal market developments will play a key role for Brazil. If positive market
developments continue and lead to further moderate appreciation of the domestic currency, public
debt dynamics will improve. This would help Brazil enter a virtuous circle of improving debt and
fiscal indicators and renewed growth. Negative extemal shocks could delay or prevent this
positive scenario. In the case of such shocks, the Government would have to react with the
appropriate fiscal and monetary measures to ensure stability and prevent a crisis that could have
serious and lasting negative impacts for Brazil and beyond. The financial support from the current
IMF stand-by arrangement and from other official sources would be crucial in such situation.
COUNTRY ASSISTANCE STRATEGY UPDATE
47.  The democratic election of a leader determined to focus on Brazil's social agenda while
respecting prudent fiscal constraints, is a historic opportunity to overcome long-standing issues of
social exclusion inequities in Brazil and to achieve sustainable and equalizing growth. Yet, the
macroeconomic risks and the range of possible outcomes for Brazil over the next eighteen months
are very large. The Bank's approach toward the new administration is driven by the desire to help
Brazil capture the opportunity while reducing the risks.
48. The beginning of the relationship between the new Government and the Bank has been
very encouraging. The Bank has supported the transition team and the new Government with a set
of Policy Notes prepared by Bank staff on a number of key challenges facing Brazil. Many of the
policy proposals now emerging from announcements of the new Government are consistent with
the Policy Notes. The response of the President Lula and his team to the Bank's offers of support
during and after Mr. Wolfensohn's trip to Brazil in November 2002 has been highly positive. As
of January 2003, Bank teams are holdiing discussions with new Ministers and their teams, who
have shown promising willingness to pursue important policy reforms in several areas. In fact,
several ministers have enthusiastically requested and endorsed Bank support for activities under
their responsibility.
49.  The opportunities and risks of the current situation and the excellent positioning of the
Bank justify a high level of Bank engagement and support to the new Government. The
objectives of this support would be three-fold: (a) support progress on Brazil's medium-term
policy reform agenda for stability, growth, poverty reduction, environmental management, and
social inclusion; (b) help achieve short-term advances in Brazil's economic and social situation
that would consolidate the reform path taken by the Lula Government; and (c) signal our positive
assessment of Brazil's policies in order to help restore confidence and market access. The
10



instruments for intensified support to Brazil would include short-term advisory services,
programmatic lending, and a strong investment-lending program.
50. Building on the Policy Notes, the Bank is responding proactively to a range of requests
from the new Government for tailored short-term advisory work. Such work includes visits by
Bank staff and international expert consultants, joint organization of seminars on key policy
issues, and short technical notes and specific policy choices. Such work is already ongoing or
beginning in relation to the proposed anti-hunger program "Fome Zero," youth employment
policies, higher education policies, evaluation of social policies, and the link between fiscal
policies and the investment climate. Advisory services along the same lines in other sectors are
likely to follow during the next months.
51.  The Bank is preparing a series of possible policy-based lending operations (programmatic
loans), including this HD PSRL, whose broad outlines were set out at a Board meeting in August
2002. These operations would complement the ongoing US$30 billion RMF standby arrangement
and support the Government's reforms for advancing social progress, assuring economic and
fiscal stability, and fostering growth. These operations could play a key role to: (a) continue and
deepen key sectoral reforms; (b) finance part of the nominal fiscal deficit and the external
financing requirements of the public sector; and (c) signal to the markets the commitment of the
new administration to sound economic and sectoral policies. The timing of this operation is meant
to send a strong and visible signal of support during this crucial early period of the new
Government.
52. Loans to support fiscal reforms, financial sector reforms, and reforms to improve
competitiveness and the investment climate could follow. Other possibilities are policy lending
for environmental policy and housing policy reforms. In each case, such loans would build on
reform progress achieved by Brazil to date, but would require a clear commitment to reforms by
the new Government. Policy-based lending would be accompanied by technical assistance
operations. As discussed at the Board m August 2002, programmatic lending could, under the
appropriate circumstances, exceed CAS ceilings by up to $2 billion until the end of CY03.
53. Investment lending and analytic sector work will focus on deepening the policy reform
agenda and supporting projects and programs that have strategic importance for poverty
reduction, economic growth, environmental management, and fiscal stability, based on CAS
priorities and recognizing Brazil's severe fiscal constramts. New features of the investment
program are likely to include: (a) a strong emphasis on up-scaling and replication of successful
poverty reduction approaches, including the use of sector-wide approaches; (b) a more integrated
approach toward state lending, including support for priority planning, expenditure management
and program evaluation across sectors; and (c) projects to support innovative priorities of the new
Government including, possibly, youth employment policies.
54. Building on the Policy Notes and initial discussions with the new Government, the Bank
would prepare the new Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Brazil. The CAS will focus on the
five themes of the Policy Notes: investing in people, growing through productivity, stabilizing the
economy, delivering services to all, and managing Brazil's natural environment. The CAS will
also emphasize the up-scaling of successful poverty reduction approaches and the critical role of
knowledge in Brazil's development. The four-year program of the new Government (Plano
Plurianual - PPA) will be an essential input and will drive the timing of CAS finalization. Board
presentation of the CAS is foreseen for early FY04.
11



E.        HUMAN DEVELOPMENT PROGRESS, REFORMS AND ISSUES
55. During the last decade, Brazil has carried out a number of significant reforms aimed at
improving the coverage, quality and efficiency of its education and health systems, and has
strengthened its safety net program. As a result, today more children are in school, parents and
communities are gaining greater influence on the education system, more resources are being
made available to disadvantaged groups, and more adults are able to acquire new skills for a
changing labor market. The overall health status of the population has markedly improved, as
shown by significantly lower infant and maternal mortality rates, very small rate of mortality
from vaccine-preventable diseases in children and a steady and strong decline in mortality from
infectious diseases and parasites for the entire population. Albeit the relatively high incidence of
HIV/AIDS compared to the rest of Latin America, innovative and aggressive prevention and
education campaigns, combined with a policy of delivering medical treatment and drugs free to
all patients has caused the number of new cases to level off. Brazil has expanded and improved
its social assistance programs by introducing successful conditional cash transfer programs
targeted to poor children and youth. These programs are effective in reducing both short- and
long-term poverty by providing transfers subject to school attendance, community service and
health care use.
56. The major social reforms already undertaken constitute a solid basis from which the
Government can proceed to further develop its social reform agenda, strengthening and
expanding the positive human development outcomes recorded thus far.
57. Recent human development achievements include:
*  Brazil's extreme poverty rate has fallen from 21.3 percent in 1990 to 14.4 percent in
1999.  Rates have fluctuated since then with the economic cycles.  The new
Administration has renewed the commitment to poverty reduction through expanded and
new programs to combat malnutrition.
*  Brazil is close to achieving universal basic education. There has been a massive
expansion in basic education enrollment, significant increases in school grade promotion
rates, a substantial rise in public expenditure in education and a reduction in the regional
differences in access to education and in its quality. Net enrollment rates in the
fundamental cycle rose from 80.3 percent in 1980 to 95.4 percent in 1999. Regional
inequalities in enrollment have fallen significantly. and completion rates increased from
51.9 percent in 1995 to 61.1 percent in 1999.
*  The health of Brazilians has significantly improved over the last decade. Infant mortality
decreased by 38 percent (from 48 to 30) and regional health inequalities were reduced.
Mortality from vaccine-preventable diseases in children is now negligible. Mortality
from infectious diseases and parasites declined to only 6 percent of all deaths in 1998.
* Maternal health has improved through the expansion of prenatal exams and
gynecological medical consultations provided by the public health system over the last
decade. Moreover, Brazil is implementing an innovative and successful program to
combat HIV/AIDS, malaria and other diseases.
12



*  Total fertility rate has decreased to 2.2 as contraceptive prevalence rate in Brazil
increased from 66 percent in 1986 to 77 percent in 1996. The changing mortality patterns
and the decline in fertility rate contributed to an increase m life expectancy. The Brazil's
health system reform accounts for much of these achievements.
*  Gender equality continues to be promoted. In Brazil, women are generally better
educated than men, the average education of women is 5.4 years compared to 5.2 years
for men.
*  Brazil has mcreased its safety net funding from 0.26 percent of GDP in 2000 to 0.63
percent in 2002, nearly tripling in three years. Vulnerable groups, including the disabled
and elderly, are protected through effective social assistance programs, and poor children
and youth benefit from innovative conditional cash transfer programs that promote school
attendance, health care utilization and community development. These demand-side
programs have been critical to achieve the significant progress of social development
indicators.
58. The main social reforms adopted by the GOB are described in the following paragraphs.
EDUCATION REFORMS
59. Public spending in education has steadily and significantly increased by about 30 percent,
from 4.2 percent of GDP in 1995 to 5.5 percent in 2000 and municipal spending in education has
almost doubled during that period. Along with additional funding, the Government has been able
to introduce far-reaching reforms through out the education system that are conducive to
improving the quality of public spending and attaining lasting poverty reduction goals.
60. In 1996, the approval of the National Education Law (LDB) marks the definition of the
roles and responsibilities of the various levels of government in the provision of education
services. This law also stimulates education innovation and initiative on the part of providers,
establishes minimum operational standards (including curriculum and teacher qualifications
standards), and further decentralizes service provision to sub-national governments, reserving for
the Federal government primarily normative, monitoring and financial roles.
61. The Fund for Development and Maintenance of Basic Education and Teacher Valorization
(FUNDEF) which began operating in 1998, simplifies and makes more transparent and equitable
the transfer of federal funds to finance basic education, and establishes clear cost-sharing
obligations for sub-national governments. Resource allocation through FUNDEF is based on
student enrollment and has proven an important incentive for states and municipalities to increase
service coverage.
62. The successful implementation of the Fundescola program, supported by the Bank,
transfers federal subsidies specifically targeted to the poorest regions, states and municipalities.
With these subsidies, sub-national governments are encouraged to increase coordination between
states and municipalities, implement effective school improvement programs, and guarantee
minimum operational educational standards in the poorest communities.
63.  School autonomy has become a major public education policy objective with the creation in
1995 of the Dinhero Direito na Escola program, financed through the National Education
Development Fund (FNDE). The FNDE transfers federal funds directly to school councils, based
13



on school size and community participation, thus also promoting the reduction of inequalities
among municipal educational systems.
64. The creation of the Basic Education National Evaluation System (SAEB) and the Annual
School Census put in place essential instruments to improve the quality and equity in education.
The SAEB evaluation and the Census results are widely disseminated by the Ministry of
Education (MEC), contributing to promote effective social mobilization in support of education
reforn, and to strengthen the efforts by schools and education authorities in improving service
delivery. At the high-school level, graduates are tested on proficiency on national curriculum
parameters through the recently created National Upper-Secondary Education Exam (Exame
Nacional de Educacio Media -- ENEM). At the tertiary education level, quality assurance has
also been introduced with the creation of National Exams (Provdo) measuring the performance of
graduates in several disciplines. ENEM and Provao results are widely disseminated and have
improved student choice and quality control on the part of schools and universities.
65. Combined education and social assistance policy reforms have created strong incentives to
attract children to schools, particularly through conditional cash transfer programs such as Bolsa
Escola. These efforts have paid out with impressive enrollment increases at the fundamental
education level. At the upper-secondary level efforts are still timid and should be intensified as a
key policy priority for the coming years.
HEALTH SYSTEM REFORMS
66. In 2000, total health expenditures were estimated at US$46 billion, or about 8.3 percent of
GDP. Public sources account for 40 percent of spending while private health plans and out-of-
pocket spending make up 28 and 32 percent respectively. Total health spending as a percent of
GDP places Brazil in the upper fifth of Latin American countries. The federal government was
the source of approximately 59 percent of all spending, with states accounting for 17 percent, and
municipalities for 24 percent. There is a trend toward increased municipal cost sharing driven in
part by the incentive structure of a federal grant transfer system introduced in the late 1990s. In
general, government spending is moderately progressive with 50 percent of spending directed to
the poorest two quintiles.
67.  Starting in the late 1980s Brazil has undertaken a major health reform program, providing
for the decentralization of service provision from the federal government to municipalities and, to
a lesser extent, state governments. This process has been mostly successful. Today nearly all
municipalities qualify fully for the provision of basic health care. The reform provides for new
mechanisms to foster social participation in the definition of priorities and in oversight of service
provision through councils established at municipal, state and federal levels. More recently, the
government has introduced consumer feedback instruments to gauge technical quality and patient
satisfaction with publicly-financed hospitals.
68. Between 1997 and 2001, as a result of the reform, regional health inequalities have
declined as poor states and municipalities currently receive a greater share of federal resources
than before the reform. The introduction of per capita payments in the rnid 1990s to finance basic
health care and an array of programs targeted to the poor, has directed comparatively more
funding to poorer regions. These innovations together with other financial reforms have
encouraged cost sharing by municipalities and states. For example, there has been a steady
increase in municipal financing for health from 7 percent of public spending in 1980 to 15 percent
in 2000. Over this period, real federal spending on health also increased.
14



69. A new health care model, the Family Health Program (PSF) was introduced in the mid-
1990s. This model is outreach-oriented and emphasizes the provision of basic care services and
preventive care at the community level. By mid-2000 the PSF covered 35 percent of the
population. This model has a strong poverty reduction impact as it prioritizes service provision in
the areas were access to basic health care is limited.
70. The health sector reform has been complemented with legal and regulatory frameworks
goveming public sector health system decentralization and financing. Approved in 2001, the
Operational Regulations for Health Care (NOAS/01) created a transparent inter-govemmental
process of budgetary and investment planning, reorganized delivery systems into micro-regions to
improve system effectiveness, and strengthened the oversight role of the states. In parallel,
specific policies were adopted to improve the efficiency of service provision. One such policy
change, the relative reimbursement values for certain medical procedures which, coupled with a
recently implemented national price database, resulted in significant savings from unnecessary
procedures and wasteful procurement of drugs and other inputs.
71. Throughout the reform process, the Ministry of Health (MOH) has strengthened its
stewardship function through policy-making, regulation, improved information gathering and
analysis, priority setting, development of mechanisms to set targets and goals, and significant
improvements in monitoring instruments to assess municipal performance in basic health care.
REFORMS IN SOCIAL ASSISTANCE
72.  Brazil's social assistance spending is estimated at 0.63 percent of GDP, or 3.3 percent of
total public expenditures, in 2002 (See Annex 5). This allocation is relatively low compared with
averages for Latin America (1.2 percent)' and OECD (3.1 percent) countries. Several programs,
especially those providing conditional cash transfers, created in the past few years, target the
poorest and select beneficiary families on the basis of means testing. Most social assistance
programs focus on structurally poor or vulnerable groups, the disabled, the elderly, young
children. As the new programs were introduced, total spending on the safety net increased, from
0.26 percent of GDP in 2000 to 0.63 percent in 2002, tnpling in three years.
73. Brazil's social safety net consists of an array of programs, many of which have only
recently been introduced. The main social assistance programs include: (a) pure cash transfers
for the elderly and disabled; (b) conditional cash transfers for children and youth; (c) social
services for the elderly, disabled, and poor young children; (d) in-kind programs, including school
feeding and nutrition programs; and (e) other smaller social assistance programs. In general,
these programs favor the disabled, the elderly, and poor school-aged children. Relatively less is
allocated to children under the age of 6 or to disadvantaged youths and low-income workers.
74. The recently created social assistance programs offer promising features. Among these, the
most important are conditional cash transfer programs for children and youth: the Education
Subsidy Program (Bolsa Escola), and Child Labor Eradication Program (PETI). These programs
have effectively reduced short term poverty by directing transfers to the poorest families. At the
same time, they are expected to reduce long-term poverty by breaking the inter-generational
poverty cycle through improved health and education.
LAC average is 1.2% (for countries where data are available, including: Argentina, Brazil, Colombia, the Doimnican
Republic, Guatemala, Jamaica, Mexico, Nicaragua, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezuela).
15



75.  The effectiveness of public spending in social assistance can be improved by the
strengthening the reforms made thus far. In particular, social assistance programs can be made
more efficient by improving management, reducing undue duplication of benefits and improving
targeting. Further reforms in these areas could liberate enough resources to fill the gaps that
currently still exit in the Brazilian safety net. The commitment of the Government to evaluate
thoroughly the impacts of existing programs and to improve the national annual household survey
so it becomes a more useful monitoring and evaluation tool will permit the establishment of
improved targeting mechanisms, better coordination across programs and program expansion on
more effective basis.
PENDING ISSUES AND THE EMERGING REFoRm AGENDA
76. Despite remarkable achievements and far-reaching reforms, Brazil still faces significant
human development challenges related to equity, service quality and efficiency, accountability
and governance. The new Government has the social agenda as the top priority, as demonstrated
by the early launching of the Fome Zero program to fight hunger and the Primer Emprego
program to provide opportunities for youth.
77.  Equity in educational opportunities needs to be further enhanced across regions, states,
municipalities and schools. The poorest children, children living in rural areas and minorities are
still denied quality basic education. The Ministry of Education has announced efforts to create a
national concept of "ideal schools", a desired level of educational quality that all schools should
pursue. The coverage of early childhood education and upper-secondary education is still very
limited and mostly unavailable to poor children. In response to this reality, the Minister of
Education has as a top priority the creation of incentives through the expansion of FUNDEF that
will encourage states and municipalities to increase their focus on these two critical sub-sectors.
78.  Access to tertiary education is even more inequitable, and acute quality disparities separate
richer from poorer regions. The Minister of Education has indicated his intention to improve
efficiency in higher education, and to this end, the Bank's technical assistance through a PHRD
grant under implementation is a key instrument to engage in this dialogue.
79. The efficiency in the use of public resources in education has markedly improved, as
indicated by lower grade repetition rates and higher graduation rates for basic education which
nearly tripled from 12 to 38 percent during the last decade. However, the fact that Brazil scored
lowest among 38 countries that participated in the OECD Program for International Student
Assessment (PISA 2000), clearly indicates that huge improvement in quality and efficiency are
still required. To achieve a substantial improvement in teaching and learning in a country the size
of Brazil is an extremely difficult task requiring the involvement of states and municipalities, of
the school community and of society in general.
80. The emerging social policy reform agenda in education addresses the main issues
mentioned above. The Ministry of Education considers that equity can be improved through
expanding access to preschool services, targeting support to the most disadvantaged children and
schools, and reducing the gap in education quality at all levels. In response to improvements in
promotion rates in basic education, there is also the need to expand access to quality upper-
secondary education and to adapt service provision to the needs of young adults that combine
studying with work. Similarly, there is ample room to improve higher education through
measures directed at expanding coverage, reducing disparities in access and quality, raising
efficiency and relevance, and making funding of science and technology more effective. These
16



measures need not jeopardize fiscal stability and should be based on the provision of incentives to
private and public providers.
81.  The health system still faces structural and organizational challenges that lead to persistent
inequalities and less than efficient use of public resources. Substantial disparities are still evident
in health financing and service utilization among regions, states, municipalities, income groups
and between urban and rural areas. Per capita public and private expenditure in health is still
concentrated in the richer states which also benefit from a concentration of hospitals and high
complexity care services. Indirect public subsidies to well-off Brazilians contribute to inequity,
as private pre-payment plans have an mcentive to provide less than comprehensive coverage to
their enrollees, prompting them to access publicly-financed services mainly for expensive
treatments. This in turn displaces resources for the worse-off. The Ministry of Health has
expressed its interest in furthering the decentralization process while assurng higher equity
through transparent distribution of resources.
82.  The completed reforms succeeded in raising health status and improving access and equity,
but their impact was not as great on improving the efficiency, effectiveness and the quality of
health service provision. In these areas, major issues remain that threaten the sustainability of the
reforms. Although there are centers of excellence in health care in Brazil, health care services are
widely perceived as ineffective and low quality. There are few incentives to providers for
improving efficiency and performance. The proportion of health care spending that goes to
curative and hospital care has been declining in recent years, but it remains high. Variations in
spending, quality, and practice patterns across the delivery system, especially in hospitals, suggest
inefficiencies in the use of resources. Albeit inter-governmental system'organization improved as
a result of the reform, system fragmentation is still apparent both geographlcally and technically,
calling for renewed efforts to clarify institutional roles, to strengthen monitoring and evaluation,
and improve referral systems. In short, the Ministry recognizes a need and an interest to establish
performance benchmarks, provide financial incentives to achieve them, and to monitor and
evaluate results.
83.  There is also a need for the health system to better position itself to address the
demographic and epidemiological transition facing Brazil. Brazilians are living longer and they
are much less likely to die from communicable diseases. The population is increasingly
urbanized, as 80 percent of Brazilians live in cities, contributing to changes in life style conducive
to the development of non-communicable diseases (NCD). The observed shift in the burden of
disease means that the costs of health services will increase. The development of public health
programs promoting health and preventing NCDs before they cause senous harm should receive
more attention in the years to come.
84. The Ministry of Health is interested in advancing the reform by establishing in the sector an
outcome-based orientation to replace the traditional mput-based one. To achieve this goal and to
complement and expand the reforms already in place, continuous incremental improvements are
required. The equity of the health system can be raised through improved resource allocation and
targeting of health subsidies. Patient satisfaction, efficiency, and quality of services provision can
be increased through establishing a system-wide performance orientation through benchmarking
and the provision of performance incentives.  System effectiveness can be raised through
consolidating financial flows, reorganizing the delivery system, and strengthening the Family
Health Program. These are key areas of intervention where the Ministry of Health is placing
greatest emphasis. The health system can be further strengthened with a clearer definition of
institutional roles and systematic performance evaluation. Prevention and control of non-
17



communicable diseases and injuries can be achieved through promotion and social interventions
targeted to high prionty areas.
85. The newly created Ministry of Social Assistance and Promotion has highlighted three
important functions in its expanded role: (a) a focus on the household (rather than the individual)
as an integrated unit; (b) an emphasis on evaluation of social policy (both for individual programs
and as an integrated safety net); and (c) the articulation of social policy.  These points of
emphasis are all consistent with pending issues and the emerging reform agenda supported by the
proposed operation and reflect the enorrnous interest that the new Government is placing on
coordinated social programs. In social assistance, potential duplications across programs call for
further evaluations and assessments of the administrative and political feasibility of consolidating
some programs, and expanding those proven more successful. The observed gaps in the safety
net, particularly with respect to coverage of youths, young children and informal workers also
require further evaluations. Most programs suffer from weak monitoring of eligibility criteria and
uneven targeting. The on-going initiative to introduce a common a single Social Card is an
avenue of reform to be supported. Furthermore, all major programs should be evaluated with
respect to their impact on poverty reduction and options to develop social assistance programs
especially designed to respond to economic crises and natural disasters ought to be explored. The
proposed enhancements to the National Household Survey (PNAD) will contribute significantly
improve the Government's ability to develop the reforrn agenda with improved information to
evaluate program impact.
86.  The specific actions that compnse the policy matrix supported by the proposed HD PSRL
have been thoroughly discussed with the Brazilian Government and are described in more detail
in Annex 2.
IV.      THE PROPOSED LOAN
CONCEPTUAL FRAMEWORK
87.  On the basis of its importance for growth and poverty reduction, and given the evidence of
reform progress, the Government and the Bank have confirmed the human development sector as
a priority area for assistance through programmatic adjustment lending. It is anticipated that this
programmatic lending will include, in addition to the proposed Loan, up to two further loans
depending on the pace and depth of future reform implementation, for a total of US$1.5 billion.
A new US$15 million companion technical assistance loan is also proposed to facilitate the
achievement of the reforms contemplated for the next stages of programmatic lending.
88.  The focus on human development is welcomed because this sector is critical for countries
to overcome historic inequities, fight poverty, and attain growth. For example, recent Bank
analytic work has documented the significant effects that low skills and education have as
bottlenecks for attaining growth. The focus on human development is also important given the
weight that success in social sectors have on achieving the Millennium Development Goals
(MDGs). Brazil is on its way to achieving the MDGs, as shown by the recent progress update
presented in Annex 10. Moreover, it is significant that this is the first loan with the new
administration - sending a solid message of common priorities and broad agreements on
objectives and instruments between the Bank and the Brazilian Govermment. Overall, this loan
serves as an early signal to the new administration, the markets, and the world at large that the
18



Bank is strongly supporting Brazil under the new Government and wants to make sure the new
administration has a chance to succeed and uses this chance.
89. The choice of instrument and timing for this operation is a result of the context described in
this document. Adjustment lending was selected because it allows the Bank to: (a) continue and
deepen key sectoral reforms; (b) signal to the markets the commitment of the new team to sound
economic and sectoral policies, and (c) finance part of the nominal fiscal deficit and the external
financing requirements of the public sector. The programmatic approach was selected because it
provides a long-term framework of collaboration between the Bank and the Government. In
particular, before proceeding to the next phase of the Program, the triggers and benchmarks
provided now for the second and third phase (see Annex 2) would be complemented by key
elements of the evolving policy program of the new Government. These specific elements would
need to be part of a credible program of actions that would be judged effective to advance
substantially toward the program objectives. More broadly, this adjustment lending complements
support from the IMF under an ongoing $30 billion stand by agreement. The first program review
was discussed by the Fund Board in December, 2002; Brazil is in compliance with the terms of
the agreement.
90.  Because of the timing of this operation, it is important to indicate that the first loan of the
HD PSRL was formally negotiated amidst the political transition process in Brazil. Given that
this first loan of the HD PSRL comes in the backdrop of the successful policies of the previous
administration, and that subsequent loans of this programmatic approach are precisely
conditioned to the continuation and strengthening of such sound policy framework by the new
administration, the formal negotiations for the first loan of the HD PSRL were conducted with the
team of the previous administration with observers from the new administration. During the
transition period, the Bank maintained constant dialogue with the transition team, which enabled
the Bank's team to rapidly engage the Ministers of the new administration in the discussion of
this loan and its programmatic approach. More importantly, the Letter of Sector Development
Policy is comprised by two complementary parts, one signed by the previous administration and
the other by the new administration. The first part focuses on successful policies recently
implemented and the second part endorses those key policies and expands on the future policy
framework that justifies the programmatic nature of this loan.
91.  The proposed HD PSRL responds to the critical needs of a difficult financial environment,
and provides through programmatic lending an opportunity to continue and expand the Bank's
collaboration with the GoB towards the achievement of socially sustainable development.
Conditions to deepen and strengthen social reforms and expand targeted social programs are
favorable, albeit the more severe fiscal constraints. Brazil has shown strong commitment to
pursuing a comprehensive and ambitious human development sector reform program over the
past few years, exceeding expectations in many areas of education, health and social assistance.
The new administration has confirmed its willingness to continue and accelerate the reform
program, consistent with its central goal of drastically reducing poverty. Boldness has been
demonstrated by the authorities in their aggressive approach to enroll children in school, deliver
quality health care and preventive services in a community-based approach, and provide cash
transfers for the poorest families to keep their children in school. Poverty reduction prospects are
improved by increased public and political attention to poverty problems, leading to renewed
emphasis on policy reforms and on raising the quality of social spending. For a comprehensive
view of the Government's overall reform program, please refer to Annex 3 (for education sector),
Annex 4 (for health sector) and Annex 5 (for social assistance), and to the Government's Letter of
Development Policy (See Annex 1).
19



92. The figure below presents a summary of the programmatic, long-term conceptual
framework that underpins this operation.
OVERVIEW OF LONG-TERM PROGRAMMATIC APPROACH
PSRL I-\AsrigPoresa:                                                                     Objectives and
Reinforcing Key                          PSRL II and m:                                 Ojcie        n
Accomplishments and Sound                Amuring Progress and                          Long-term Vision
P\ncies    Promotng Sustainability                  Strengthened social sector
effectiveness through application
Strengthened governance by               Integrate assessment, evaluation,        of a framework of fiscal
clanfying institutional roles,           communication, and public mobiliza-      federalism, including inter-
establishing transparent financing       tion programs into clear accountability  governmental cost shanng,
mechanisms, and developing               framework for the provision of social    coordinated policies, transparent
evaluation tools and social              services; sharpen financing mechanisms   budgetary planning and consumer
communication infrastructure to          to address emerging pnorities wth        voice.
improve availability of information      improved focus on results. (i.e., evaluate
on social service delivery. (i e.,       NOAS, expand assessment of university
FUNDEF, SAEB, School Advisory            programs and upper secondary education.
Councils, SADE-SUS)                      maintain FUNDEF, revise household
) survey instruments)                      Reduced inequality by redirecting
surve/ instruments)                      federal financial support to
Designed and implemented targeted        Enhance and expand key equity focused    targeted interventions that benefit
interventions to improve access to       reforms and programs; improve targeing   the disadvantaged groups
basic social services for underserved    and transparency. (ie., expand Bolsa
communities. (ie., Bolsa Escola,         Escola, strengthen amd expand Family
Agente Jovem, SEF, PSF,                  Health Program)
community-based health carefor   I/
underserved communities) c               Expand, institutionalize, assure          Elinminated dispanties between
undrseve comfinancing, and guarantee sustainability  high and low performing
Designed and implemented an array        of programs aimed at enhancing            providers of public social
of interventions to improve the  y       effectiveness and efficiency of social    services.
quality and efficiency in social         service delivery. (i.e, continued
service delivery. (Le, Centrais de       supportfor Fundescola, continued
Regula,cdo. Proforma,do,    /            supportfor key health
TV Escola, national price                programs)
registryfor medical supis              I                                         II
93. A comprehensive set of coherent policy areas are addressed and supported by the proposed
HI PSRL. These policies already enjoy broad political support and are considered within the
implementation capability of the executive branch. Core programs are already underway but will
require policy adjustments that may be subject to legislative changes. Further details on all
actions, program goals, and benchmarks are provided in Annex 2.
94.    The overall programmatic strategy of the proposed HD                PSRL    is a key instrument to
develop a comprehensive dialogue with the new Brazilian Administration, as it protects good
social programs and policies, enhances and expands their impact, and consolidates an integrated
human development strategy based on improved accountability, governance, equity and efficient
use of public resources.
LINKS TO THE COUNTRY ASSISTANCE STRATEGY (CAS)
95.    Sustainable poverty reduction is the central objective of the CAS, approved in March 2000
and its Progress Report of May 2002. Positive expectations that Brazil can achieve this goal rely
on continued fiscal reform, renewed growth and an increased Government effort to improve
targeted social policies. The proposed HD PSRL, although not specifically included in the CAS,
is of strategic importance to further advance the social reforms undertaken by the Government
20



that have direct impact on poverty reduction. The CAS establishes that programmatic adjustment
lending would continue to support areas where the Government has a strategy for a sequence of
critical reforms consistent with the CAS and a track record of policy improvement. Human
development is clearly a sector in which the orderly and sustained development of sound policies
reforms have resulted in substantial social improvements and proven an effective poverty
reduction strategy.
96. The proposed programmatic lending is fully consistent with the poverty reduction strategy
stated in the CAS. This strategy acknowledges that important improvements in the assets of the
poor would need to include continuation of reforms to improve basic education and health, urban
services, land reform and better targeting of the social safety net, together with participatory
policies that increase social inclusion and the effectiveness of poverty reduction policies.
97. The CAS highlights three main areas for priority social reforms. First, continued
implementation of the reform program for improved quality of basic education in order to raise
education indicators. Second, expansion of family health programs and improved basic health
care financing leading to improved health indicators. And third, strengthening of targeted
poverty reduction programs, through the expansion of the most effective programs, improved
targeting and coordination to attain reduced poverty in the poorest micro-regions and more
efficient use of scarce resources. These are the goals supported by the proposed programmatic
loan.
98. As mentioned earlier in this document, building on the Policy Notes and our initial
discussions with the new Government, the Bank plans to prepare with the Government the new
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Brazil. The CAS will focus on the five themes of the
Policy Notes: investing in people, growing through productivity, stabilizing the economy,
delivering services to all, and managing Brazil's natural environment. The CAS will also
emphasize the up-scaling of successful poverty reduction approaches and the critical role of
knowledge in Brazil's development. The definition of the program of the new Government,
which will be expressed in the four-year planning document (PPA) will be an essential input and
will drive the timing of CAS finalization. We are foreseeing Board presentation early in FY04.
LINKS TO PREVIOUS ADJUSTMENT OPERATION IN SUPPORT FOR SOCIAL SECTORS IN BRAZIL
99. In 1999, the Bank approved a Social Protection Special Sector Adjustment Loan Project
(S-SECAL) for Brazil. At the time, Brazil was facing a fiscal crisis with the potential of affecting
key social programs that were being tested and piloted. As a result of the successful budget
protection of key social programs promoted by that loan, many of these programs were piloted,
evaluated and expanded, yielding the broad impact and outstanding outcomes that Brazil has
shown in the social sectors over the last few years.
100. The design of this loan is similar to that of the 1999 loan in that, by protecting key social
programs, it intends to promote the continuity of such programs even in unstable macroeconomic
times and amidst a significant political transition.
101. The 1999 loan provided protection for 22 selected programs in the Social Sectors, spread
across the sectors of social protection, education, health and the labor market. Specifically:
(i)  In Social Protection there were 7 programs protected of which two programs were at a
pilot stage - the Project to Eradicate Child Labor (PETI) and the Bolsa Escola. These
pilot programs were evaluated exhaustively both by the Brazilian Government and the
21



- Bank, as well as by outside researchers. The programs were found to be very effective in
addressing the demand-side constraints to schooling, and were taken to scale. The Bolsa
Escola program now operates nationwide, and the evaluation reports suggest that it is
well targeted. The PETI program is focused on states where child labor is concentrated in
particular industries. The budget outlay for 2003, sought to be protected under this HD
PSRL is R$1,995 million for the Bolsa Escola and R$ 500 million for PETIL
i)  In Education, the policy dialogue that resulted from the Bank's 1999 S-SECAL had
emphasized the aspect of evaluation for social sector programs. Detailed evaluation
studies were carried out of the programs such as the School Lunch Program (PNAE), the
Dinhero Direito na Escola program (PDDE), Fundescola, and FUNDEF. The results of
the studies were discussed in seminars and workshops and widely disseminated in Brazil.
The full contingent of programs that were protected under the 1999 loan would continue
to receive protection under this PSRL, with the exception of a small (R$ 16.2 million)
program for School Health. In continuing with the Bank emphasis on accountability and
evaluation, the PSRL has introduced the protection for student assessments at the primary
and secondary level (SAEB), a high school exit exam (ENEM), and the tertiary level
assessment (Provdao). The assessment of students is a key component of an educational
policy that seeks to improve accountability for meeting quality standards in education.
Such assessments are seen by educational policy makers and researchers as being
fundamental to improve public education around the world, and are included in the
recently approved federal legislation in the United States, commonly known as the "No
Child Left Behind" initiative. The protected programs by the PSRL in the education
sector are based on sound policy principles such as capitation grants that have proven to
enhance efficiency and accountability since the initiation of the programs just prior to the
1999 loan.
i)  In Health, two programs, The Family Health Program (PSF) and the Basic Care Program
(PAB), which finance primary care services to mainly low-income populations, represent
the core programs protected by the proposed project. These programs have the greatest
potential to improve the health status of the poor, especially for poor women and
children. The Ministry of Health (MOH) plans to gradually merge the two programs,
phasing out PAB as this more "traditional" delivery system is converted to the "outreach-
based" PSF model. All other protected health programs provide complementary inputs to
and are integrated into PSF/PAB: Bolsa Alimentacdo (cash transfers for undernourished
children), Essential Drugs, Prevention and Control of Communicable Diseases,
Epidemiological and Environmental Surveillance and AIDs/STDs Prevention. In short,
PSF/PAB is the delivery platform for the goods and services provided by these
complementary programs. In addition to supporting the government's reform policy
regarding the introduction of a health care model based on famnly health principles, the
protected programs are consistent with broader reform policies related to finance and
decentralization. These programs constitute federal resources that are transferred through
a capitated grant system to municipalities which are responsible for their implementation.
The proposed programs represent a continuation of policy dialogue and programmatic
support initiated with the S-SECAL. The 1999 loan emphasized improvements in equity
of financing, expansion of basic care coverage to poor populations and evaluation of
reform policies and key programs. The MOH has introduced several measures to improve
the equity of financing, including expansion of capitated grant transfers, reduction of
cross-subsidies to those enrolled in private health plans, improvement in targeting
mechanisms and introduction of instruments to enhance the equity of within-state
spending. The Bank has worked closely with the MOH to improve and extend the PSF.
22



This joint effort resulted in the recent approval (March, 2002) of the Family Health
Extension Project (PROESF). Through the PROESF Project, the Bank collaborated with
the MOH in several studies and evaluations related to financial, organizational and
service delivery features of the publicly-financed system. The health policy framework of
the proposed PSRL builds upon the equity and coverage extension policies enacted under
the S-SECAL and extends the policy dialogue to include new areas related to enhancmg
efficiency, quality and patient satisfaction.
THE FIRST PROGRAMMATIC HUMAN DEVELOPMENT SECTOR REFORM LOAN
102. The proposed Single-Tranche First Programmatic Human Development Sector Reform
Loan to the Federative Republic of Brazil in the amount of US$505,050,000, supports and
promotes the continuity of successful 'human development sector policies, and strengthens their
positive outcomes. The Loan commits the Government to protect critical investments in times of
cnsis, broaden access to cntical services in health and education for the poor, increase the
efficiency of service delivery, improve the effectiveness of social spending, and continue to
expand community involvement and participation. The Bank will monitor the progress in the
implementation of the Govemment's overall human development sector reform program through
benchmarks set out in Annex 2. Continued progress of the reforms and in the implementation of
the TAL, would be the central consideration in moving to the next stages of the proposed
programmatic lending.
103. The first loan of the HD PSRL supports the following:
(i) The recent substantial progress on social policies and outcomes: Over the past 3 years,
the Government has strengthened an innovative set of programs at the federal level to
decentralize the implementation of social programs, to place a floor on basic education
and health spending, and to reduce inter-state and inter-municipality inequalities. It has
also developed institutional devices to coordinate and focus assistance to poor
communities through a variety of programs, to improve assistance for disadvantaged
populations and disabled persons, and to nation-wide expand social assistance programs
that create an incentive for poor parents to keep their children in school. These programs,
which were supported through the Bank's Social Protection Special Adjustment Loan in
1999, have been strengthened and expanded.
(ii) The protection of budgets and monitoring of implementation of effective socialpolicies
during times of transition and instability: In the face of macroeconomic instability and a
political transition with a new administration that took power in January 2003, the human
development strategy becomes a critical instrument to guarantee continued growth and
poverty reduction. While these sound policies have strong support from political actors in
Brazil, a core program of protected human development expenditures will safeguard them
from severe budget cuts. Through the TAL, this proposed loan will put in place a system
to monitor these expenditures as well as physical indicators of program performance. A
summary of the specific protected budgets can be found in Annex 9.
(iii) The commitment by the new administration to the continuation and upscaling of these
effective social policies to obtain better sector outcomes: Continuation of sound policies
and the search for their improvement and expansion are at the heart of the programmatic
nature of this loan. The Government's commitment to this end is a key element of our
23



support in this First Loan of the HD PSRL, including their active efforts to enhance the
household surveys as to allow for stronger evaluation and monitoring.
104. Specifically, the First Loan of the HD PSRL protects funding in 2003 of eighteen core
poverty reduction programs that proved to be effective in improving the quality of public
spending in the social sectors. Among the programs to be protected by the First Loan, the
following are also being supported by the Inter-American Development Bank loan: Bolsa
Alimenta,do, Bolsa Escola, PETI, and Agente Jovem.
105. The protected programs constitute a small share of total social spending, but they embody
critical policy choices that are considered essential for progress on social outcomes as explained
in the sectoral discussion and in the tables in paras. 109, 110, and 111 where each protected
program is presented. The expenditure floors for selected protected programs under the HD PSRL
will interact with aggregate fiscal targets and ceilings on total expenditures (in particular the
primary fiscal surplus target at the core of the IMF Program) to concentrate public spending on
tested, poverty targeted programs and thus enhance the quality of fiscal adjustment.
106. The Government's commitment to continue and enhance these effective social programs is
an integral component of the First Loan of this HD PSRL. Reliable impact evaluation of these
programs is, therefore, at the comerstone of the programmatic design which will permit gradual
expansion and improvement of their effectiveness. The quality and depth of the information base
to conduct such evaluations are critical to the success of the future loans of this HD PSRL. For
this reason, the first loan also supports measures to strengthen the Federal Government's
monitorng and evaluation functions.
107. The impact of the core social programs will be evaluated using an improved information
base. Evaluation for most of the protected programs has been conducted by different researchers
(including the Bank) but, thus far, it has been limited by data constraints, particularly by lack of
reliable information on the recipients of benefits from specific social assistance and social
insurance programs. To solve this problem and strengthen the Federal Govermment monitoring
and evaluation functions, the National Household Survey System will be strengthen significantly
to allow for stronger program evaluation in 2003 and beyond. Over time, the household survey
questionnaires will be improved and expanded to incorporate additional questions on: (a) receipt
of transfers from specific main social programs (including BPC/LOAS (Continuous Payment
Benefit provided by the National Social Assistance Law), Bolsa Escola, PETI, Bolsa
Alimenta,do, Agente Jovem, Merenda Escolar and other in-kind nutrition programs); (b) receipt
of income from specific main social insurance programs (RJU, RGP, old age pensions, length-of-
service pensions, unemployment insurance, GFTS severance payment among others); and (c)
improved questions on other sources of income to permit more accurate analysis of welfare,
poverty and inequality. In the longer term, the proposed HD PSRL is an instrument to continue
the dialogue on improvements m the household survey system that can lead to (i) periodic
integrated multi-topic surveys, (ii) regular and more comprehensive data on social programs, and
(iii) securing and protecting adequate financing for household surveys.
108. In the following paragraphs, we present the list and description of the proposed protected
programs, indicating how they contribute to the strategic goals of the HD PSRL.
PROGRAMS THAT PROMOTE ACCOUNTABILITY AND INTEGRATED GOVERNANCE
109. Five federal programs effectively support enhanced accountability and integrated
governance by providing incentives for improved coordination among sub-national governments
24



and establishing key instruments to gauge the performance of social services provides,
particularly in the education sector. Incentives are provided through direct federal transfers to
schools or municipalities based on school enrollment. Standardized tests, covering all levels of
education, provide national parameters based on which education authorities, teachers and school
directors, students, parents, and society in general gain access to timely information about the
performance of the schools and how such performance compares internationally. The following
table describes the main characteristics of these programs and the reasons why they should be
protected.
Programs that Promote Accountability and Integrated Governance
Protected Program
2003 Budget                   Core Policy          Rationale for Protection
Description
Dinheiro Direto na Escola R$327 million  Increase Autonomy  The program fosters accountability,
(Money to Schools Program) The funds for  and Participation  provides an avenue to imnprove
this program are derived from an                           quality of schooling, and encourages
earmarked payroll tax. Funds are sent                      community participation. Resources
directly to schools (with more than 20                     actually reach schools in timely
students), stimulating school autonomy and                 manner. The program also
compliance with minimum operational                        improves education equity through
standards. The amount transferred to each                  differential transfers benefiting the
school is pegged on enrollment and varies                  poorest regions.
by Region, being higher for schools in the
poorest Regions.
Beneficiaries: In 2001, 30.6 million
fundamental cycle students (ages 6-15) in
126,167 schools offering grades 1-8.
Complement to FUNDEF R$657 million    Capitation Grant     This is a well-targeted fund which
(Fund for the Development and         (Transparency in     promotes increased student
Maintenance of Fundamental Education  Financing and built-  enrollment in the poorest regions,
and Teacher Valorization). This federal  in incentives to  where enrollment is lower. The
complement guarantees a minimum yearly  enhance equity).   program reduces regional disparities
allocation per student in all states and                   and contributes to improve the
municipalities of Brazil.                                  quality of education. The federal
Beneficiaries: FUNDEF benefits all 35.4                    complement to FUNDEF guarantees
million students attending the                             that when a state's revenue is
fundamental cycle (grades 1-8). In 2003,                  insufficient to cover a minimum
the complement to FUNDEF specifically                      allocation per student, such
benefits at least 4 low revenue states and                 minimum allocation is achieved.
all the municipalities within them.
25



Programs that Promote Accountability and Integrated Governance (continued)
Protected Program
2003 Budget                   Core Policy          Rationale for Protection
Description
SAEB R$8 million (National System for  Strengthen          Promotes school accountability and
Basic Education Evaluation). This system  Accountability   supports quality improvements in
comprises a set of standards national tests                basic education. The wide
for all grades of basic education,                         dissemination of the results of
compatible with international student                      SAEB provides a solid information
learning assessment standards. The SAEB                    base for all members of the school
is applied annually countrywide to a                       community and of society in
representative sample of students and                      general, in support of the efforts to
results are widely publicized.                             improve the quality of education.
Beneficiaries: 43.8 million basic
education students benefit from the overall
results, but more specifically, a sample of
those that are on 4, 8h, and I l'grade in a
given year are tested.
ENEM R$63 million                      Strengthen          Promotes high school accountability
Standard National Exam for high school  Accountability     and curricular standards, and
graduates                                                   improves inforrnation for student
Beneficiaries: Graduates from upper-                        choice.
secondary schools. In 2002, 1.8 million
youngsters volunteered to be tested.
Provdo R$26 mnillion                   Strengthen           Promotes university accountability
Standard National Test for University  Accountability       and improves information for
Programs                                                    student choice
Beneficiaries: This set of standard exams
is still being expanded. Currently it is
applied to graduates from 12 university
courses
COMPENSATORY AND EQUITY-ENHANCING PROGRAMS
110. The most important federal compensatory programs that have proven effective in making
the provision of basic social services more equitable comprise conditional cash transfer programs
and conditional in-kind transfer programs. In the health sector, the basic drugs assistance
program succeeded in ensuring the supply of basic pharmaceuticals in the poorest municipalities,
markedly reducing the gap in basic health service quality delivered in these areas. All federal
conditional transfer programs are targeted to the poor on the basis of needs-assessment and
require specific behaviors on the part of the beneficiaries, including school attendance by the
children, use of basic health services, or enrollment in training and in community services.
Together, these nine programs have significantly improved the equity and effectiveness of social
spending in Brazil in recent years. For the most part, they operate with good targeting and
reliable monitoring of eligibility criteria. The following table describes the main characteristics of
these nine programs and the reasons why they should be protected.
26



Compensatory and Equity-Enhancing Programs
Protected Program
2003 Budget                  Core Policy         Rationale for Protection
Description
Bolsa Escola Federal (BEF) R$ 1,995  Promote children's  Program evaluations show that BEF
million                              schooling by       is effective in improving equity in
Created in 2001, this program gives poor  providing targeted  education and aptly complements
families cash incentives to send their  cash transfers that are  supply-side efforts to improve the
children to school and have them stay in  conditional upon  quality and efficiency of basic
school until completing fundamental  children attending  education. The program is
education.                           school at least 85%  apparently well run and targeted.
Beneficiaries: Benefited 2.4 million  of time.           Community oversight by municipal
school children ages 6-15 years in 2002.                 Social Control Councils ensures
Coverage was recently extended to 10.7                   program transparency.
million basic education students.
Programa de Erradica,do do Trabalho  Prevent child labor  Program evaluations suggest that the
Infantil (PETI) R$500 million (Child  and promote        program is effective and well
Labor Eradication Program). Created in  children's schooling  targeted to reduce child labor,
1996, this program aims at eradication of  by providing targeted  particularly in unhealthy or
child labor through transfer payment to  cash transfers that are  otherwise harmful conditions in
municipalities where child labor is  conditional upon    selected industries and
prevalent and to families who take their  children attending  municipalities.
children out of the workplace and enroll  school at least 75%
them in school.                      of time.
Beneficiaries: About 850 thousand
children aged 7-14 years benefited in
2002.
Bolsa Alimenta,do (BA) R$360 mnillion  Reduce nutritional  The program is expected to further
(Nutrition Cash-Transfer Program). This  deficiencies and  reduce infant mortality and improve
program was created in 2001 to reduce  infant mortality, as  nutritional status of mothers and
nutritional deficiencies and infant mortality  well as short-term  children most at risk of malnutrition.
among poorer households by providing a  poverty, by providing  Program is well designed. It is
monthly cash transfer that is conditional on  targeted cash  currently being evaluated by IFPRI,
beneficiary commitment to a "charter of  transfers that are  and preliminary results are quite
responsibilities," mcluding regular  conditional upon    positive.
attendance at ante-natal care and growth  beneficiary
monitoring, compliance with vaccination  commitment to a
schedules, and health education.     "charter of
Beneficiaries: Poor children below age 6,  responsibilities,"
pregnant and lactating women at risk of  including regular
malnutrition. About 3.5 million      attendance at ante-
beneficiaries in 2002.               natal care and growth
monitoring,
compliance with
vaccination
schedules, and health
education.
27



Compensatory and Equity-Enhancing Programs (continued)
Protected Program
2003 Budget                  Core Policy         Rationale for Protection
Description
Agente Jovem R159 million (Youth     Involve youth in    Job-training and cash transfers are
Program). Created in 1999 to promote the  community services  conditioned on youth providing
active participation in society of poor,  through targeted cash  community services. The program
vulnerable youth in order to ease the  transfers that also  aims at improving the insertion of
transition from school to work (or back to  complement   vulnerable youth into the labor
school), improve training of young adults,  household income.  market.
promote community service by vulnerable
youth, and expand their access to basic
social services.
Beneficiaries: Youth aged 15-18 years.
Coverage reached 102,300 youth in 2002.
Basic Care Health Program (PAB)      Provide basic health  PAB/PSF is effective in
R$2.0 billion. This is the main financial  care services for all  guaranteeing the delivery of basic
mechanism used by the Health Ministry to  the population.  health care nationwide and has an
support basic care services operated by                  important impact on improving
municipalities. It supports the delivery of              equity in the health sector, as
all basic care services, including                       relatively more resources are
preventive, promotional and curative                     provided to the poorer regions. The
services, generally provided through                     program is also instrumental in
municipality-operated primary health units.              encouraging cost sharing by
Beneficiaries: National Program                          municipalities and states.
Programa de Sauide Familiar (PSF)    Induce an outreach,  This national public basic and
R$1.6 biUion (Family Health Program):  preventive basic  preventive health care system
The program seeks to reorganize the basic  health care model,  reorients the country's service
care model to an active provider, outreach  with stronger  provision model making it outreach-
model in which services are provided in  accountability and  oriented and community based.
the community and households. It     efficiency.         Implementation gives priority to
emphasizes preventive and promotional                    areas where access to basic care is
care based on family health principles.                  limited.
Currently about one-third of the population
is covered by the PSF. Over the next eight
years the Health Ministry plans to
"convert" the remaining basic care units
from the traditional model to the family
care approach.
Beneflciaries: Covered 35 percent of the
national population in mid-2002
28



Compensatory and Equity-Enhancing Programs (continued)
Protected Program
2003 Budget                   Core Policy         Rationale for Protection
Description
Merenda Escolar R$ 880 million (School  Capitation Grant  The program can still be improved,
Feeding Program). This program has    (Secured finance for  but its protection is justified in light
many years of operation. It is a conditional  a vulnerable group).  of its strong potential for
in-kind cash transfer, as beneficiaries must              encouraging school attendance and
attend school to receive the food. It gives               having a poverty alleviation impact.
the municipalities the financial resources                It has been a practical avenue to
(about R$0. 13/per student) to supply all                  foster institutional capacity
children in preschools and fundamental                     development at the municipal level.
cycle public schools with an estimated
15% of the daily nutritional needs of a
child during 200 days a year.
Beneficiaries: About 37 million basic
education students in 2001.
Programa Nacional do Livro Diddtico   Guarantee on time    Textbooks reach schools in timely
R$550 million (National Textbook      arrival of textbooks  manner and their quality has been
Program). This program provides free  for all children, with  improving over time. Program
books to all public basic education students  superior logistics  benefits are confirmed by school
countrywide.                          coupled with school  effectiveness research which
Beneficiaries: Benefited about 31 million  autonomy        demonstrates that educational inputs
basic education students in 2001.     opportunities.      such as textbooks enrich the
learning environment and have a
significant effect on student
leaming.
Assistencia Farmactlutica Bdsica R$890  Targeted resources to  The program has been strengthened
million (Basic Pharmaceuticals        poor municipalities to  with the implementation of the
Assistance) This program provides     ensure supply of     Family Health Program (PSF) and
additional federal resources to       basic drugs.         supplies essential additional
municipalities for the purchase of basic                  resources to poor municipalities,
drugs. It was reformulated in 1999 and is                  earmarked to ensure the sustained
now operated by the municipalities                         supply of basic drugs.
Beneficiaries: The program covers some
5,352 qualified municipalities representing
a population estimated at 161 million
people.
QUALITY AND EFFICIENCY ENHANCING PROGRAMS
Ill. Internal efficiency improvements in basic social programs are a high priority for Brazil and
an essential condition to raise the country's overall efficiency in social spending. Moreover,
recent experience shows that improved efficiency also leads to better quality of service delivery.
Brazil has created a number of successful programs to strengthen efficient management and
enhance public service quality. The continuity of these programs is essential to sustain the gains
already achieved. In the education sector, the FUNDESCOLA program is an important federal
investment to improve teacher training and certification and to strengthen school management
through better planning and inter-governmental coordination. For the poorest states which face
the most serious education problems, FUNDESCOLA has helped reduce the service efficiency
29



gap. This education program is not formally protected under this loan because its budget
allocations are part of other current Loan Agreements between the GOB and the Bank. In the
health sector, the dramatic decline in the incidence of preventable communicable diseases
registered in the last decade, is partly due to systematic and sustained federal support for
epidemiological surveillance and disease control.  The next table describes the main
characteristics of the four programs and the reasons why they should be protected.
Quality And Efficiency Enhancing Programs
Protected Program
2003 Budget                 Core Policy        Rationale for Protection
Description
Epidemiologia e Controle de Doengas  Key prevention    The national control of
Transmissfveis e Qualidade do Sangue  programs in health  communicable diseases and of the
R$615 million; Prevenf4o e Controle da  sector, with special  quality of the blood supply is an
Tuberculose e de Outras Pnemopatia  imnpact on poor    essential element of the Brazilian
R$28 million; Vigilancia Sanitaria de  populations.    public health strategy. The
Productos e Servifos R$81 million;                     programs supporting this strategy
Controle da Hansniase e de Outras                      contributed to the present very low
Dermatoses R$11 million. These national                incidence of communicable
programs ensure control of blood quality               diseases. In the case of blood
and diseases, tuberculosis prevention and              control and tuberculosis, the
control, epideniiological surveillance of              programs also efficiently
products and services, and control of                  complement the HIV/AIDS
dermatological diseases.                               prevention and treatrnent prograrm
Beneficiaries: Coverage is national,
benefiting the entire Brazilian population,
but especially the poor segments which
historically have a higher incidence of
communicable diseases.
THE NEXT STAGES OF THE PROPOSED HUMAN DEVELOPMENT SECTOR REFORM PROGRAM
112. The second and third stages of the Reform Program provide for a certain degree of
flexibility in the specification of the policy enhancements and programmatic actions leading to
the proposed subsequent lending. This is done by combining specific triggers and indicative
benchmarks in the Policy Matrix (Annex 2). The triggers - shown in bold in the Matrix,
constitute the essential actions for the achievement of the Program outcomes that drive the
proposed second loan. The benchmarks indicate important policy directions that are to be further
specified during the implementation of the Reforrn Program, as the new Administration
consolidates its reform instruments and additional outcomes measures became available.
Throughout the second and third stages of the proposed Reform Program, the core social
programs supported in the first stage will continue to be protected and their success will be
evaluated to guarantee that technical integrity and effective targeting are sustained.
THE SECOND STAGE OF THE HUMAN DEVELOPMENT SECTOR REFORM PROGRAM
113. Reform Objective: Improved Accountability and Integrated Governance will accrue
through the implementation of an effective framework of fiscal federalism, comprising inter-
governmental cost sharing, coordinated policies, transparent budgetary planning and consumer
voice. Accountability in education will be improved by consolidating an evaluation culture
30



based on standardized testing of student learning achievements, and by supporting more effective
oversight a the local and state levels. In the health system, accountability will be enhanced
through the evaluation of the Operational Regulations for Health Care (NOAS) its initial
implementation phase, as well as through more systematic client feedback. Accountability will
also be strengthened in the area of social assistance through systematic evaluation of program
performance. Governance in education will be strengthen through the revamping of the federal
education financing framework, and the introduction of additional incentives for the delivery of
quality education by sub-national governments leading to the expansion of preschool and upper-
secondary education. In the health sector, governance will be strengthen through further
decentralization of service provision and the introduction of results-based management tools to
gauge the performance of sub-national governments and guide federal transfers.
114. Reform Objective: Strengthen Compensatory and Equity-Enhancing Policies and
Programs to reduce inequality by redirecting federal financial support to targeted interventions
that benefit the poorest and most disadvantaged groups. These objectives will be addressed in
the education sector by a legislative proposal to expand federal subsidies for the poorest students
for preschool and upper-secondary education, the continued timely delivery of textbooks to all
basic schools, and through actions designed to carry out the National Policy for Children with
Disabilities and to assess its outcomes. More equitable health outcomes will be achieved by
strengthening and expanding the Family Health Program to cover 50% of the population, and by
giving priority to serving poor populations in rural and large urban areas. In the area of social
assistance, a proposal will be prepared to institute better coordination/consolidation of conditional
cash transfer programs nationwide and to ensure improved targeting.
115. Reform Objective: To Improve Quality and Efficiency of Public Sector Spending by
eliminating disparities between high and low performing providers of public social services.
Progress towards achieving this objective in the education sector will be made by redesigning in-
service teacher training programs for untrained teachers based on information provided by
standardized national tests, by seeking improvements in teacher deployment, by promoting the
expansion of school acceleration programs by sub-national govemments, and by improving
distance education programs. Better and more efficient health services will result from measures
taken to ensure the continuity of prevention and control of transmissible diseases, the
strengthening and expansion of regulatory appointment centers for health care including
improved referral and counter-referral systems, by introducing family health curricula in medical
and nursing schools improvement, and by establishing standards for training family health
professionals.
116. The essential actions that will be taken to achieve these objectives, which are the triggers
for PSRL-II, are summarized m the following table.
31



lnlmann Develpmeznt lRroganmmmtflc Sectoir Rerfoim Loan (EIDB IPS1L)
TrAggers foir FSlL- ILl
' -15 i-i!-           -               -                      '5_ * - ......... 
Maintain the technical integrity and    POLICY         Confirm success of program protection
effective targeting of key social   I[MPLIEMENTATION   supported by PSRL-I.
programs protected under PSRL-I
during their implementation
Add and improve questions to        AccoUNTABILIT      Strengthen evaluation and monitoring
household surveys on household       AND PROGRAM       of social programs. Strengthen
income and on specific social         EVALUATRON       evaluation and monitoring mechanisms
programs                                               for education and health sectors.
Implement the assessment system for
upper-secondary education and expand
the number of students taking
graduating test.
Implement the assessment system for
university education and expand the
number of programs being evaluated.
Evaluate implementation of             FINANCING       Maintain and enhance effective and
NOAS/2002 mandated health           MECHANISMS AND     transparent federal financing
decentralizationr focusing on state  DECENTRALIZATION  framework in health and education
compliance with new roles, municipal                   sectors while advancing the
participation in financing                             decentralization agenda.
microregions, and the effectiveness of
inter-government planning and
budgetary instrunents (PDI, PDR,
PPIs).
Allocate at least the same budget as
the previous year (in real terms) to the
Federal Government's contribution to
FUNDEF
Prepare proposal for the           TARGETING AND       Enhance effective transfers for
coordination/consolidation of the array  COORDiNATION  disadvantaged families
of conditional cash transfer programs.
Strengthen and extend the Family   COVERAGE AND        Expand the outreach-based delivery of
Health Program (PSF) to cover 50% of APPROACH iN BASIC  basic health services (PSF), thereby
the population by prioritizing poor  HEALTH SERVICES   increasing accountability through the
populations residing in rural and large  DELIVERY       PSF's results-based approach.
urban areas.
2 Triggers also referred to in Annex 2.
32



Ministry of Education finalizes draft  EXPANSION OF  Focus on creating sound incentives for
legislation package for submission to  CRrxmCAL     expansion of secondary education,
Congress with provisions for federal  EDUCATIONAL SUB-  which may consider (a) fiscal effort of
incentives to state governments to  SECTOR         the sub-national government; (b)
expand the provision of upper                       enrollment; and (c) equity criteria.
secondary education.
Redesigned in-service teacher training  QUALITY OF BASnIC  Ensure that key minimum inputs for
programs for untrained teachers  EDUCATION          education (teachers and textbooks) are
utilizing information from national                available and improved.
testing.
Distribute, in a timely manner, quality
textbooks to about 31 rmillion public
school students.
T[E T'FRD STAGE OF THE IEUMAN DEVIELOPMENT SECTOR REFORM ]PROGRAM
117. The objecflves of enhancing accountability and governance, improving equity, quality and
efficiency in social spending will continue to be pursued in the third stage of reform. The
benchmarks designed for this stage will be further specified during implementation of the
program, in keeping with the concept of flexibility adopted in the Policy Matrix.
118. Educatioun accountnblity will be further strengthen through an expansion in the use of
student learning assessments at all levels, improved capacity of state and municipal governments
to monitor school performance, and through the consolidation of the legal and financial incentives
for effective school autonomy. In the health system, adjustments to the NOAS regulations will
facilitate the implementation of performance-based management in public facilities and more
autonomous hospital governance. These policy reforms will be complemented by comprehensive
evaluations of social assistance programs leading to improved performance and reduction of
undue duplications among programs. Integrated governzance will be fiurther advanced in the
education sector through the strengthening of state and municipal institutions and the expansion
of federal incentives that prompt sub-national governments to expand the supply of preschool and
upper-secondary education using better inter-governmental coordinating mechanisms.  The
instruments supporting improved govemance in the health system will be perfected and micro
health regions will be established, leading to more effective collaboration between sub-national
health care providers.
119. Equity improvements will be supported in education through the creation and
implementation of targeted programs to provide better education services for Indigenous, Afro-
Brazilian and disabled children, combined with increased incentives for the expansion of
preschool and upper-secondary education by sub-national govemments. In health, equity
objectives will be addressed through further expansion of the Family Health Program, continued
assurance of the provision of basic drugs, an increase in the federal allocation which guarantees a
minimum spending floor in lower-revenue municipalities, and the implementation of a resource
allocation criteria based on a needs-adjusted per capita formula. In social assistance, equity will
be enhanced through the expansion of improved nutrition programs for the poorest children and
mothers, assurance of the quality of school feeding programs, and better coordination and
reduced overlapping of cash-transfer programs.
33



120. The quality and efficiency of human development services will continue to be improved
by the systematic evaluation of innovative education programs including acceleration classes,
distance education, and better deployment and re-training of teachers. The health system will
reach higher quality and efficiency levels by expanding hospital cost-accounting systems, further
improving the referral and counter-referral systems, and a significantly expanding the number of
accredited teams providing Family Health services.
DESCRIPTION OF FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE
121. The Bank's financial assistance under this First Human Development Programmatic Loan,
in a proposed amount of US$505.050.000 would disburse soon after effectiveness, as supported
policy actions have been met prior to Board presentation.
122. The Bank's financial assistance will help meet Brazil's extemal financing requirements,
which in 2003 are estimated at some US$39 billion. This estimate is based on a US$10 billion
current account deficit and on US$29 billion amortization of medium and long term debt
(excluding IMF). The role of foreign direct investment in bndging the gap is reduced, due to
deteriorating world circumstances, reflected in the forecast flows for 2003 of US$12 billion,
compared to flows of US$23 billion for 2001. The proposed Loan is in line with present CAS
ceilings (up to 1.7 billion of which up to 0.7 billion of adjustment lending in FY03).
123. In addition to financing part of balance of payments needs, the Loan will help meet the
federal government's extemal financing requirements of about US$ 9 billion in 2003 and will
help lengthen the term structure of public sector debts and thus reduce vulnerability. In the
context of current intemational economic uncertainties and the perception of emerging market
country risk, access to altemative extemal debt financing for Brazil remains precarious and, if
available, the cost of alternative intemal and extemal debt financing extremely high. Sovereign
bond spreads were around 1,700bps in December 2002.
124. The First Human Development Programmatic Reform Loan would be complemented by a
companion Human Development Technical Assistance Loan (HD TAL) in the proposed amount
of US$15.0 million, to be submitted for Board approval during 2003. The proposed TAL would
include three components to monitor and evaluate the reforms in education, health and social
assistance, in preparation for the subsequent stages of the program. Technical assistance will be
provided to the Ministry of Education (US$5.0 million), the Ministry of Health (US$5.0 million)
and the Ministry of Social Assistance (US$5.0 million) covering the following areas: (i) training,
(ii) improvements in information technology, (iii) specialized consultancies, (iv) legal drafting,
(v) diagnostic studies, and (vi) monitoring activities and impact studies. Specific technical
assistance envisioned can be summarized as follows:
(a) For the Ministry of Education technical assistance will be given m the areas of student
learning assessments and program evaluation; improved targeting mechanisms; upper-
secondary education; school acceleration programs; distance education programs; and
personnel policy.
(b) For the Ministry of Health, technical assistance will be directed at effective inter-
government planning and budgetary instruments; consolidation of federal transfers to
states and municipalities; results-based management tools; and measures to support
separation of financing and provision of public-financed health services.
34



(c) For the Ministry of Social Assistance, technical assistance will focus primarily on
evaluation of program management, targeting mechanisms, instruments to improve
institutional coordination, and impact evaluation of selected programs.
(d) Specific technical support will also be provided to the Brazilian Institute of Geography
and Statistics (Instituto Brasileiro de Geografia e Estatistica - IBGE) to continue
enhancing national household surveys that provide strategic information for monitoring
and evaluating the impact of social sector reforms.
PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION AND SUPERVISION
125. Regular Bank missions will review progress of the implementation of the proposed reform
program  and their outcomes.  Reviews will involve Bank technical teams working in
collaboration with the Ministries of Finance, Education, Health, and Social Assistance, and with
IBGE, in accordance with the institutional responsibilities of each agency descnbed in Annex 2.
The reviews will assess compliance with conditionality and with the fiduciary responsibilities of
the borrower. Bank reviews will be assisted by the implementation of the TAL components in
support of the next stages of the reform program, according to the goals and benchmarks
specified in Annex 2. The reviews will also consider the effective implementation of social
programs that have been protected under this loan.
COMPLIANCE WITH BANK POLICIES
126. The Loan complies with all applicable Bank policies.
DISBURSEMENTS, AUDITING AND FIDUCIARY ENVIRONMENT
127. The Loan would disburse under the Bank's provisions for fast disbursing operations.
Disbursement will be the result of the compliance of conditionality for PSRL-I presented in
Annex 2. The flow of funds would follow procedures now well established under prior
programmatic Financial Sector Adjustment loans and the two associated adjustment loans for
fiscal and energy sector reforms. The Bank may require audits of the account into which the
proceeds of the loan will be disbursed.
128. As discussed in more detail in the 2002 CAS Progress Report, Brazil has a supportive
fiduciary environment for the proposed operation. Furthermore, the Government is engaged in a
process of strengthening its expenditure review, financial management, and auditing functions.
The Bank has been supporting several related initiatives.
* The Federal Government has consolidated effective and transparent expenditure
planning, budgeting, and financial management systems over the last years. These
systems include multi annual planning (Plano Plurianual - PPA), strategic budget
planning, the annual law of budget guidelines, and the budget law itself. The monitoring
and evaluation system of the PPA constitutes a framework for gradually institutionalizing
public expenditure reviews that are built into the regular planning and budgeting cycle.
*  The Bank, in coordination with the Brazilian Government, has concluded the Country
Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) that reviews the systems and procedures
used by the GoB at the national level to budget, expend, account for, report on, and audit
the use of funds approved in the annual budget. This review concludes that the Brazilian
system of public financial management provides reliable information. Adequate systems
35



exist to manage and track the receipt and use of funds at national level and there is a high
level of fiscal transparency, both of whlch would support any program of adjustment
lending. The risk to both Bank and country funds is low.
In specific areas, the Bank also supports borrowers in their procurement systems.
Regarding Bank-financed projects in general, the Brasilia-based implementation team
continues to support and underpin high standards with respect to financial management,
procurement, and accountability.
ENVIRONMENT
129. No environmental impact is expected. A "C" rating has been issued.
BENEFITS OF THE PROPOSED LOAN
130. In broad terms, the proposed reform program will contribute to poverty reduction, to
increased crisis preparedness and, in the medium-term to growth. In terms of the supported subset
of reforms, the expansion of upper-secondary education is already a critical demand from the
population and a necessary step towards achieving a flexible, competitive workforce. The
strengthening of the transfer mechanisms for the allocation of resources for the health and
education sectors will expand coverage and reduce the inequities. Stronger targeting in social
assistance programs will result in poverty reduction and will free resources to expand the most
successful programs. Overall, this Loan establishes a framework for the dialogue in human
development with the Government, giving special emphasis to results-orientated policies, and
allowing the Government to benefit from continuous technical assistance leveraged by the Bank.
The companion technical assistance loan will contribute to the building of the knowledge base
required for the advancement of the reform agenda and the improvement of basic social programs
and outcomes.
131. The proposed HD PSRL consolidates and expands the sector reforms supported by the
Government and directly targets poverty reduction through measures to improve equity,
efficiency and quality of basic social services. The Reform Program also minimizes the adverse
effects of economic crisis on the poor by providing adequate budgetary support for essential
social services programs.
132. Specific benefits include: (i) broader access by the poor and disadvantaged groups to basic
education, health and social assistance services through improved targeting and program
expansion; (ii) sounder operation of public programs, through increased accountability, inter-
governmental policy coordination, transparent budgetary planning and consumer voice; and (iii)
enhanced quality and efficiency of service delivery through the provision of incentives to reduce
disparities between high and low performing providers of public social services.
RISKS AND RISK MITIGATION
133. Adverse Macroeconomic Circumstances. Macroeconomic risks are discussed in paras.
32-46. Brazil will need to maintain fiscal discipline in order to ensure debt sustainability in face
of possible external shocks and weakened investor confidence. This may entail cuts in federal
expenditures for social programs and prevent the proposed expansion of specific services. The
proposed operation is highly selective with respect to the programs recommended for continued
budgetary support. Under adverse macroeconomic circumstances and the need for further fiscal
36



tightening, aggregate fiscal targets and ceilings on total expenditures would interact with the
specific expenditure floors under this program to enhance the quality of fiscal adjustment by
securing funding for tested, poverty targeted programs. In this light, the HD PSRL would be
even more critical under potential adverse macroeconomic circumstances. At the same time, the
reforms supported under the HD PSRL are expected to critically contribute to the success of the
new Government's social policies. Such success would likely help consolidate support also for
the responsible rnacroeconomic policies adopted by the new Government, and thus contribute to
lessening macroeconomic risks.
134. Risk of Weakening of Reform Consensus: The scope and pace of the social sector
reform program has been sustained by the responsible efforts of the education, health and social
assistance team of the Federal Government, working collaboratively with the states and
municipalities, and the support provided by the Congress and the Office of the President. With a
new administration in office, political forces may shift creating a different scenario for policy
consensus building in Brazil. However, even in the event that the new political scenario makes
policy consensus more difficult, the broad-based public support for the reformns in the social
sector, the international recognition of the progress made, and the public expressions of the new
administration prioritizing their support of the key sound social policies, mitigate this risk.
Moreover, the Bank's discussions initially with the transition team and thereafter with the social
sector ministers confirm the new Government's commitment to continue and deepen the positive
direction of recent policy reforms in the social sectors.
135. Impact of Policies: There is also the risk that the protected expenditures will not actually
be implemented as agreed. However, this risk is mitigated by the agreement to monitor and
enforce expenditure targets for the protected programs through the accompanying TAL. There is
a further risk that the programs selected for protection may not be fully effective. While a number
of the protected programs have been studied through Bank and academic analytic work, those
which have not been carefully studied will be priorities in the evaluative effort to be supported by
the accompanying TAL.
37



ANNEX 1
LETTER OF SECTOR DEVELOPMENT POLICY (PART 1)
Brasilia, DF, December 30, 2002
Mr. James D. Wolfensohn
President
The World Bank
Washington, DC - USA
Dear Mr. Wolfensohn,
1.   This letter addresses Brazil's progress in the implementation of policies aimed at promoting
human development in Brazil through the carrying out of programs to address the main needs of
the poorer, including key developments in the health, education and social assistance sectors.
The improved accountability, a more participatory and integrated approach, the development of
compensatory and equity enhanced policies, and the improvement in the quality and efficiency of
the social programs in Brazil are basic requirements for providing better social services to the
Brazilian population, in special the underserved communities, while improving the efficiency of
the social safety net for the event of external shocks. We believe the policies outlined herein
constitute key Brazilian government initiatives to be supported by the Bank under  a
programmatic adjustment loan.
Macroeconomic Outlook
2.   Financial Market variables came under pressure beginning in the second quarter of 2002, as
a result of the generalized increase in global nsk aversion and the downtum in the developed
countries' equity markets. Access to intemational capital markets was significantly reduced and
rollover rates on medium and long term extemal debt fell considerably.
3.     The Government reacted promptly tightening, in June, the fiscal policy. The public sector
consolidated primary surplus' target for 2002 was increased to 3.75% of GDP and subsequently
to 3.88% of the GDP in 2002, while floor targets for 2003 and 2004 were set at 3.75% of GDP.
Also in June, Congress approved the extension of the bank debit tax (CPMF), exempting stock
market transactions and revoking the requirement of a 90-day waiting period after approval for
resume collection, minimizing revenue losses. Finally, in accordance with the Fiscal
Responsibility Law, the Govemment issued in July a new budget execution Decree, effectively
cutting R$ 4 billion of federal expenditures relative to the ceiling set in the previous budget
execution Decree (February).
4.     Besides these intemal measures, the Government agreed with the IMF a new program to
be carried out until the end of 2003. The objective of the program is to bring economic growth
closer to its potential in the medium term, while maintaining low inflation and extemal
sustainability, with the goal of increasing employment, reducing poverty and improving social
conditions. By reducing uncertainties in the extemal front, the authorities expect to build a solid
bridge to the new Administration starting in 2003, guaranteeing a stable enviromnent for the new
government to formulate its own policy strategy.
38



5.     Economic activity shows signs that the modest recovery that began late last year may
have stalled, with growth rates for the year estimated at 1.3 to 1.7%
6.   Inflation has shown some increase in the second semester of 2002, reflecting  the
devaluation of the real, adjustments in administered prices and restrictions in the supply of food
articles. The November IPCA reached 3,02%, but the expectation is that inflation pressure will
be reduced in December. Monetary policy has played its role, with the Central Bank increasing
the interest rates from 18% to 21 %, and subsequently to 25% in December.
7.   The balance of payments is reflecting a major adjustment. Trade results are much better
than anticipated, as a positive reaction to the exchange rate devaluation. Up to end November,
the trade balance reached a surplus of US$ 11.3 billion in the year and a 12 months surplus of
US$ 12.1 billion, comparing to US$ 1.7 billion and US$ 1.5 billion in the same period of last
year. With the trade results and an improvement in the services account, the current account
deficit has seen a drastic reduction. It reached US$ 7.3 billion up to October, a result
considerably better than the one registered in the same period in 2001, that is US$ 19.8 billion.
Based on the available information, the trade surplus in 2002 will be around US$ 13 billion and
the current account will post a deficit under 2% of the GDP, a sharp decline from the over 4%
average of the last few years.
8.   From January to October 2002 FDI covered 185% of the current account deficit, against
97.4% in the same period in 2001. Foreign direct investment reached US$12.6 billion up to
September, remaining substantial despite the uncertain international scenario. Market expectation
is that FDI in 2002 will exceed US$ 15 billion.
Education Sector
9.   The Brazilian Constitution of 1988 and the Law of Educational Guidelines and Bases (Lei
de Diretrizes e Bases), from 1996, are the cornerstones of the Brazilian Educational reform. The
first, set education as an umversal right and the second, places the promotion of citizenship as the
axes and objective of the teaching and learning processes. Both indicate social inclusion as the
Country's primary need and there is no other way to effectively address it than through universal
access to basic education.
10.  Increasing children school attendance was, then, the top priority. Universal access to
fundamental education is already a reality now. The figures are impressive. More 35 million
children at school, an increase of 20% in relation to 1994. This is a result of the establishment of
FUNDEF - Fundo de Valorizacao do Magisterio e de Desenvolvimento e Manutencao do Ensino
Fundamental (fund for teachers promotion and development and maintenance of the fundamental
education), responsible for substantial transfers per year from the federal government to states
and municipalities. As a public policy, Its main merit is a holistic approach: for the first time, an
instrument able to induce changes at state and municipal educational networks, where the
students actually are, was conceived.
11.  FUNDEF had a noteworthy effect, specially among the poorest municipalities. Without it,
2.564 municipalities would have less R$ 350 per student/year in 2000. If this was the case, each
of the 17,6 million students enrolled at the schools from such municipalities would have received,
in average, only R$ 180. With the FUNDEF, this average was increased to R$ 382,50, a 112.6%
increment.
39



12. On the other hand, analyzing teachers income, an average salary increase of 33% at
municipal level and 25% at state level was granted in the same period. This is a direct
consequence of a better resource distribution, benefiting specially municipalities in which, before
the FUNDEF, it would be almost impossible to support such salary increases.
13. The benefits derived from the carrying out of FITNDEF not only need to be sustainable but
also expanded and for such purpose a broader legal framework, assuring the sources of financing
and budgetary allocation to the expansion of FUNDEF to other basic education grades,
specifically to preschool and secondary, is required. This would allow states and municipalities to
keep the current rhythm of educational inclusion of the Brazilian society and would strengthen
the educational federative pact.
14. In addition to keeping all children at school, another challenge has to be added: improving
school quality for all. In this regard, the results are also impressive. National survey data indicate
that, in 1996, 19% of students enrolled in municipal fundamental education schools remained at
school less than 4 hours a day. In 2000, such percentage was reduced to 11%. Moreover, in 1996,
19% of the students attended daily shifts of 4 to 5 hours, in 2000 such percentage was increased
to 39% of the total.
15.  The 11 years average spent by a student to conclude the 8 years of the fundamental
education in 1995 have been dropping year by year. The school year delay dropped from 66% in
1994 to 42% in 2000. The number of students completing the fundamental education increased
67% since 1994. In 1995, the flow estimates indicated 100 newcomers for 52 student exiting, in
1999 this last figure is 61. School evasion was reduced in 35% and the number of students
repeating a year was reduced in 30%. More than 2.6 million students completed the fundamental
education in the 2001 through the regular educational system, which faced an enrollment increase
of 69% in comparison to 1994, while the supplementary educational system multiplied by three
the number of enrollments.
16. Universal fundamental education and the return of young and adult students to school
benches, looking for better qualification, promoted an explosion in secondary education
enrollment, reaching 70% growth in the last 8 years. In 2001, more thap 1.8 million students
completed secondary school, more than doubling the number reached in 1994>
17.  Special education went also through substantial changes, becoming integral part of the
Brazilian educational system. It became an agent for promoting change in pedagogical
management and practice for the process of building an inclusive education, mobilizing the
society and promoting actions aiming at educational equity. Therefore, it was included in all
Ministry of Education's policies and programs and should be strengthened. In quantitative terms,
it's worth noting that the regular schools attended, in 1998, 43 thousand handicapped students
and, in 2002, such number was increased to 110 thousand, with an increase from 13% to 20% in
integration classes attendance.
18. Recognizing the unfavorable situation faced by the Northeast Region in the educational
sector, with much lower indicators than the Country's average, the Brazilian Government carried
out the Projeto Nordeste (Northeast project), up to 1998, and of the FUNDESCOLA, both
supported by the Bank. In addition to the substantial investments in state and municipal
educational programs, the Projeto Nordeste supported research aimed at developing appropriate
strategies to overcome the regional educational deficiencies. FIJNDESCOLA has the objective
of improving fundamental education performance through increasing school-age children
40



attendance in their correspondent grades, improving school and educational results quality and
further improving state and municipal education secretariats and school management.
19.  So far, the results are very positive. The educational quantitative and qualitative indicators
growth in the Northeast and North regions have been much above the national average. This
favorable performance, specially in the last few years, shows a quick reduction of the regional
imbalances. Fundamental education growth from 1994 in the Northeast Region was 27.2%
comparing to 10.3% m the Country; student enrollment in the 5h and 8h grades went up 71.5%
comparing to 30.4% in the Country, between 1994 and 2001. The Government intends to
maintain this trend by the continuing the carrying out of actions and programs specially focused
in the disadvantaged Regions of the Country.
20. Today, education concerns are quality focused, constituting an important sign of the sector
progress and maturity. Lines for enrollment and lack of student placement are no longer issues:
at the fundamental education grades, the supply side has been dealt with and on the other grades,
the expansion is in a fast pace. This new step is a bigger challenge. For the first time, national
curricula parameters for the fundamental, secondary, preschool and indigenous education were
established. They constitute quality reference to school teachers and educational book writers. In
addition to the provision of books, which has been working efficiently, several measures have
been taken, including promoting the use of new technologies, like TV, radio and computers, as
supporting tools to improve teacher's pedagogical skills and put the students in contact with new
realities.
21. Additionally, the implementation of systematic didactic book evaluation, reorganization
and decentralization of school lunch programs and school book distribution, as well as a program
to transfer of funds directly to schools are examples of actions that have been taken and are
contributing to educational quality improvement and school, state and municipal educational
systems strengthening. The Brazilian Government is committed to continuous improvement and
implementation of these actions.
22. The establishment and strengthening of one of the World's biggest and more complex
educational evaluation systems, comprising from fundamental education to post-graduation,
represent a substantial progress towards the creation and consolidation  of social control
processes, accountability and monitoring systems and improvement of the decision processes,
which now can take into account information on education quality, almost unavailable until then.
Regarding the results, several evaluations have showed, pnmarily, that the students' average
performance level has been stable, an important outcome considering the superlative student
inclusion process mentioned above. Secondly, such average does not reflect that actually the
system continue preparing an increased number of top notch students, that will become the new
Country's elite.
23. However, the data from the several evaluation programs is still being used below its full
capacity for policy and program design. It is of utmost necessity to continue investing in the
strengthening of an evaluation culture in Brazil. Aiming at filling this gap, the Brazilian
Government is committed to increase and improve the availability and relevance of evaluation
data. These objectives could be reached through the expansion of best practices information
exchange, partnerships with civil society, taking part of intemational comparison studies and
result dissemination instruments diversification. Finally, but not less important, investing in the
expansion of the evaluation systems, specially towards producing results related to municipal
education systems, to schools and to students, individually considered, remains the biggest
challenge in this area.
41



Social Assistance Sector
24.  The social safety net in Brazil has evolved significantly over the past few years, shifting
away from food handouts towards direct cash transfers. Until recently, social assistance was
dominated by the delivery of food baskets and supplemental feeding programs. Program
evaluations and intemational experience showed that these programs are relatively costly and
inefficient, with the logistics of procuring, transporting, storing, managing, and delivering food
all adding significantly to their cost.
25.  Numerous cash transfer programs have been introduced, at the Federal, State and
Municipal levels, such as the Bolsa Escola, PETI, and Bolsa Alimenta,do programs, and
municipal income guarantee programs (renda minima). Transfers to the disabled and elderly are
also made on a cash basis (e.g., the Beneficio de Presta,do Continuada).
26. As part of this policy shift, the government developed an administrative infrastructure for
cash-based programs that is compatible with the decentralized, federal system, forging strategic
alliances with the banking sector, and introducing the unified electronic card (the Cartdo de
Cidaddo, used by beneficiaries to withdraw funds for all federal transfers at any branch of the
Caixa Econ6mica Federal or Unidade Lotericas throughout the country, assuring a presence at
virtually all the Country's municipalities ).
27. An important feature of many of these programs has been their links to health, nutrition and
education interventions. Again, this policy shift mirrors intemational trends, which increasingly
favor cash-based transfers that are conditional on a "social contract" to be executed by
beneficiaries (e.g., requiring school attendance, health care actions). For example, Bolsa
Alimenta,do provides transfers conditional on beneficiaries committing to a "Charter of
Responsibilities" which ensures regular attendance at ante-natal care and child growth
monitoring, compliance with vaccination schedules and health and nutrition education. The Bolsa
Escola and PETI programs provide transfers conditional on regular school attendance. Various
State and Municipal programs have similar requirements.
28.  Federal spending on social assistance has increased significantly, nearly tripling since 2000,
as new programs were introduced. States and Municipalities spend additional resources on their
social assistance initiatives. The number of beneficiaries reached has also grown significantly,
with the larger new programs expanding to reach 10.7 million beneficiaries (Bolsa Escola) and
3.5 million (Bolsa Alimenta,ao). Unit transfers range from R$15 (under Bolsa Escola and Bolsa
Alimentacao) to R$65 per beneficiary per month under the Agente Jovem program. Conditional
cash transfer programs have been critical to achieving the significant progress on social
development indicators that the Country has experienced in recent years.
29. The key challenges facing the social safety net include: expanding programs, improving
monitoring and evaluation, both of individual programs and of the broader safety net,
rationalizing and consolidating the safety net and improving equity through stronger targeting
and an increased focus on young children and pregnant/lactating mothers. The Brazilian
Government is committed to face these challenges, specially by expanding criteria to reach new
target populations, bringing in those who were excluded.
30.  Monitoring and evaluation are crucial to the success of Brazil's social assistance programs.
Monitoring would ensure proper allocation of funds, verification of beneficiary eligibility and
compliance with program conditions. Evaluation, both at the program level and across the whole
42



safety net, would allow feed back to program design and execution. Evaluations are currently
underway for the Bolsa Escola and Bolsa Alimenta,do Programs, with results expected shortly.
Similar evaluations are intended for other programs. An evaluation of the broader social safety
net would assess the degree of duplication between programs as well as gaps in coverage.
31.   Despite the recent efforts, comprehensive and representative survey data covering the
broad range of social protection programs have not been collected yet. The Cadastro Unico
collects information on receipt of Federal social assistance benefits, but the sample is not
representative, specially with regard to those excluded from such programs. The Instituto
Brasileiro de Geografia e Estatistica (the Brazilian institute for geography and statistics) is
currently fielding an expanded household budget survey (the POF 2002-03) using a nationally
representative sample. The POF shall include questions on most social assistance and insurance
programs .
32.  The evaluation of the overall safety net would provide necessary information to better
rationalize and coordinate the safety net, so as to reduce gaps and duplications between programs.
This would allow a more consistent program selection criteria, target group definitions and the
size of transfers. A national inventory, mapping the extent and coverage of state and municipal
programs, would be an useful instrument to guide policy adjustments.
33. The development of a rigorous poverty map would aid cross-municipal allocations and
improved selection critena for individuals and households, increasing poverty impact.
Additionally, enhancing the focus on young children and pregnant and lactating mothers as a key
vulnerable group, due to their particular needs and vulnerability to malnutrition, would also
increase poverty impact. Currently, less than 10% of total Federal spending on social assistance
goes to programs targeted on children under five. Clear exit critena and an exit strategy would
also help beneficiary households reduce their dependence on transfers, with the perspective of
both the government poverty reduction and malnutntion strategies and the households living
conditions.
Health Sector
34. Since the 1990s the Government is implementing a series of reforms that transformed
public health services organization, financing and delivery in Brazil. Over this period, the
government decentralized service provision to the Municipalities, stabilized health financing,
implemented innovative financial mechanisms for the allocation of Federal resources to support
decentralized service delivery, reoriented the health care model for basic care and introduced
measures to promote provider accountability to patients. These measures enhanced equity of
financing, improved system effectiveness, and ultimately contributed to significant improvements
in health.
35. The decentralization reform has been mostly successful, resulting in the transfer of service
delivery responsibilities to nearly all Municipalities. Upon certification of management capacity,
Municipalities manage some or all public facilities, or contract service to private providers.
Decentralization contributed to an increase in access to health care for previously underserved
populations.
36. Approved by Congress in 2000, Constitutional Amendment no. 29 stabilized health
financing and increased Federal, State and Municipal expenditures in health. Although the
Federal Government remains the major financier of health service provision, these reforms
induced greater local cost shanng. The Federal Government also adopted a grant system
43



providing incentives to Municipalities to increase their contribution to health finance. As a result,
between 1980 and 2000, Municipalities increased their share of total spending from 7 to more
than 15 percent. Over this period, Federal transfers to Municipalities also increased in real terms.
37.  The introduction of capitation-based financing for basic care and for an array of targeted
programs during the 1 990s has directed comparatively more funds to poorer regions, contributing
to greater equity. As a result, poor States and Municipalities, particularly in the Northeastern and
Northern Regions of the Country, receive a greater share of Federal resources.
38. In mid-1990s the government reformed the traditional passive, fragmented and mainly
hospital-centered model of delivering health services. It introduced an outreach model based on
family health principles that emphasizes primary care and preventive services, provided at the
community level. The Family Health Program currently reaches about 35 percent of the
population and has improved the overall effectiveness of the public health system. A
praiseworthy result of this Program has been the reorientation of Federal financing toward
primary care, which accounted for 18% in 2002, from 11% in 1995, of the Ministry of Heath's
budget.
39. In an effort to gauge the performance of Municipalities in improving health conditions, the
Brazilian Government introduced several accountability mechanisms. Initiated in 1999, Basic
Care Performance Agreements (Pacto de Atencao Basica) are signed annually by each
Municipality and constitute a set of negotiated target indicators for which Municipalities are
responsible to achieve during the specified time period. The Government established a
monitoring system to gauge progress. Results are publicly-accessible through the Ministry of
Health website. Other recent initiatives aim at improvmng provider accountability to patients
through the carrying out of systematic surveys of former patients of publicly-financed hospitals
and the establishment of a toll free line to receive complaints or praises (SACSUS). A provider
feedback system (SADE-SUS) was created to inform providers of complaints or criticisms of
services rendered. As a result of these efforts, 45 hospitals were fined and 15 barred from
receiving public financing.
40. The reform has tackled a number of important systemic problems, but others remain
unsolved and new challenges have come to the fore. The key challenge is to build upon lessons
learned during the previous decade, addressing gaps in the policy framework and lapses in
implementation. Important strategic areas include raising equity of resource allocation, increasing
patient satisfaction, efficiency and quality of service provision, improving system effectiveness,
rationalizing decentralization and preventing and controlling non-communicable diseases.
41. Improving equity will require continuing reforms already under implementation as well as
introducing additional changes in health care financing and organization. Options include
establishing a monitoring system to track resources allocation, developing resource allocation
models for capitated transfers that are adjusted for need and allocating federal resources to co-
finance a basic care spending floor in low-revenue municipalities.
.42. Designing instruments with incentives to promote efficiency, quality and better health
outcomes are also important Government objectives. Results-based management tools such as
performance agreements or contracts between municipalities and providers could stimulate higher
quality and more efficient resource use. This is especially the case if linked to performance-based
financing mechanisms. Current consumer grievance systems, such as SACSUS and SADE-SUS
could be integrated with the quality assessment system (PNASH) to form a single data base on
44



patient satisfaction and quality of care in publicly-financed hospitals. The data base could then be
used to devise a hospital rating system that can eventually be accessed by the public.
43. The Brazilian Government is considering to form coordinated care networks spanning
groups of municipalities to improve system effectiveness. Recent policy mandating the formation
of micro-regions is a step in this direction. System effectiveness could be further strengthened
by accelerating the expansion of family health programs, consolidating the number of separate
Federal-to-Municipal payment mechanisms, developing implementation strategies and
operational models that would permit Municipalities to pool resources and form integrated
delivery systems within the micro-regional organizational framework and using family health
doctors as gate-keepers and case managers to guide patients through higher levels of care. Testing
demand-side financing models could also contribute to improved system performance.
44. Decentralization has involved transferring a large number of responsibilities to the
Municipalities. Improvements are under consideration to further improve the reform in this area,
such as defining a clear role and differentiation of State, micro-regional and Municipal levels, the
application of transparent mechanisms of inter-Municipal resource flows, introducing modem
management models, especially in hospitals, and the systematic use of rigorous evaluation to
gauge impact.
45.Health promotion activities are still at an early stage of development. Recent Govemment
initiatives have contributed to strengthening the surveillance of non-communicable diseases, and
the initiation of surveillance and information systems for behavioral risk factors. It has also
contributed to the development of Centers of Excellence related to aging, cancer and injuries. The
Family Health Program is taking the lead on health promotion activities in health care settings.
The Govemment is considering measures to further improve it, such as the elaboration of
national health promotion strategy, the insertion of health promotion interventions and the
development of a coordinated and comprehensive system of primary health care to manage non-
communicable diseases.
46. Based on the policies described above, which have changed the face of health and
educational policies in the country, I request the Bank the approval of a progranumatic structural
adjustment loan for Brazil.
Pedro Malan
Minister of Finance
45



LETTER OF SECTOR DEVELOPMENT POLICY (PART 1)
Brasilia, DF, January 21, 2003
To
Mr. James D. Wolfensohn
President
The World Bank
Washington, DC - USA
Dear Mr. Wolfensohn,
Reference is made to the letter sent to you by the former Minister of Finance, Mr. Pedro
Malan, on December 30, 2002, with regard to Brazil's progress in the implementation of policies
aimed at promoting human development, including key actions carried out in the health,
education and social assistance sectors, and requesting financial assistance from the IBRD in the
form of a programmatic human development sector adjustment loan, in support of the
implementation of such policies. Complementing the above referred letter, this letter addresses
the main polices and programs the Brazilian Government intends to carry out for the human
development of its citizens.
The Brazilian Government has a non-negotiable commitment to resuming growth in a
sound, stable and sustainable basis and, for that purpose, will pursue the appropriate reforms. But
Brazil will not be lenient with inflation, one of the main causes of the Brazilian social inequality.
Economic growth is critical for the well-being of Brazilians, especially for the poorer, but
unfortunately, it is not enough. The reduction of inequality cannot be postponed and is one of the
main overall goals of the Government's social policies. What we have today is a dispersed and
diffuse set of social programs, including some modem and innovative ones. What is missing,
however, is a systematic evaluation and coordination of the programs already in place. It is
essential to ensure that the resources allocated to fight poverty and hunger, child labor, and
malnutrition are actually received by those who need them most. It is critical to adopt efficiency
controls for the existing programs and for those to be established in order to guarantee that the
available resources are effective in tackling our severe social problems.
Brazil lives a paradoxical situation: the Government spends a substantial amount of funds
in social programs but, frequently, those in most need of support are not benefited. Brazil spends
around R$80 billion on transfers and basic public goods, such as health and education. Out of
these R$80 billion, R$30 billion are earmarked for welfare and social programs. Nonetheless,
today we face the same degree of income distribution inequality that we had in 1970.
The Brazilian Government considers social policies as the basis for development, with
three main priorities: job generation; income generation and distribution; and increased provision
of quality social infrastructure and public services. The Brazilian Govermment intends to follow a
path of strategic integrated social policies, formulated and implemented through inter-sectoral
actions, and will seek partnership with different social segments, entities and movements. Sound
policies on education, health and social assistance are essential, but not enough to rescue the
46



millions of poor, indigent, homeless, unemployed people. The Government will need a national
social inclusion policy and the active support of the whole society.
The Govemment is firmly determined to mobilize the country to fight hunger, and to that
end, it has launched the Fome Zero (Zero Hunger) program. This program is comprised, of
effective policies in support of family agriculture and family income transfers, aimed at
eradicating hunger in Brazil and is the top priority of the Government. The program is going
through final adjustments right now and will start to be implemented shortly.
It cannot be stressed enough that it is the main objective of the Brazilian Government to
improve the social conditions of the Brazilian population, especially of the poor, within a
macroeconomic environment fully conducive to growth, job generation and private investment.
Brazil will ensure full economic stability only when it achieves sustainable growth and social
stability. We believe the Bank's support to the such policies, under a programmatic adjustment
loan, will constitute an important step in the direction of such objective.
Macroeconomic Update
The recently inaugurated Brazilian Government has already made clear its
macroeconomic policy, based on fiscal responsibility and economic stability. The commitments
of the Government to fiscal responsibility, the inflation targeting mechanism and the floating
exchange rate regime are clear. The aim is not to reinvent basic principles of economy but
instead, to reshape the way in which the Government interacts with society. It is the overall
objective of the Government to definitively adjust public accounts, in order to strengthen the
confidence of the society in the Government's capacity to fulfill its commitments. This is a major
challenge, having social secunty reform as priority and the Law of Fiscal Responsibility as
support.
The Government is also committed to pursue, with Congress support, the amendment and
regulation of article 192 of the Brazilian Constitution, allowing the proposal of a law granting
operational autonomy to the Central Bank and of a monetary responsibility law. The Govemment
is also committed to transparency and good govemance of public banks and other development
agencies.
Already in the short time smce the macroeconomic overview was set forth m the above
referred letter, improvements can be seen in several variables affecting the Brazilian economy.
Notwithstanding the still delicate intemational environment, an improved perception of the
economic policies camed out by the Brazilian Govemment has already improved access to
intemational financial markets; but the flows are still far from complete recovery. As a result, the
pressure on the financial markets has reduced and the exchange rate started to fall, already
reaching the levels of the 3d quarter of last year, with healthy effects on public debt. The
developments in the international scenario, however, will continue to play an important role in the
Brazilian recovery. The inflation rate is still reflecting the pass-through effect of the depreciation
of the Real last year, but started to recede and will continue this path with the sound policies
carried out by the Government, including the maintenance of the inflation targets and of the
necessary primary surpluses.
Education Sector
The substantial results reached so far with the educational reform in Brazil, started with
the Federal Constitution of 1988 and, particularly, with the Lei de Diretrizes e Bases da Educacao
47



(Law of Educational Guidelines and Bases), from 1996, have to be consolidated and expanded, in
a continuous improvement of the educational programs. Over the coming years, the Brazilian
Government is committed to addressing challenges of access, quality, efficiency and equity
vigorously with the understanding that education is the most important pathway to fight poverty
and promote economic growth. The quantitative and qualitative challenges are of such
magnitude that there can be no doubt about the strategic importance of investments in this area.
In order to ensure the inclusion of students in the educational system, it is important to
expand the FUNDEF so as to become the F1JNDEB - Fundo de Valorizacao do Magisterio e
Desenvolvimento e Manutencao do Ensino Basico (Fund for Teachers Promotion and
Development and Maintenance of the Basic Education), in order to also support the basic
educational levels that were so far excluded, more specifically the preschool and the secondary
education levels. For this purpose, the Government is committed to develop a more
comprehensive legal framework: one that provides adequate incentives to increased and efficient
investment in early childhood and secondary education and that ensures that States and
Municipalities maintain education investment as a top priority by guaranteeing, through a
transparent, per-capita based formula, adequate sources of funds and budgetary resources.
Recognizing the unfavorable situation in the less developed Regions of the Country, the
Government intends to maintain specially focused programs, such as FUTNDESCOLA, in order
to, not only to sustain the advances reached so far, but also achieve further progress.
Additional to the maintenance and improvement of the important gains in educational
access, the focus of the Government in the educational sector is now centered in the
improvement of quality. Now is the time to improve the schools that are providing education to
all Brazilian citizens, in a pursuit of the ideal school.
The decentralization of the school lunch and textbook distribution programs, and the
mechanisms to transfer resources directly to the schools are important achievements that have
expanded the opportunities for the local community to participate in improving their own schools.
These achievements will be maintained and even improved.
Renewed efforts will be made in the area of equity enhancement. Guaranteeing that the
educational system addresses as much as possible the needs of all Brazilians, specially of those
less privileged, is an overall objective of the Government. In this regard, the Government intends
to expand Bolsa Escola as a key instrument to enroll and maintain poor children in schools, while
strengthening its targeting, its institutional coordination, and its monitoring. The Government also
intends to increase the focus on working with Municipalities, to find avenues to expand the access
and quality of early childhood education. As part of the Fome Zero program, the Government
plans to review the quality of the school feeding programs (Merenda Escolar) to ensure the
highest possible impact among children. Finally, the Government intends to strengthen the higher
education loan program (FIES) by developing stronger targeting mechanisms and adjusting the
program to the new demands of the labor market.
Intensifying the use of evaluation data and improving the existing evaluation mechanisms
are the shortcut to, on the one hand, improve the conception and implementation of educational
policies and programs and, on the other hand, analyze if the results and impacts of the educational
policies and programs are contributing to the improvement of the education quality in Brazil. In
this regard, it is the intention of the Government to continue carrying out student assessment
evaluations in primary and secondary education, including at the end of the secondary, and at
university level, and participating in intemational evaluation efforts. Moreover, the Government
48



intends to continue its effort to improve design and implementation of such evaluations and to
provide support to States and Municipalities willing to develop or strengthen their student
assessment systems.
It is also time to challenge public and private Brazilian universities to modemize
themselves and to respond with increased efficiency to the urgent needs of Brazilian society. For
that purpose, among other actions, the Government intends to it is necessary the advance a
project aiming at strengthening science and technology with special focus on the formulation of
ideas to fight social exclusion and poverty in Brazil.
Health Sector
The Brazilian Government seeks to build upon the successes of past reforms, consolidate
changes already underway while crafting a new round of reforms to address gaps in the policy
framework and lapses in implementation. To this end, the Brazilian Government is defining
policy priorities that aim at improving overall system effectiveness and quality of care, raise
utilization of underserved populations, enhance the equity of financing and foster the
accountability of providers to the communities they serve. The fundamental issue is how to make
the system work better from the user's point of view. The synthesis of existing studies and
evaluations, combined with improved coordination of existing programs will establish the basis
for change. The Government will work to provide universal access to all actions and services in
this area, on an equitable basis, as well as to implement policies to prevent the risk of diseases
and to improve the quality of life.
The Family Health Program (PSF) is to be strengthened and extended, with priority to
serve poor populations residing in rural and large urban areas. Consonant with the extension
effort, the Brazilian Government will explore options for revising financial formulas to support
extension in these areas. Quality of PSF services would be enhanced through measures such as
establishing accreditation systems for PSF teams and managers, defining referral and counter-
referral systems in which PSF teams serve as gate keepers and case managers for higher
complexity services, developing management tools between municipal managers and PSF teams
and testing financing schemes linked to compliance with Basic Health Agreements (Pactos de
AtenVdo Basica).
The Sistema Unico de Saude (sole health system) will have its management effectively
decentralized, with States and Municipalities developing the necessary capacity. Decentralization
is considered a successful and irreversible policy that may require adjustments. However, before
considering any modification to decentralization policy, more information is needed regarding the
experience, results and lessons learned from the implementation of the NOAS/2001/02.
Therefore, the Government plans to evaluate the effect of NOAS on decentralized service
organization and delivery. Strengthening the capacity of States to monitor and evaluate
decentralized services would also receive priority.
The financial framework supporting decentralization may require adjustments. The first
steps would involve developing a strategy to establish a monitoring system on the use of Federal
transfers by States and Municipalities. The Government would also explore options to increase
the percentage of resources transferred through the fundo a fundo (fund to fund) system and to
consolidate the number of separate transfer grants.
In the long run, policy initiatives would focus on further expansion of the PSF program
while applying financial schemes that support implementation of PSF in low-density rural areas
49



and high-density urban centers and guarantee the availability of essential drugs. An increase in
the allocation of Federal transfers for basic care to low-revenue Municipalities is under
consideration by the Government in order to strengthen equity. Drawing on the results of the
NOAS evaluation, the Government will consider options for operationalizing microregions as a
mean to strengthen the decentralization policies.
Little attention has been given so far to improving the performance of hospital care. An
important policy initiative in this direction is the design and implementation of organizational
models and management practices to improve efficiency, patient satisfaction and technical quality
of hospital care. Policy options that are being discussed include the autonomous management of
public hospitals and the crafting of integrated delivery systems.  Another policy initiative that
will be considered is the systematic tracking of patient grievances combined with quality
monitoring. This could ultimately contribute to the development of a hospital rating system that
would improve the overall transparency of SUS while promoting greater community
participation.
Social Assistance Sector
The main challenges of the Government in this area are to ensure equity and universal
access to targeted population; public accountability in policies' management and execution; build
up State and Municipal participation, strengthening a decentralized and participatory system;
policy unification through a permanent program coordination effort; and expansion of public
delivery capacity, with complementary actions from the civil society. For thls purpose, a major
effort has to be undertaken to ensure adequate funding and to multiply partnerships, in a
transparent way, among States, Municipalities and the civil society. The newly created Ministry
of Promotion and Social Assistance will be the mstitutional home for the articulation,
coordination and evaluation of all social programs. The creation of such Ministry as a
coordinating agency demonstrates the commitinent of the Government to advance sound social
policies in a coordinated and responsible manner.
The Brazilian Government already carries out a set of compensatory programs that are to
be maintained but also to be improved. The program to eradicate child labor (Programa de
Erradicacao do Trabalho Infantil - PETI) aims at families with monthly per capita income below
1/2 minimum wage and children between 7 and 14 of age, and the program Bolsa Crianca Cidada
(Citizen Children Allowance) ensures the access to school and maintenance of children in school.
The evaluations of such programs carried out based on secondary indicators derived from
household surveys (Pesquisa nacional por Amostragem Domiciliar - PNAD) indicate that the
PETI program is reasonably focused. However, the complementary effects of this program on the
children's standard of living are difficult to identify through the household surveys. On the other
hand, to increase it efficacy, and consequently its social impact, it is necessary to further enhance
the focus on the targeted population and to reduce any undesirable overlap with the Bolsa Escola
program, which has a similar target: children from 6 to 15 years old living in families with
monthly per capita income of R$90. The program Agente Jovem, in turn, aims at children from
15 to 17, living in low income neighborhoods of the cities, specially those out of school, with
priority to older children, leaving the other programs targeted to younger children (PETI, Bolsa
Escola and Renda Minima). Notwithstanding the relevant social impact of the Agente Jovem
Program, reaching more than 100.000 teenagers, it also needs further improvement in its focus in
order to maximize results.
50



The Government prionty in the social assistance area is to improve such programs in a
more integrated and horizontal basis, in such a way as to improve their focus and implementation
and to eliminate eventual overlaps and gaps. For such purpose, the Government intends to
establish a single data bank (Cadastro Unico) to keep track of the targeted population and the
benefits received under each of the Government's social programs. This, together with an
appropriate methodology and technology for increasing focus and improving efficiency and
impact of the social programs, will provide the tools needed by the Government to reach its
objectives in this area.
Sincerely Yours
Antonio Palocci
Minister of Finance
51



ANNEX 2: BRAZIL: HUMAN DEVELOPMENT SECTOR PROGRAMMATIC REFORM LOAN (HD PSRL)
MATRIX OF OBJECTIVES, ACTIONS AND BENCHMARKS
.  -ISSUE  : -- > .RECENT-PROGRESS:               .      ACTIONS AND PROGRESS BENCEMARKS                                 OUTCOMES             LEAD
;' R -..s -- .  .       .                .               ^      :               S        -' .'--  SRL-.. - -  X  P                      AGENCY
Maintain the technical                                                  MOH,
integrity and effective                                                 MEC,
targeting of key social                                                 MPAS
programs protected
under PSRL-I during
their implementation.
A. ACCOUNTABILITY AND INTEGRATED GOVERNANCE:
Obiective: To strengthen social sector effectiveness through application of a framework of fiscal federalism, including inter-govemmental cost sharing, coordinated policies,
transparent budgetar planning and consumer voice
Establish evaluation and
consumer feedback
mechanisms for education
and health programs,       1. Developed a culture of  Agreed to enhanced    Add and improve           Revise broad household                        IBGE
provide for increased      program evaluation      household surveys by     questions to household    survey strategy by
involvement of community   using household surveys,  adding and improving   survey on household       enhancing instruments
in decision-making and     and participated in     questions on household   income and on specific    that permit stronger
promote effective social   intemational            income and on specific   social programs.          evaluation of social
mobilization               benchmarking            social programs, so as to                          policies
opportunities such as the  allow for stronger
PISA/OECD education     monitoring and            Strengthen evaluation    Create an education                           MEC
assessments             effectiveness analysis of  culture in the education  benchmarking report
social policies.         sector by: (i) participation  comparable to
in PISA/OECD              intemational standards
intemational learning
assessments; and (ii)     Create state and
providing technical support  municipal "Report
to sub-national govemment  Cards" on SAEB
for evaluation in the     education assessment
education system          results.
_ __________________  2. Promoted school       Protected in the         Allocate at least the same  Allocate at least the  ___                  MEC
3 MEC (Ministry of Education); MOH (Ministry of Health); MPAS (Ministry of Social Assistance); IBGE (Brazilian Institute of Geography and Statistics)
4First loan conditionalities in bold are met before Board presentation. First loan conditionalities not in bold are budgets protected under other Bank Loan Agreements.
5Indicative benchmarks in bold are minimum triggers for second loan. Before proceeding to the second phase of the Program, the benchmarks provided here would be
complemented by key elements of the evolving policy program of the new Govemment. These specific elements would need to be part of a credible program of actions that would
be judged effective to advance substantially toward the program objectives.
52



- ISSUE             RECENT PROGRESS                       ACTIONS AND:-ROGRESS BENCHARKS                                    -CM. OU ES      LEAD
C  -OP"                                                                           ..:.OUTiun5        .AGNC
autonomy through       approved budget for      budget than the previous  same budget than the
Fundescola and         FY03 at least the        year (in real terms) for a  previous year (in real
promoted creation of   essential amount needed  school autonomy program  terms) for a school
advisory councils      for: Dinheiro Direto na  that  transfers resources  autonomv program that
through FUNDEF         Escola (RS 327 milion)   directly to schools.     transfers resources
directly to schools.
Consolidate educational  Support school
municipal councils by    autonomy through
proposing the revision   updating legal and
norms and reglations    financial framework
3. Placed special      Created consumer         Systematically track and  Initiate publishing of                      MOH
emphasis on giving a   erievance system (SADE-  respond to client contacts  public hosRital ratings in
"voice" to the users of  SUS) in the health sector  and grievance in SUS-  press
the SUS-financed health  that consists of (a) a  financed health facilities
facilities.            patient satisfaction     by creating an integrated
survey, (b) a toll free  data base drawing in
hotline for grievances,  information from SADE-
and (c) a system to      SUS, Sistema de Cartas
respond to complaints    and PNASH programs.
received through the
survey and calls.
4. Strengthened        Approved Operational     Evaluate Implementation  Adjust regulatory                            MOH
decentralization of health  Regulations for Health  of NOAS/2002 mandated  framework for health
service management by  Care (NOAS/2002)         health decentralization,  decentralization NOAS
implementation of a    strengthening the        focusing on state        in accordance with
certification process that  regulatory framework to  compliance with new  specific indicators and
assesses the capacity of  decentralize nublicly-  roles, municipal       other evaluation results.
states and municipalities  financed health services  participation in financing
to receive grants                               microregions, and the
transfers for health care                       effectiveness of inter-
government planning and
budgetary instruments
(PDI, PDR, PPIs).
5. Implemented effective
social mobilization
education and health
campaigns
53



ISSUE-',          RECENT PROGRESS -                      -ACTIONS- ANDPROGRESS BENCHMARKS                     .OUTCOMES                       LEAD
-_ -,                        -      _           - * t is -PsRLLr'  9   4g K$-,a,;c  -SRUil45 jt-v  :,2i'. -b IPs RL-mi0 .- 'b2.-.PSK-E;-. e: . sL.AGENCY3
Create effective and
transparent federal
financing framework        1. Created and          Protected in the          Prepare legislation to   Approve legislation to  Indicative outcome:    MEC
operationalized an      approved budget for       maintain and enhance      maintain and enhance   Upper secondary
effective financing     FY03 at least the         effective financing       effective financing    education financing
scheme for basic        essential amount needed   framework with incentives  framework with        scheme supported by a
education: FUNDEF       for: FUNDEF's             for improved delivery of  incentives for improved  capitation framework,
minimum allocation per    education services, with  delivery of education  with federal incentives
student guarantee (RS657  special consideration of  services, with special  to foster equality of
million)                  preschool and upper      consideration of        access even in poorer
secondary education       preschool and upper    states
secondary education.
Allocate at least the same  Allocate at least the                       MEC,
budget as the previous    same budget as the                            MOF
year (in real terms) to the  previous year (in real
Federal Government's     terms) to the Federal
contribution to FUNDEF    Govemment's
contnbution to
FUNDEF
Review FUNDEF's                                                         MEC
minimum acceptable
_ ________            _________            _ . .       _   . .    .     allocation per student.  _     ___                                          ___
2. Provided financial                             Provide financial         Provide financial                             MOF
guarantees for debt for                           guarantees for debt for   guarantees for debt for
critical social sector                            critical social sector    critical social sector
programs in priority                              programs in prionty states  programs in prionty
states ______states
3. Implemented a federal  Implemented Inter-      Strengthen federal resource  Increase the amount of  Indicative outcome: (z)  MOH
resource allocation     governmental Budget      transfer system through    federal funds channeled  at leass 80 percent of
policy for basic health  Programming              developing a strategy to:  through grant transfers  federal resources
care that provides      Agreements for the        (i) establish a system to  while reducing the    directed to states and
incentives for municipal  health sector (PPIs) by  track and monitor the use  number of separate   municipalities are
cost-sharing.           signing agreements in at  of federal resources     grants                  transferred through
least 13 states and all  transferred to states and                         grant transfer system;
their municipalities.     municipalities; (ii) increase  Allocate public funds  and (ii) number of
the percentage of resources  for health care services  separate grants
transferred through the  in accordance with PPIs  reduced by 50%a
grant system; (iii)       and Investment Master
gradually consolidate the  Plans (PDls)
number of grants through a
block grant scheme; and              .
54



-ISSUE    'L-'. -  j=A.RECENT- PROGRESS               <   -AC-TIONS'A fPROGRRSS;BENCS                r. -OUTCOES:          Q= -LEAD
s~ t _ _____L_________,;>~ .< ,,F ..... ,_          ,                          ,r,. .     . .   '     4     fz>9F,>PS R ~   t 'SR L L   _ _-_.,        AGENC   Y
(iv) condition federal    Introduce mter-                                MOH
transfers for investments  municipal, demand-side
on the approval of the    financing schemes
PDIs                      within the PPI
_______________________                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~fiamework
Established National
Standards and strengthen
federal govemment          1. Developed National    Protected in the         Implement the              Consolidate                                   MEC
monitoring function        Curriculum Parameters    approved budget for       assessment system for     implementation of
(PCN) for basic          FY03 at least the        upper-secondary            assessment system for
education, developed     essential amount needed  education and expand the   upper-secondary
cumcular directives for  for: Provao (R$ 26       number of students        education and expansion
upper-secondary         milion); ENEM (R$63       taking graduating test.   of the number of
educatton to improve    million)                                             students taking
quality (ENEM test), and                                                    graduating test.
established Cumcular
Standards and evaluation                          Implement the             Consolidate the                                MEC
for university programs                           assessment system for     implementation of the
(ProvJo)                                          university education and   assessment system for
expand the number of      university education and
programs being            expand the number of
evaluated.                programs being
evaluated.
Allocate at least the same  Allocate at least the                        MEC,
budget as the previous year  same budget as the                          MOF
(in real terms) for the   previous year (in real
following programs: A     terms) for the following
program for assessment of  programs: A program
high school graduates and  for assessment of high
a program for assessment  school graduates and a
of university programs.   program for assessment
__ _ _                 _ _ _  _ ___                       .                     _ _ ___  __ _   ___ _ _  of university p_grams _ _ .o__.__
55



ISSUE",     *      1: RECENT PROGRESS                   - ACTIOSAND PROGRESS BENCHMARKS                                  OUTCOMES             LEAD
4_ IPSR1  -','_       ,v , '  ' .:A  PS1~E2 - r'>''.1PR -~; PSRIE-I-W<I- _________       _   .AGENCY3
2. Consolidated yearly  Created a prototype of    Test in at least five (5)  Promote use of        Indicative Outcome:    MEC
education census and    the educational           subnational governments  educational assessment  All states and at least
SAEB student            assessment kit for sub-   the educational assessment  kiLtby states and    25% ofmunicipalities
assessment test         national governments.     kit for sub-national      municipalities         using an educational
governments                                      assessment kit.
Protected in the          Allocate at least the same  Allocate at least the                      MEC,
approved budget for       budget as the previous year  same budget as the                        MOF
FY03 at least the         (in real terms) for a    previous year (in real
essential amount needed   comprehensive student    terms) for a
for: SAEB (R$ 8 milion)   achievement assessment   comprehensive student
program.                  achievement assessment
~~~~~__ _______           ___                  program.                     __.__..____
3. Introduced inter-    Established system to     Introduce results-based  Implement performance-  Indicative outcome:    MOH
government agreements   monitor state and         management tools in the  based scheme for federal  performance
to set targets and assess  municipal compliance   health sector through: (i)  financing of basic care  agreements or
performance of          with indicators agreed    implementation of         and results-based      contracts have been
municipalities in basic  in the Pacto de Aten4do  performance agreements    management systems in  signed by: (i) 20% of
health care (Pacto de   Bdsica through a          between municipal/state   SUS-financed facilities  PSF teams; (ii) 25% of
Atenc&o Basica)         database that is publicly  managers and PSF teams,                         SUS-financed private
accessible.               ambulatory units and                             hospitals; and (iii)
hospitals; and (ii)                               20% ofpublic
development and testing of                        hospitals.
federal performance-based
financing scheme for basic
care that is linked to Basic
Health Agreements
Expand technical support
for and promoted
coordination among sub-    1. Initiated                                     Support separation of     Implement policy for    Indicative outcome:   MOH
national governments       implementation of                                 financing/regulation and  autonomous             25% reduction in
micro-regions in all                              provision functions in   management of public    number of hospital
states to improve referral                        publicly-financed health  hospitals reducing the  directly managed by
systems and coordination                          services through          number of hospitals    the states.
among municipalities.                             developing models for: (i)  directly managed by the
autonomous management     states, and initiate
of state-operated hospitals  implementation of
and (ii) Integrated      integrated delivery
delivery systems          systems
56



-ISSUE    -          C-       PROGR  ESS-         -                                 ::TJNS  lPOraGlRSS BNC__:lS-                                   - LEAD
-, .  _.  - -.  3. c f  PED-  + /-  X   u-t                     ;<...AGENCY
Strengthen state           Operationalize health                            MOH
stewardship functions,     micro-regions in every
especially in monitoring   state, including the
and evaluation             formation of municipal
purchasing cooperatives
Promote formation of       and the implementation
municipal consortia to     of pooling arrangements
facilitate establishment of  among municipalities
micro-regions
2. Approved the                                      Expand the number of       Strengthen technical     Indicative Outcome:     MEG
National Education Law                               schools and municipalities  capacity of states and  All states and at least
defining responsibilities                            benefiting from            municipalities for the   30% ofmunicipalities
for each level of                                    Fundescola                 expansion of school-     withfunctioning
govemment                                                                       improvement programs     school-level
improvement programs
57



I;SUE            'R     ENTPROCRES        - ACTirOS AND;      -                                                     OUTCoiEt S     -     L
.  -..BENCHINARKS -..,__,                                                    ._L_____
B. COMPENSATORY AND EQUITY ENHANCING POLICIES
Obiective: Reduce nequality by redirecting federal financial support to targeted interventions that benefit the disadvantaged groups
Provide effective transfers
for disadvantaged families
1. Expanded Bolsa      Protected in the        Revise the targeting to                                               MEC,
Escola and PEY1        approved budget for     strengthen mean-tested                                                MPAS,
programs and created   FY03 at least the       conditional cash transfers.                                           MOH
Agente Jovem and       essential amount needed
Bolsa Alimentacdo      for: Bolsa Escola (RS   Prepare proposal for the  Reduce overlap and
programs               1.995 billion), PETI (RS  coordinatfon/consolidati  improve coordination of                   MEC,
500 million), Bolsa     on of the array of       cash transfer programs                       MPAS
Alimnenta po (RS 360     conditional cash transfer
million), Agente Jovem  programs.
(RS 59 million)
Allocate at least the same  Allocate at least the
budget as the previous   same budget as the                           MEC,
year (in real terms) for  previous year (in real                      MPAS,
selected programs:      terms) for selected                           MOH,
Conditional cash transfer  programs: Conditional                      MOF
programs tied to school  cash transfer programs
attendance, elimination of  tied to school
child labor, nutrition, and  attendance, elimination
youth social participation.  of child labor, nutrition,
and youth social
participation.                  _
2. Proposed a Policy                           Prepare legislation with  Evidence of increased  Indicative Outcomes:  MEC,
Paper on expansion and                         provisions for federal   municipal investment in  Increase of children 0-6  MOH,
enhancement of                                 incentives to municipal  early childhood       enrolled in day-care or  MPAS
preschool education                            governments to expand    education, and        preschool programs
the provision of         enhancement of        from 19% in 2001 to
subsidized preschool    nutritional programs for  about 25%.
programs for the poorest  the poorest children and
families, including     their mothers          Increase of children 4-6
children and mother                            enrolled in preschool of
nutrition.                                     about 15 percentage
points (to 75%/)



iSSUE            -jE>CRN  -PRQCRESt          /iCTIONS AOD OUTCOIEaS
iZ*-r;                                 <_ .I...,_' 'PROGRESS --                                                -         .AGENCYL
r .-  e  .                        _'. . . .- a ..~.. .. -   -  -PSRL-*  P-  R-  PSRL-T:.-
3. Extended coverage of  Protected in the       Allocate at least the same  Allocate at least the  Indicative outcome:  MOH,
community-based,       approved budget for      budget as the previous   same budget as the    PSF coverage increases  MOF
outreach health care   FY03 at least the        year (in real terms) for  previous year (in real  from 35% in 2002 to
model based on family  essential amount needed  Basic Care PAB, Family  terms) for Basic Care  reach 75% of
health principles (PSF)  for: Basic Care PAB (R$  Health PSF, and Projeto  PAB, Family Health  population.
focusing on underserved  2 bilion) and Family   de Extensjo de Satude da  PSF, and Projeto de
communities            Health PSF (R$           Familia- PROESF         Extensdo de Sauide da
1.6billion).                                     Familia- PROESF
Protected in the approved
budget for FY03 at least
the essential amount
needed for Projeto de
Extensdo de Saide da
Familia- PROESF (RS 8.5
million)
Strengthen and extend    Further expand PSF                            MOH
Family Health Program    health prograrm and
to cover 50% of the      applying differentiated
population by           financial scheme
prioritizing poor
populations residing In  Availability of essential
rural and large urban    pharmaceutical
areas.                   incorporated into PSF
and basic care
Devise a formula for     monitoring systems
differentiated PSF federal
transfers for low-density
rural areas and high-
density urban centers.
Include federal financing
of PSF training centers
.__________________________________  into the transfer systemr.
59



''4SSU9              RECENT PROGRESS:         ACTION -                     '7;   .     - : -  f-;TCOMES                                        LEb '
. . - . . . ,; ., . i t . ' . --                             -"      ;'C  '    -  '.      ;    *-;4-. r                        . we - -ThJ'1;f; 
Consol   ,:':idate-. s 5' ,,,      .   . .    .-: _S         . -   'ei     ...   '       plPSR 3 -  . -eLt-m                        -   -
Consolidate effective
subsidy programns for poor
schools                   1. Continued a broad   Protected in the         Evaluate impact and      Evidence of stronger                           MEC
and decentralized      approved budget for      quality of school feeding  nutritional quality of
school lunch program   FY03 at least the        programs using improved  school feeding
essential amount needed  household surveys and    programs including
for: Merenda Escolar     nutritional gains analysis  expanded coverage to
(R$ 880 milion)                                   siblings in poorest
fanmilies
Allocate at least the same  Allocate at least the                       MEC,
budget as the previous   same budget as the                             MOF
year (in real terms) for a  previous year (in real
targeted school feeding  terms) for a targeted
program.                 school feeding program.
2. Continued the       Protected in the         Distribute, In a timely   Guarantee book         Indicative outcome:    MEC
effective distribution of  approved budget for  manner, quality          availability through a  Quality textbooks
basic education        FY03 at least the        textbooks to about 31    program that effectively  available on a yearly
textbooks              essential amount needed  million public school    distributes textbooks for  basisfor about 31
for: Livro Diddtico (RS  students.                all public schools     million students
550 million)
Establish effective subsidy
programs for
disadvantaged children    1. Established special                          Prepare the              Create and implement                           MEC
education program                               implementation plan of   targeted programs and
(Escola Inclusiva) for                          the national policy dealing  built-in incentives to
children with special                           with education for       support state and
needs and Approved the                          children with disabilities  municipal provision of
National Policy for                             and a design a mechanism  education services to
Children with                                   to monitor compliance    disabled children.
Disabilities                                    and outcomes.
2. Created higher                               Strengthen targeting of  Implement revised                              MEC
education loan program                          higher education loan    targeting mechanism for
(FIES) targeted towards                         grogram (FIES) and       higher education loan
the poorer students.                            increase access for poor  program (FIES)
students by proposing
revised targeting
mechanisms
60



-~ ; -X-IJE- <'~-~  vIECENT PROGRES       '   - ACTI    S  N   -       ' -,--                       ; -      -' - :OUTOMES  -LEAD-
;''*-'. '             ,                  ';-'.'': - * ;-t*:_ BR*,+,,, '  , ,S   ,  ,,
.--Ps       -  -     _   PSRt-lu     ,  -   -    :     -     -
3. Established minority                                                 Conduct a progress                           MEC
education programs for                                                  report assessment on the
Indigenous and                                                          impact of targeted
Ouilombo children                                                       educational programs
(SEF)                                                                   for Indigenous and
Afro-Brazilian children
(SEF assessment)
Redistribute resources
benefiting poorer
communities and          1. Promoted the                                Ministry of Education    Implement strategy for  Indicative outcome:  MEC
populations              expansion of enrollment                        finalizes draft legislation  increasing incentives to  Increase net enrollment
in uRper-secondarv                             package for submission   states in their efforts to  in upper secondary
education (Escola                              to Congress with         expand upper-secondary  educationfrom about
Jovem Program) and                             provisions for federal   school enrollment     40% in 2001 to 60%
established programs to                        incentives to state
improve quality of                             governments to expand
education for youth and                        the provision of upper
adults (ENCCEJA                                secondary education.
assessment progrm) 
2. Increased access to  Protected in the       Allocate at least the same  Allocate at least the                     MOH
basic pharmaceuticals  approved budget for     budget as the previous   same budget as the
FY03 at least the        year (in real terms) for a  previous year (in real
essential amount needed  program that provides   terms) for a program
for: Assistencia         additional resources to  that provides additional
FarmacOutica (R$ 890     municipalities for      resources to
milion)                  purchase of basic druns.  municipalities for
purchase of basic drugs.
3. Reduced health      Enacted regulation for  Monitor resource        Implement needs-                              MOH
financing gap between  the Implementation of   allocation mandated by  adjustment per capita
rich and poor regions  Constitutional          EC-29.                   resource allocation
Amendment (EC-29)                                criteria in the health
4. Implemented equity-  that specifies the     Further reduce health   sector
enhancing policy for   percent of federal, state  financing gap between
federal health financing  and municipal revenues  rich and Rpoor regions by  Increase allocation of
for basic health care and  dedicated to health.  developing parameters for  federal transfers for
ambulatory services                            setting needs-adjusted per  basic health care to
through capitation-                            capita spending floor for  finance a "spending-
based payments                                 basic care.              floor" in low-revenue
municipalities
61



ISSUE -      RECENT PROCRESS.   ACTIONS.AND---. ;- _ -      .   ,  ,            ,  . OUTCOMES     L- EAD
--- ,- .-.  --. |,: - PROGRESS  .  .  .   ,  __  ,.                              AGENCY'
.,- - :  :  - -   BENCHMARKS.:        -       - .  .  .. . --, ,       . -  - .
;__.__.__-__,__-__.PSRL_                    PSR- PSRL-1L                                       -
5. Approved                        Present a plan to gradually
Constitutional                     reallocate federal transfers
Amendment (EC-29)                 to low-revenue
specifying the percent             municipalities
of federal, state and
municipal revenues
I dedicated to health.
62



u*;U1            - JKsrLEG i - LCtFS9>f 22REZS;: -;.Zgir;lfl               . -- ..OuCIE. ,-~=0. -
--   Eff-P-P   .RL,-  .LEL
-.  --   .2EilCEILi~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L.~~~~~  -                                          -~~       k  El--A
- ~ ~ ~   ~      ~      ~      ~     ~     ~     ~   ~     _   _   _   _   _    ___.-  - _ -  - -   ._  D-t--.-aL'2t   , _,  ,   :   .-' .-
_______________        _          -        .          - .                         t   L-l -  .  . . - PSRL, -: f--l R:L   _- P;R.l-.        -:
C. ENHANCED QUALITY AND EFFICIENCY
Objective: Elirition of diaarities between high and low perfomiing providers of public social services
Improve internal efficiency
in the social sectors
1. Reduced agelgrade                             Establishment of a      Monitor performance of                            MEC
distortion and grade                             federal program to       school acceleration
repetition rates                                  promote school         prOgrns
throughout the                                    acceleration programs
educational system; and
provided technical
support for state and
municipal school
acceleration progams
2. Established effective  Protected in the        Allocate at least the  Allocate at least the same                         MOH,
health care prevention  approved budget for       same budget as the      budget as the previous year                       MOF
programs; and created   FY03 at least the         previous year (in real  (in real ternns) for selected
national price registry  essential amount needed  terms) for selected     programs that ensure
that permits state,     for: Prevenf,do e controle  programs that ensure  prevention and-control
municipal and facility  das doen,as tronmissiveis  prevention and control  transmissible diseases,
managers to know       (R$ 615 milion);          transmissible diseases,  tuberculosis prevention
prices paid for         Preven,cao e Controle da  tuberculosis prevention  and control,
medicines and medical   Tuberculose e de Outras   and control,           epidemiological and
supplies according to   Pnemopatias (RS 28        epidemiological and    sanitary surveillance of
producer, quantity      million); Vigilancia      sanitary surveillance of  products and services,
purchased and           Sanitaria de Produtos e   products and services,  AIDS and STDs
indicators of quality  Servi,cos (R$ 81 million);  AIDS and STDs         prevention, and control of
Controle da Hansentase e  prevention, and control  dernmatological diseases.
de Outras Dermatoses (    of dermatological
RS 11 milUion)            diseases.
63



u ~-ISSUE           - RECENT PROGESS,        ACIONSA                               '                                      OUTCOMES  -       'LE AD.
I, ,,''a''t-'-'.L'', 'PROGRESS  -:                e   .                                      : -: . .  -  -  |.:--.-. -.--. .   .      ..>AGENNCY,,
.-      r        .BENCM    S       --      - . -v .-Hi          .-;   ..-R  -.
._.___:____._:_;___.___.._--    PSR l -o-Vo' - .... . . .  ~  e.  z               PSRL
Protected in the approved
budget for FY03 at least
the essential amount
needed for: Incentive to
municipalities for
AIDS/STD
Prevention/AIDS II (R$ 65
million); VIGISUS I (RS
70 million).
Strengthen hospital     Update AIH prices and     Indicative outcome: 50%  MOH
reimbursement and       implement cost accounting  of SUS-financed
accounting system by    systems in a significant  hospitasl possess cost-
revising AIH to reflect  number of SUS-financed   accounting system.
actual costs of services  hospitals
rendered and provide
disincentives for
unnecessary hospital
admissions by
developing a plan to
introduce cost
accounting systems in
SUS-financed hospitals
MOH
3. Established of                                 Strengthen and expand   Ensure that medium and
Regulatorv and                                    Regulatory and          high-complexity health
Appointment Centers                               Appointment Centers     referral facilities are linked
for health care (Centrais                        for health care         to at least one Rezulatorv
de Regulacdo) in                                                          and Appointment Center.
selected states to
improve referrals
among different levels
of care and reduce
opportunities for cream
skimming by providers
Improved utilization of
available physical
resources                 1. Created distance                               Continue offering       Expand coverage of                                 MEC
education program (TV                             distance education      distance education
Escola)                                           programs                programs
64



ISSUE        ~~~RECENT PRCES             . Ch~        ~                             -~~~OUTCOMES                                             4Lx":
-PSRL--f-                  PSRL!113'SR-I
2. Created a National                                                       Revise curricular                                   MEC
Programn for                                                                guidelines to include use of
Information Technology                                                      comnuters in the classroom
(PROINFO) to provide
schools with computer
labs and ongoing
training
3. Prepared proposal on                            Define referral and                                                          MOH
effective referral and                             counter-referral system
counter-referral system                            in which PSF teams
in the health sector.                              serve as gate keepers to
upper-level services______
Improve utilization of
available human resources
1. Established career   Protected in the approved  Allocate at least the    Allocate at least the same                          MEC,
plans for teachers      budget for FY03 at least   same budget as the       budget as the previous year                         MOF
(Pianos de Carreira)    the essential amount       previous year (in real  (in real termis) for
that are mandatory for  needed for: Fundescola HI  termns) for Fundescola HI  Fundescola HI and III
all states and          and III (R$ 62 million)    and III
municipalities                                                      .       Evidence of gradual                                 MEC
Explore alternative      improvement in teacher
policies to guide teacher  allocation, deployment and
denloyment and re-       re-training in selected
traininez through a study  states and municipalities
of experiences
2. Established rural                               Redesign in-service      Establish a continuous     Indicative outcome: No   MEG
teacher training                                   teacher training         school-based training      teacher in Brazil would
program (Profbrina0o)                              programs for             program focused on rural   be teaching without the
untrained teachers      teachers                    minimum requirements
utilizing information                               offormal training.
from the national
__ __ __ __ __   _ __ __ __ ____   __  __  __  __  __   testing.             -  _ _ _    -                                            _  _  _ _
65



ISS E   -- -RECENTPROGRESS:            ACtIONS AND                                                             -    .                    -n; pGLENC:
.-  . .   . .. -   +         -PROGRESS  -           -         ...                                         -
-+ .                **:           - BENCE..ARKS                                                       .          - 
--  >   .  sr -.,  .  .. ..............  -  . PSRI-I.  PSR Ljn--s                    PSRL-l .*- S-       Ii.
3. Imnplemented a                                    Introduce family health   Evidence of improved                                   MOH
human resource policy                                into the curriculums of   quality of PSF
to support the provision                             medical and nursing       vrofessionals; increased
of family health                                     schools and prepare       number of PSD
services (PSF)                                       regulations and           professionals graduate
standards governing       from certified programs in
training of family health  medical and nursing
professionals             schools.
Define methodology        Evidence of improved                                   MOH
and instrument for        quality and effectiveness
accreditation of PSF      of PSF teams; increased
teams                     number of accredited PSF
teams
66



ANNEX 3
EDUCATION SECTOR: PERFORMANCE, REFORMS AND ISSUES
During the last decade Brazil carred out several significant reforms aimed at improving the
coverage, quality and efficiency of its education system. As a result, today more children are in
school, parents and communities are gaining greater influence on the education system, more
resources are being made available to disadvantaged groups, and more young adults are able to
acquire new skills for a changing labor market. This Annex provides an overview of the major
improvements Brazil has made in education, the reforms that have catalyzed these advancements,
and the policy challenges that remain.
ACHIEVEMENTS
A dramatic increase in educational enrollment. The most clear and well known result of
recent education reforms in Brazil is the dramatic increase in enrollment that occurred between
1996 and 2001. Enrollment in basic education (Grades 1-8) increased from 33.1 million students
to 35.4 million students. Enrollment in creches (0-3 years) went up from 382,000 to 1.1 million,
and for preschool (4-6 years) from 4.1 million to 4.8 million. Meanwhile, coverage of upper-
secondary education (Grades 9-11) increased from 5.7 million students to 8.5 million students.
These achievements mark significant steps towards greater equity in Brazil, as the greatest gains
were made in Brazil's poorest regions, such as the North and Northeast.
Table 1. Enrollment in Basic Education in Brazil (Grades 1-8
1996             2001           Growth         Growth (%)
___ __ __  (Absolute)
North               2,820,531        3,283,197          462,666        16.4%
Northeast           10,475,469       12,475,608       2,000,139        19.1%
Southeast          12,958,674        12,677,719        -280,955        -2.2%
South               4,475,774        4,380,912          -94,862        -2.1%
Center-West         2,400,822        2,552,580          151,758         6.3%
Brazil              33,131,270       35,370,016        2,238,746        6.8%
Source: MEC/INEP, School Census 2001
Significant increases in school grade promotion rates. Between 1996 and 2000, schools in
Brazil significantly increased the passing rates of their students: in municipal systems by 8.8
percent and in state systems by 5.2 percent. Research shows that lower repetition rates reduce the
likelihood that children will drop out of school before completing the basic education. Moreover,
increases in the pass rate have a large direct impact on the level of efficiency of public resource
use. With approximately 21 million students enrolled in Grades 1-4 in Brazil, and every student
costing on average approximately US$ 1,200, every I percent of reduction in the number of
students who are held back to repeat a grade implies a saving of US$ 240 million.
A substantial rise in public expenditures in education. Public expenditures in education have
grown steadily over the past few years, rising from 4.2 percent of GDP in 1995 to 5.5 percent in
2000 (an overall increase of 30 percent). Municipalities as a group spent nearly R$ 24 billion in
education in the year 2000, nearly twice of what they were spending, in real terms, in 1995.
67



Table 2. Distribution of Education Expenditures by Level of Government (Billion of 2001
Reais)
1995          1997           1998          1999          2000
Amount   %    Amount    %    Amount   %    Amount    %    Amount   %
R$            R$             R$            R$             R$
Federal    10.96  24.9   10.85   21.3  11.98   20.2   12,74  20.9   11.41   17.9
State     20.99   47.7   24.65  48.4   27.48   46.3   26.61  43.6   28.46   44.6
Municipal  12.02  27.3   15.47   30.4  19.85   33.5   21.63  35.5   23.98   37.6
Total      43.97  100.0  50.97  100.0  49.31   100.0  60.98  100.0  63.85   100.0
Source. (1995) IPEA; 1997-2000 for Sub-National Spending (FIPE); 1997-2000 for Federal Spending (PODASEN).
MAJOR REFORMS
Brazil's achievements in education are the direct result of bold programs and policies carried out
in recent years at all levels of government. The federal government has played an important role
in prompting education reformns through policies directed at establishing standards for curriculum
and teacher qualifications, as well as through federal government educational spending. In
addition, a great number of municipal and state governments have complemented federal efforts
by utilizing their own budgets and autonomy to develop important initiatives and innovations.
The reforms that have contributed the most to the advancements outlined above are described in
the following paragraphs.
The 1996 National Education Law (LDB). In 1996, after a lengthy policy debate and building
on the lessons learned since adopting a new Constitution in 1988, Brazil approved a new national
educational law, the LDB. The LDB defines the roles and responsibilities of the three levels of
government with respect to the provision of education services, and stimulates innovation and
initiative on the part of sub-national governments. The law mandates that every public school in
Brazil meets acceptable minimum operational standards, including curriculum and teacher
qualification standards.  In terms of accountability, municipal governments were made
responsible for pre-school education and state governments for upper-secondary education
(grades 9-1 1). The provision of basic education (grades 1-8) became the joint responsibility of
state and municipal governments. The federal government was made responsible for national
policy formulation, for guaranteeing equitable access to education nationwide, and for providing
quality assurance in public schools.  The responsibility for producing and disseminating
educational statistics and student assessment was vested in the National Institute for Educational
Research and Studies (INEP). The Government devoted approximately R$152 million to
education statistics and research activities, enabling accurate data collection based on which more
efficient distribution of public resources could be attained.
FUNDEF.    Policy reforms also included the introduction of a simple mechanism linlcing
resources to student enrollment, the Fundo de ManutenVdo e Desenvolvimento do Ensino
Fundamental e de ValorizaVao do Magisterio (Fund for the Development and Maintenance of
Fundamental Education and Teacher Valorization - FUNDEF). Under this program, state and
municipal governments are obligated to contribute a certain earmarked proportion of their
revenues to the FUNDEF fund for each state. The resources are then distributed to the state and
municipal governments on the basis of the number of primary education students enrolled in the
fundamental cycle of basic education (grades 1-4).
Linking resources to student enrollment provided a clear and strong incentive for municipalities
and state governments to expand coverage. The impact of FUNDEF on municipal education
systems has been remarkable, leading to significant increases in enrollment particularly in the
68



North and Northeast regions, that have a large proportion of excluded children living in rural
areas where education services are traditionally provided by municipal systems. In the Southeast
region, and especially in the state of Sao Paulo, FUNDEF incentives induced municipalities to set
up or enhance their educational systems, as the absence of such systems implied loss of revenue
for these municipalities. For Brazil as a whole, municipal systems increased their share of total
public primary education enrollment by 20 percent, from 34 percent in 1996 to 54 percent in 2001
While FUNDEF does not redistribute resources on a national level, it has had a major impact on
reducing inequalities within states.
Fundescola. One federal program that has been useful for municipalities more for its technical
features than for the amount of federal resources provided, is the Fundescola program of school
improvement created in 1998. This program is based on the notion that schools must have some
autonomy over the use of resources in order to improve educational quality. Fundescola provides
a small discretionary budget to municipal and state basic schools located in the North, Northeast,
and Center-West regions. These federal funds are directly transferred to the schools. Fundescola
introduced a model of minimum operational standards to help guide school planning and
spending, and also developed the concept of micro-regions to foster municipalities, state and
federal governments to work together for the improvement of basic education. The current third
phase of the program focuses on the expansion of tested models of school improvement
experimented in a few schools, to all schools in the targeted municipalities. Stimulated by the
program, some states have invested their own resources in innovative joint state-municipal
programs such as teacher recruitment (Ceari), school improvement (Bahia) and student testing
(Pernambuco).
School Autonomy and Community Participation. In 1995 the Ministry of Education created
the Fundo Nacional de Desenvolvimento da Educacao (National Education Development Fund
(FNDE) to finance the Dinheiro na Escola (Money to School Program) aimed at further
strengthening school autonomy and reducing inequalities across municipalities. This program
transfers resources to school councils, based on school size and community participation.
Between 1996 and 1999, the federal transfers to school councils exceeded R$1 billion and
stimulated the creation of 50,000 additional school councils.
Assessment and Standards. Two other important Government strategies for improving
education quality and equity were adopted in Brazil in recent years. The first is the creation of an
enhanced education indicator system, and the second is the development of National Curriculum
Parameters for basic education. The education indicator system includes the National Basic
Education Evaluation System (SAEB), the annual school census system, and comprehensive
programs to disseminate student learning assessment results, education statistics and key
mdicators.  The development and publication of the National Curriculum  Parameters
complements these efforts by establishing learning standards for each of the eight grades of basic
education, thus facilitating the design of the SAEB test instruments. The publication and
distribution of these standards (over 1.5 million packages were distributed to all primary school
teachers) marked the first time in Brazilian history when a consensus was reached regarding
national basic education curriculum parameters. At the upper-secondary level, the Examen
National de EducaVdo Media (Upper-Secondary National Exam - ENEM), applied to high school
graduates, promotes school accountability and improves information for student choice. At the
tertiary education level, the establishment of the Exame Nacional dos Cursos or Provdo (Standard
National Test for University Programs) measuring the performance of graduates in over a dozen
disciplines, has dramatically raised public awareness about the quality of tertiary education. Test
results are disaggregated by institution and published, serving as a comparative indicator of the
outcomes of the various institutions. The most notable effect of Provao is that it provides much
69



more information on the quality of individual degree programs to potential students, creating
more informed educational consumers. In addition, Provgo collects every year reliable data on
the graduates covering their backgrounds, their attitudes toward their education, and their future
goals. This information, along with additional evaluation activities undertaken by the Ministry of
Education, strengthens the analytical base for higher education policy development.
MAIN CHALLENGES
Persistent Inequalities
One of the main challenges facing Brazil's education sector is the need to address the large
disparities in the educational quality across regions, states, municipalities, and schools. Even as
some better performing municipalities have driven up the average results for municipal systems
in the last few years, several municipalities still have very low education outcomes. Moreover,
schools located in different neighborhoods in a given municipality vary substantially in terms of
quality and performance. In effect, in many municipalities teachers are unqualified, inadequately
trained, or have low morale and commitment, and low expectations of their students. These
municipal schools are characterized by lack of appropriate reading and reference books, school
supplies, and other minimum requirements. School facilities tend to have inadequate ventilation,
lighting, or lack functioning toilets. Without functional schools, children are denied the free, basic
quality, compulsory education mandated by the Constitution and federal legislation. The
pervasiveness of inequality of educational services reflects residential patterns of economic
differentiation, such that the worst schools are those located in the neighborhoods in which the
poorest families live.  Thus, it is the poorest children who are denied basic educational
opportunities.
Access to higher levels of education is even more inequitable. For example, while a child of a
middle-class family tends to complete basic education and usually continues on to upper-
secondary education, the likelihood that a student from the lowest three income deciles completes
the fundamental cycle of basic education is only 15 percent. The probability that a child from a
poor background graduates from lower-secondary school is just 4 percent.  At the tertiary
education level, the free and high quality state-run higher education institutions attract a large
pool of qualified students that fiercely compete for entry given high and rising private rates of
return. The competitive struggle that ensues, results in admission of only one out of every nine
applicants, mostly those who benefited from knowledgeable parental guidance and especially
from a relatively high quality (private) secondary education.
There are also marked disparities in the quality of urban and rural education. Rural areas
concentrate high incidence of poverty and inadequate basic services. Compared to elsewhere in
Brazil, there are striking deficiencies in rural education of three main types. First, pass rates in
primary school are extremely low. In 1998 the average urban pass rate in Brazil was 82 percent,
meaning that an average student has at least a 50 percent chance of repeating at least one grade
before completing fourth grade. Pass rates in rural areas are nearly 20 percent lower, reflecting
the serious quality issues. Second, the learning gap, as measured by the SAEB, among rural
students is much larger than the national average. Compared to urban students, rural children
have lower net enrollments (91 percent versus 96 percent), have much lower average promotion
rates (66 percent versus 82 percent), and are less likely to attain the minimum performance
standard in 4h grade mathematics (39 percent versus 57 percent) and in 4h grade Portuguese (25
percent versus 43 percent). Finally, rural children are disadvantaged in terms of basic school
resources, such as qualified teachers. In 1998, only two percent of the teaching force in urban
70



areas had less than lower-secondary education, whereas in rural schools as much as 34 percent of
teachers fall into this category.
Less than Satisfactory Quality and Efficiency
Brazil has made significant progress in recent years in combating grade repetition, and repetition
rates have declined by nearly 30 percent on average since 1995. The greatest gains are observed
in the poorest regions of the country. These improvements in system efficiency, coupled with
lower birth rates, opens a window of opportunity for quality improvements as it means that the
number of students enrolled in fundamental cycle will decline over the next few years, allowing
for expenditure per student to increase.
Albeit these efficiency gains, Brazil has yet a long way to go in improving education outcomes.
In fact, Brazil scored lowest of all 38 countries that participated in the OECD Program for
International Student Assessment (PISA 2000), confirming the national results of SAEB. The
1999 SAEB test of fourth grade reading skills shows that the average student achieves only the
most basic level in the national learning proficiency scale; in mathematics, less than half of the 4h
graders exceeded the minimum performance level in the proficiency scale.
Since 1980, Brazil has gradually increased expenditures aimed at improving the quality of
education, and this trend accelerated in the last decade. As a result, basic education completion
rates (grade 8) nearly tripled, from 12 to 38 percent during the. 1980-2001 period. Nevertheless,
basic education completion rates in the poorest regions remain well below the national average.
In fact, the proportion of 15 to 19 year olds in 1996 who made it through to the 8th grade in the
Northeast (60%), North (78%) and Center West (82%), compares poorly with completion rates in
the Southern region (about 98%). Differences in fundamental cycle (4'" grade) completion rates
between the Fundescola regions and the South are even greater. Thus, Brazil faces a clear
challenge in the poorest region of providing opportunities and support for children to learn,
helping students succeed in learning enough each year to be promoted to the subsequent grade
level, and encouraging all children to complete at least the fundamental cycle of basic education.
This entails achieving a substantial change in teaching and classroom pedagogy, which is an
extremely difficult task in a country the size of Brazil. The Federal government has little direct
leverage, because public basic education is the responsibility of state and municipal governments.
To effectively improve the quality of schooling, the federal government must mobilize the 27
states and 5,561 municipal governments, proving them with incentives to carry out the necessary
reforns and investments.
Basic education outcomes are strongly influenced by early childhood development, and one of the
weakest links in education services provided in Brazil is early childhood education. Research and
practice from around the world have generated a large body of evidence showing that children
who start first grade after having participated in developmentally-based early childhood programs
or activities have a much better chance to succeed in school. The available preschool programs in
Brazil serve predominantly older children from wealthier families who live in urban areas and
have better educated parents. State incentives to expand early child programs more equitably, are
needed in order to reduce the disparities in education opportunities that lead to the exclusion of
the poor.
Low Coverage of Upper-Secondary Education
The labor market in Brazil is demanding higher levels of schooling from entry-level workers, as
is the case elsewhere in the global economy. Evidence of these requirements is given by the high
71



rates of retuum to upper-secondary education, which have grown faster than retums to tertiary
education in recent years. Still, the average Brazilian worker has only about 6 years of schooling,
which limits not only their own labor market prospects but also the level of competitiveness of
the country as a whole.
Given recent trends in completion rates for basic education and the increased pressure from the
labor market, Brazil can expect to see a significant increase in the demand for upper-secondary
schooling. Addressing this challenge involves substantial costs that impact on the budgets of all
levels of government. The expansion of public education services at this level must also address
the fact that almost 95 percent of the 5h through 8th grade students and nearly 99 percent of the
upper-secondary students, live in urban areas and nearly two out of three upper-secondary
students are enrolled in night schools, because most of them are over-age and combine work with
school.
The Need to Strengthen Institutional Capacity
State and municipal govemments manage limited budgets for education and can only raise
investment to improve the quality of education and expand the supply of preschool and upper-
secondary education by strengthening their institutional capacity and by making steady gains in
internal efficiency of education programs.  In fact, many municipal governments lack the
necessary institutional capacity, which is hampered by several factors including: the lack of
clarity in the division of labor between state and municipal authorities; inefficient organizational
structure and weak leadership at municipal secretariats of education due to less than adequate
training and skills-mix of administrative, technical and managerial staff. These deficiencies are
compounded by the lack efficient management systems, the wide proliferation of 'stand alone'
programs and governing bodies, an insufficiently developed inter-governmental communications
and coordination.
Renewed efforts on the part of the federal government to provide technical assistance to sub-
national govemments and to promote better coordination among all levels of government
continue to be an important priority to advance the education reform agenda.
Inefficient Higher Education
The Brazilian higher education system is characterized by high public expenditures, low coverage
and relatively poor outcomes that ill match the country's requirements of highly skilled labor.
Less than satisfactory performance has persisted in spite of high returns to university education
registered during the past decade in Brazil. In general, the system favors well-to-students and the
inefficient use of public resources. Free and high quality public higher education institutions
attract a large pool of qualified youth, mostly from upper income levels, who fiercely compete for
entry, causing qualified but poorer students to seek admission in private fee-charging institutions
where the quality of instruction can be dubious. The government spends 24 percent of its large
education budget in public higher education, but inefficiencies inflate per student costs lowing the
benefits of public spending. In 1998, per student costs in federal universities reached 347 percent
of GDP per capita, by far the highest in the world. In every other OECD country, outlays per
student/year fall below 100 percent of GDP per capita. Basic and applied research suffer from a
general lack of qualified staff, especially at the doctoral level. Public funds for science and
technology are supplied irregularly, significantly lowering the potential to generate valuable
outcomes. Links between research and the private sector are weak, and property rights on
research findings and patents are not well protected, thus reducing the already modest incentives
for investment in research.
72



THE UNFINISHED EDUCATION REFORM AGENDA
Accountability and Efficiency
The very successful reforms that Brazil engaged in were mostly focused at reorganizing the
functioning of a system that was dramatically disorganized and, most importantly, the reforms
were especially interested in attracting children to school. While these reforms achieved their
objectives, the next stage of reform needs to focus on efficient outcomes: achieving more with the
amount of resources that are available. Making the basic education system more efficient will
require creative management and deployment of teachers, innovative use of financial incentives
at the federal level to foster equitable policies at the sub-national levels, flexibility in curricular
and administrative arrangements in schools, and targeted efforts to continue to improve the
internal inefficiencies (repetition, drop-outs) within the system. The cost of repetition is simply
too high and its positive effects are non-existent. The World Bank/IDB Secondary Education
Study in Brazil (2000) calculated that the cost of repetition, when factored to the costs of
producing a graduate, elevate the per-student expenditures in about 106%, thus, consuming
valuable resources. Taking steps to achieve higher efficiency will release the much needed
resources to finance the urgent expansion of secondary education and the improvements in
quality in primary education. This outcome-based perspective of education makes the system and
its actors more accountable to society and more equitable for all the population.
Expansion of Preschool Education
Research findings in Brazil and several other countries show that early educational interventions
targeted to four to six-year-old children can improve their chances of attaining higher levels of
education, reduce their grade repetition rates, and increase the probability of higher future
earnings. Returns to preschool investments are estimated at 12 to 15 percent. In Brazil there is
evidence that charging fees for preschool education is acceptable to all except the poor families.
Given these circumstances, public investment to expand the supply of preschool education, if
carefully targeted to poor young children, seem fully justified. Although the Brazilian legislation
guarantees free preschool for every child, the country has not yet developed a viable strategy to
attain this goal. As a first step, the federal government should provide financial incentives to
municipal governments for the provision or expansion of subsidized developmentally-oriented
preschool programs targeted to children of the poorest families.
Support for Disadvantaged Children
The education legislation in Brazil stipulates that small schools shall only exist where there is no
other option. This prescription discriminates against the provision of schooling in small, isolated
rural areas. Accordingly, many sub-national governments have closed down rural schools,
forcing children to travel long distances from home to attend classes in other areas. As the
majority of extremely poor children live in rural areas, the lack of education opportunities in rural
areas exacerbate inequality. The families of poor rural children have great difficulty overcoming
personal hardships to send their sons and daughters to school. Compared with children in urban
areas, rural children have lower net enrollments (91 percent versus 96 percent), much lower
average promotion rates (66 percent versus 82 percent), and are considerably less likely to attain
the 175-point SAEB minimum performance standard in 4h grade mathematics (39 percent versus
57 percent) and in 4" grade Portuguese (25 percent versus 43 percent). State and municipal
governments need to be practical and fair in addressing this challenge, to ensure that all children,
especially the rural and poor, have the opportunity to complete a basic education of adequate
73



quality. Reform measures in this area should start by a review of the national policies which
discourage the provision of basic schooling in rural areas. Next, successful interventions made by
several municipal and state governments throughout the country should be encouraged and
disseminated. And third, targeted, demand-side, conditional cash subsidies to give poor families
incentives to send their children to school, such as Bolsa Escola, should be expanded and
strengthened.
Quality Improvement
Despite the unprecedented increases in primary school coverage, the combination of low
efficiency and quality of schooling plagues Brazil's long term prospects for growth and limits
young people's opportunities. Due to high grade repetition rates, only two out of three children
complete the 8t" grade, spending ten years on average to do so, and costing Brazil 20 percent
more than it should, even excluding the cost of educating dropouts. In terms of education
quality, Brazil performed worst among 38 countries on the OECD Program for Intemational
Student Assessment (PISA 2000), and its own SAEB tests demonstrate that most students score
below minimum standards in reading and math.
The federal government is the position to provide incentives to states and municipalities for the
use of effective schooling practices to raise the quality and efficiency of basic education. These
incentives should be outcome-oriented and should include the setting performance targets for
schools, holding schools accountable for student outcomes, and encouraging the use of effective
models that combine curriculum standards, leaming assessments, development planning, quality
assurance, school autonomy, greater professional development of teachers, assured availability
and use of books and didactic materials, and increased parental engagement.
Equity Enhancement
Millions of children attending public schools throughout Brazil lack basic educational
opportunities that are available to children attending schools in the most developed regions of the
country, or even in the better endowed schools within the same jurisdictions. These children are
at a risk of education exclusion because they attend schools that lack qualified teachers,
appropriate or an adequate number of reading books or didactic materials, are poorly furnished,
and had huge infrastructure deficiencies such as leaking roofs, broken windows, no toilets, or
water fountains. Because children tend to frequent schools that reflect the residential patterns of
economic differentiation, the schools where these manifestly substandard conditions exist tend to
be attended by children from families living at or below the poverty line, exacerbating
educational, and ultimately, economic disparities.
Local governments need to reduce educational inequities by defining a set of quality standards for
schooling, use these standards as a yardstick for evaluating and improving the schools across their
systems, and aggressively targeting additional capital expenditures and professional training for
teachers and school leaders to those schools that fall furthest below the standard. The benchmark
ought to consist of a predetermined set of essential teaching inputs, instructional conditions, and
other basic resources considered necessary for a school to be able to provide learning
opportunities for all of its students. By adopting an investment strategy based on this model,
local governments would be able to prioritize investments on the worst schools and raise quality
and improving equity levels throughout the system.
74



Expansion of Upper-Secondary Education
The net enrollment ratio in upper-secondary school in Brazil is 40 percent of the 15 to 18 age
group. This rates is significantly below the Latin American average of 50 percent. Yet, evidence
from cross country data suggests that improvements in upper-secondary education access and
quality yield the greatest payoff for average middle income countries such as Brazil. Demand for
upper-secondary shows a rising trend as a result of the observed improvements in basic education
promotion rates and higher educational requirements in the labor market. The feasibility of
expanding the supply at this level of education has improved due to higher internal efficiency in
basic education and the demographic transition, both of which lower the investment requirements
for primary education. The savings accruing from this process can be reallocated to expanding
higher-secondary education.
State governments that choose to use this window of opportunity to expand investments in upper-
secondary education, should consider providing for improvements in the quality of schooling at
the 5k" through 8'h grade levels, particularly for students from rural areas or very poor families,
while increasing coverage in grades 9 through 11 in urban areas. Mechanisms to achieve this
expansion in coverage and quality would include improvmg nighttime upper-secondary
schooling, expanding distance education, collaborating with private school systems, and
leveraging lower-secondary education to far more students.
Improvement of Higher Education
The most technologically developed industries in Brazil increasingly demand workers with higher
levels of skill. Similarly, the public sector also requires higher skills from its teachers, doctors,
nurses and administrators to improve public service delivery and promote further social
development. However, the higher education system has not been responsive to this increased
demand, even though the shortage of advanced human capital has fuelled high and rising returns
to higher education over the last decade. The key problems of low coverage amid high demand
for graduates, striking disparities in equity, low efficiency, reduced relevance, and inefficient
funding of science and technology need to be addressed through a comprehensive set of policies
and programs that can be carried out without jeopardizing fiscal stability. Some of the priority
measures to achieve these goals include to: improve public higher education quality; facilitate
entry into private tertiary education by strengthening the market surrounding the private provision
of higher education; devise cross-subsidy schemes to expand access for qualified students from
lower socio-economic strata. Several intemational experiences can be leveraged to inform policy
formulation. For example, other countries have had positive results from the introduction of cost-
recovery measures that generate additional resources which are in part directed to fund
scholarships for poor students.  Other intemational evidence suggests that shorter higher
education programs, that are of good quality and are technically oriented, can enhance education
relevance and regional development. Intemal efficiency and quality in higher education have
improved in several countries with the introduction of performance based funding, which shifts
resources from poorly performing mstitutions to the best managed and thereby encourages
improvements m efficiency through increased coverage, more equitable access and increased
relevance within the given budget ceilings.
The linkage between public research and the needs of the private sector should be strengthened.
To enhance the relevance of public research, Brazil should increasingly rely on competitive,
transparent and sustainable funding mechanisms favoring strategic sectors where Brazil holds
competitive advantages.
75



ANNEX 4
HEALTH SECTOR REFORMS
In 2000, total health expenditures were estimated at US$46 billion, or about 8.3 percent of GDP.
Public sources account for 40 percent of spending while private health plans and out-of-pocket
spending make up 28 and 32 percent respectively. Total health spending as a percent of GDP
places Brazil in the upper fifth of Latin American countries. However, system performance does
not correspond to spending levels. An analysis by the World Health Organization (WHO) based
on 1997 spending, found that Brazil should register a disability-adjusted life expectancy, a
measure of overall system performance, of 65 years compared to the observed 59 years. This
suggests inefficiencies in resource use and allocation.
Looking at public spending, in 1999 the federal government was the source of approximately 59
percent of all spending, with states account for 17 percent, and municipalities for 24 percent.
There is a trend toward increased municipal cost sharing driven m part by the incentive structure
of a federal grant transfer system introduced during the late 1990s. In general, government
spending is moderately progressive with 50 percent of spending directed to the poorest two
quintiles. However, at least 15 percent of the Unified Health System (Sistema Unico de Satude -
SUS) spending goes to the top three income deciles, mostly for expensive treatments. The overall
public subsidy for the well-off is much higher if tax deductions to furms and individuals for
purchasing private health plans are considered.
In the mid-1980s Brazil embarked on a far-reaching reform process that changed the structure,
organization and financing of the health sector, resulting in the Unified Health System (SUS).
Implemented in incremental fashion over a 17-year period, the reform process has consisted of
three phases or waves. The first wave of reform (1984 through 1989) focused on inter-
institutional restructuring, decentralization to the state level, establishment of mechanisms for
social participation, and setting of universality (the right to health) as the emerging system's core
value. The second wave (1990-1995) emphasized the consolidation of a unified system (SUS),
"municipalization" of service delivery, and implementation of financial mechanisms for
allocation of federal funds. The third wave (1996-2001) aimed to reorient the health care model
for basic care, separate institutional roles, enact legal and regulatory changes, and introduce
alternative payment mechanisms to support basic care.
The reform has tackled a number of systemic problems, but others remained unsolved and new
challenges have come to the fore. The government is poised to launch the implementation of a
fourth wave of reforms that will build upon the lessons learned from previous phases and draw on
a financing and organizational framework derived from recently approved regulations and
legislation.
Reform Achievements
Some of the key achievements of the reform follow:
* The main strategy and feature of Brazil's health reform (Reforma Sanitaria) has been the
decentralization of service provision from the federal government to municipalities, and
to a lesser extent, state governments. This process has been mostly successful. A majority
of municipalities currently manage some or all public facilities and are responsible for the
provision of basic health services in their territories. In December, 2001, 89 percent
municipalities were qualified for the Gestdo Plena da AtenVdo Bdsica, and 10 percent for
76



the Gestdo Plena do Sistema Municipal (MS/SAS, 2002). An indirect and praiseworthy
consequence of this process has been the steady increase in municipalities' contribution
to health finance (increasing from 7 percent of public spending in 1980 to over 15 percent
in 2000).
* The reform established mechanisms fostering social participation in the definition of
priorities and oversight of service provision. This is done through "Councils" established
at municipal, state and federal levels. More recently, the Ministry has initiated consumer
feedback instruments to gauge technical quality and patient satisfaction with publicly-
financed hospitals.
*  Inequalities in resource allocation across states have been reduced. Poor states and
municipalities currently receive a greater share of federal resources than before the
reform. For example, between 1997 and 2001 total per capita public spending in the
Northern and Northeastern regions increased by 113 and 133 percent respectively, while
spending in the South and Southeastern regions increased by 60 and 70 percent. The
introduction of per capita payments (Piso Assistencial Basico - PAB) in the mid-1 990s to
finance basic care and an array of pro-poor programs has directed comparatively more
funding to poorer regions while encouraging cost sharing by municipalities and states.
*  The overall effectiveness of the public health system has improved in part because of
reorientation of the service provision model and introduction of efforts to coordinate
referrals among levels of care. In the mid-1990s, the Ministry of Health (MOH)
introduced an outreach-oriented health care model that places greater emphasis on the
provision of basic care services and preventive care (Family Health/PSF and Programa
de Agentes Comunitdrios/PACS programs) at the community level. The PSF covered 35
percent of the population by mid-2002. Although not a program exclusively for the poor,
the MOH has prioritized implementation in areas where access to basic care is limited. In
2001, the MOH began to establish Regulatory and Appointment Centers (Centrais de
Regula,do) in several states to rationalize referrals and reduce risk selection (cream
skimming) opportunities by providers. Finally, the MOH has implemented a human
resource development policy aimed at strengthening the supply and quality of personnel
providing preventive and basic care services.
* Modifications to the legal and regulatory frameworks governing public sector
decentralization and the private health insurance market. The Operational Regulations for
Health Care (NOAS 01/02) redefined inter-government responsibilities and functions,
established a transparent inter-governmental process of budgetary and investment
planning and reorganized delivery systems into micro-regions to improve system
effectiveness. Private insurance legislation (Laws 9.656 of 1998 and 9.961 of 2000)
constitutes an important step to improve market performance by establishing standards
for licensure of private plans including solvency and reporting requirements, grievance
procedures and benefits definition.
* Policies and management tools have been adopted to improve efficiency of service
organization and provision. One such policy was the change in the relative
reimbursement values of normal deliveries and cesareans, which resulted in a significant
reduction of the number of c-sections. Another innovation was the price database (Banco
de Pre,os), which has helped state and municipal managers to purchase inputs at lower
prices.
77



* As service provision was decentralized the MOH strengthened its stewardship function
through policy-making, regulation, improved information gathering and analysis, priority
setting, and development of mechanisms to set targets and goals. The MOH has improved
monitoring through the introduction of inter-governmental agreements, such as the Basic
Health Agreement (Pacto de Aten,cdo Bdsica), that sets targets and serves as a basis to
assess municipal performance in basic care.
These as well as other achievements have contributed to significant improvements in health for
Brazilians, as health indicators have improved significantly. Over the last 10 years, infant
mortality (IMR) has decreased by 38 percent (from 48 to 30). The much poorer Northeastern
Region has benefited equally with a 40 percent reduction in IMR during this time period (down to
48). Mortality from vaccine-preventable diseases in children is now negligible and diarrheal
diseases are the cause of only 7 percent of all deaths among children <5. Mortality from
infectious diseases and parasites for the entire population has decreased substantially, accounting
for only 6 percent of all deaths in 1998. At the same time the total fertility rate has decreased to
2.2 per 1000 live births. The changing mortality patterns and decrease in fertility have contributed
to an increase in life expectancy.
While Brazil has a relatively high incidence of HIV/AIDS compared to the rest of Latin America,
the number of new cases annually has now leveled off. Brazil has also reduced mortality and
hospitalizations due to the disease at a relatively low cost, thanks to a combination of aggressive
prevention and education campaigns, a policy of delivering medical treatment and drugs free to
all patients, and the local production of critical drugs.
The Unfuiished Agenda
Despite these specific successes, the health system still faces structural and organizational
challenges:
Persistent Inequities. Substantial disparities still exist in health status, health financing and
service utilization among regions, states and municipalities within states, income groups and
between urban and rural areas. Infant mortality still varies considerably across states and
municipalities. Per capita public expenditure as well as private expenditure is still concentrated in
the richer states which relates to the concentration of hospitals and high complexity services.
Utilization rates of the well-off (highest quintile) is double that of worse-off (lowest quintile).
These disparities are especially important for certain types of services such as dental care and
high complexity procedures.
Indirect public subsidies to well-off Brazilians also contribute to inequity. Private pre-payment
plans have an incentive to provide less than comprehensive coverage to their enrollees, and send
their enrollees to SUS-financed services for the uncovered (and usually high-cost). At least 15
percent of SUS spending is consumed by the well-off (top three income deciles), mostly for
expensive treatments. This in turn displaces resources for the worse-off. Government efforts to
recuperate these costs from private plans have yet to produce robust results, mostly because of a
lack of reliable data on the actual costs of the services provided. A significant subsidy to the well-
off is also provided through income tax breaks to compensate for private health care expenses.
Referral services and high complexity care are generally concentrated in the Southeast region and
in large metropolitan areas while hospital-based, high-technology procedures consume a large
proportion of SUS expenditures. SUS has had less success improving the equity of financing for
78



medium and complex services than for basic care. This situation results from a combination of
payment and budgetary mechanisms within SUS that favor the delivery of complex care in states
and municipalities with historically high levels of installed hospital capacity. For example, the
hospital billing system (Autoriza,do de Interna,do Hospitalar -- AIH) combined with federally-
imposed financial caps mainly favors regions where significant hospital infrastructure exists
(such as in the South and Southeastern regions). It does not consider other distributive factors
such as socio-economic, demographic and epidemiological conditions. In short, the payment
systems perpetuates the existing resource distribution patterns, consolidating inequalities.
A disproportional financial burden falls on the poor, especially for the purchase of drugs. In
principle, drugs are supplied free to those who use SUS-financed services. In practice, most drug
consumption is purchased out-of-pocket. Drug purchases represent nearly 10 percent of income in
families earning less than 2 minimum wages per month. Out-of-pocket payments for medical care
(such as physician and hospital services) are generally low, except for dental care. This is a result
of coverage expansion by SUS and private plans over the last two decades.
While the recently approved constitutional amendment (Emenda Constitucional EC-29) is
expected to significantly increase funding for the sector, it will not necessarily reduce
inequalities. Because most of the increase in financial resources triggered by EC-29 will occur at
the state and municipal levels, the health systems in wealthier and more fiscally sound states and
municipalities may be the main beneficiaries. Nevertheless, this may also be an opportunity for
the federal government to reduce the proportion of its funds allocated to these states, redirecting
more resources to poorer states and municipalities.
Lack of Performance Orientation. Improving the efficiency, effectiveness and quality of
service provision has not been a major objective of reform. As suggested above, the emphasis has
been on implementing measures to improve access and equity. The decentralization process has
generally relied on norms, administrative procedures and information requirements for executing
grant transfers and certifying municipalities and states for decentralized "management" (of
transfers and corresponding programs and services). These were perhaps necessary first steps.
However, there has been an overemphasis by the MOH on specifying inputs used, feeding
information systems and fulfilling bureaucratic procedures. Service managers have few incentives
to use resources well or provide quality care. Setting performance benchmarks (regarding
efficiency, effectiveness and quality), providing financial incentives to achieve them, and
monitoring and evaluating results are important next steps.
Patient satisfaction, quality, and effectiveness. While centers of excellence in health care exist in
Brazil, SUS-financed services - whether provided in public or private sectors - are widely
perceived as sufferng from low quality and effectiveness. The general population perceives SUS
quality as lower than in the non-SUS-financed private sector. While improving technical quality
has not been a central tenet of health reforms, the MOH, the private sector and individual
facilities have initiated small-scale programs to introduce and promote a culture of quality
improvement. Dysfunctional referral systems and lack of integration between curative and
preventive care contribute to poor case management, and discontinuity of care.
Efficiency andperformnance incentives. SUS financing and payment mechanisms for medium and
high complexity services are based mainly on the production of services and are unrelated to
results or health outcomes. Organization and management-especially the budget and planning
system-focus on financial control and provision of inputs rather than performance and
efficiency. Facility and local managers are encumbered by a multitude of financial controls, data
79



requirements, and mandated reporting, while having little autonomy to reallocate resources or
define priorities.
Resource allocation and use. Although the proportion of health care spending, both public and
private, that goes to curative and hospital care has been declining in recent years, it remains high.
Unlike health care systems elsewhere, general practitioners or family physicians do not play an
important role in Brazil's health system4 which as a rule is very much directed toward specialized
care. Payment mechanisms tend to encourage hospital and complex care. Health authorities are
encouraging the transfer of some hospital procedures to ambulatory settings (eye and other small
surgeries, for exanple), but much more could be done.
Variations in spending, quality, and practice patterns across the delivery system, especially in
hospitals, suggest inefficiencies in resource use. Nationally, there is an overcapacity in hospital
services (average occupation rate below 48 percent) and an oversupply of complex diagnostic
services, while emergency rooms are often used as entry points to the health system and referral
hospitals are crowded with patients with simple conditions. An estimated 30 percent of SUS-
financed hospitalizations are for conditions that could be treated at lower cost in an ambulatory
setting. Also, an unanticipated and undesirable result of decentralization was the construction of a
large number of small hospitals by municipal authorities. Many of these facilities are
economically unviable and lack the population base to reach a minimally acceptable occupation
rate. Most lack the personnel and equipment to meet minimal quality standards.
Finally, SUS reimbursement levels for hospital care are unrelated to actual costs, which
frequently are unknown, and tend to overcompensate complex procedures (such as transplants)
and under-compensate simple ones. This mismatch encourages both public and private providers
under SUS to specialize in better-paid procedures and may even encourage fraud.
Continued Fragmentation. Although the reform was able to improve inter-governmental
coordination, it also has contributed to other types of fragmentation that are manifested both
geographically and technically. First, considerable variation exists in the progress of states and
municipalities in fulfilling their new roles. Many still lack (and probably will for the foreseeable
future) the financial, managerial and technical capacity to comply with administrative
requirements and discharge the responsibilities vested in them, particularly in terms of
governance (states) and service management (municipalities). Poor state oversight and political
rivalries also contribute to slow progress. Second, the system continues to suffer from lack of
integration among programs and among levels of care (basic care, medium complexity services,
and high complexity services) in part because payment mechanisms are complex and vary
considerably. For example, some mechanisms pay for production, others pay for coverage, and
still others pay on a per capita basis. In short, municipal managers face a set of incentive that are
at best unclear, at worse, contradictory.
Federal funds are transferred to municipalities through 78 different mechanisms or programs,
many of them linked to specific administrative requirements, planning and control instruments.
The reform process intended to correct this fragmentation (and has consolidated a number of
programs), but the payment mechanisms perpetuate it. The transaction costs associated with this
is likely to be significant, especially given the low planning and monitoring capacity of most
states and municipalities. Also, the fragmentation of resources (and corresponding payment
mechanisms) by program and type of care (hospitalization, diagnostic services, basic care) is
detrimental to achieving a comprehensive approach to health care. The expanded basic health
care package (Piso Assistencial Bdsico Ampliado -- PAB-A), stipulated in the NOAS 01/02, seeks
to expand the basic service package to include "Ml" services (mainly first level diagnostic care),
80



and pay for it through a single capitation payment. This is a major step in the right direction, but
more consolidation is possible.
The Limits of Decentralization. Many municipalities were ill-prepared for the large transfer of
responsibilities that came with decentralization. Together with the multiple payment system, full-
fledged "municipalization" is increasingly seen as a main cause of system fragmentation, as
manifested in service duplication, overbuilt capacity, and the loss of economies of scale and
resulting higher operating costs. Many municipalities lack the capacity to effectively manage
basic care. Most will be unable to manage the expanded (PAB-A) package of services. The
NOAS 01/02 proposes the grouping of municipalities into micro-regions as a means to integrate
service delivery. The proposal represents a mid-course correction aimed at reducing this
fragmentation and can be seen as a step back from municipalization. The success of the micro-
regional proposal will depend on municipal buy-in, sharing and specialization of facilities,
reorientation of financial flows, and clear role definition and differentiation among states, micro-
regions, and municipalities. It is clear that some type of inter-municipal organizational
arrangement, probably at the micro-regional level, will be needed to manage (or purchase) service
delivery in shared and specialized facilities. A testing period may be warranted as each state
attempts to find the proper balance between autonomy at the municipal level and coordination
and enforcement of national policies. State leadership, as mandated by NOAS 01/02, will be key
to the successful design and implementation of regionalization models.
Ambiguous Institutional Roles. States are potentially key players in the system, and given the
size of Brazil are the logical entities to oversee health care organization and delivery of their
municipalities. However, the role of the State Health Secretariats (Secretaria Estadual de Saude -
- SES) vis-a-vis the MOH and municipalities within SUS is ambiguous. Traditionally, SESs have
focused on the direct provision of services and, more recently, the monitoring and control of
federal financial transfers. However, under decentralization many hospital facilities and all basic
care services were turned over to municipal management while most federal transfers bypass the
state level. Most states have not developed the technical and managerial capacity to fulfill their
main functions in SUS: planning, coordinating, monitoring and evaluating the implementation of
national policies and delivery of municipal-managed services. Many still focus on the
management of hospitals and their employees. Moreover, SESs are in a weak position. The de-
linking of the states as an intermediary in resource flows provides a disincentive for
municipalities to comply with state mandates.
Innovation without Evaluation. SUS managers and policymakers tend to focus on planning rather
than evaluation. Local and facility managers favor experimentation. Many potentially interesting
experiences are designed, implemented, and sometimes abandoned (for various reasons) without
proper evaluation. In particular, there is little systematic information about the costs, efficiency,
and quality of health care provision. Referred to as the "silent reform," these experiences
represent a great source for best practices research in improving efficiency and quality.
Addressing the Demographic and Epidemiological Transition. Brazilians are living longer
and they are much less likely to die from communicable diseases. Non-communicable diseases
(NCDs) are now the leading causes of death with cardiovascular diseases, injuries and cancer the
top three causes, accounting for 62 percent of all deaths. NCDs represent 75 percent of the Years
of Productive Life Lost in Brazil. The population is increasingly urbanized with 80 percent of
Brazilians living in cities. This urbanization has contributed to changes in life-style (such as
sedentary behavior, diet high in fats and carbohydrates, cigarette smoking and substance abuse)
that increase the risk of developing NCDs at an earlier age. Urbanization and crowding also
contribute to a much higher risk of intentional and unintentional injuries. This shift in the burden
81



of disease means that the costs of health services will increasingly be related to NCDs which are
more expensive to treat (often requiring costly technical interventions) and are usually chronic,
requiring long-term management. However, the development of public health programs needed to
promote health and prevent NCDs, as well as the health services needed to screen for, manage
and control NCDs before they cause serious harm are just beginning to take shape in Brazil, and
should receive more attention in the years to come.
A NEW WAVE OF HEALTH REFORMS
Brazil has chosen an incremental path to reform. Two recent measures, the Constitutional
Amendment 29 (EC-29) and the Normas Operacionais de Aten,co a Saude (NOAS 01/02),
together with the Family Health Program, set the stage for the gradual implementation of a new
wave of health reforms. These measures were approved after considerable discussion within
government and consultation with civil society. Approved by Congress in 2000, EC-29 seeks to
address the traditionally low levels of financing for SUS, mandating an increase in federal, state,
and municipal contributions to health care.
Building on the Norma Operacional Basica from 1996, NOAS 01/02 regulations aim to
systematically address several health sector concerns by reorienting resource allocation,
institutional roles, and service organization and delivery. NOAS 01/02 defines a regionalization
strategy that groups municipalities into microregions for pooling and optimizing resources,
especially for referral services of medium complexity. The rules also set criteria for transfers
across micro-regions, expand the package of basic services (PAB-A), increase the capitation rates
for this package, and establish management tools (such as improved budget planning or
ProgramaVdo Pactuada Integrada, the investment plan, and the Basic Health Agreement to
improve planning and performance. Finally, NOAS 01/02 assign a greater role to the states in
monitoring and evaluating municipalities' performance.
Launched in 1994, the Family Health Program is the platform on which the government seeks to
restructure the organization and provisions of publicly financed health care. The government
plans to convert the passive-provider, facility-based basic care system to an active-provider,
outreach model in which family health care providers deliver quality basic heath care to
households and communities. The model aims to create a more efficient delivery system by
focusing on prevention and early treatment, and using the Family Health Program as the gateway
to higher level services.
Implementing these changes will be a daunting task. The current fiscal crisis may delay
implementation of CA-29 and the Family Health Program. Whether the NOAS-mandated
regionalization strategy will realign incentives, establish clear lines of accountability, and
rationalize the patchwork of organizational arrangements, programs and payment mechanisms is
an open question.
During the past two decades Brazil has identified problems in the health system and forged
reforms to solve them. However, inattention to implementation strategies, lack of institutional
capacity, especially at the state and municipal levels, lapses in policy oversight, and the
emergence of new problems have resulted m an unfinished reform agenda. Within the framework
provided by Amendment 29, NOAS 01/02, and the Family Health Program, the following policy
recommendations focus on these gaps and present alternatives for meeting the challenges ahead.
82



POLICY OPTIONS
(i) Raise equity through improved resource alocation and targeting of health subsidies.
Health sector reforms have reduced inequalities in resource allocation across states and
lowered mortality rates among children and adults. To reduce the remaining disparities in
health status, health financing, and service utilization across regions, states, and
municipalities; and between urban and rural areas, a solution could be the formulation and
implementation of equity-enhancing health financing policy with the following features:
(a) Establish monitoring system to tract how states and municipalities are allocating and
spending EC-29 mandated resources;
(b) Develop resource allocation models for the per capita distribution of federal funds
according to level of care and based on some criteria of need. A good place to start is to
set a needs-adjusted spending floor for basic care, reallocating federal resources to
municipalities on a sliding-scale basis that in turn relates to local revenue generation
resulting from EC-29;
(c) Require private insurers to pay full-cost of services provided to enrollees treated in public
clinics and hospital. This measures implies developing and implementing a standardized
cost-accounting system to estimate the actual cost of services rendered; and,
(d) Reduce or eliminate income tax breaks for private (individual and family) health
expenditures; this would require an analysis of the beneficiaries of these tax breaks.
(ii) Increase the patient satisfaction, efficiency, quality of service provision through
establishing a system-wide performance orientation. Despite great strides in recent years
to improve the organization and provision of care, the system is still hampered by low
performance, especially in terms of efficiency, effectiveness and quality. Traditionally,
insufficient financing was blamed for the problems of the health sector, but it is becoming
increasing apparent that low performance also responds to inefficient allocation and use of
resources, and overall low priority given to quality issues. Establishing a system-wide
orientation on improving quality and efficiency through performance benchmarking and
providing incentives to achieve them is a key policy step. Specific policy actions include:
(a) Develop and implement performance-based management systems and instruments (such
as performance agreements and contracts) between payers and providers. This will
involve setting specific goals (such as quality improvement) and priorities (ideally based
on indicators of disease burden and costs) that are specified in performance
agreements/contracts;
(b) Test a performance-based financing scheme governing federal-to-municipal grant
transfers for basic care that is linked to compliance with Basic Health Agreements;
(c) Track, monitor and respond to client contacts and grievances in SUS-financed facilities
through: (i) establishing a data base drawing information from SADE-SUS, Sistema de
Cartas and the Family Heath Extension Project (Projeto de Extensao de Satude da
Familia - PNASH) programs; (ii) devising a comparative rating system for patient
satisfaction and quality; and (iii) preparing a plan to inform the public of the ratings;
83



(d) Implementing a standardized cost accounting system in SUS-financed public hospitals
and private hospitals. Since a number of these exist (but use different methodologies that
prevent easy comparison), a good place to start is an assessment to determine best
practices in cost accounting; and,
(e) Adjust hospital reimbursement system (A1H) to reflect not only actual service costs, but
also function as incentives for a more efficient use of facilities and levels of care by
introducing retention funds and discounts around the measured average cost.
(iii) Improve system effectiveness through consolidating financial flows, restructuring the
delivery system, and strengthening the Family Health Program: Service delivery
remains fragmented which reduces the overall system effectiveness. Less complex and more
uniform payment systems would help consolidate service- and program-specific payment
mechanisms and rules into a manageable number of grants to states and municipalities. This
in turn would contribute to aligning financial incentives faced by municipal mangers. Still
needed are feasible organizational and financial arrangements for implementing the
regionalization proposal of NOAS 01/02, including strengthening the oversight functions of
states; pooling municipal resources; sharing facilities; continued implementation of
Regulatory and Appointment Centers to direct and coordinate referrals, and piloting models
for integrated delivery systems managed by micro-regional entities. Specific policy actions
include:
(a) Consolidate financial flows and payment mechanisms by: (i) increasing the percentage of
resources transferred through the grant system, and (ii) reducing the number of separate
grants. An immediate measure could be the expanding capitation payments to include
other types of care beyond the NOAS 01/02 mandated PAB-A. (This measure has the
additional advantage of contributing to equity);
(b) Develop implementation strategies and operational models for crafting micro-regions,
including the pooling of financial and technical resources and creation of governance
structures to oversee service organization and delivery. One such model can be based on
the successful experience of municipal consortia (cons6rcios municipais). The strategy
should include: (i) a mechanism to foster or enforce the financial participation of all
municipalities in micro-regional resource pooling arrangements; (ii) piloting of models of
integrated delivery systems within microregions; (iii) the use of Family Health doctors as
gate-keepers and case managers to guide patients through the (integrated) delivery
system; and (iv) establishing Regulatory and Appointment Centers in each state and
expanding their scope to include application of clinical reviews, utilization management
of specialty and hospital services and coordination of case management; and,
(c) Continue PSF coverage expansion, reaching 50 percent of the population by 2004,
prioritizing poor populations residing in rural and large urban areas.
(iv) Rationalize SUS through implementing decentralization policy framework, clarifying
institutional roles, and supporting systematic evaluation. States are the logical entities for
overseeing health care organization and delivery by municipalities. To fill that role, states
need to develop the technical and managerial capacity for planning, coordinating, monitoring,
and evaluating the implementation of national policies and the delivery of municipal-
managed services. NOAS mandated the establishment of transparent, inter-governmental
process of budgetary planning, investment plannig and resource pooling. Although
implementation is only recently underway, the MOH could consider providing incentives to
84



states and municipalities to fully implement these processes. Various innovations have been
introduced in the organization, management, and provision of health services by
municipalities, states, or individual facilities, but little is known about their relative
effectiveness. Systematic evaluation, including evidence of impact, could allow successful
initiatives to be replicated. Specific policy actions include:
(a) Implement decentralized framework stipulated in NOAS 01/02 through: (i) certification
of all states and municipalities with more than 250,000 inhabitants in Gestdo Plena; (ii)
conditioning federal transfers for investments on the approval of the Investment Master
Plan; (iii) conditioning federal transfers for medium and high complexity services on the
approval and implementation of Intergovernmental Budget Programming Agreements
(PPI); and (iv) allocating federal transfers for medium and high complexity services
according to arrangements specified in PPIs;
(b) Support separation of financing/regulation and provision functions at sub-national levels
by developing strategies to: (i) transfer state-operated hospitals to municipalities or
micro-regions; (ii) strengthen municipal/micro-regional managers' capacity for
purchasing services (from both public and private providers), including the crafting of
standardized performance data for monitoring providers; and (iii) introducing
autonomous management and governance structures (with social participation) in public
hospitals. This measure should be implemented in combination with performance
agreements and global budgets; and,
(c) Support systematic and rigorous analysis and evaluation. Recommended areas of inquiry
include: (i) innovative models of health service organization (eg. Organiza,coes Sociais,
health foundations, etc.) in Sao Paulo and Bahia (ii) existing data collected by the
Brazilian Institute of Geography and Statistics (Instituto Brasileiro de Geografia e
Estatistica - IBGE) and other organizations; (iii) use of innovative management tools and
alternative forms of contracting out; (iv) comparative analysis of the different
accreditation programs and quality assurance initiatives; (v) implementation of micro-
regional health organization models; and (vi) effectiveness of PSF-provided diabetes and
hypertension control activities.
(v) Prevent and control non-communicable diseases and injuries through health promotion
and social interventions. As communicable diseases are being brought under control, the
costs of health services will increasingly be related to non-communicable diseases, which are
more expensive to treat. Public health programs to promote health and prevent and manage
non-communicable diseases are just beginning to take shape. A national health promotion
strategy, including guidelines for implementing and monitoring specific interventions through
cross-sector arrangements, coordinated care management, and linkages to the Family Health
Program, would help Brazil reduce the human and financial costs of non-communicable
disease. The capacity of municipalities to set health priorities and disease prevention
strategies will require strengthening. Policy actions include:
(a) Elaborate a national population health promotion strategy with input from involved
sectors and well-defined priorities will be important, as well as the definition of clear
goals and indicators for monitoring the impact of implemented health promotion
activities;
85



(b) Develop proposal to insert health promotion interventions in tasks performed by family
health teams, including the preparation of guidelines and development of capacity for
supervision and monitoring health promotion actions by PSF teams; and,
(c) Develop of a coordinated and comprehensive system of primary health care to manage
NCDS, including provision of access to basic medications, preparation of long-term
treatment plans focusing on patient education and adherence to treatment and
strengthening of coordination between pnmary, secondary and tertiary levels of care.
86



ANNEX 5
SOcIAL ASSISTANCE IN BRAZIL
Over the past few years, Brazil introduced a number of promising social assistance programs.
Many of these operate as conditional transfers, aiming to reduce current poverty and inequality by
providing cash stipends and to reduce long-term poverty by inducing certain behaviors such as
encouraging school enrollment and attendance or health care use, discouraging child labor. This
Annex gives an overview of the magnitude and composition of Brazil's social safety net, reviews
existing social assistance programs and their main challenges, and summarnzes promising features
and common issues facing the sector.
MAGNITUDE AND COMPOSITION OF BRAZIL'S SOCIAL SAFETY NET
Spending on social assistance is dwarfed by allocations for social insurance in Brazil.
Brazil's social assistance spending is estimated at 0.63 percent of GDP, or 3.3 percent of total
public expenditures, in 2002 (Table 1). This allocation is relatively low compared with averages
for Latin America (1.2 percent)6 and OECD (3.1 percent) countries. In contrast, Brazil
overspends on social security as compared to most countries.  Brazilian social security
expenditures are heavily subsidized by tax revenues and represent the largest share of social
spending in Brazil, nearly 60 percent of total social spending, or slightly over 10 percent of GDP.
This compares with 8.6 percent average social security spending in OECD countries, 4.1 percent
of GDP in Argentina, 3 percent in Mexico, and less than 1 percent in Central American countries.
Brazil's social safety net consists of a number of programs, many of which have been only
recently introduced (Table 1). The main social assistance programs include: (a) pure cash
transfers (for the elderly and disabled); (b) four conditional cash transfers programs for children
and youths; (c) social services for the elderly, disabled, and young children); (d) other in-kind
programs, such as school feeding and nutrition programs; and (e) other social assistance
programs. Several programs, especially those providing conditional cash transfers, were created
in the past few years. As the new programs were introduced, total spending on the safety net
increased, from 0.26 percent of GDP in 2000 to 0.63 percent in 2002, tripling in three years.
In terms of vulnerable groups, social assistance spending favors the disabled, elderly and
school-aged children. Close to half (46 percent) of all social assistance spending goes to the
disabled (30 percent) and elderly (17 percent), who also benefit from Brazil's generous social
insurance schemes. Another 42 percent is targeted to social assistance for school-aged children.
Relatively less is allocated to young children (10 percent of social assistance spending is targeted
to children under age 6), and very little is aimed at youths or low-income workers who receive
about I percent each from the total safety net budget.
In terms of numbers of beneficiaries, the programs for school-aged children have the largest
coverage. Virtually all of children aged 6-14 receive school feeding, though admittedly, some of
the 37 million beneficiaries could be children older or younger than the intended age group who
are enrolled in school. The Bolsa Escola Federal (BEF) covers about 10.2 million children or
about a third of all school-aged children (aged 6-14). The Bolsa Alimentacdo (BA) program
covers about 17 percent of the total population under age 6. In contrast, the narrowly targeted
Programa de Erradicacdo do Trabalho Infantil (PETI) reaches less than 3 percent of school-aged
6 LAC average is 1.2% (for countries where data are available, including: Argentina, Brazil, Colombia, the Dominican
Republic, Guatemala, Jamaica, Mexico, Nicaragua, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezuela).
87



children (or 18 percent of child laborers). Likewise, the cash transfer for the elderly covers about
5 percent of the population over age 65.
Benefit levels differ substantially by program, with the more generous benefits accruing to
the elderly and disabled (Table 2). In contrast, transfers for children are quite low on a per
capita basis. For example, under the Bolsa Escola, students receive R$15 (US$6) each per
month, which represents about 8 percent of the minimum wage, whereas beneficiaries of the
Beneficio de Presta,do Continuada (Continuous Payment Benefit - BPC) receive monthly
stipends of R$200 each, which equals the minimum wage. Thus, while the Bolsa Escola program
covers more beneficianes, it does so with a relatively low stipend.
REVIEW OF SOCIAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS
This section reviews main social assistance programs in Brazil, identifying promising features
and key challenges of each.
A. Programs for Traditional Vulnerable Groups: The Elderly and Disabled (46 percent of
social assistance spending)
The Social Assistance Secretariat (Secretaria de Assistencia Social - SEAS), of the Ministerio da
Previdencia e Assistencia Social - MPAS (Brazil'a Ministry of Social Assistance) operates two
types of social assistance programs for the elderly and disabled: cash transfers and social
services.'
A.1 Cash Transfers
The Beneflcio da Presta,do Continuada (BPC) was established by the Lei Orgdnica da
Assistencia Social (LOAS) in 1993. The program provides a monthly stipend of one minimum
wage (R$200 in 2002)8 to eligible disabled9 and elderly' citizens in households with per capita
family income of less than 1/4 of the minimum wage, selected on the basis of means testing. The
program is entirely financed by earmarked resources from the Fundo Nacional de Assistencia
Social (FNAS), which is administered by SEAS/MPAS. It is the largest social assistance
program, accounting for 45 percent of total social assistance spending in 2002. Its resources are
distributed 16 percent for the elderly and 29 percent for the disabled. Administrative costs at the
federal level are estimated at about 5 percent of total program spending. In 2002 the program
covered close to half a million elderly and close to a million disabled (see Table 2). The BPC
coverage expanded almost three-fold, from 384 thousand beneficiaries in 1996 to 1.5 million in
2002.
7 These programs are in addition to Brazil's old age pension, rural pensions, disability pension and other social
insurance schemes run by the Instituto Nacional De Seguro social (National Social Security Institute - INSS).
8 All payments are made through the "Social Insurance Card."
9 The disabled must show, by way of medical certification by INSS, that they are unable to engage in labor activities
and/or are fully dependent on others to live.
10 The original age of eligibility was 70 years. However, this threshold was lowered to 67 years in 2000, and will
further be lowered to 65 years (causing an increase in the number of eligible beneficiaries).
88



4 Xable    iijiai- , Publc Spendig on Scia Asst c P                (RS -
% of
total
Program                     Institution   2000    2001     2002   2002
Listance for Elderly/Disabled' Subtotal                ,  2065 ,263l'3.638
BPC-LOAS Elderly Cash                      SEAS/MPAS       620     871     1237     16
BPC-LOAS Disabled Cash                     SEAS/MPAS      1341     1650    2257     29
Social Services for Elderly                SEAS/MPAS       33       34      56       1
Social Services for Disabled               SEAS/MPAS       71      76       88      1
Aidstance for Scfhool Aged' Children (6-14) Subtotal . ... 1,83. 21687 , 3326     . "42
Bolsa Escola Federal                          MEC          (d)     474     2001     25
PETI (Child Labor) (a)                     SEAS/MIPAS      183     311     425      5
School Feeding                              Min. Educ.     n.a.    902     900      11
:Programs'for.Young Children (0-5) Subtotal                534      420 ' '783'    -.10
Bolsa Alimenta,eo                             MOH          (d)     0.4      300     4
ECD Services (AtenqAo Crian,a)             SEAS/MPAS       263     251      310     4
Combate is Carencias Nutricion.               MOH          271     169      173     2
'Prdrams for-Youths (15-24)-Subtotal    ,   _     _r    - _ ' 13"  T  V42-  <9'' :
Agente Jovem                               SEAS/MPAS        10      27      69       1
Youth Centers (b)                          SEAS/MPAS        3       4       21       0
Youth Sex, Violence, Abuse                 SEAS/MPAS       n.a.     11       5       0
,0iliRjScial Assistane Programs'Subtotal  ,                33-7  K 32.1    -6'2     4 '. I S
Income Gen. for PETI HH (a)                SEAS/MPAS       n.a.    23.3    46.2      1
Programa Nucleo Apoio Familia              SEAS/MPAS       3.7     8824     n.a.    n.a.
Drought Workfare                               MA          n.a.    n.a.     n.a.    n.a.
-'GRANDVTOTAL,                        2798' i.t-4813- ,' '7888  '100,
Percentage of GDP (%)                                      0.26    0.41    0.63
Percentage of Total Public Spending (%)                    1.35    2.14    3.32
(7 Estimated.
Sources: SEAS/MPAS (2001); SEAS/MPAS detailed budgets; MEC; MOH; Lobo et. al. (July 2002).
Notes:
(a) AC = Administrative costs at federal level.
(b) PETI transfers and income generation programs included under same general budget code in SEAS/MPAS
budget     0
(c) Agente Jovem and Youth Centers included under same general budget code in SEAS/MPAS budget
(d) Additional supplemental feeding programs (e g., milk) run by Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of
Labor
(e) Program did not exist at that time.
(f) PETI Program costs include 3.2% for administration, 41 percent for after-care costs (jornada ampliada), 55
percent for cash transfer
(g) Agente Jovem costs include 2.2 percent for administration, 16.8 percent for training of youths, 58.6 percent
for cash transfer, and 22.3 percent for social services for youths.
89



','abIe 2;. Brazil's.S6oci-A, ssstalice"b,r       us:7Pr,iogam Features
1 # of Beneficiaries     Unit Transfer Per      Eligibility Criteria  Conditionality
2002            Beneficiary 2002              (b)                 (c)
'000 persons         R$ per person
per month                              I
.  - .  .                        Assista nce for Elderly/Disabled  ._ ._._._'_-_;_;-__
BPC-LOAS Elderly Cash             495                   200              Age, Y </4 MW            None
BPC-LOAS Disabled                 930                   200            Disability, Y < 1/4 MW     None
Cash                         301 (in 2001)              n.a.                   Age                 n.a.
Social Services for               193                   n.a.                Disability             n.a.
Elderly
Social    Services   for
Disabled
.____________________  &Asistance for School-Aged Children'(I 14)             -     ;i 4
Bolsa Escola Federal             10,200                15 (a)            Age, Y < /2MW         school 85%
PETI (Child Labor)                866           25 (rural), 45 (urban)   Age, Y <I/2 MW        school 75%
School Feeding              37,000 (in 2001)       17 (esimated)                               school 100%
*                                 Assistance for YoungChildren (0-5  . -        , ' '  .   . _ _
Bolsa Alimentacao                3,500                 15 (a)            Age, Nut. Status      Health/Nut
ECD Services (Atencao            1,610                  n.a.                   Age                 n.a.
Crianca)                     857 (in 2000)         15 (180/yr) (d)       Age, Nut. Status      Nut. Actions
Combate is Carencias
Nutricion.
-AssistanceYouths.(15-24).       .-     :      --.   I'. .
Agente Jovem                  102 (in 2001)             65               Age, Y < I/2 MW       Comm. Svc
Youth Centers                     n.a.                  n.a.                                       n.a.
Youth    Sex,  Violence,          29                    n.a.                                       n.a.
Abuse
,  .  .                         Oth'er Social Assistance Programs  .   ,,,               .
Income Gen. for PETI RH    53 ('000 families)           n.a.                Y < !/2 MW            PETI
(a)                               n.a.                  n.a.                                       n.a.
Programna Nuicleo Apoio           n.a.                  n.a.                                      work
Faniilia
Drought Workfare
Sources of information: SEAS/IMPAS (2001); SEAS/MPAS detailed budgets; Ministry of Education detailed budgets;
Ministry of Health detailed budgets; Ministry of Health: PCCN Program documentation; Lobo et. al. (July 2002).
(a) For up to 3 children (or R$45) per household.
(b) Y = per capita household income; MW = minimum wage
(c) School attendance (% of time)
(d) Value of supplemental feeding (milk, oil) and micro-nutrient supplements.
90



The main challenges facing the BPC Program include: (a) possible duplications with Brazil's
generous social assistance benefits, notably old age pensions; (b) inadequate monitoring to verify
eligibility, in particular disability status; and (c) uneven applications of means-testing. For the
disability BPC program, SEAS monitorng reports covering a sample of beneficiaries found that
23 percent could not be located, another 20 percent still had not obtained medical certification of
disability, 7 percent had incomes higher than the eligibility ceiling, and another 3 percent had
died but were still receiving the transfers. Similarly, SEAS monitoring reports covering a sample
of beneficiaries of the BPC elderly program found that 32 percent could not be located, another 6
percent had incomes higher than the eligibility ceiling, and another 5 percent had died."
Nonetheless, this sample of beneficiaries did reveal that 67 percent of disabled and 57 percent of
elderly beneficiaries did have incomes less than one quarter of the minimum wage, as required.
The World Bank estimates that 70 percent of benefits accrue to those in the bottom quintile,
which would constitute a respectable targeting outcome.2
A.2 Social Services
As a complement to the BPC cash transfer programs, SEAS/MPAS operates social service
programs for the disabled and elderly. These programs account for another 2 percent of social
assistance spending (I percent each).
The Program to Support the Disabled (Programa de Atencdo a Pessoa Portadora de
Deficiencia -- PAPPD) focuses on the reduction of disabilities, the development of capabilities
and working skills, social integration, and the improvement of living conditions for physically
and/or mentally impaired people. Assistance includes social services, such as community
rehabilitation, home assistance, day care center assistance, group home assistance and shelters.
The program is highly decentralized in its implementation. Services are provided by some 2033
institutions in 1213 municipalities that comprise the national disabled care network, mostly Non-
Governmental Organizations (NGOs) and foundations. The federal government does not select
or monitor these institutions. These functions are the responsibility of state and municipal
governments. Eligibility for the program is determined by a means test and requires per capita
incomes of less than half the minimum wage, and proof of disability. Priority is given to those
facing financial difficulties, particularly beneficiaries of BPC/LOAS.
There are two main challenges facing this program: monitoring and expansion. SEAS/MPAS has
no information on program implementation by the 2000-some institutions that receive budgetary
transfers to carry it out. Although such decentralization may have improved local social controls,
accountability, and service quality, there is no concrete evidence to corroborate such a view.
Moreover, the program was included in the Projeto Alvorada (see below), and hence is expected
to expand to cover municipalities under that project. If such an expansion occurs, the PAPPD
will experience an unprecedented increase in size, as well as in the number of implementing
institutions. Such an expansion will put additional strains on the budget, since wider coverage
was not anticipated in original budget.
The Program to Support the Elderly (Programa de AtenVdo a Pessoa Idosa -- PAPI) aims to
provide services to the poor elderly in order to improve their autonomy and participation in
" SEAS/MPAS (2001). Sample of 250,000 beneficianes.
12 World Bank (March 31, 2001).
91



society, protect them from violence or abuse, and improve their living conditions. As is the case
for the disabled support program, the PAPI provides various social services such as home
assistance and adult day care centers to eligible elderly through decentralized implementation
arrangements with NGOs, municipalities, or other institutions. Eligibility is targeted to those
with per capita incomes of less than half the minimum wage, and priority is given to those
receiving BPC transfers. The main challenges for this program are similar to those for the
program to support the disabled, including improved monitoring and expansion.
B. Programs for School-Aged Children (42 percent of total social assistance spending)
Two central tenets of Brazil's social safety net are that they focus a significant share of social
assistance spending on school-aged children, and make such assistance conditional on school
attendance. As such, these programs can have the dual impact of alleviating current poverty by
mean of the transfer, and reducing long-term poverty by providing incentives for investments in
education. To support this strategy, Brazil has recently developed two large means-tested
conditional cash transfer programs (Bolsa Escola and PETI). Brazil also operates a large school
feeding program, which in effect serves as conditional in-kind transfer programs, since
beneficiaries must attend school to receive the food.
B.1 Conditional Cash Transfers
Brazil has recently introduced two conditional cash transfer programs aimed at school-aged
children: the Federal Bolsa Escola (BEF) program, and PETI, a child-labor eradication program.
(a)The Federal Bolsa Escola program was created in 2001 in order to promote the
education of children of low income families by providing financial incentives linked to
school attendance.'3 The BEF builds on, and incorporates, earlier successful initiatives at
the municipal level by a number of municipalities'4 and replaces an existing federal
minimum income guarantee program, the Regime Geral da Previdencia Social (General
Regime for Social Security for Private Sector Workers -- RGPS).'5 The program seeks to
promote educational attainment and reduce short-term poverty by providing a transfer to
poor families provided that they fulfill certain conditions.
3 The program was first created by a Medida Provisoria (February 13, 2001) and then approved by Congress on March
27, 2001, and signed into law by the President under Lei No. 10.210 on April 11, 2001. The short time between the
MP and the signing into law reflects the broad support and importance bestowed on the program.
4 Thesc earlier municipal programs are also called Bolsa Escola and were launched in 1995 by LGs in Campinas (SAo
Paulo) and Brasilia (Distrito Federal). Since then, they have expanded in 3 states (Amapa, Amazonas and Tocantins)
and 60 municipalities.
5The Programa de Garantia de Renda Minima (PGRM) was created in 1998 under the Ministry of Education. It
targeted financial transfers to school children aged 7-14. The transfer was calculated based on the per capita income
of the family and the number of children in the target age group. Municipalities were required to provide 50% in
counterpart fundmg. In 2000, the PGRM reached 1.7 million beneficiary children. However, the program suffered a
bit from its lack of flexibility and an analysis identified several weaknesses: (a) bureaucracy, (b) lack of counterpart
financing from the poorer municipalities; and (c) insufficient funds to cover its demand. As such, the program was
reformned and became the BEF. The transition from PGRM to BEF involved a number of innovations, including: (a)
scaling up the program's funding,, which was made possible by a guaranteed transfer from the Fundo de Combate e
ErradicacAo da Pobreza through 2010; (b) a change in the target group to children aged 6-15 (to ensure the children
can actually complete pnmary school under the program); and (c) the use of "smart cards" called Cartdo da Bolsa
Escola produced by the national treasury and given to the CaLxa Economica Federal (CEF) for distribution.
92



At the Federal level, the BEF program is run by the Secretaria do Programa Nacional da
Bolsa Escola of the MEC. This arrangement has the advantage of linling this "demand-
side" scheme to promote school attendance with other "supply-side" educational
interventions such as school quality investments. However, it also means that the
program is less coordinated with other social assistance programs, most of which are run
by SEAS/MPAS. Although a federal program, BEF implementation and monitoring are
largely decentralized, with municipalities being responsible for conducting means-tests,
enrolling eligible children, monitoring school attendance, and maintaining program
registries.
Eligibility criteria and conditionality for the BEF include: (a) age (children aged 6-15
years); (b) means-tested incomes (family per capita incomes must be less than half the
minimum wage); and (c) school attendance (participating children must maintain at least
85 percent school attendance or be suspended or expelled from the program). The
program pays beneficiaries a benefit of R$15 per month per child up to a maximum of
three children (R$45) per family.'6 The size of the transfer is quite small, particularly in
comparison with average earnings of child workers (which range from R$80-120 per
month, or about half the minimum wage). 7
The program is quite large, reaching 10.2 million beneficiaries in 2002, or about a third
of all school-aged children (aged 6-14).'5 It has expanded extremely rapidly since its
introduction in 2001, and has a budget of R$2 billion for the year 2002 (0.2 percent of
GDP). The program is financed by the Fundo de Combate e ErradicaV&o da Pobreza,
which was created by a constitutional amendment19 and which is funded by the revenues
from three types of earmarked taxes.20   If revenues from the Fundo are not sufficient to
finance the Bolsa Escola, the national treasury makes up the difference. Auditing is
conducted by BEF's auditing department and by Social Control Councils run by the
municipalities.2' Administrative costs are estimated at 9 percent at the federal level.
The BEF Program embraces many promising features and should be supported. Most
prominent is the dual objective of alleviating current poverty and providing incentives for
poverty reduction in long run. Available evidence from the earlier municipal versions of
the program suggests that program beneficiaries do have better educational indicators of
internal efficiency (lower dropout rates, higher promotion rates, and more appropriate
16 The transfers are paid every month for 12 months of the year, thus includes the penod of school vacation. They are
made through a bank "smart card," whose holder is generally the child's mother. Beneficiaries withdraw their
monthly amount according to the number of eligible children from federal or state banks, or in an absence of these,
from post offices, lottery houses, or other government facilities.
17 Bourgignon, Ferreira and Leite (September 2002).
Is Data from the BEF suggest that 91 percent of beneficiaries are girls, over half come from families with more than
one beneficiary but no more than three, and 69 percent are urban.
19 Emenda Constitucional No. 31 of December 14, 2000.
20 A addition of 0.08 percent on the Contribui;o Provisoria sobre Movimenta9do Financeira (Provisional
Contributiion on Financial Transactions -- CPMF); an addition of 5 percentage points on the Imposto sobre Produtos
Industrializados (Tax on Industrnal Products - [PI) which involves alcoholic drinks and tobacco; and the arrecadacao
do Imposto sobre Grandes Fortunas (Wealth Tax -- IGF).
21 For example, one anecdote reveals that a family was found to be receiving multiple BEF smart cards in a particular
city. The entire registry of that city is now being reviewed and beneficiaries given new passwords (PIN numbers) to
use their cards to try to find out what happened and flush out any fraud.
93



age-at-entry) than comparable non-beneficiaries, and that child labor has declined since
the introduction of this type of scheme. More recently, an ex-ante evaluation of the BEF
program by Bourgignon, Ferreira, and Leite (September 2002) suggests that the program
as currently designed has indeed have an important impact on promoting school
enrollment and reducing child labor (enticing about a third of child laborers to enroll in
school), albeit with a more muted impact on the reduction of current poverty and
inequality due to the small size of the transfer.
The main challenges facing the BEF Program include:
*  Strengthening education impact and monitoring. An ex-ante evaluation of the
BEF program by Bourgignon, Ferreira, and Leite (Sept. 2002) suggests that one of
the key features of the program is the enforcement of school attendance as a
condition of receiving the transfers. Recognizing the importance of this aspect, the
BEF secretanat in the Ministry of Education recently developed a new monitoring
system "The Controle de Freqiiencia Escolar'(CFE) that works through the
municipal authorities (prefeitura) and the schools, with options for submitting
information via the intemet ("on line") or by CD-Rom. Information about school
attendance for all beneficiaries is submitted to the central authorities every three
months. Insufficient monthly attendance (less than 85%) is flagged, and then
payments are docked (suspended) for every month missed during the next three
months of payments. Since this is the first year of implementation, an evaluation of
the system should be made in the near future, with feedback of any lessons learned to
refine the system. The share of students with suspended payments should also be
published and monitored as a key development indicator for the program. Finally,
random audits should be conducted to verify attendance reporting.
*  Strengthening targeting and means-testing. Targeting and means testing should be
strengthened, particularly if the program is to expand (see below). Targeting could be
improved through the construction and use of rigorous poverty maps (combining
census and household survey data) for the cross-municipal allocation of beneficiary
quotas, and through improved means testing (see below).
*  Evaluating Program Impact. An impact evaluation of the BEF is currently
underway (contracted to the University of Brasilia). Such an evaluation should
cover: (a) targeting outcomes (equity, incidence); (b) cost effectiveness (including an
assessment of the appropriateness of the levels and duration of benefits); (c)
institutional and administrative efficiency and effectiveness; (d) impact on
educational attainment, poverty reduction, and child labor. Such an evaluation will
further shed light on needed program improvements and potential expansion and
should be conducted as soon as possible. Brazil's regular household surveys should
be modified to include questions on receipt of specific social assistance benefits
(including BEF) to facilitate impact and targeting analysis (see below).
*  Complementing with supply-side investments. Complementing this demand-side
intervention with supply-side investments to improve the quality of education (and
perhaps coupling the expansion of Bolsa Escola with grants to poor municipalities to
improve the quality of schooling). In other words, integrating the Bolsa Escola into a
broader package of educational improvements on the supply side.
94



*   Expanding the program. The program could be expanded in several ways. First, it
could be expanded to bring in more eligible beneficiaries (who were excluded in
various municipalities due to insufficient funds and quotas). Second, the size of the
unit transfer could be increased. Indeed, an ex ante evaluation by Bourgignon,
Ferreira, and Leite (Sept. 2002) suggests that increasing the size of the unit transfer
would have a significant impact on reducing child labor and promoting school
enrollment.    Third, bonuses could be introduced for successful completion of
primary school (graduation bonuses). Fourth, the program could be expanded to
cover poor pre-primary or secondary students.
(b) The Child Labor Eradication Program (PETI) is another conditional cash transfer
targeted at school aged children, established in 1996, with the goal of eradicating the
worst forms of child labor in Brazil by the year 2002.22 The program main component
are: (i) a cash transfer to poor families with children in exchange for a commitment to
have their children enrolled in school and maintaining satisfactory school attendance and
academic performance (55 percent of program costs); (ii) funding for participating
municipalities for the provision of after-school activities (41 percent of program costs);
(iii) facilities of access by participating families to a variety of complementary social
services; and (iv) provision of income generating activities to provide PETI families. The
program is primarily focused on rural areas, though there have been recent expansions
into urban areas. It is run by the Social Assistance Secretariat (SEAS/MPAS) and is
implemented by states and municipalities.
Eligibility criteria and conditionality for PETI include: (a) age (children ages 7-14 years,
with a 4 year duration limit); (b) means-tested incomes (family per capita incomes must
be less than half the minimum wage); (c) school attendance (participating children must
maintain at least 75 percent attendance in both regular school and extended day after-care
(jornada ampliada) programs); and (d) residence in municipalities with high incidence of
harmful forms of child labor. Targeting involves three steps: (a) the identification of
labor activities that are deemed dangerous;23 (b) the selection of municipalities where
these activities are prevalent; and (c) the selection of eligible families within these
municipalities on the basis of a means test. Though a representative analysis of target
outcomes has not been conducted, available evidence suggests that beneficiaries indeed
possess characteristics of the poor and the majority (an estimated 80 percent) of benefits
go to the poorest quintile.24  These results should be verified through analysis of
nationally representative household surveys.
The PETI program is much smaller than the BEF, reaching close to 750,000 in 2001, with
a target of 866,000 in 2002, representing less than 3 percent of school-aged children and  c
18 percent of child laborers.25 The value of the transfer is R$25 and R$40 per child per
month in rural and urban areas respectively. Cash transfers are made through the Social
Card (see below). Overall, program cost is estimated at R$425 million in 2002 or 5
22 The original strategy was to consolidate and phase out the program between 2003-2006.
23 The Operational Manual for the program lists the activities deemed dangerous and unhealthy. They include inter
alia cassava processing, charcoal, sugar-cane, mining, quarrying, sisal production, bnck-making, textile production,
coconut cultivation, and the collection of tobacco and cotton in rural areas; and garbage collection and retail trade in
urban areas. These areas are identified in each state through regional and local surveys, existing work inspections,
and public denouncements.
24 World Bank (March 31, 2001)
25 Data from the 1999 PNAD/IBGE survey suggest that some 22.7 percent of children aged 10-15 work (5.8 percent
work only, 16.9 percent work and study). There were some 20.8 million children in that age group in 2000.
95



percent of total social assistance spending. Federal administrative costs are estimated at
3.2 percent.
As with BEF, the PETI program embraces many positive features. First, the rationale for
the program is clear. Although declining, the incidence of child labor remains relatively
high in Brazil. In 1999, close to a quarter of children aged 10-15 work (5.8 percent only
work and 16.9 percent work and study).26 Early entry into the labor market has been
shown to have a significant negative impact on future earnings and educational outcomes.
Child labor reduces lifetime earnings by 13-17 percent overall, and raises the probability
of being poor as an adult by almost 8 percent. Child laborers tend to enter school later
and, on average, lag behmd by 0.5 years more than children who do not work. Child
labor also reduces completed years of education by almost three years. Research shows
that entry of children into the labor force, often accompanied by dropping out of school,
is closely linked to adverse economic shocks for poor families. Thus maintaining, or
even expanding, this type of program during times of economic crisis is critical. Second,
the program makes use of innovative targeting mechanisms designed to reach child
laborers according to family incomes and geographic mappings of the worst forms of
child labor. Thlrd, PETI is well designed because it combines actions to promote
education with a cash transfer to families, and the participation of both federal and local
governments, as well as organizations of civil society.
Despite these strengths, PETI faces the following main challenges:
*  Easing age requirements and duration limits in order to allow older children (say,
up to age 16) to participate so as to ensure completion of the fundamental cycle
(grades 1-4) and entry into lower-secondary school, particularly since older children
are more prone to child labor;
*  Improving targeting, overall and in urban areas, although geographic selection of
areas with high incidence of harmful child labor is particularly difficult in urban
areas;
*  Improving monitoring of school attendance;
*  Improving links to the education system, such that program   objectives are
intemalized by education staff (e.g. through teacher training), and that the program is
better coordinated with the BEF program;
*  Improving the quality of after school activities, including adopting systematic
criteria for the selection and hiring of after-school monitors by the municipalities in
conjunction with the State Secretariat of Education (SSE); improving the training of
after-care providers; and establishing curriculum for after school activities in
conjunction with the SSE; and
* Evaluating program impact.
26 Bourgignon, Ferreira, and Leite (September 2002) based on data from the 1999 PNAD/IBGE.
96



B.2 School Feeding (Conditional In-Kind Transfers)
In addition to the conditional cash transfer programs described above, Brazil also operates a large
school feeding program, which in effect serves as conditional in-kind transfer programs since
beneficiaries must attend school to receive the food. The school feeding program falls under the
jurisdiction of the MEC, although program implementation including acquisition, preparation,
and distribution of food has been decentralized to the schools. The MEC transfers program funds
directly to schools on the basis of enrollment and per meal costs.
The program costs about R$900 million, or 11 percent of total social assistance spending.
Administrative costs are relatively high compared with cash-based social assistance programs,
estimated at 30 percent including transport, preparation and storage. The remainder 70 percent
corresponds to food costs (Table 1).
Beneficiaries totaled 37 milhon in 2001. Data from the 1996 Living Standards Measurement
Survey (LSMS) of the PPV-IBGE suggest that free school meal programs reach about 60 percent
of students from the first three quintiles. Distributional incidence closely mirrors that of public
school enrollment, with the bottom three quintiles receiving about 25 percent each of total
benefits.  Corresponding to low participation of the poor in lower-secondary school, only 5
percent of school meals distributed to students in grades 5-8 accrue to the first quintile.
Brazil has taken several steps to improve its school feeding program by decentralizing food
procurement, preparation and distribution, and by directing federal financial transfers to the
schools. The main pendmg challenges include evaluating the program for impact and target
outcomes, with special attention to duplications with the administratively cheaper conditional
cash transfer programs such as Bolsa Escola. Pending such an evaluation, it is possible that
similar objectives (school attendance, nutrition) could be more efficiently achieved through an
expansion of the cash-based BEF Program by either increasing the amount of the per capita
transfer or by expanding the number of beneficiaries with the resources currently devoted to
school feeding programs.
C. Programs for Young Children (10 percent of social assistance spending)
As compared with programs for school-aged children, the disabled, and the elderly, Brazil spends
relatively less on social assistance for young children. The main programs include a newly
introduced conditional cash transfer program (Bolsa AlimentaVdo), an in-kind Early Childhood
Development (ECD), and nutrition programs.
C.1 Conditional Transfers: Bolsa Alimentaado
The Bolsa Alimentacao (BA) Program is a relatively new federal program administered by the
Ministry of Health (MOH) and designed to reduce nutritional deficiencies and infant mortality
among poorer households. The target group mcludes low-income families (means-tested) with
pregnant and lactating women, and/or infants ad young children aged 6 months to 6 years. The
program provides beneficiaries a monthly conditional cash transfer (R$15) in exchange for their
commitment to a "Charter of Responsibilities," which ensures regular attendance at ante-natal
care and growth monitoring, compliance with vaccination schedules, and health education. This
"partnership of trust" reinforces the bond between the local health services and marginalized
families of limited resources. Created in July 2001, the program has expanded rapidly, reaching
as many as 3.5 million children in 2002. It was introduced to replace the Programa de Combate
as Cadencies de Nutrition (a supplemental feeding program), which is being phased out. IFPRI is
97



currently conducting an impact evaluation of the BA program. The objective of the program is to
reduce infant mortality (from 34 to 30 per 1000 live births).
As with other social assistance programs, the main challenges involve: (a) strengthening
targeting of the program; (b) improving program monitoring; and (c) developing a system for
regular evaluation of program impact, includmg adding questions on the program to on-going
household surveys (see below).
C.2 Other Programs for Young Children
The SEAS/MPAS manages an ECD Program (AtenVdo ai Crianca), which provides social
services - primarily creches and preschools - to young children aged 0-6. Main activities include
providing food, pedagogic activities, family and community services, educational activities, and
day-care centers and preschools.  The program  operations are decentralized to states,
municipalities, community and NGO organizations as of 1995. Budgetary allocations are based
on demand from states and municipalities, which consolidate them through the selection of
projects presented by NGOs or other care organizations. The federal government establishes a
per capita reference value and transfers budget resources according to these demands and
available funds. Program funding has stagnated at about R$250 million for many years, though
the planned budget for 2002 is R$3 10 million. In 2002 program coverage is expected to reach
some 1.6 million children or 8 percent of children under the age of 6. International evidence
suggests high returns for ECD and preschool programs, as graduates tend to complete
fundamental education in shorter time and achieve higher levels of education. In Brazil, the
lifelong increase in income of those who attend ECD activities is about 10% per year; for pre-
school participants it is estimated at 17 percent per year.
The main challenges for this program include: (a) targeted expansion (the program is far from
reaching universal coverage of the poor due to inadequate funding; and (b) low quality mainly
due to insufficient training of teachers and the lack of standards and materials.
D. Programs for Youths (1 percent of total social assistance spending)
Brazil dedicates relatively little of its overall social safety net to programs for youths. The main
programs include a new, promising conditional cash transfer program (Agente Jovem) as well as
social services for youths.
D.1 Conditional Transfers: Agente Jovem
Created at the end of 1999, this program seeks to ensure the active participation of vulnerable
youths ages 15-18 in society to help them ease the transition from school to work and/or back to
school. Beneficiary youths serve as agents of change by providing community service in
exchange for a cash transfer. The program is run by SEAS/MPAS.
Eligibility criteria include: (i) age (youths ages 15-17) and (ii) means-tested incomes (family per
capita incomes must be less than half the minimum wage). Priority is given to youths who are
out of school but not yet in the labor force, those who have graduated from other social programs
(especially PETI), those who have committed criminal acts or are under state protection, and
those who have participated in sexual education and awareness programs.
In 2001, the program reached 102,304 youths with a budget of R$27.2 million. The program is
expected to more than double in 2002, with a planned budget of R$69 million, or I percent of
98



total social assistance spending. Program components include: (a) the cash transfer of R$65 per
beneficiary per month, which absorbs 59 percent of total spending on the program; (b) training of
youths, which accounts for 17 percent of total spending on the program; and (c) social services
for youths, which account for 22 percent of total program spending. Federal administrative costs
represent 2.2 percent of the program's budget.
This program is quite promising in its use of conditional cash transfers to reach a relatively
neglected group.  The main challenges at the moment are to (a) improve targeting by
consolidating means-testing with other programs; (b) monitor and evaluate the program by
including additional questions on receipt of these transfers to household survey questionnaires;
and (c) possibly program expansion.
D.2 Other Programs for Youths
In addition to the Agente Jovem Program, the SEAS/MPAS offers a number of other social
services for youths, including Youth Centers and a social service program for sexual education
and children and youths abuse victims. These are comparatively small programs (Table 1).
E. Programs for Working Population/Households (1 percent of total social assistance
spending)
The working population (age 25-64), informal sector workers, or low-income households receive
relatively little of Brazil's overall social assistance programs. The few programs targeted to these
groups include the income generation scheme for PETI families and a small family support
program (Programa Nucleon de Apia a Familia).
Brazil also has a rich history of using workfare programs to fight the devastating effects of
droughts in the rural Northeast. These programs are scaled up and down depending on conditions
and needs. For example, in 1998-99 the Government spent over R$1 billion on workfare
programs to compensate for the income loss resulting from drought effects. In 1999, several
municipalities and some states created workfare programs in urban areas in expectation of a
major economic downturn. Benefit levels have often been quite generous, including in some
cases wages above the minimum wage plus transportation, food, and insurance. In general, the
targeting and fiscal effects of these programs could be improved by lowering benefit levels below
market wages for unskilled workers.
Despite these efforts, relatively little social assistance is afforded the poor worling population or
informal workers. These groups are also largely missed by Brazil's generous social insurance
schemes that cover severance payments, unemployment insurance, or pensions.
F. Some Cross-Program Initiatives: Projeto Alvorada, Household Census, and Social Cards
Brazil has undertaken a number of initiatives in recent years that cut across social assistance
programs. These include: (a) the Projeto Alvorada as a regional poverty and inequality reduction
strategy; (b) the development of a common household beneficiary registry; and (c) the use of
electronic "social cards" for payments.
F.1 Projeto Alvorada
Initiated in March 2001, the Projeto Alvorada is essentially an umbrella program aimed to reduce
inter-regional inequalities by targeting funds of key programs to pre-identified poor areas.
99



Coordinated by SEAS/MPAS, the Alvorada Project essentially earmarks budgetary resources of
social programs in order to guarantee allocations to these targeted areas. Qualifying areas were
selected on the basis of the Human Development Index (HDI) of the United National
Development Program (UNDP). Initially 14 states with an HDI lower than 0.5 were selected.
However, as pressure from non-participating states mounted, the Alvorada Project was expanded
to reach micro-regions that had low HDI in other states. Currently, some 2313 municipalities
participate, covering 28 percent of the total national population. The program also seeks to
increase the total amount of resources allocated to these social programs covered by the Alvorada
Project. These programs include, inter alias, Bolsa Escola, PETI, and Agente Jovem.
F.2 Common Means-Tested Household Census
Given the wide variety of social assistance programs, the Federal Government decided in 2001 to
create a single registry of poor families. This "census of the poor" will operate as a single
database, registering all families with monthly incomes lower than half the minimum wage. The
form being used to register households gathers data on housing, education levels, health and other
household characteristics, receipt of specific transfers, as well as a few questions on incomes.27
The census is currently under implementation. As currently designed, the "Cadastro Unicom"
will not likely serve as an efficient mechanism for means-testing or program evaluation, since
(a) it is not a full census of all households (on which program selection decisions would be
made); (b) income questions are rather limited with no verification; (c) the registry will require
regular updating; and (d) it is rather costly to implement (R$1.20 per initial transaction and R$.90
per update).
F3 Social Cards
Another recent initiative involves the use of a single Social Card for making payments for all cash
transfer programs. There are several benefits of this system. First, it is administratively less
expensive than the previous system of multiple cards (each card costs R$7). Second, the single
social card will concentrate information on the beneficiaries, allowing for better follow up and
coordination across programs. The Social Card was launched in May 2002 and will progressively
replace all other cards and existing mechanisms for payment of cash transfers by the federal
government. Implementation is expected to take a year.
SUMMARY OF PROGRESS AND KEY ISSUES
The above review of social assistance programs in Brazil reveals several important achievements,
as well as some issues and challenges.
The main achievements include the mtroduction of several promising conditional cash transfer
programs aimed at children and youths. These programs seek to reduce both short- and long-term
poverty by providing transfers subject to certain behaviors such as school attendance, community
service, health care use. Such programs should receive budgetary protection and be expanded if
at all possible. Brazil has also undertaken two promising cross-program initiatives designed to
reduce costs and improve coordination and targeting of the social safety net, namely, the single
means-tested household census registry and the single Social Card.
I Specifically, incomes from pensions, unemployment insurance, food-based transfers and "other incomes." These
questions are ratier narrow in scope and efforts are not made to verify responses.
100



Nonetheless, the review also reveals several common areas where improvements could be made
to enhance program achievements and improve the efficiency of public spending in social
assistance, including:
*   Applying an integrated household approach. Current programs focus largely on
limited demographic subgroups (young children, school-aged children, youths, the
elderly). Yet each of these groups live in family units. A more coordinated approach
would take the family as a unit, and link programs that focus on individuals within the
family. For example, the links between early-childhood programs and later education-
based transfers could be promoted, or microcredit could help families that benefit from
safety net programs to invest in productive capital.28
*   Enhancing the focus on young children and pregnant and lactating mothers, who
have particular needs and vulnerability to malnutrition. The current allocation
composition of Brazil's safety net disfavors young children (only 10% of total federal
spending on social assistance goes to programs that target children under five).29
*   Rationalizing the safety net. Coordmation across ministries and levels of government
would minimize overlap and administrative waste. Safety nets should avoid having
multiple programs with similar objectives that target the same populations, which limits
effectiveness and dilutes accountability.30 An analysis of target groups, financial
resources, the incidence of benefits, and program quality could reduce overlaps. The POF
survey (see below) will provide such an opportunity. Potential gaps include: (a) the
exclusion of eligible beneficianes owing to limited budgets; and (b) weak protection of
very young children, youths, and informal-sector workers. Potential duplications include:
(a) double-coverage of formal sector workers by social insurance and social assistance
programs, with very little coverage of those in the informal sector; (b) double coverage of
the elderly and disabled by social assistance (e.g., BPC-LOAS) and social security
programs; and (c) double-coverage of target groups by existing and newly proposed
programs. Programs could also be made more consistent in their selection criteria, target
group definitions (age categories, income tests) and the size of transfers. A national
inventory mapping the extent and coverage of state and municipal programs could guide
policy.
* Strengthening targeting.3' Targeting could be strengthened in many ways:
2 The financial institution could facilitate the conversion of an income stream into low-cost loans, using the transfers as
collateral. Families then build a credit history. Likewise, beneficiary famulies should not be penalized for not
withdrawing assistance payments regularly. Allowing fanulies to accumulate payments with interest would reduce the
cost of participation for beneficiaries who travel long distances, and promote savings (Morris, Olinto and Flores, 2001).
29 Programs targeted to the disabled and elderly receive 46% of total federal spending on social assistance, and those
targeted to school-aged children receive 42%, with the remainder going to programs for youths (1%/6) and others (1%/o).
World Bank analysis based on 2002 budgets.
I Many countries in Latin America (for example, Peru, Mexico) have suffered from a proliferation of programs
initiated under different administrations that were never phased out: Joint Policy Note of the World Bank, the IMF, the
Asian Development Bank, and the Inter-American Development Bank to APEC Finance Ministers (February 2001).
i1 Brazilian programs rely on a variety of targeting methods. Many combine two types of targeting, including a first
stage of geographic allocations (municipal quotas based on maps of living conditions, human development, or the
incidence of child labor) and a second stage of individual selection. Individual selection generally relies either on
judgments of local authorities ("community-based targeting") or unverified simple means-testing (such as the limited
income data collected under the Cadastro Unico) or a combination of both. Some conditional cash transfer programs
are somewhat self-targeted due to the time costs associated with fulfilling the conditions imposed on beneficiaries (e.g.,
health actions required by program beneficiaries).
101



o   Improving geographic targeting. International experience highlights the impact
of geographic methods, such as poverty maps for municipal allocations, in
targeting scarce public resources to municipalities with high concentrations of
poor people, promoting transparency in resource allocation, and helping agencies
resist political pressures (because allocations are based on objective poverty
criteria).32 The upcoming Household Budget Survey (POF 2002-03) will provide
a unique opportunity for the construction of a rigorous poverty map in Brazil
(combining with data from the 2000 census).33
o   Improving    individual assessment. Currently, such        selection  relies on  a
combination of decisions by local authorities and limited and unverified income
data in the Cadastro Unico. If decisions are to be made by local authorities, a
number of conditions should be enforced:34 (a) transparency of decision making
through the use of clear selection formulas (e.g., clear proxy-means or means-
testing critena); (b) informnation on targeting rules provided to the community;
(c) accountability of the decision makers to the community; (d) audits conducted
by outside agency;35 and (e) training to local authorities in the selection of
households. In addition, the application of means tests could be strengthened
with more complete income questions and verification, or through the
development of clear, more easily observable proxy-means criteria (either
applied at the local level or centrally).36 Finally, child weight-for-age should not
be used to determine program eligibility, since this creates a perverse incentive
for mothers to withhold resources from beneficiary children in order to gain
access to and remain in the program. If programs use anthropometric indicators
for beneficiary selection, height-for-age is a preferred indicator since a child's
height cannot be manipulated m the short- or medium-term.
Evaluating both individual programs and the broader safety net.
o First, the impact of individual programs should be rigorously evaluated.37
Such evaluations are currently underway for the Bolsa Escola and Bolsa
Alimentafdo Programs, with results expected shortly. These results should
ideally feed back to program design and execution. Similar evaluations should be
conducted for other programs. Likewise, any new program should build
evaluation into their design (including the development of clear impact indicators
and the fielding of baseline surveys).
32Coady, Grosh and Hoddinott (2002), IFPRI (2002), Coady (2001), and Skoufias, Davis, and de la Vega (2001).
33 The World Bank has developed methods for the construction of poverty maps that combine data from household
surveys with census information. Such maps have been used in several countries (e.g., Guatemala, Panama, South
Africa, Ecuador). See Hentschel, Lanjouw et. al (2000).
34'Many observers suggest that local control of targeting - deciding eligibility - should be used with caution (Conning
and Kevane, 1999). There is always a risk that targeting decisions can be captured by local elites who direct benefits to
clients and allies while politicizing the process Mexico abandoned decentralized, community-based targeting decisions
under its earlier anti-poverty program PRONASOL (1988-94) for such reasons. Also, communities may discriminate
against the neediest if they are also the socially excluded (AIDS orphans, beggars, street children): Devereux (2002).
3 Sharp (1997) and Coady, Grosh and Hoddinott (2002).
36 The current Cadastro Onico only asks four questions, covering income from pensions, unemployment insurance,
food transfers, and other sources. It also gathers data on a lirruted sample of households, determined through the
judgment of local authonties for inclusion based on the availability of program resources and quotas (which could lead
to the exclusion of potentally eligible beneficiaries).
37 See Rawlings and Rubio (November 2002) for an overview of the evaluation of conditional cash transfer programs.
See IFPRI (2002) for an overview of the rigorous evaluation methods and results applied to Mexico's PROGRESA
program.
102



o  Second, an evaluation of the broader social safety net should be conducted to
assess the degree of duplication between programs as well as gaps in coverage
(see above). At present, comprehensive and representative survey data covering
the broad range of social protection programs have not been collected. The
Cadastro Unico does collect information on receipt of federal social assistance
benefits, but its sample is not representative (and in particular, does not include
representative coverage of those excluded from such programs). IBGE is
currently fielding an expanded household budget survey (the POF 2002-03) using
a nationally representative sample.38 The POF includes questions on most social
assistance and insurance programs. Such questions should also be added to the
annual PNAD survey. Adequate funding for the regular collection of household
survey data (e.g., POF, an improved Pesquisa Nacional por Amostra de
Domicilios - PNAD, and multi-topic household surveys) is important.
*  Developing clear exit criteria and an exit strategy to help beneficiary households
reduce their dependence on transfers, both nationally (poverty reduction and malnutrition
strategies) and at the household level (working with households to improve their living
conditions).
*   Fostering links to health, nutrition and education interventions to build on Brazil's
experience in linking transfers to health, behavioral, and education actions. Monitoring of
such actions could be strengthened. In particular, nutrition education interventions should
be verified. Micronutrient supplements could also be added to the package of actions.
Bonuses might be considered for successes, such as grade completion, achievement of
nutritional rehabilitation, etc.
*  Expanding existing programs. One key set of actions that could be taken in the next six
months involves the expansion of promising transfers linked to behavioral interventions:
(a) greater coverage of eligible beneficianes (bringing in those who were excluded due to
insufficient quotas); (b) increased unit transfers39 or bonuses for successful completion of
objectives; and (c) expanding criteria to reach new target populations (e.g., poor pre-
primary or secondary school students under Bolsa Escola).
*  Improving Ability to Respond to Crises. Most existing social assistance programs
focus on structurally poor or vulnerable groups (disabled, the elderly, young children).
With the exception of the drought workfare programs, few are designed specifically to
respond to crises, though receipt of transfers from existing programs would indeed help
families in crisis. In this context, existing SSN programs should receive budget protection
in times of crisis, and their agility should be reviewed for their expansion in such times. A
review should also be conducted of the past - and future - use of workfare programs or
other mechanisms for various types of cnses (drought, economic recession, etc.).
38 The PNAD survey questionnaires are relatively incomplete in their coverage of social assistance and insurance
programs.
39 An evaluation of the Federal Bolsa Escola suggested that the impact of the program on school attendance would
increase substantially with a larger unit transfer Bourguignon, Ferreira, and Leite (2002).
103



C. L[BRD RELATED PROJECTS CLOSED IN FYOO, FYO, FY02
_# Pt`I #PTo #aProj
Loan Prol tO Prgject Name                            Seettr Ba% d   T0& 2Q01 2zQo4..
36630 |P006452 !Northeast Basic Education III        Education       FY00
45420 |P064901 1BR-Second Social Security Spec. Secal Adj Ln Social Protection FY00
39170 PO35717-Bahia Rural Poverty Alleviation        |Rural Sector        FY0I1
39180 P038884 Cear& Rural Poverty Alleviation       iRural Sector        IFYOI
39190 !P038885 Sergipe Rural Poverty Alleviation    IRura Sector          FY01
3110 P0507621BR-Fundescola I                        Education            FY01
41210 .PO43871 Piaui Rural Poverty Alleviation       Rural Sector               FY02
41220 IP0425663PePrnabuco Rural Poverty Alleviation  Rural Sector              iFY02
41200 P038896 Rio Grande do Norte Rural Poverty Alleviation Rural Sector        FY02
37330 P006543,Minas Gerais Basic Education Project   Education                 FY02
37660 P006558!Parana Basic Education Project         'Education                    2
D. PROJECTS FINANCED BY THE INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
ProjKtTf                                                      F ax-Y~ 
BR-0360         Programa Sectorial de Promocion del          2002
Capital Hurnano
1174/OC-BR       Programa de Reforma y Protecci6n             Closed
Social
1225/OC-BR       Desarrollo de la Educaci6n Media              2000
1152/OC-BR       Proyecto de Educaci6n Profesional             2000
106



ANNEX 7
RECENT ANALYTICAL WORK IN THE HUMAN DEVELOPMENT SECTOR iN BRAzIL
Name                                                           Daite     Secto1r dBoiad
- A call to action - Combating School Failure in the Northeast of Brazil  12/19/97  Education
- Secondary education in Brazil: time to move forward          03/30/00    Education
- Assessment of the Bolsa Escola Programs                      03/15/01    Education
- Early Child development - a focus on the imnpact of preschools  09/24/01  Education
- Teachers development and incentives - a strategic framework  12/06/01    Education
- Higher Education in Brazil: Challenges and Options           03/31/02    Education
- Municipal Education: Resources, Incentives, and Results      12/20/02    Education
- Next Steps for Education (A Four-State Study) (to be finalized)  n/a     Education
- Addressing nutritional problems in Brazil                     10/18/96   Health
- Matemal and Child Health                                     02/26102    Health
- Bahia Health Decentralization (to befinalized)                  n/a      Health
- Social Insu;ance and private pensions                        01/25/95    Social Protection
- Critical Issues in Social Security                           05/31/01    Social Protection
- Eradicating Child Labor in Brazil                             12/06/01   Social Protection
- Ceara Human Dev. and Poverty Reduction (to befinalized)         n/a      Social Protection
- Labor Markets Report and Dialogue (to befinalized)              nla      Social Protection
- Gender Review: Issues and Recommendations                     01/23/02   Gender
- Poverty Assessment                                            06/27/95   Economic Policy
- Poverty reduction, growth, and fiscal stability in the State of Ceari - A  08/21/00  Economic Policy
State Economic Memorandum
- Attacking Brazil's Poverty: a poverty report with a focus on urban  03/31/01  Economic Policy
poverty reduction policies
- Public expenditures for poverty alleviation in Northeast Brazil -  06/11/01  Economic Policy
promoting growth and improving services
- Broadening the base for growth: a report on the state of Bahia  10/26/01  Economic Policy
- Rural Poverty Alleviation in Brazil: towards and integrated strategy  12/27/01  Economic Policy
- Growth and poverty reduction in Pernanbuco                    01/28/02  | Economic Policy
107



ANNEX8
SELECTED DOCUMENTS
GENERAL
Brazil: Country Assistance Strategy (CAS). Washington, D.C.: World Bank, 2000
Brazil: Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) - Progress Report. Washington, D.C.: World Bank,
2002
EDUCATION
Abu-Duhou, Ibtisam. School-based management. Pans: UNESCO/HEP, 1999. 134p.
(Fundamentals of Educational Planning, 62).
Almeida, Zozina Maria Rocha de. "Conselho escolar: (des) construindo espa9os." In, Gestao em
rede. Curitiba, n. 19, p. 15-18, May 2000.
Barroso, Joao. Autonomia e gestao das escolas. [Lisboa]: Ministerio da Educacao, 1996. 91p.
(Cole,cao educacao para o futuro).
Bigman, David; Uwe Deichmann. 2000. "Spatial Indicator of Access and Fairness for the
Location of Public Facilities." In, David Bigman and Hippolyte Fofack, Geographical Targeting
for Poverty Alleviation. The World Bank (Washington, D.C.).
Bonelli, Regis; and Veiga, Alinne. "Determinants of Educational Exclusion in Five States of
Brazil (Maranhao, MA; Paraiba, PB; Pemambuco, PE; Rio de Janeiro, RJ; and Rio Grande do
Norte, RN)." March, 2002.
Cardoso, Beatriz, and Thereza Lobo.  "Novos mecanismos de gestao descentralizada na
comunidade escolar." In: Costa, Vera Lucia Cabral (org). Descentralizacao da Educa,co: Novas
Formas de Coordenacao e Financiamento. Sao Paulo: FUNDAP: Cortez, 1999, p. 99-107
(Federalismo no Brasil).
Casassus, Juan. "Descentralizaci6n de la gesti6n a las escuelas y calidad de la educaci6n: mitos o
realidades?" In: Costa, Vera Licia Cabral (org). Descentralizacao da educacao: novas formas de
coordenacao e financiamento. Sao Paulo: FUNDAP: Cortez, 1999, p. 13-30. (Federalismo no
Brasil).
Corseuil, Carlos Henrique; Santos, Daniel D., and Foguel, Miguel N. (2001) "Decisoes criticas
em idades criticas: a escolha de jovens entre estudo e trabalho no Brasil e em outros paises da
America Latina." In, Economia Aplicada, v. 5, n 4 (Outubro - Dezembro). Departamento de
Economia, USP/FlPE. Sao Paulo, SP, p. 819 - 860.
Costa Ribeiro, Sergio (1993) "A educacao e a inser,cao do Brasil na modemidade." In, Cademos
de Pesguisa n 84, p. 63 - 82, Fevereiro, Sao Paulo, SP.
Cruz, Silvia Helena Vieira, Mauricio Holanda Maia, and Sofia Lerche Vieira. "Elei,ces de
diretores: uma mudan,a na cultura escolar?" [s.l.], 2000. Mimeo.
108



De Leon, Fernanda Leite Lopez and Menezes Filho, Na6rcio Aquino (2001) "Uma analise
descritiva da repetencia, avango e evasao escolar e de seus determinantes para o Brasil no periodo
de 1984 a 1997", Texto para Discussao n 20/2001, Universidade de SSo Paulo, Instituto de
Pesquisas Econ6micas, Sao Paulo, SP 18 p. (processed)
Da Silva, Jose Edson Gomes. "Fatores Determinantes do Sucesso e/ou Fracasso das Escolas
Rurais dos Estados da Paraiba e do Maranhao." April, 2002.
Descentraliza9ao da educa9Ao: novas formas de coordenacao e fmanciamento. Sao Paulo:
FUNDAP: Cortez, 1999, p. 68-98. (Federalismo no Brasil).
Dias, Luzia Parreira. "Uma experiencia de participacao coletiva para as escolas da rede puiblica
do Rio de Janeiro." In, Gestao em Rede. Curitiba, n. 18, p.20-21, March 2000.
Dos Santos, Madalena R.; and Soares, Sergei. EFA Brazil Education for All: Goals Met. May,
2002.
Draibe, Sonia Mirian. "A experiencia brasileira recente de descentraliza9ao de programas
federais de apoio ao ensino fundamental." In: Costa, Vera Luicia Cabral (org). Descentralizagao
da Educacao: Novas Formas de Coordenacao e Financiamento. Sao Paulo: FIJNDAP: Cortez,
1999, p. 99-107 (Federalismo no Brasil).
Fiske, Edward B. Descentralization of education: politics and consensus. Wahington: World
Bank, 1996. 40p. (Directions in development).
Fletcher, Philip R. (w/d) "A demographic perspective on duration and participation in Brazilian
education" 68 p. (processed).
Fonseca, Dirce Mendes da. "Gestao em educagao." In, Gestao em rede. Curitiba, n. 31, p.14-18,
September 2001.
Gadotti, Moacir. "Projeto Politico-Pedag6gico da Escola Cidada." In: Salto para o futuro:
construindo a escola cidada - projeto politico-pedag6gico. Brasilia: Ministerio da Educacao e do
Desporto, SEED, 1998. 96p. (Serie Estudos. Educagao a distancia, 5).
Gajardo, Marcela. Reformas Educativas na America Latina: Balan9o de uma Decada. Rio de
Janeiro: PREAL, 2000. 55p. (Documentos, 15).
Galheigo, Ana. "Autonomia Escolar no Estado de Pernambuco - Resultado dos Grupos Focais."
May, 2002.
Guedes, Andrea at al. "Policy Notes: Education in the State of Pernambuco," Brazil.
Washington, D.C.: World Bank, May 2002 (Draft)
Guia Neto, Walfrido S. dos Mares. "Repasse de Recursos para a Escola: Crit6rios, Mecanismos
e Tendencias - A Experiencia de Minas Gerais." In: XAVIER, Antonio Carlos da Ressurreicao.
Gestlo escolar: desafios e tendencias. Brasilia: IPEA, 1994. p. 87 - 106. (Serie IPEA, 145).
Hanson, E. Mark. Descentralizacao educacional: quest6es e desafios. Rio de Janeiro: PREAL,
1997. 41p. (Documentos, 9).
109



IPEA. Ressurreicao. GestAo escolar: desafios e tendencias. Brasilia: 1994. p. 123 - 140. (S6rie
IPEA, 145).
Instituto Nacional de Estudos e Pesquisas Educacionais. Avaliacao da Descentralizacao de
Recursos do FNDE e da Merenda Escolar: Sintese dos Resultados. Brasilia: INEP, 1998. 151p.
Instituto Nacional de Estudos e Pesquisas Educacionais. Informe de Resultados Comparativos do
SAEB 1995, 1997 and 1999. [s.l.] 2000 (Mimeo).
Instituto Nacional de Estudos e Pesquisas Educacionais. 0 perfil da Escola Brasileira: Um
Estudo a Partir dos Dados do SAEB 97. Brasilia: INEP, 1999. 29p.
Klein, Ruben (1995) "Producao e Utilizacao de Indicadores Educacionais." Laborat6rio Nacional
de Computacao Cientifica (LNCC/CNPq), Preliminar, Fevereiro, 35 p. + pictures (processed).
Kipnis, Bemardo; Carvalho, Luiza; and Soares, Sergei. "A Escola e os Jovens de 18 a 25 Anos."
May, 2002.
Machado, Maria Aglae de Medeiros Machado. "Desafios a Serem Enfrentados na Formacao de
Gestores Escolares." Draft Study. Brasilia, v.17, n.72, p.97-112, February/March 2000.
Machado, Maria Aglae de Medeiros. "Autonomia Escolar no Brasil - Visao Geral e em Estados
Selecionados - Pemambuco/Rio de Janeiro." May, 2002.
Pinheiro, Armando Castelar. "Fiscal Considerations in Education: The Cases of Maranhao,
Paraiba, Pernambuco and Rio de Janeiro." Rio de Janeiro, June 2002.
Maia, Eny Marisa and Luis Patricio do Prado Filho. "A Proposta Pedag6gica no Modelo
Gerencial da Escola:  Disfuncionalidades e Tendencias." In:  Xavier, Antonio Carlos da
Ressurreicao. Gestao escolar: desafios e tendencias. Brasilia: IPEA, 1994. p. 329 - 369. (Serie
IPEA, 145).
Mello, Guiomar Namo de. "Escolas Eficazes: Um Tema Revisitado." In: Xavoer, Antonio
Carlos da Ressurreicao. Gestao Escolar: Desafios e Tendencias. Brasilia: IPEA, 1994. p. 329 -
369. (Serie IPEA, 145).
Naspolim, Antenor Manoel. "Gestao Escolar e Formacao de Diretores: A Experiencia do Ceari."
Draft. Brasilia, v.17, n.72, p.141-145, February/June 2000.
Naspolini, Antonio. "Descentralizacao da Educacao: A Caminhada Cearense." In: Costa, Vera
Lucia Cabral (org). Descentralizacao da Educa,co: Novas Formas de Coordena9ao e
Financiamento. Sao Paulo: FUNDAP: Cortez, 1999, p. 141-167. (Federalismo no Brasil).
Neves, Carmen Moreira de Castro. "Autonomna da Escola Piiblica: Um Enfoque Operacional."
In: Veiga, llma Passos Alencastro. Projeto Politico-Pedag6gico da Escola: Uma Construcao
Possivel. Campinas: Papirus, 1995. 192p.
Oliveira, Joao Batista Arauijo. "Os desafios da gestao educacional." In: Xavier, Antonio Carlos
da Ressurrei,ao. Gestdo Escolar: Desafios e Tendencias. Brasilia: IPEA, 1994. p. 3 - 22. (Serie
IPEA, 145).
110



Paixao, Regina da. "O Colegiado Escolar como Instrumento de Gestlo Participativa: A Vivencia
de Mato Grosso do Sul." In: Xavier, Antonio Carlos da Ressurreigao. GestAo Escolar: Desafios
e Tendencias. Brasilia: LPEA, 1994. p. 107 - 122. (Serie IPEA, 145).
Paes de Barros, Ricardo and Pinto de Mendon9a, Rosane Silva (1996a) "O impacto da gestao
sober o desempenho educacional". Banco Interamericano de Desenvolvimento, Abril, 48 p. +
pictures and tables (processed).
Paes de Barros, Ricardo and Pinto de Mendon9a, Rosane Silva (1996b) "O Fluxo Educacional no
Brasil", IPEA - Instituto de Pesquisa Econ8mica Aplicada, Junho 11 p. (processed).
Paes de Barros, Ricardo and Pinto de Mendon9a, Rosane Silva (1996c) "Trabalho Infantil e
Evasao Escolar", lPEA - Instituto de Pesquisa Economica Aplicada, Junho 9 p. (processed).
Paes de Barros, Ricardo and Pinto de Mendon9a, Rosane Silva (I 996d) "O Impacto do Amblente
Comunitario sobre o Desempenho Educacional". Relat6rio Preliminar. IPEA - Instituto de
Pesquisa Econ6mica Aplicada, Junho 6 p. + pictures and tables (processed).
Parente, Marta Maria de A. and Heloisa Luck. Mapeamento da Descentraliza9ao da Educa9ao
Brasileira nas Redes Estaduais do Ensino Fundamental. Rio de Janeiro: IPEA, 1999. 53p.
(discussion paper, 675).
PERNAMBUCO. Education Secretariat. "Projeto Dinheiro na Escola." [s.l.], 2002. (Mimeo).
Priorities and Strategies for Education: A World Bank Review. Washington: World Bank, 1995.
173p. (Development in practice)
Recurso Direto na Escola:    Manual para Execu9ao (PAPE, PME, PDDE). Brasilia,
FUNDESCOLA, 2001. 48p.
Reformas Educacionais e Autonomia das Escolas: Os Casos de Nova Iorque, do Chile e do
Estado de Minas Gerais. [s. 1.]: Banco Mundial, 1999. 95p.
Rodriguez, Alberto et all. "Policy Notes: Education in the State of Maranhao - Challenges and
Options." Washington, D.C.: World Bank, February 2002 (Draft)
Silveira, Ricardo et all. "Policy Notes: Rio de Janeiro Basic Education Project - Main Sector
Issues and Government Strategy." Washington, D.C.: World Bank, March 2002 (Draft)
Sobrinho, Jose Amaral,, Antonio Carlos da Ressurrei9ao Xavier, and Fatima Marra. "Gestao da
Escola Fundamental: Situa9ao Atual e Tendencias. In Gestao escolar: Desafios e Tendencias.
Brasilia: IPEA, 1994. p. 51 - 86. (Serie IPEA, 145)
Torres, Artemis and Lindalva Maria N.Garske. "Diretores de Escola: 0 Desacerto com a
Democracia." Em aberto. Brasilia, v.17, n.72, p.60-70, February/June. 2000.
Velez, Carlos Eduardo; Soares, Sergei and Medeiros, Marcelo (2001) "Reducing school
inequality in Brazil: demographic opportunities and inter-cohort differentials" Texto para
Discussao n 850, IPEA - Instituto de Pesquisa Economica Aplicada, December 17 p.
111



Verner, Dorte et. All. "Policy Notes: Education and its Impact on Poverty in the State of
Paraiba, Brazil." Washington, D.C.: World Bank, April 2002 (Draft).
Evaluation of the PETI program
SOCIAL ASSISTANCE
Burlandy, Luciene (2002). Programas de Combate a Desnutri,ao Matemo-Infantil na Decada de
90. Mimeo.
Burlandy, Luciene (2002). Analise de Programas que Integram a Estrategia de Combate a Fome
e a Pobreza do Govemo Federal. Mimeo.
Castafieda, Tarsicio (November 1998). The Design, Implementation, and Impact of Food Stamps
Programs in Developing Countries.
Coady, David (July 2001). An Evaluation of the Distributional Power of PROGRESA's Cash
Transfers in Mexico. IFPRI, FCND Discussion Paper No. 117.
Coady, David, Margaret Grosh, and John Hoddinott (November 2002). The Targeting of
Transfers in Developing Countries: Review of Experience and Lessons. World Bank Social
Safety Net Primer Series.
Costa Coitmho, Denise, et. al. (2002). Avancos e Perspectivas Para as Politicas de Transferencia
Direta de Renda No Brasil. Mimeo.
Davis, Benjamin (November 26, 2002). "The Impact of Conditional Cash Transfer Programs in
Fighting Rural Poverty: A Review of Experiences in Latin America." Presentation.
Grosh, Margaret (1994). Administering Targeted Social Programs in Latin America: From
Platitudes to Practice, the World Bank, Washington, D.C.
Haddad, Lawrence, Harold Alderman, et. al. (August 2002). Reducing Child Undemutrition:
How far does income growth take us? FCND Discussion Paper No. 137, IFPRI.
IFPRI (2002). PROGRESA: Breaking the Cycle of Poverty. Washington, D.C.: IFPRI.
Instituto Cidadania (October 2001). Projecto Fome Zero: Uma Proposta de Politica de Seguranca
Alimentar Para o Brasil.
Jones, Polly (October 2, 2002). Draft Policy Note on Social Protection in Brazil. The World
Bank.
Kennedy, Eileen T. and Harold H. Alderman (March 1987). Comparative Analysis of Nutritional
Effectiveness of Food Subsidies and Other Food-Related Interventions. International Food Policy
Research Institute.
Lavinas, Lena, et. al. (July 2000). Combinando Compensat6rio e Redistributivo: 0 Desafio das
Politicas Socias No Brasil. IPEA Texto Para Discussao No. 748.
Lobo, Thereza (updated draft, September 2002). Update on Major Federal-Level Social
Assistance Programs in Brazil. Mimeo.
112



Monteira, Carlos Augusto (2002). Fome, Desnutri9ao e Pobreza. Mimeo and presentation.
Monris, Saul S., Pedro Olinto, and Rafael Flores (September 2001). "Consultancy to Support the
Design and Evaluation of Bolsa Alimenta9do. IFPRI.
Ohls, James C. and Harold Beebout (1993). The Food Stamp Program: Design, Tradeoffs, Policy
and Impacts. A Mathematica Policy Research Study. The Urban Institute Press: Washington,
D.C.
Olinto, Pedro, Saul S. Morris, and Rafael Flores (September 2001). "Consultancy to Support the
Design and Evaluation of Bolsa Escola." IFPRI
Peixinho, Albaneide (2002). Associacao Brasileira de Nutricao. Presentation.
Peixinho, Albaneide (2002). Promocao da Alimenta9ao Saudavel Pelo Caminho da Informa,ao,
Comunicacao e Educacao: Contribuicao ao Projeto "Fome Zero." Mimeo.
Ranney, Christine K. and J. Kushman (April 1987). "Cash Equivalence, Welfare Stigma, and
Food Stamps." Southern Economic Journal.
Rawlings, Laura B. and Gloria M. Rubio (November 2002). Evaluating the Impact of
Conditional Cash Transfer Programs: Lessons from Latin America. World Bank (draft mimeo).
Rogers, Beatrice Lorge and Jennifer Coates (June 2002). Food-Based Safety Nets and Related
Programs. World Bank Social Safety Net Primer Series.
SEAS/MPAS (2001). Relatorio de Gestao da Asistencia Social.
Skoufias, Emmanuel, Benjamin Davis, and Sergio de la Vega (March 2001). Targeting the Poor
in Mexico: An Evaluation of the Selection of Households for PROGRESA. IFPRI, FCND
Discussion Paper No. 103.
Skoufias, Emmanuel and Bonnie McClafferty (July 2001). Is PROGRESA Working? Summary
of the Results of an Evaluation by IFPRI. IFPRI, FCND Discussion Paper No. 118.
Tabor, Steven R. (September 2002). Assisting the Poor with Cash: Design and Implementation
of Social Transfer Programs. World Bank Social Safety Net Primer Series.
Webb, Patrick and Joachim von Braun (November 1993). "Ending Hunger Soon: Concepts and
Priorities." IFPRI.
The World Bank (October 1996). Brazil: Addressing Nutritional Problems in Brazil. Report No.
16010-BR.
The World Bank, IMF, Asian Development Bank, and the Inter-American Development Bank
(February 2001). "Social Safety Nets in Response to Crisis: Lessons and Guidelines from Asia
and Latin America." Policy Note Submitted to APEC Fmance Ministers.
The World Bank (March 31, 2001). Brazil: Attacking Brazil's Poverty (Report No. 20475-BR).
113



The World Bank (March 15, 2001). Brazil: An Assessment of the Bolsa Escola Programs
(Report No. 20208-BR).
The World Bank (June 9, 2000). Brazil: Selected Issues in Social Protection (Report No. 20054,
volumes I and 2), The World Bank.
114



ANNEX 9
PROTECTED PROGRAMS IN THE 2003 BUDGET
Social Programs                       Coding in FY03'  Protected amudunt
budget line item(s)  (in iRS MIUiMIs)
1. Dinheiro Direto na Escola                          12 361 0040 0515           327.0
12 361 0040 0517
2. Complement to FUNDEF                                12 361 0040 0304          657.0
3. SAEB                                                12 126 0048 4022            8.0
4. ENEM                                                12 362 0048 4017           63.0
5. ProvAo                                              12 364 0048 4016           26.0
6. Bolsa Escola Federal (BEF)                          12 123 0040 4401         1,995.0
12 243 0040 4411
12 243 0040 0519
7. Programa de Erradica,do do Trabatho Infantil (PETI)  08 243 0068 2569         500.0
08 126 0068 4443
08 243 0068 4447
08 243 0068 6537
08 243 0068 2060
8. Bolsa Alimenta9do(BA)                               10 306 0008 0357          360.0
9. Agente Jovem                                        08 243 0070 2293            59.0
08 128 0070 2295
08 243 0070 2558
08 126 0070 4441
08 243 0070 4449
08 243 0070 5398
10. Basic Care Program (PAB Fixed)                     10 301 0001 0587         2,000.0
11. Programa de Soude Familiar (PABfI/PSF)             10 301 0001 0589         1,600.0
12. Merenda Escolar                                    12 306 0040 0513           880.0
13. Programa Nacional do Livro Diddtico                12 361 0040 4046           550.0
14. Assist6ncia Farmaceutica B&sica                    10 303 0005 4368           890.0
10 303 0005 4705
10 303 0005 0593
15. Prevencdo e Controle de Doen,as Transmissiveis     10 305 0002 0597           615.0
115



Sotial'Frogra$nsCodiag. hi FY03                       Prqtected&anioum
budget khie itef(s)  (in It$ Miilionsj
16. Preven9do e Controle da Tuberculose e de Outras   10 301 0019 0601          28.0
Pnemopania                                        10 571 0019 3856
10 573 0019 3941
10 301 0019 4314
10 303 00194369
10 301 0019 0601
17. Vigilancia Sanitaria de Produtos e Servios        10 301 0010 0595           81.0
18. Controle da Hansniase e de Outras Dennatoses      10 303 0020 2739           11.0
10 571 00203855
10 301 00204313
10 301 0020 0599
TOTAL                                                                         10,650.0
116



ANNEX 10
THE MILLENNIUM DEVELOPMENT GOALS AND PROGRESS IN BRAZIL
The Millennium Development Goals            Brazil's Recent Progress
Goal 1. Eradicate extreme poverty and hunger  Brazil's extreme  poverty rate (using  the
government's indigence line, which lies between
the international $1-a-day and $2-a-day poverty
lines) fell from 21.3% in 1990 to 14.4% in 1999.
Goal 2. Achieve universalprimary education  The fraction of children ages 7-14 recorded as
out of school fell from 18.2% in 1992 to 8.7% in
1996, and then to 3.5% in 2001. The primary
completion rate increased from 51.9% m 1995 to
61.1% in 1999.
Goal 3. Promote gender equality and empower  The average education of women is 5.4 years
women                                vis-a-vis 5.2 years for men. Domestic violence is
a major concern.
Goal 4. Reduce child mortality              Infant mortality fell from 47.8 per thousand in
1990 to 29.6 per thousand in 2000.
Goal 5. Improve maternal health             Prenatal exams by the public health system and
gynecological medical consultations have
increased rapidly over the last decade.
Goal 6. Combat HIV/AIDS, malaria and other  Brazil has  an  innovative  and  successful
diseases                             HIV/AIDS program, which has helped reduce
mortality from AIDS from 9.6 per 100,000 in
1996 to 6.3 in 2000. Contraceptive prevalence
rose from 66% in 1986 to 77% in 1996.
Goal 7. Ensure environmental sustainability  Environmental management is improving. But
deforestation rates are unsustainable in the
Amazon. The Cerrado (Savannah) and Caatinga
(Semiarid) biomes are also seriously threatened
if agriculture continues unrestricted.
117



ANNEX 11
FuND's RELATIONS NOTE
Summing Up of the Chairman of the Board of the International Monetary Fund Following
the First Review Under Brazil's Current Stand-By Arrangement on December 19, 2002
Brazil's performance under its Stand-By Arrangement with the Fund has so far been exemplary,
and all performance criteria and structural benchmarks have been achieved. Building on this solid
record, and the incoming administration's commitment to maintain the sound fiscal and monetary
policies of recent years, the Fund looks forward to a close and productive cooperation with the
authorities in implementing their policy agenda in the period ahead.
Despite a recent improvement in market sentiment, market conditions nevertheless remain
difficult. The appointment of a new economic team provides welcome re-assurances about the
course of policy next year. The incoming authorities will need to restore confidence, which, in
turn, will lay the groundwork for a resumption of output growth in line with Brazil's considerable
potential.
The public sector will need to run primary fiscal surpluses sufficient to achieve a decline of the
public debt ratio over the medium term. Timely progress on the authorities plans for pending
structural fiscal reforms, including the pension and tax reforms will facilitate the achievement of
the requisite surpluses and allow a reorientation of expenditure in line with the new government's
priorities to fight poverty and social inequality, which the Fund strongly supports.
The central bank has responded proactively to the recent increase in inflation and mflation
expectations, raising interest rates in October, November and yesterday. The restoration of
confidence is expected to lead to a decline in inflation over the next several months. In this
context, early progress in the on-going discussion in Brazil for securing of the central bank's
operational autonomy will provide important support to enhancing the credibility of monetary
policy.
118



ANNEX 12
EDB SOCIAL SECTOR PROJECT
The proposed HD PSRL complements the IDB's Sector Program for Human Capital
Development and is a result of the ongoing collaboration and coordination between both
institutions. The social reform program to be financed by both banks support the continuation
and the expansion of four successful conditional cash transfer programs: Bolsa Alimenta,cdo
(Nutrition Cash-Transfer Program - BA), Bolsa Escola Federal (Education Subsidy Program),
Programa de Erradica,do do Trabalho Infantil - PETI (Child Labor Eradication Program), and
Agente Jovem (Youth Program). In addition, the proposed IDB operation will enhance these
programs, especially in the areas of targeting and poverty impact evaluation, which is also a
policy objective of the HD PSRL. The list of proposed conditions for the two tranches IDB loan,
reproduced below, shows that social sector operations of the two banks reinforce each other and
entail no undue duplication of efforts.
Proposed Conditions for the EDB Sector Program for Human Capital Development
First Tranche                                Second Tranche
(i) Proposal from IPEA for the development of  (i) Evidence the PNAD household survey with an
methodologies and targeting mechanisms for    improved questionnaire has been applied for
the evaluation of the existing cash transfer  the confirmation of poverty levels on the part
programs eligibility conditions               of IPEA
(ii) Creation of a unified registry of beneficianes  (ii) Evidence of implementation of the unified
from conditional cash transfer programs       registry of beneficiaries from conditional cash
transfer programs
(iii) Evidence that the Bolsa AlimentaVdo program  (iii) Evidence that the Bolsa Alimentaqdo program
approved participation requests from at least  approved participation requests from at least
50 municipalities with IDH lower than 0.5 and  550 municipalities with IDH lower than 0.5
covers at least 2000 beneficiaries in these   and covers at least 350 thousand beneficiaries
municipalities                                in these municipalities
(iv) Evidence that the Bolsa Escola program   (iv) Evidence that the Bolsa Escola program
approved the participation of least 1900      approved the participation of least 2100
municipalities with IDH lower than <0.5 and   municipalitles with IDH lower than <0.5 and
covers at least 2.1 million beneficiaries in  covers at least 2.4 million beneficiaries in
these municipalities                          these municipalities
(v) Evidence that the PETI program covers at  (v) Evidence that the PETI program covers at least
least 500 thousand beneficiary families in    860 thousand beneficiary families in those
those municipalities where the incidence of   municipalities where the incidence of child
child labor is highest                        labor is highest
(vi) Evidence that the Agente Jovem program   (vi) Evidence that the Agente Jovem.program
covers at least 40 thousand youth             covers at least 55 thousand youth
(vii)Evidence that information on successful
targeting mechanisms has been collected and
disseminated
119



ANNEX 13
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
Difference between
expected
Original Amount In USS Millions                               diaburementa
Project ID       FY    Purpose                                       IBRD           IDA        GEF       Cancel     Undisb        Ong     Frn Revd
P074777         2003  BR-MunictpaJPenonTAL                                 500         000        000        000         500        027        000
P057665         2002  BR-FAMILY HEALTH EXTENSION PROJECT                  68 00        0 00       0 00       0 00       68 00      20 40       0 00
P057653         2002  BR-FUNDESCOLAliMA                                   16000        000        000        000       17618      -1163        000
P055954         2002  GOlASSTATEHiGHWAYMANAGEMENT                         6500         000        000        000        5540       1500        000
P051696         2002  SAO PAULO METRO LiNE 4 PROJECT                     209 00        0 00       0 00       0 00      206 91      40 91       0 00
P043869         2002  BR SANTA CATARINA NATURAL RESOURC & P               62 80        0 00       0 00       0 00       62 17       3 09       0 00
P074085         2002  Segpe Rural Poverty Reduction                       20 80        o 00       000        000        18 59       299        000
P073192         2002  TAFFmanclSector                                      1450        000        000        000        1432        000        000
P070552         2002  GEF BR PARANA BIODIVERSITY PROJECT                   0 00        0 00       8 00       0 00        7 97       0 30       0 00
P066170         2002  BR-RGN 2ND Rural Poverty Reducton                   22 50        0 00       0 00       0 00       22 03       1 03       0 00
P060221         2002  FORTALEZA METROPOLITAN TRANSPORT PRO                 85 00       0 00       0 00       0 00       95 70      17 02       0 00
P050880         2001  PeannbucoRurnlPovertyReduction                      3010         000        000        000        2661        646        000
P059566         2001  BR. CEARA BASIC EDUCATION                           90 00        0 00       0 00       0 00       83 95       -6 05      0 00
P050875         2001  Cern Rurn Poverty Reducton Project                  37 50        0 00       0 00       0 00       27 33       4 63       0 00
P050772         2001  LAND-BASED POVERTY ALLEVIATION I (SIM               202 10       0 00       0 00       0 00      197 30      115 40      0 00
P050881         2001  PIAUI RURAL POVERTY REDUCTION PROJEC                 22 50       0 00       0 00       0 00       17 54       4 54       0 00
P073294         2001  BR Ftscai & Fm MMnu TAL                              8 88        0 00       0 00       0 00        7 91       4 05       0 00
P059565         2001  BR- BA BASIC EDU PROJECT (PHASE 1)                  69 60        0 00       0 00       0 00       17 73      -3 17       0 00
P057649         2001  Buhia Rural Poverty Reduction Projeca               54 35        0 00       0 00       0 00       43 38       9 33       0 00
P035741         2000  NATLENV2                                             1500        000        000         000       1124        974        801
P062619         2000  INSSREFLIL                                            505        000        000         000        036       -014        036
P050776         2000  NE Microfinance Developnmnt                          50 00       0 00       0 00        0 00      35 29     -14 71        0 00
P047309         2000  BR ENERGY EFFICIENCY (GEF)                           0 00        0 00       15 00       0 00      12 67       7 32        0 00
P039200         2000  ENERGY EFFICIENCY (ELETROBRAS)                       43 40       0 00       0 00        0 00      42 97       28 57       0 00
P039199         2000  PROSANEAR2                                           3030        000        000         000       2960        -070        000
P006449         2000  BR CEARA WTR MGT PROGERIRH SIM                      136 00       0 00       0 00        0 00     107 10       47 15       0 00
P054120         1999  BR- AIDS&STDControlIl                               16500        000        000         350       1239        1589        000
P058129         1999  BR EMER FIRE PREVENTION (ERL)                        15 00       0 00       0 00        0 00       7 66        7 66       7 66
P050763         1999  BR- Fundescola2                                     20200        000        000         000       2349       -1151        000
P048869         1999  SALVADORURBAN TRANS                                 15000        000        000         000      10071        8571        000
P006474         1998  BR LAND MGT 3 (SAO PAULO)                            55 00       0 00       0 00        0 00      50 63       39 63      26 63
P038947         1998  BR- SC &TECH3                                       15500        000        000         000      10676       10676        000
P006559         1998  (BF-R)SP TSP                                         45 00       0 00       0 00        0 00       7 33        7 33       0 00
P038895         1998  FEDWTRMGT                                           19800        000        000         000      10993       10569       7793
P057910         1998  BR PENSION REFORM LIL                                 5 00       0 00        0 00       0 00       3 06        3 06       185
P051701         1998  MARANHAO RPOVERTY                                    8000        000         000        000        509         509        000
P043420         1998  WATERSMOD2                                          15000        000        000         000      14630       14627      13617
P042565         1998  PARAIBAR.POVERTY                                     6000        000        000         000       2144        2144        000
P048357         1998  BRAZIL CEN BANK TAL                                  20 00       0 00        0 00       0 00       0 02        0 02      -7 30
P043421         1998  RJM.TRANSiTPRJ                                      18600        000         000       1717       12895      14612        000
P035728         1998  BAHIAWTRRESOURCES                                    S100        000         000        000       2524        2524       2524
P006532         1997  FEDHWYDECENTR                                       30000        000         000        000       14903      14903       2935
P043868         1997  RGSLANDMGTIPOVERTY                                  10000        000         000        000       4541        3851       2791
P034578         1997  RGS HWY MGT                                          70 00       0 00        0 00       0 00      49 34       49 34      44 34
P006562         1997  BAIIAAMUJNDV                                        10000        000         000        000       4170        4170       2011
P043873         1997  AGTECHDEV                                            6000        000         000        000       2961        2961       2961
P037828         1996  BR (PR)RIPOVERTY                                    175 00       0 00        0 00       0 00      64 56       64 56      64 56
P006210         1996  GEF BR-NATL BIODIVERSITY                              0 00       0 00       10 00       0 00       3 02        4 04       4 66
P006554         1996  BR- HEALTH SECrOR REFORM - REFORSUS                 300 00       0 00        0 00       0 00       80 54      80 54       0 00
P038882         1995  RECIFEMTSP                                          10200        000         000        000        923         923        000
PoD6564         1995  BELO H M TSP                                         99 00       0 00        0 00       0 00       12 70      12 70       0 00
P006436         1995  Ceara Urban Developnent & Water Resource            140 00       0 00        0 00       0 00       17 97      17 97       17 97
Total:                                             U49038        000        3300       2067      264539     150365       51509
120



ANNEX 14
BRAzIL: STATEMENT OF IFC'S HELD AND DISBURSED PORTFOLIO
Jun 30 - 2002
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                                  Disbursed
IFC                                        IFC
FY Approval               Company                      Loan      Equwty     Quasi      Patic      Loan     Equity      Quasi     Partic
1998                     Fosfertil                     20 00      0 00       0 00      33.75     20 00       0 00      000       33 75
1998                     Fras-le                        9 33      0 00      10.00       0 00      9.33       0 00       6.70      0 00
1994                     GAVEA                          5 63      0 00       5 50       0 00      5.63       0 00       5.50      0 00
0                         GP Cpt Rstrctd                0.00      9 67       0.00       0.00      0 00       9.35       0.00      0.00
2001                      GPC                           9.00      0 00       0.00       0 00      9 00       0.00       0.00      0 00
1997                     Guilman-Aonrim               25 78       0.00       0 00      57.47     25 78       0 00      0.00      57.47
1998                     IcatuEquity                    000      20.00       000        0.00      0.00      1244        000       0.00
1999                     Innova SA                     18 75      5.00       0.00      55 00     18.75       5.00       0 00     55.00
1980/87/97               Ipiranga                      29.33      0 00       0 00      57 27     29 33       0.00       0 00     57.27
1999                     Itaberaba                      0.00      5 34       0 00       0.00      0 00       5 34       0 00      0 00
1999                     JOSAPAR                        8.00      0 00       7 00       0 00      3.00       0.00       7.00      0 00
1995                      LATASA - Brazil               0 00      0.00       5 00       000       0 00       0 00       5.00      0.00
1995                     Lojas Amencana                12 00      0 00       5.00       0 00      12.00      0 00       5 00      0.00
1987/92/96/99            MBR                           20 00      0 00       0.00       0 00     20 00       0 00       0.00      0.00
0                         Macedo Nordeste               4 75       0.00      5 00       0.00       4 75      0.00       5 00       0.00
1996                     MalloTy                        436       0 00       0 00       0.00      436        0.00       0 00      0.00
1975/96                  Oxiteno NE                     7 50      5.00       0 00       0.00      7 50       0.00       0 00       0.00
1994                     ParaPigmentos                 1935       0.00       9.00       821      19.35       000        9.00       8.21
1987/96                   Perdigao                     1531       000        0.00       200       15.31      000        000        2.00
1989/95                  Politeno Ind.                  4.38      0 00       0 00       0.00      4 38       0 00       0 00       0 00
1994/00/02               Portobello                     0.00       1.15      000        0.00      0.00       1.15       0.00       000
2000                      Pumas                         4 33       0.00      0.00       0 00       4 33      0 00       0.00       0.00
1998                     Randon                         6 07      0.00       3 00       0 00      6 07       0 00       3 00       0 00
1991                     Rhodia-Ster                    0.00      5 95       0 00       0.00      0 00       5.95       0.00       0.00
1995                      Rhodjaco/PTA                  5.00      0 00       0 00       0 00       5 00      0 00       0.00       0.00
1990                      Ripasa                        0.00      5 00       0 00       0 00      0.00       5 00       0.00       0.00
1997                      Rodovia                      25.28      0.00       0.00      39 75      25.28      0.00       0.00      39 75
SAILCC                        0.00       000        000       0.00       000        000        000       000
1994/96                   SP Alpargatas                15 00      0 00       5.00       0.00      15 00      0 00       5 00       0.00
1987/97                   Sadia                        19.50      0.00       6 50     104 00      19 50      0 00       6.50     104 00
1994/95/97                Samarco                      10 80      0.00       0 00       5 33      10.80      0.00       0.00       5.33
1997                      Samantano                    20.00       0 00      0.00       0 00       0.00      0 00       0.00       0.00
2000                      Saraiva                       9 23       3 00      0 00       0 00       9 23      3 00       0 00       0 00
1998                      SeaTa Alimentos               0.00       3 88      000        0.00       0 00      3.88       0.00       0.00
0                         Sepetiba                     27 00       0.00       5 00      8 00      12 00      0.00       5.00       8.00
2001                      Sucomco                       6 00       0.00      0.00       0 00       6 00      0 00       0 00       0.00
1997                      Sudamreica                    0 00      15 00      0 00       0.00       0 00     1500        0 00       0.00
1999                      Synteko                      1800        000       000        0.00      1800       0.00       000        0.00
2001                      TIGRE                        11 54       0.00      5.00       427       1154       000        500        427
1996                     TRICEM                         000        0.00      000        0.00       0.00      000        0.00       0.00
1992/93                  Tecon Rio Grande               6 38       0 00      5.50      13 60       6 38      0.00       5.50      13.60
1998                     Tecon Salvador                 3.50       1.00      0 00       5 00       3 50      0 77       0 00       5 00
2001                      Unibanco                    150 00       000       000        0.00       0.00      000        0 00       0.00
1988/94/02               Vulcabras                     15.01      0.00       000        0.00      15.01      000        000        000
1999
TotalPortfoho.       100981      16926      133.50     76194      618.53    14541      11520      591.57
121



BRAZIL: STATEMENT OF IFC'S HELD AND DISBURSED PORTFOLIO
Jun 30 - 2002
In Millions US Dollars
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY AppToval                    Company                                      Loan       Equity        Quasi        Pauec
0                              Net                                          0 00         0 00         19 96        0.00
2002                            Suape ICT                                   6 00         0 00         0 00          0 00
2002                           Microinvest                                  0 00         0 00          125          0 00
2002                           NetServicos                                 5000          000           5 00         000
2002                           Macae                                       65.00         10 00         0 00       275 00
2002                           Anaggi                                      30 00         000          0 00          0.00
2002                            UP Offshore                                 16.80        0.00         10.00        25 20
2002                           Andrade                                     30.00         10 00         0.00       120 00
1999                           Cibrasec                                     0 00         0 00         7 50          0 00
2000                           BBA                                          10 00        0 00          0.00        50 00
2001                           Satpel                                       15.00        15 00         0 00         0 00
2001                           Umsul                                        15.00        0 00          0.00         0.00
2001                           Brad Templeton                               0 00         0.00         20.00         0 00
2001                           Cataguazes                                  45.00         0 00          0 00        40 00
2002                           Univali                                     10 00         0 00          0.00         0.00
2002                           Unibanco-CL                                  0 00         0 00          0 00       150 00
2002                           Banco Itau                                   0 00         0 00          0.00       100 00
Total Pending Conmumunt.                   292 80        35 00        63.71       760 20
122



ANNEX 15
BRAZIL AT A GLANCE
Latin   Upper.
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                         America    middle-
Brazil  & Carib.  Income      Development diamond'
2001
Population, mid-year (millions)                     1726       524       504                 Life expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                  3,060     3,580     4,480
GNI (Atas method, US$ billions)                     5287      1,862     2,248
Average annual growth, 1995401
Population (I6)                                       1.3       1.5       1 3     GNI                             Grs
Laborforce (%)                                        1.8       2.2       18      GN   I                          Gromr
per          .primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1995.01)                             capita             /        enrollment
Poverty (% of population below natonal poverty line)  22
Urban populaton (6 of total population)               82         76       77
Ufe expectancy at birth (years)                        68        70       71
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)              30         29       24
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)              6         9        9           Access to improved water source
Access to an improved water source (% of population)   87        85       87
Illiteracy (% of populatfion age 15+)                  14        11        10
Gross primary enrilment (% of school-age population)  154       130       127        -    ra.z,
Male                                                158       131       128              Upper-middle-income group
Female                                              152       128       126
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1981     1991      2000      2001
Economic ratios'
GDP (US$ billions)                         263 6    407.7     593.8     502.0
Gross domestic Investment/GDP               23 1     19.8      21.7      21 0
Exports of goods and services/GDP            9 4      8.7      10 8      134                     Trade
Gross domestic savingslGDP                  22 7     20 5      20 1      19.9
Gross national savmgs/GDP                   18.e     18.6      17 2      16.4
Current account balance/GDP                  -4 5     -0 3      -4 1      -48     Domestic 
Interest payments/GDP                        3 1      0 5       2.2       2.1        stings                   Investment
Total debt/GDP                              30 9     29 7      39.8      450      svn
Total debt service/exports                  66 4     23 3      92 0      60 5
Present value of debt/GDP                      ,,              37.7
Present value of debt/exports                  .              327.4
Indebtedness
1981491  1991-01     2000      2001   2001405
(average annual growth)
GDP                                 2 9      2.9      4 4        1.5      28          -     ra,jl
GOP per capita                      0.9      1 5      3 1       0.2       1.6               Upper-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services       6 8      6 4     11.4      12.1       3 7
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1981     1991      2000      2001      Growth of investment and GDP (%)
(% of GDP)                                                                        20
Agriculture                                 10 7      7.8        7 4      9 3
Industry                                    43 7     36 2      28.3      33 9     10
Manufactunng                               32.9     25 3      17 4      21 0
Services                                    455      56.1       643      568       0o
97         ~~00   01
Pnvate consumption                          68.0     61.6      60.6      601      .10
Generalgovemmentconsumption                  93      179        19.3     199 G9I                         -   GDP
Imports of goods and services                9 8      7 9       12.4     14 4
1981-91  1991.01      2000      2001     Growth of exports and Imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                  2 5      3 4        3 0      51      40
Industry                                     2 2      2 5       4 9       -0 6       \
Manufactunng                                1 4      1.9       6 1       086
Services                                     3.5      2.9        3 7       15      o.7
Private consumption                          12       50        37        286            os    07               00 _ 
General govemment consumption                7 5      -1.0       0.0      4 8     -20 -
Gross domestic investment                    3 9      3 5       11 2      -2 0                 XExports  -ein-imorts
Imports of goods and services                2 9     10.0       12.4      0 7
Note 2001 data are prellninary esuinates
'The diarmonds show four key indicators In the country (in bold) cornpared inth its incorne-group average. If data are rnissing, the dlanond will be Incomplete
123



Brazil
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1981    1991      2000     2001     Inflation I%)
Domestc prices
(% change)
Consumer prices                           101 7   432 8       6.0      7 7     75
Implicit GDP deflator                     107 2   415 3       8.0      7.4     s0
Govemment finance /a                                                           25
(% of GOP, includes current grants)                                             o
Current revenue                                      ..      21 9     23 0            9S    97   98    99    0    01
Current budget balance                                        1 8      1 8           -G   DP deflator   e cP
Overall surplus/defidct                                       3 2      3.8
TRADE
(US$ nmllions)                            1981     1991     2000     2001      Export and Import levels (USS mill.)
Total exports (fob)                              31,620    55,086   58,223    eo,ooo
Coffee                                           2,870    3,048     2,932
Soybeans                                         2,031    2,188     2,726    90.000
Manufactures                                    20,483   41,027    41,144
Total imports (cif)                              21,041    55,783   55.581    40,                 d   o
Food                                        .    1,275     1,507    1,169    25000
Fuel and energy                                  3,371     6,362    6,276
Capital goods                               .    5,966    13,591   14,803       o-0gi
95  99   97   98  99   00   01
Export price index (1995=100)               81       81        97       94
Import pice index (1995=100)                70       68       118      114               CExports     *Iports
Termsof trade (1995=100)                   116      120        82       82
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                            isal     1991     2000      2001     Current account balance to GDP (%)
Exports of goods and services            25,522  34,333    64,584   67,545     0
Imports of goods and services            27,200  26,142    72,443   72,652
Resource balance                         -1,678   8,191    -7,859    -5,107
Netincome                               -10,272  -11.154  -17,886   -19,743
Netcurrenttransfers                         10    1,556     1,521    1,638
Current account balance                 -11,940  -1,407   -24,224   -23,212    4
Financing items (net)                    12,286   -3,272   31,904   19,468
Changes in net reserves                    -348   4,679    -7,680    3,744
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)    6,693   8,763    33,011   35,866
Conversion rate (DEC, localUUSS)       3 38E-1 1  1 48E-4     1 8      2.4
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1981    1991      2000     2001
(US$ millions)                                                                 Composition of 2001 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed     81,454  121,020  236,157  226.067                     A 7,963
IBRD                                    2,286   8,165     7,377    7,963                           c 7 8337
IDA                                        0        0         0        0           G 29.292
D 11,476
Total debt service                       17,874   8,340    62,891   42,977               /.                  E 16,583
IBRD                                     317    1,917     1,351     1,362                                  5 1t,563
IDA                                        0        0         0        0             /:i   L ,
Compositon of net resource flows
Official grants                            8       50        54        ..
Official creditors                      1,230   -1,062    -1,780     786             \,- *'
Pfivate creditors                       7,512    1,701    7,936    3,615                 --:;.''/
Foreign direct investment               2,520    1,103   32,779    22,457
Portfolio equity                           0      803     3,076     2,481               F 1S2,416
Wofid Bank pmgram
Commitments                             1,039    1,348    1,290     1,609    A - IBRD                  E - Bilateral
Disbursements                            387      840      1,692    1.639      - IDA   D - Other nulblateral  F - PrIvate
Pnncipai repayments                      136     1,248      887      828     C - IMF                    G - Short-tern
Net flows                                251     -408       805      810
Interest payments                        181      669       464      533
Net transfers                             70    -1,077      341      277
ueveiopmenr ,conomics                                                                                           11Z/uZ
a Data refer to central govemment
124






7                                                                                UELAXC), Rv- -4 0- ;- 
C O L O M B I A p > }; t~SURINAME kG F ''; .; 
COLOMBIA           ,        ~       - 
S vl71 \A J .s Y LA T LA N T 1- C DC E A N -- -B R A Z I L
--_ u  _ _                                M > _   ,   |   \ > ta c a p'P   T  >    E   A. N
~ \j,- RIVERS
W_~  _ _  ,>' --v1\<   N Manaus  't\)  9\ Sr }  -- 590 Lu;5                      C0 STATE CAPITALS
-P AAM A Z O N A 5  S  y  /-/ZJ  P<i  A  t  /   g 2   Fozrfolezu         NATIONAL CAPITAL
M A       t          /        \  /  MARANHAO   | Teresina                               STATE BOUNDARIES
- -- INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
A L K C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Recfle'
-10,                                                                  5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~iob-aih  ,Se,A5  Th,s mop was produced by the
I0~~~~~~           .)  R~~~~~~OND6NIA                  r       TO CANINS" r           Re-er,o                           Map Design Unit of The World Banki
'acalt,  I cr_  ~~The boudndres, colors, denominations
P E R U            MATO                                  H I A        E Pf                  o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~nd any otherminormation shown on
thismop do not i.ply, on the part of
GROSSO             /               eof    S   oThe World Bank Group, any udgment
.   I  J  ei.-ScilSradCr   on thelegalstatusof anyterrtoryor
C,                                                                                       - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,any endorsement or acceptance of
such boundacnes
- -   BOLIVIA %GoiANA
e*      R&ULW(FRI
i \   s>s      _--.\ ) ~~~~~~~~MATO GROSSO  /Belo                      T                               -&>t'/
DO SUL                    (    HorizonteSPRO                               --
200                                                        G  d
O C E A N  )  .  I   4   ,i LSTA CAURINA j                                               ' CHI Ej  >_t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BR  i 
.              ,0PARAGAn RIODEAdiro                        ATLANTIC                             i BOUVNA
~CHILE'                                                      a   uloVi.
PACIFIC  '                  N.   }          ~~~~~~  ~   ~~~~~~~~                                ~     ~~~~PARANA  OCEA N  PACIFIC
'N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CA                                      .ARAGVAY
OCEAN                                       s   j   7      SACTARINA) 
~~Florion6polis ~~~~~~~~~ ~ARGENTINA1                    ATAN
- ,  /     A R G E N'T IN AO RAO GRANDE             7              250   500   750   1000 KILOMETERS                 'URUGUAY  OCEAN
-   xa  j  <lDO SUt  o Alogre  0  200  400   600 MILES
X30P                                                                                                                                      .c.'
__F           I         -              ILI~~~~~~~~ RUGA  ,.4140 









Repoft No.:         25351  BR
Type:     PAD



