Report No. PID11593
Project Name             BRAZIL FIRST PROGRAMMATIC HUMAN DEVELOPMENT SECTOR
REFORM LOAN (HD PSRL)
Region                   Latin America and Caribbean Region
Theme                    Human Development
Project ID               P080746
Borrower(s)              FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
Implementing Agencies    Ministry of Education, Ministry of Health, and
Ministry of Social Assistance
Environment Category     C
Date PID Prepared        December 20, 2002
This updates PID Date    February 24, 2003
Auth Appr/Negs Date      December 16, 2002
Bank Approval Date       February 25, 2003
Background:
Over the past decade, Brazil has made impressive progress in its social indicators
by designing and implementing sound policies that have proven to be very effective.
While much progress in the social sectors has indeed happened, the challenges ahead
are still enormous. Brazil stands today at a point of historic significance, with
an economy poised to deliver the promise of economic growth for all its citizens,
and as a nation confronting the challenge of proving its merit as a world-class
global competitor. In November, 2002, a clean electoral process brought to power a
government focused on social justice, while at the same time committed to
maintaining economic stability. The international financial community, including the
Bank, faces a unique responsibility to strengthen its partnership with Brazil at
this crucial juncture.    Brazil's historic opportunity comes at a time of an
unusually adverse external environment which poses grave economic risks. The new
government needs to quickly build a record of credibility that will enable Brazil to
regain its access to international markets. The current volatile situation with the
markets cannot go on without severely damaging the future prospects for economic
growth and social equity. It is possible for the incoming administration to generate
confidence by making prudent choices regarding fiscal and monetary policy. As Human
Development is at the forefront of the government's policy agenda, the establishment
of sound policy measures in the areas of education, health, and social protection is
particularly important.
Objective and Description:
The proposed loan supports an ongoing program of human development reforms that
tackle core sectoral issues of targeting, resource allocation, and efficiency of
spending. The human development program contributes to reducing poverty and to
protecting the poor against adverse effects of economic crises, and is also
considered a key factor to achieve sustainable and equitable growth. In addition to
deepening key sectoral reforms, this Loan will: (a) signal to the markets the
commitment of the new administration to sound economic and sectoral policies; and



(b) finance part of the nominal fiscal deficit and the external financing
requirements of the public sector.
IBRD Loan Amount:   US$ 505.0 million
Environmental Aspects:
The proposed loan is an adjustment operation. An environmental assessment,
Indigenous people's development plan, and resettlement action plan are not
applicable.
Project Benefits:
This Loan establishes a framework for dialogue in human development with the
Government, giving special emphasis to results-oriented policies, and allowing the
Government to benefit from continuous technical assistance leveraged by the Bank. A
companion technical assistance loan will contribute to the building of the knowledge
base required for the advancement of the reform agenda and the improvement of basic
social programs and outcomes.
Project Risks
Adverse Macroeconomic Circumstances: Brazil will need to maintain fiscal discipline
in order to ensure debt sustainability in face of external shocks and weakened
investor confidence. This will preclude major new spending initiatives and may
require further reduction of spending. The proposed operation is highly selective
with respect to the programs recommended for continued budgetary support. In the
event of worse macroeconomic conditions, the proposed programmatic lending becomes
even more relevant and necessary.
Risk of Weakening of Reform Consensus: The scope and pace of the social sector
reform program thus far has been sustained by the efforts of the federal education,
health and social assistance team, working collaboratively with the states and
municipalities, and the support provided by the Congress and the Office of the
President. Despite very strong commitment by the new administration to the
objectives, policies and program reforms supported by the proposed operation, its
implementation capacity remains untested. The broad-based public support for the
reforms, the continuous consultation with the transition team for the new
administration in the preparation of the programmatic operation, and the assistance
provided by the proposal TAL mitigate this risk.
Impact of Policies: There is a risk that the protected programs will not actually
be implemented as agreed. However, this risk is mitigated by the agreement to
monitor and enforce expenditure targets for the protected programs through the
accompanying TAL. There is a further risk that the programs selected for protection
may not achieve their desired outcomes. While a number of the protected programs
have been studied through Bank and academic analytic work, those which have not been
carefully studied will be priorities in the evaluative effort to be supported by the
accompanying TAL.
10. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Alberto Rodriguez
The World Bank
-2-



1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202-458-7821
Fax: 202-522-0050
11. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not be
necessarily included in the final project.
-3-



