Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7159
–
BR 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Programmatic Human Development Sector Reform Loan) 
 
between 
 
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated March 29, 2003 
 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7159-BR 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated March 29, 2003, between the FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC 
OF BRAZIL (the Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received two letters (both together constituting the 
Letter of Development Policy), dated December 30, 2002 (Part I) and January 21, 2003 
(Part II), from the Borrower, both of which taken jointly:  (i) describe its macroeconomic 
framework and a program of actions, objectives and policies for the reform of its human 
development sector (the Program), which Program consists of actions that have already 
been taken to the satisfaction of the Bank, as described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
(the First Phase of the Program); (ii) declare the Borro
wer’s commitment to the 
objectives of the Program and provide an indication of future policies to be implemented 
in line with such objectives; and (iii) request assistance from the Bank in support of the 
Program during the execution thereof; 
(B) 
the Borrower has maintained a macroeconomic policy framework 
satisfactory to the Bank; and 
(C) on 
the 
basis, 
inter alia
,
of
the foregoing, the Bank has decided in support 
of the First Phase of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making 
the loan provided for in Article II of this Agreement (the Loan) as hereinafter provided; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank dated September 1, 1999, with the 
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement: 
(a) 
Section 2.01, paragraph 41, is modified to read: 
Page  3
-
2
-
“‘Project’ means the first phase of the program, referred to in the 
Preamble to the Loan Agreement, in support of which the Loan is 
made.”; 
(b) 
Section 3.08 is modified to read: 
“Each withdrawal of an amount of the Loan from the Loan Account shall 
be made in the Loan Currency of such amount.  If the Loan Currency is 
not the currency of the deposit account specified in Section 2.02 (b) of 
the Loan Agreement, the Bank, at the request and acting as an agent of 
the Borrower, shall purchase with the Loan Currency withdrawn from 
the Loan Account the currency of such deposit account as shall be 
required to deposit the withdrawn amount into such deposit account.”; 
(c) 
Section 5.01 is modified to read: 
“The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Loan 
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of the Loan 
Agreement and of these General Conditions.”; 
(d) 
the last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted; 
(e) 
Section 9.07 (c) is modified to read: 
“(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the 
Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope 
and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution 
of the first phase of the program referred to in the Preamble to the Loan 
Agreement, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their 
respective obligations under the Loan Agreement and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.”; and 
(f) 
Section 9.05 is deleted and Sections 9.06, 9.07 (as modified above), 9.08 
and 9.09 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08. 
Section 1.02.  Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth, and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
Page  4
-
3
-
(a) 
“Budget for FY03” means the budget set forth in the Borrower’s Law 
No. 10-640, published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette (
Diário Oficial de União
), on 
January 15, 2003 for the fiscal year which commences January 1, 2003 and ends 
December 31, 2003; 
(b) 
“Central Bank” means 
Banco Central do Brasil
,
the Borrower's central 
bank; 
(c) 
“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
 (d) 
“FY03” means the Borrower’s fiscal year which commences January 1, 
2003 and ends December 31, 2003; 
(e) 
“Inter-governmental Budget Programming Agreement” (
Programação 
Pactuada e Integrada
)
means an agreement entered by the Borrower pursuant to 
Portaria
 
No. 483/GM dated April 6, 2001; and 
 (f) 
“R$” or “
Reais
”
means 
“reais”
 the Borrower’s currency. 
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01.  The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to five hundred five 
million fifty thousand Dollars ($505,050,000), as such amount may be converted from 
time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 
2.09 of this Agreement. 
Section 2.02.  (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the amount of four hundred ninety-
nine million nine hundred ninety-nine thousand five hundred Dollars ($499,999,500) 
from the Loan Account in support of the First Phase of the Program. 
(b) 
Prior to furnishing to the Bank the first request for withdrawal from the 
Loan Account, the Borrower shall open and thereafter maintain in the Central Bank a 
deposit account in Dollars on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.  All 
withdrawals of the amount referred to in paragraph (a) above shall be deposited by the 
Bank into the Deposit Account. 
Page  5
-
4
-
(c) 
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall not be used 
to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement.  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of the Loan 
shall have been used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the Borrower 
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank:  (i) deposit into the Deposit Account an 
amount equal to the amount of said payment, or (ii) if the Bank shall so request, refund 
such amount to the Bank.  Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such request shall be 
credited to the Loan Account for cancellation. 
Section 2.03.  The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2003 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04.  The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one per cent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  On or promptly after the Effective 
Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and 
pay to itself the amount of said fee. 
Section 2.05.  The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: (a) 
eighty five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of 
the General Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and (b) 
seventy five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter.  
Section 2.06.  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period, at 
the Variable Rate; provided that, upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on 
such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 2.07.  Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in arrears 
on February 15 and August 15 in each year. 
Section 2.08.  The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.09. 
(a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
Page  6
-
5
-
(i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency; 
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and  
(iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on said Variable Rate. 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01 
(7) of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  
ARTICLE III 
Particular Covenants 
Section 3.01.  The Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank on any 
proposed action to be taken, after the disbursement of the Loan, which would have the 
effect of materially reversing the objectives of the First Phase of the Program, or any 
action specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02.  Upon the Bank’s request, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
(b) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than 
four (4) months after the date of the Bank’s request for such audit, a certified copy of the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall 
have reasonably requested; and 
(c) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the Deposit 
Account and the audit thereof as the Bank shall have reasonably requested. 
Page  7
-
6
-
ARTICLE IV 
Remedies of the Bank 
 
Section 4.01. 
Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
 (a) 
Th
e
Borrower’s macroeconomic policies have become inconsistent with 
the objectives of the First Phase of the Program. 
 
(b) 
An action has been taken or a policy has been adopted to reverse any 
action or policy under the Program (including any action set forth in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement) in a manner that would, in the opinion of the Bank, adversely affect the 
achievement of the objectives of the First Phase of the Program. 
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 5.01. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or 
opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that this Agreement has been validly 
registered with the Central Bank. 
 
Section 5.02.  The date May 29, 2003, is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01.  The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 6.02.  The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
Page  8
-
7
-
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministério da Fazenda 
 
Procuradoria Geral da Fazenda Nacional 
 
Esplanada dos Ministérios, Bloco “P” - 8
°
andar 
 
70048-900 Brasília, D.F. 
 
Brazil 
 
Facsimile: (011-55-61) 412-1740 
 
With copy to: 
 
Ministério do Planejamento, Orçamento e Gestão 
 
Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais 
 
Esplanada dos Ministérios, Bloco "K" - 5
°
andar 
 
70040-906 Brasília, D.F. 
 
Brazil 
 
Facsimile: (011-55-61) 225-4022 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
  64145 (MCI) 
Page  9
-
8
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Brasília, D.F., Brazil, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL 
 
By /s/ Antonio Palocci Filho 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ James D. Wolfensohn 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  10
-
9
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Excluded Expenditures 
 
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Loan 
shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures: 
1. 
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of the Borrower; 
2. 
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national 
or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the Association 
shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the Association shall have 
financed or agreed to finance under another loan or a credit; 
3. 
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the 
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or any 
successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the 
Bank by notice to the Borrower: 
 Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112                           
- 
 
Alcoholic beverages 
 
121                           
- 
 
Tobacco, unmanu- 
 
factured, tobacco 
 
refuse 
 
122                           
- 
 
Tobacco, manufactured  
 
(whether or not 
 
containing tobacco 
 
substitutes) 
 
525                           
- 
 
Radioactive and  
 
associated materials 
 
667 
- 
        
Pearls, precious and 
 
semiprecious 
 
stones, unworked 
 
or
worked 
 
Page  11
-
10
-
718                          
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and  
 
parts thereof; fuel  
 
elements (cartridges), 
 
non-irradiated, for 
 
nuclear reactors 
 
728                        
728.43   
Tobacco processing 
 
machinery  
 
897                          
897.3 
 
Jewelry of gold,  
 
silver or platinum 
 
group metals (except 
 
watches and watch 
 
cases) and 
 
goldsmiths’ or  
 
silversmiths’ 
 
wares (including  
 
set gems) 
 
971                          
- 
 
Gold, non-monetary 
 
(excluding gold 
 
ores and concentrates) 
 
4. 
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for 
luxury consumption; 
5. 
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this 
paragraph the term “environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the manufacture, 
use or import of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international 
agreements to which the Borrower is a party); 
6. 
expenditures: (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the 
Bank or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories, or (b) on 
account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment or 
import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under 
Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and 
7. 
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Bank determines that 
corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or of a 
beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement or execution of such contract, without the 
Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to remedy 
the situation. 
Page  12
-
11
-
SCHEDULE 2 
First Phase of the Program
 
1. 
The following actions have been taken to increase the accountability and 
integrated governance of the Borrower’s education, health and social assistance 
programs.  The Borrower has: 
 
(a) 
Agreed, through its 
Instituto Brasileiro de Geografia e Estatistica
 
(IBGE), in the aide-memoire between IBGE and the Bank dated November 12, 2002, to 
the terms of reference for the enhancement of the effectiveness of household surveys 
implemented by such institute. 
(b) 
Included in the Budget for FY03 an amount of at least three hundred and 
twenty seven million 
Reais
 (R$327,000,000) for the financing of its program of direct 
cash transfers to public schools (
Dinheiro Direto na Escola) 
during such FY03. 
(c) 
Created a consumer grievance system for the health sector (SADE-SUS) 
through 
Portaria
 GM/MS No. 2009 of October 30, 2001. 
(d) 
Strengthened the regulatory framework for the decentralization of 
publicly financed health services through 
Portaria
 GM/MS No. 373 of February 27, 2002 
(NOAS/2002). 
(e) 
Included in the Budget for FY03 an amount of at least six hundred and 
fifty seven million 
Reais
 (R$657,000,000) for the financing of its contribution during 
such FY03 to the 
Fundo de Manutenção o Desenvolvimento do Ensino Fundamental e de 
Valorização do Magisterio
,
the Borrower’s fund for the financing of primary and lower
 
secondary education. 
(f) 
Signed at least 13 Inter-governmental Budget Programming Agreements 
for FY03. 
(g) 
Included in the Budget for FY03 an amount of at least: 
(i) 
twenty six million 
Reais
 (R$26,000,000) for the implementation 
of the Borrower’s program to assess during FY03 the quality of 
education delivered by universities (PROVAO); and 
Page  13
-
12
-
(ii) 
sixty three million 
Reais
 (R$63,000,000) for the implementation 
of the Borrower’s program to test during FY03 upper secondary 
education graduates (ENEM). 
(h) 
Developed a student achievement test prototype by the Borrower’s 
Instituto Nacional de Estudos e Pesquisas
 (INEP), consistent with the national student 
assessment exam, for use by states and municipalities in the assessment of student 
achievements. 
(i) 
Included in the Budget for FY03 an amount of at least eight million 
Reais
 (R$8,000,000) for the implementation of the Borrower’s program to assess the 
achievements of primary and secondary education students (SAEB) during such FY03.
 
(j) 
Established a system to monitor compliance by states and municipalities 
of their commitments (
Pacto de Atenção Basica)
 for basic health services through 
Portaria
 No. 1121 of June 17, 2002. 
2. 
The following actions have been taken to enhance the equity of the Borrower’s 
social policies.  The Borrower has: 
 
(a) 
Included in the Budget for FY03 an amount of at least: 
(i) 
one billion nine hundred ninety-five million 
Reais
 
(R$1,995,000,000) for the financing of its program of cash 
transfers to families to promote school attendance (
Bolsa
 
Escola)
 
during FY03; 
(ii) 
five hundred million 
Reais
 (R$500,000,000) for its program of 
cash transfers to families to eliminate child labor (PETI) during 
FY03; 
(iii) 
three hundred and sixty million 
Reais
 (R$360,000,000) for its 
program of cash transfers to families to promote good nutrition 
practices (
Bolsa
 
Alimentação)
 during FY03; and 
(iv) 
fifty nine million 
Reais
 (R$59,000,000) for its program of cash 
transfers to families (
Agente
 
Jovem)
 to promote youth 
participation in community activities during FY03. 
 
(b) 
Included in the Budget for FY03 an amount of at least: 
Page  14
-
13
-
(i) two 
billion 
Reais
 (R$2,000,000,000) for the financing of its basic 
health care program (PAB) referred to in NOAS-SUS 01/2001 
and NOB-SUS 01/1996 during FY03; and 
(ii) one 
billion 
six 
hundred 
thousand 
Reais
 (R$1,600,000,000) for 
the financing of its family health program (PSF) referred to in 
NOB-SUS 01/1996 and 
Portaria
 No. 1886 of December 18, 
1997 during FY03. 
 
(c) 
Included in the Budget for FY03 an amount of at least eight hundred and 
eighty million 
Reais
 (R$880,000,000) for the financing of the Borrower’s school feeding 
program (
Merenda Escolar)
 for implementation during FY03. 
 
(d) 
Included in the Budget for FY03 an amount of at least five hundred and 
fifty million 
Reais
 (R$550,000,000) for the financing of the Borrower’s program of 
distribution of textbooks to public school students (
Livro
 
Didatico)
 during FY03. 
 
(e) 
Included in the Budget for FY03 an amount of eight hundred ninety 
million 
Reais
 (R$890,000,000) for the implementation of its program of supplementary 
financing for municipalities to purchase basic drugs (
Assistência
 
Farmacêutica)
 during 
FY03. 
 
(f) 
Enacted regulations for implementation of
 
the Constitutional 
Amendment No. 29 of September 14, 2002, establishing the percentages of federal, state 
and municipal revenues dedicated to health, through 
Portaria
 GM/MS No. 2047 of 
November 5, 2002. 
3. 
The following actions have been taken to enhance the quality and efficiency of 
the Borrower’s social programs.  The Borrower has included in the Budget for FY03 an 
amount of at least: 
(a) 
six hundred and fifteen million 
Reais
 (R$615,000,000) for the financing 
of the Borrower’s program for the prevention and control of transmissible diseases 
(
Prevenção e controle das doenças tranmissiveies)
 during FY03; 
(b) twenty-eight 
million 
Reais
 (R$28,000,000) for the financing of the 
Borrower’s program for the prevention and control of tuberculosis 
(Prevenção e 
controle da tuberculose e de outras pnemopatias)
 during FY03
;
Page  15
-
14
-
(c) eighty-one 
million 
Reais
 (R$81,000,000) for the financing of the 
Borrower’s program for the epidemiological and sanitary surveillance of products and 
services (
Vigilancia sanitaria de produtos e serviços
)
during FY03
;
and 
(d) eleven 
million 
Reais
 (R$11,000,000) for the financing of the Borrower’s 
program for the control of dermatological diseases (
Controle da hanseníase e de outras 
dermatoses
)
during FY03. 
Page  16
-
15
-
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as of 
the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment 
Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Installment Share 
 Payment 
Date
(Expressed as a %
)
On each February 15 and August 15 
 
Beginning February 15, 2011 through  
20% 
 
February 15, 2013 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
(b) 
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by 
a
fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the Original 
Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, 
such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to 
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
Page  17
-
16
-
3. 
(a) 
Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable 
on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second 
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following 
the date of  withdrawal. 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of subparagraph (a) of this paragraph 3, 
if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are 
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such 
billing system.  
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the Loan 
to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall 
be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, 
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that 
reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank under 
the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so 
determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component 
of the Screen Rate. 
5. 
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule 
shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to 
produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
 
