OFFICIAL
r0cU MCREDIT NUMBER 1440 BD
Development Credit Agreement
(Fifth Technical Assistance Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated       4, 1984


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1440 DB
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated               7-If , 1984, between PEOPLE'S
REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the 'eneral Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the term "Sub-project" means a particular study or project of
technical assistance to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit
Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various curren-
cies equivalent to twenty three million eight hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 23,800,000).
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to paragraph (b) below the amount
of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account in accord-
ance with allocations of the proceeds of the Credit agreed
between the Borrower and the Association pursuant to Section 3.01
hereof, as such allocations may be amended from time to time by
agreement between the Borrower and the Association, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made)
after the date of this Agreement in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project and agreed to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿-2-
(b) Except as the Borrower and the Association may other-
wise agree, withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be limited
to:
(i) one hundred per cent of expenditures for         (A)
services rendered by consultants or consulting
firms and (B) training programs;
(ii) one hundred per cent of (A) expenditures in cur-
rencies other than the currency of the Borrower
or (B) the ex-factory cost in the currency of the
Borrower for equipment and materials required to
carry out Sub-projects and procured directly by
the Borrower; and
(iii) one hundred per cent of expenditures for overseas
travel of the Borrower's personnel working on
Sub-projects with the consultants referred to in
subparagraph (i) above. "Borrower's personnel"
means persons employed by the Government of
Bangladesh and its agencies, including an entity,
the majority of which is owned by the Government
and its agencies;
provided, however, that no proceeds of the Credit shall be dis-
bursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or in the
territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or on the im-
portation, m,kfacture, procurement or supply thereof.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1988, or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Asso-
ciation shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The Commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request: (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement


﻿-3-
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service and commitment charges shall be pay-
able semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each April 15
and October 15 commeucing April 15, 1994, and ending October 15,
2033, each installment to and including the installment payable
on October 15, 2003, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%)
of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be
one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Description of the Project; Use of
Proceeds of the Credit
Section 3.01. (a) The Project for which the Credit is
granted consists of the carrying out of high priority Sub-
projects selected by agreement between the Borrower and the Asso-
ciation which are designed to assist the Borrower in the planning
and implementation of its programs of economic development and
rehabilitation and in the improvement of management for key
enterprises.
(b) Sub-projects shall be selected in accordance with the
criteria set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(c) The purpose and scope of each Sub-project, the method
of implementation thereof and the specific allocation thereto of


﻿-4-
proceeds of the Credit shall be determined by agreement between
the Borrower and the Association.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards inci-
dent to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to
the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.03. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraph (b)
below, except as the Association may otherwise agree, the equip-
ment and materials to be financed under Section 2.02 (b) (ii)
hereof shall be procured on the basis of international competi-
tive bidding under procedures consistent with those set forth in
the current edition of the Guidelines for Procurement under World
Bank Loans and IDA Credits published by the Bank in March 1977
(hereinafter called the Guidelines).
(b) Contracts for equipment and materials estimated to cost
each less than $75,000 equivalent may be let through normal pro-
curement procedures of the Borrower satisfactory to the Associa-
tion, provided that the aggregate for such contracts shall not
exceed $1,500,000 equivalent.
(c) For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and forward to
the Association as soon as possible, and in any event not later
than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the public of
the first tender documents relating thereto, a general procure-
ment notice, in such form and detail and containing such informa-
tion as the Association shall reasonably request; the Association
will arrange for the publication of such notice in order to pro-
vide timely notification to prospective bidders of the opportu-
nity to bid for the goods in question. The Borrower shall provide
the necessary information to update such notice annually so long
as any goods remain to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding.


﻿- 5 -
ARTICLE IV
Execution of the Project
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause each Sub-project
to be carried out with due diligence and efficiency and shall
make available, promptly as needed, all funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b) The External Resources Division of the Ministry of
Finance and Planning of the Borrower shall be responsible for
ensuring effective coordination among the ministries and agencies
of the Borrower ccncerned in the implementation of the Project,
and in order to assist in achieving such coordination an officer
of such Division shall be designated as Project Director.
(c) For each Sub-project the Borrower shall establish
arrangements and procedures, satisfactory to the Borrower and the
Association, for supervising and directing the work of any con-
sultants employed therefor and reviewing the reports and recom-
mendations of such consultants.
Section 4.02. (a) For the purpose of carrying out each
Sub-project which requires the employment of consultants, the
Borrower shall enter into a contract with consultants whose
selection, qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association (in accor-
dance with the principles and procedures described in the "Guide-
lines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by
the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in
August 1981).
(b) The Borrower shall take all reasonable measures to
facilitate the work of consultants in the performance of their
services for the Project and make available to them all informa-
tion relevant to the Sub-project involved.
(c) The Borrower shall not amend or waive any of the terms
and conditions of employment of consultants employed for any
Sub-project, or grant any material extension of time or any
approval of sub-contracts or modifications thereof, or agree to
substitution of personnel of such consultants, without prior
agreement between the Borrower and the Association. The Borrower
shall promptly inform the Association if it proposes to suspend
payments under or terminate any contract with such consultants.


﻿-6-
Section 4.03. For each Sub-project, except as the Associa-
tion may otherwise agree, the Borrower shall provide the follow-
ing to the Association for its approval:
(a) a detailed description of the studies and work to bi-
carried out in connection with the proposed Sub-project, includ-
ing a time schedule for, the purposes and objectives of, and the
benefits expected from such Sub-project;
(b) the selection procedures, qualifications, terms of
reference and duration of service for any consultants to be
engaged in carrying out the proposed Sub-project;
(c) description of the role of the department or agency or
personnel of the Borrower to be responsible for the execution of
the proposed Sub-project;
(d) description of amenities and counterpart staff, if any,
to be supplied by the Borrower;
(e) estimated foreign and local costs of the proposed Sub-
project broken down by major items and showing amounts to be
financed by the Borrower and out of the proceeds of the Credit,
respectively, and an estimated disbursement schedule; and
(f) measures to be taken to comply with paragraphs (b) and
(c) of Section 4.02, including any proposed variations in the
procedures described in the Guidelines referred to in Section
3.03.
Section 4.04. (a) The Borrower shall cause the consultants
employed for the Project promptly to furnish to the Association
copies of the documents prepared by them for the Project, includ-
ing reports and drafts thereof, in such number as the Association
shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower and the Association shall from time to
time exchange views with respect to the evaluation and possible
implementation of the recommendations and other conclusions con-
tained in the documents referred to in the foregoing paragraph
(a).
(c) The Borrower shall: maintain, or cause to be maintained
records and procedures adequate to record and monitor the pro-
gress of the Project and of each Sub-project (including its


﻿-7 -
cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to identify the
goods and   services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit,
and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) enable the
Association's representatives to inspect any records and docu-
ments relevant to the Project, including records and documents
which the consultants employed by the Borrower shall be required
to keep for the purposes of the Project; and (iii) furnish or
cause to be furnished to the Association all such information as
the Association shall reasonably request concerning the ex-
penditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the Project.
(d) The Borrower shall, not later than six months after the
Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose
between the Borrower and the Association, prepare and furnish to
the Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and ini-
tial operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived
and to be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and
the Association of their respective obligations under the Devel-
opment Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit.
Section 4.05. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained sound accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of each Sub-
project, of the department or agency of the Borrower responsible
for carrying out the Sub-project, including, without limitation
to the foregoing, all expenditures on account of which withdraw-
als are requested from the Credit Account on the basis of state-
ments of expenditures,
(b) The Borrower shall retain, or cause to be retained,
until one year after the Closing Date, all records (contracts,
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing
expenditures on account of which withdrawals are requested from
the Credit Account on the basis of statements of expenditures and
shall enable the Association's representatives to examine such
records.
(c) The Borrower shall cause its departments or agencies
responsible for carrying out the Sub-projects: (i) to have their
accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of
income and expenses and related statements) in respect of the


﻿- 8 -
Project for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appro-
priate auditing principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) to furnish to the
Association, as soon as available, but in any case not later than
six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies
of the financial statements for such year as so audited and (B)
the report of such audit by such auditors, of such scope and in
such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested,
including, without limitation to the foregoing, a separate opin-
ion by said auditors in respect of the expenditures and records
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section as to whether the
proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account on the
basis of statements of expenditures have been used for the pur-
pose for which they were provided; and (iii) to furnish to the
Association such other information concerning the accounts and
financial statements and the audit thereof as the Association
shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall:
(a) by December 31, 1984 (i) carry out a study on the
appropriate institutional arrangements for coordination, manage-
ment and effective utilization of technical assistance and (ii)
furnish the Association, for its comments, with the findings and
recommendations of said study; and
(b) thereafter carry out such recommendations of said study
as the Borrower and the Association shall mutually agree.
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall, by June 30, 1984, estab-
lish and thereafter implement standard procedures for the nego-
tiation of consultants' contracts, including, inter alia, the
adoption of uniform contracts for the appointment of individual
consultants and consulting firms.
Section 4.08. The Borrower shall:
(a) by September 30, 1984, prepare and furnish to the Asso-
ciation for its comments, a program to strengthen the local con-
sultancy industryt and
(b) thereafter implement said program taking into account
the Association's comments thereon.


﻿-9-
ARTICLE V
Additional Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Without in any way restricting or limiting any
other right, power or remedy of the Association under the Devel-
opment Credit Agreement, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, terminate in whole or in part the right of the Borrower
to make withdrawals from the Credit Account on account of any
Sub-project if any of the following events shall have occurred
and be continuing:
(a) the Borrower shall have failed to perform any covenant,
agreement or obligation under this Agreement in respect of such
Sub-project;
(b) the contract referred to in Section 4.02 (a) hereof for
the employment of consultants to assist in the carrying out of
such Sub-project shall not have come into force and effect within
six months from the date of the Association's approval of such
Sub-project pursuant to the provisions of Section 4.03 hereof;
and
(c) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which
shall make it improbable that such Sub-project can be carried out
in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Termination
Section 6.01. The date          r                , is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint
Secretary, Deputy Secretary and Section Officer of the External
Resources Division of the Ministry of Finance and Plannf g uf the
Borrower are designated as   representatives of the Borrower for
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 10 -
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
External Resources Division
Ministry of Finance and Planning
Government of the
People's Republic of Bangladesh
Dhaka 15,
Bangladesh
Cable address:                    Telex:
BAHIRSAMPAD                     SETU 65886
Dhaka
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INDEVAS                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
By                  4   ~
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Criteria for Sub-project Eligibility
1.   A Sub-project should be one of the following:
(a) a feasibility study or other investigation required for
preparing projects suitable for financing by the Asso-
ciation or other external financing agencies (with
priority given to studies of projects believed likely
to be suitable for consideration for financing by the
Association);
(b) a program to strengthen institutions in Bangladesh
responsible for project planning and implementation;
(c) a study to provide information required for the selec-
tion of specific projects for implementation, or for
improvement of overall economic planning; or
(d) a program of training and assistance to local consult-
ing firms, under terms and conditions (including the
on-lending terms) satisfactory to the Association.
2.   A Sub-project should be mutually agreed to be of high prior-
ity in the Borrower's development efforts.
3.   A Sub-project should have no equally suitable financing
available from the United Nations Development Program or other
external financing agencies.
4.   A Sub-project proposal should include adequate arrangements,
by the executing agencies, for the provision of office space,
secretarial facilities, counterpart staff, transportation and
other operational facilities required for the Sub-project to
proceed efficiently and to permit Bangladeshi staff to develop
their expertise.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the      -    day of   LE    L   j
198   .
FOR SECRETARY


