 IEG
                                                                                                Report Number: ICRR14817

                   ICR Review
                   Independent Evaluation Group




        1. Project Data:                                       Date Posted: 12/15/2015

               Country: Vietnam
             Project ID: P073763                                                    Appraisal               Actual
         Project Name: Vietnam Water Supply          Project Costs (US$M):                      135.0                96.8
                         Development Project
  L/C Number:            C4028                         Loan/Credit (US$M):                      112.6                83.1
      Sector Board:      Water                         Cofinancing (US$M):

           Cofinanciers:                                Board Approval Date :                               12/21/2004
                                                                Closing Date:           06/30/2012          06/30/2013
          Sector(s):       Water supply (95%); Sanitation (5%)
          Theme(s):        Urban services and housing for the poor (40% - P); Pollution management and
                           environmental health (20% - S); Municipal governance and institution building (20% - S);
                           Other financial and private sector development (20% - S)

Prepared by:               Reviewed by:            ICR Review                  Group:
                                                   Coordinator:
Vibecke Dixon              Victoria Alexeeva       Christopher David          IEGPS1
                                                   Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

 a. Objectives:
 In the Development Credit Agreement (4028-VN, page 22), the Project Development Objectives (PDO) are
formulated as follows: “The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower to improve water and household
sanitation services in selected district towns and large urban centers in the Participating Provinces, in financially and
environmentally sustainable manners, thus enhancing the health and economic potential of the resident households.”

The formulation of the PDO in the PAD is slightly different (P 8 section 2), but conveys the same intention; “The
objective is to improve water and household water and sanitation services in district towns and large urban centers in
ways that are financially and environmentally sustainable thus enhancing the health and economic potential of the
resident households (The same formulation is also used in the ICR p 3 section 1.2).

Following IEG procedures, this ICRR uses the formulation of the PDO in the legal agreement.

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
Yes
 If yes, did the Board approve the revised objectives/key associated outcome targets?
Yes
 Date of Board Approval: 06/29/2012

c. Components:
The project had five components (PAD pp 8-10, pp 33-40, ICR pp 2-5):

Component 1: Competition Route: (Appraisal US$ 55.87 million, Revised (downsized) US$ 40.57 million, Actual
US$ 35.41 million) ) aimed to expand water service delivery to a total of 135 un-served district towns in 27 provinces
through selection of contractors to design, construct and subsequently operate (DBO) the water supply facilities. This
component also sought to assist households in the participating district towns to improve their sanitation facilities
through the operation of provincial sanitation revolving funds that would provide households with access to small
loans for such facilities. It also included a hygiene education program operated by the Women’s Union.

Component 2: Performance Route: (Appraisal US$ 61.86 million, Revised (downsized) US$ 57.11 million, Actual US$
52.83) intended to expand water supply services through the rehabilitation of treatment plants, rehabilitation and/or
expansion of distribution systems, and expansion of water production capacity in selected large urban centers in three
provinces and one city, by improving and expanding services in better performing Water Supply Companies

Component 3: Non-Subsidized Water Supply and Sanitation (WSS) Lending Facility (Appraisal US$ 10.12 million,
Revised (downsized) US$ 5.01 million, Actual US$ 5.01 million) was designed to improve water sector performance
by
(a) developing standard implementation practices for participating WSCs;
(b) developing procedures and implementation support to assess the performance of non-participating WSCs, and
identifying areas that can be improved to promote participation in future projects;
(c) strengthening the implementation capacity of the project provinces and the CPU; and
(d) building the capacity of WSCs and bidders to participate in the competitive bidding and DBO contracting process.

Component 4: Building Capacity in the Sector (Appraisal US$ 1.01 million, Revised (downsized) US$ 0.65 million,
Actual US$ 0.64 million). Capacity building activities were designed to improve performance by providing WSCs with
practical tools such as
(a) developing multi-year planning;
(b) preparing water balances by introducing an international standard approach and thus better framing of debate on
how to improve NRW performance; and
(c) preparing energy management audits to highlight areas that can be made more cost-effective by improving
management practices and small-scale investments. Energy accounts for an average of 30% of total O&M costs,
equal to those of labor.

Component 5: Management and Project Implementation (Appraisal US$ 6.13 million, Revised (downsized) US$ 3.37
million, Actual US$ 2.90). This component addressed the overall management of project implementation.

The project retained all its components, but the scope of components 1 and 3 was reduced to include fewer
participating towns and provinces due to major delays in subproject preparation and increases in construction costs
which required a reduction in project scope. Component 4 originally intended to build capacities of project players in
the Design, Build and Operate (DBO) process. However, the project shifted from a DBO to a Design and Build (DB)
arrangement only. Some activities under Component 4 thus became irrelevant, and the scope of Component 4 was
revised accordingly.

 d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:
 Project Costs and Borrower contribution
The original estimated project cost were US$ 135 million. The Bank’s loan proceeds would be US$ 112.64 million, and
the Borrower’s contribution were estimated to be US$ 22.36 million. There were no other external financing for this
project. The Actual Project Costs were US$ 96.79 million, and the actual credit from the Bank amounted to US$ 83.1
million.

Binh Tuan province was replaced by Quang Ninh province on December 17, 2007, because Binh Tuan obtained
financing from other sources.

Restructurings
A Level 2 Restructuring was approved by the Country Director on June 29, 2012 (Note that this was one day prior to
original closing date). The changes included: (i) reduction in project scope; (ii) partial cancellation of credit proceeds in
the amount of US$ 14.6 million to reflect the reduction in project scope; (iii) extension of credit closing date for
selected provinces and projects components from June 30, 2012 to June 30, 2013 to enable some participating cities
and the Ministry of Construction to complete ongoing contracts; (iv) a change in the DBO contracting process to DB
only with operations directly assumed by water utilities; (v) change in the name of the implementing institution of for
Component 3; (vi) revision and reduction of the overall financing plan and costs per component; (vii) revisions in
Schedule 1 (Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds) to the Credit Agreement to reflect actual costs and disbursements and in
Schedule 2 to reflect the revised scope of Component 4 including the manes of participating provinces; and (viii)
revision of the Results Framework to provide target values for the project’s outcome and output indicators and at the
same time reflect the reduction in scope (ICR p 5 section 1.7 b.).
                                                                                         th
The second Level 2 Restructuring was approved by the Country Director on June 28 , 2013 (Note that this is two days
before the closing date) to reflect an additional partial cancellation of credit proceeds in the amount of US$ 13.15
million. Revision in Schedule 1 (Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds) of the Credit Agreement was approved by the Country
Director on June 28, 2013 (ICR p 5, section 1.7 c.).

Dates
The project was approved on 12/21/2004 and was effective on 11/11/2005. Restructurings took place on 06/29/2012
and 06/28 2013. The original closing date was 06/30/2012 and the actual closing date was 06/30/2013.


3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

 a. Relevance of Objectives:
High.
The Objectives of the project are highly relevant and in line with both National and Bank strategies and policies at
appraisal and this continued to be the case at closing. The project is in line with national development objectives as
stipulated in Vietnam’s “National Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Strategy up to year 2020”. It is also in line with
the priorities in the Bank’s CPS for 2012-16. The Government’s Socio-Economic Development Strategy (SEDS) for
2011-20 defines three priority areas: (i): promoting human resources/skills development (particularly skills for modern
industry and innovation), (ii) improving market institutions, and (iii) infrastructure development. The CPS supports the
three priority areas of promoting human resources, improving market institutions, and advancing infrastructure
development. The water sector (clean water supply, sanitation and water resources management) is thus seen as
consistent with Government and Bank strategies (CPS 2012-16).


 b. Relevance of Design:
Modest.
Relevance of project design (activities, components) to the objectives
The Project Development Objective was to “assist the Borrower to improve water and household sanitation services in
selected district towns and large urban centers in the Participating Provinces, in financially and environmentally
sustainable manners, thus enhancing the health and economic potential of the resident households.” The project
components did reflect this; water supply and sanitation infrastructure, hygiene and sanitation education, and capacity
building and project management were all inputs (activities/components) that had the potential to contribute to
enhanced health and economic potential of the resident households.

One of the components was set up to complement the development of broad infrastructure finance instruments by
offering non-subsidized, long-term project loans that focus on water supply and sanitation, since most major
commercial banks in Vietnam had shown little interest in long-term project loans for water supply schemes. Capacity
building was also considered necessary since commercial bidding for water infrastructure was a new approach in
Vietnam.

The project design was however complex and ambitious in that it encompassed working with a vast number of
implementing agencies that were not only geographically dispersed but also had varying degrees of capacities, sizes
and investment needs. The project design did not provide sufficient attention to the local market conditions
as well as institutional capacity implications for the key innovations and the scale that it intended to implement. During
project preparation, Vietnam was still in transition to market economy and the private sector was still growing, The
local private sector had no experience in water supply provision and lacked readiness to operate water supply
systems.

Quality of the Results Framework
The PDO is a clear statement of objectives, linked to intermediate and final outcomes: The project’s final objectives of
“enhancing the health and economic potential of the resident households” were to be achieved through two
intermediate outcomes; improved water supply services and improved household sanitation services. The causal
chain between Bank funding, outputs and intended outcomes, however, is not clear and convincing in the formulation
of the objective, as there is a logical gap between the intermediate outcomes on one side: “improved water supply and
sanitation services” and outcomes/objectives on the other side: “enhanced health” and “enhanced economic potential”
of the resident households. It is not clear from the formulation of the objective or from the results framework how
improved water supply and sanitation services were to lead to enhanced health and economic potential, there is just
an underlying assumption that improved water supply and sanitation services automatically would lead to improved
health and economic potential.

The results framework did not include indicators to measure the expected final outcomes of the operation, nor did it
show a logical sequencing of outputs and outcomes. Furthermore, as pointed out in the ICR (pp. 6-7), the Key
Performance Indicators lacked targets and these were only added when the project was approaching the closing date.
4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):

* A split rating is not applied in the assessment of this project's efficacy. The key associated outcome targets were introduced one
year before the project closing date and reflected a reduced scope of the project activities. This is taken into account in the
assessment of the project's achievement against its development objective; a split evaluation could not be undertaken in absence of
the original outcome targets.

The degree of achievement of the project objectives “to assist the Borrower to improve water and household
sanitation services in selected district towns and large urban centers in the Participating Provinces , in financially and
environmentally sustainable manners , thus enhancing the health and economic potential of the resident households”
is discussed below.

The ICR states that “enhanced health and economic potential” were higher level objectives and not project level
outcomes. However, is clear from the PAD that “enhanced health and economic potential” were in fact not higher
level objectives, but the expected final outcomes of this operation. On page 7 of the PAD, three higher level objectives
are identified (High growth through a transition to market economy; An equitable, socially inclusive, and sustainable
pattern of growth; and Modern public administration, legal and governance systems). On the same page, two of the
four expected final outcomes of this project were stated to be; (i) Improving public health and reducing the time
households spend meeting their water needs, thus releasing time for more productive uses; and (ii) providing new
opportunities for the local private sector to operate water systems and thus enhance the market economy. This is in
line with the formulation of the PDO statement.

It is thus clear from the PAD that “enhancing the health and economic potential of the resident households” are the
expected final outcomes from this operation, while (i) improved water supply services and (ii) improved sanitation
services are intermediate outcomes; they are the means to achieve the objective. In the following discussion, the two
intermediate outcomes will be presented first, and then the degree of achievement of the expected final outcomes will
be assessed.

Intermediate Outcomes

1: Improved water supply services (in financially and environmentally sustainable manners): Modest

Outputs:
  Water Treatment Plants’ (WTP) total capacity for the project overall: 124,900 m3/day. (Table A, Annex 2, p 25).
    (No baseline, no target);
  Distribution networks with total length for the project overall: 218,691 km. (Table A, Annex 2, p 25). (No baseline,
    no target);
  Installed new service connections, project total: 96,866. (Table A, Annex 2, p 25). (No baseline, no target);
  Established District Metering Areas (DMA): 140 (Table A, Annex 2, p 25). (No baseline, no target);
  Reduced volume of water physically lost from the systems (Ho Chi Minh City only): 101645 m3/day (No baseline,
    no original target, revised target: 91726 m3/day);
  Proportion of water samples effectively disinfected at the water plants: 100 % (Same as baseline, original target
    and revised target.);
  Institutional strengthening activities and procedures put in place (regular reporting procedures and performance
    indicators, training of staff, and sector database established).

Outcome:
   Number of additional people with access to water supply:
In total: 1,446,648 (Baseline: 113,000; no original target; Revised: 1,203,130)
           Under Component 1: 383,654 (Baseline: 113,000; Original target: 885,000; Revised: 445,000)
           Under Component 2: 841,927 (No baseline; no original target; Revised: 553,130)
           Under Component 3: 221,070 (No baseline; no original target; Revised: 205,000)

     The water was effectively disinfected at the water plants (100% of water samples), however, the water quality
      was not measured at the households/end users (no random samples), thus ignoring possible contamination on
      route or at household.
     Institutional strengthening activities and procedures have been put in place (regular reporting procedures and
      performance indicators, database and training of staff), but there is insufficient information regarding the
      outcomes of these outputs; how and to what extent they contributed to improved services.
     Net operating income of sub-project (under Component 1) was negative at project closure; -6.884 (Baseline:
      -247, Target: 22462), as the water supply systems had only been operational for a year. Revenues were lower
      relatively to the target because connection rates were still picking up.
    Net operating income of Provincial WSCs (VND million): 125322 (No baseline, Original target: 318638, Revised
     target: 413469).
    Average water tariffs (VND/m3): 8300 (Baseline: 2200, No original target, Revised target: 5878)
    Average working ratio of provincial WSCs, which reflects their ability to recover operating costs from annual
     revenue, was 64 (Baseline: 60.87; Target: 63)


2. Improved household sanitation services (in financially and environmentally sustainable manners): Modest

Outputs:
  Number of sanitation facilities constructed: 7,807. (Table A, Annex 2, p 25). (No baseline, no target);
  Number of people reached by hygiene education program: 383,654 (Baseline: 113,000; No original target;
    Revised target: 445,000).
  Institutional strengthening procedures put in place (regular reporting procedures and performance indicators,
    training of staff, and sector database established);
  Repayment rate under the sanitation revolving fund was 99 percent (Target: 95 percent).

Outcomes:
  Number of additional people with access to improved sanitation facilities: 37,375 (Baseline: 30,000; No original
    target; Revised target: 59,780).
  Hygiene education activities were implemented. However, there is no reporting on the outcome of the hygiene
    education, i.e. to what degree participants actually changed hygiene practices (washing of hands with soap, etc.).

    Institutional strengthening activities and procedures have been put in place (regular reporting procedures and
     performance indicators, database and training of staff), but there is no information regarding the outcomes of
     these outputs; how and to what extent they contributed to improved services.

There were no specific indicators to capture the environmental sustainability of the project. However, due to the
project’s provision of loans for sanitation facility constructions, the reduction of non-revenue water that allows WSCs
to operate efficiently, and with the provision of water treatment plants to treat wastewater and sludge generated from
increased water consumption, it would be reasonable to assume that the project has contributed to some
enhancement in environmental sustainability.


Final Outcomes:

Enhanced Health and Economic Potential of Resident Households :

Despite the clear intention in the PAD that enhanced health and economic potential were the expected final outcomes
of this operation, there were no indicators to capture enhanced health or enhanced economic potential for the resident
households in the results framework. However, the beneficiary survey conducted towards the end of the project
included questions on the residents’ health conditions and economy. The survey results showed that the beneficiaries’
perception was positive health and economic outcomes from the project. However, the replies referred to in the
perception survey (Annex 5 to the ICR) encompass only expectations in general; what people would expect from
improved access to water supply and sanitation services, and there is no information as to how the access to water
supply and sanitation services has changed or improved the beneficiaries’ concrete health and economic situation.

The hygiene education program was carried out as planned, and although it is likely that it contributed to a change in
hygiene practices and improved health for the participating households, this was not measured or reported on.

An economic analysis of the project (Annex 3, page 37) showed that it brought sufficient economic benefits to the
consumers in the project areas by providing better access to clean water with higher quantity and lower price. It also
showed that positive cash flow for WSCs was generally achieved.

While there were serious challenges, the project also succeeded in implementing innovative procurement measures,
such as introducing the first performance-based works contract that involved the participation of the private sector in
the O&M of a part of the public water supply system, and the contract was successfully implemented. The project was
also the first in Vietnam to implement the innovative form of bidding using Design/Build contracts for the construction
of water supply schemes. This approach was replicated in another project (Red River Delta Rural Water Supply and
Sanitation Project).
There are indications in the ICR that the operation did contribute to enhanced health and economic potential for the
resident households. However, due to the lack of relevant indicators and reporting, the evidence base for this claim is
weak.


 5. Efficiency:
  Modest.
An economic analysis was carried out at Appraisal, sampling 5 provinces. The economic benefit was derived from
consumer surplus or user gains resulting from easy access to water at rates lower than more costly alternatives and
public health improvements. The economic analysis showed economic rates of return (EIRR) higher than the discount
rate of 12 percent. The ERR at appraisal ranged between 18.0 and 22.0 percent.

Economic and financial analyses were also carried out at ICR following the methodology at appraisal. According to the
ICR (p 16), results show that the EIRR at completion ranges between 9.7 and 52.0 percent. The ICR provides no
overall EIRR. However, the economic analysis showed that the project brought sufficient economic benefits to the
consumers in the project areas by providing better access to clean water with higher quantity and with lower price.
The financial analysis showed that positive cash flow for WSCs has generally been achieved, and this achievement
will be continued if the current pace of increasing demand and increasing average tariff for cost recovery are
maintained.

The calculation of public health benefits in the economic and financial analysis is imprecise in that it uses general
health statistics and does not measure the incidences of water borne diseases in the project areas before and after
project interventions (and also does not use any comparison group to see the effect of the project on the incidences of
water borne diseases).

This project experienced significant delays in project implementation and inefficiency in implementation due to
weakness of design, and procurement, and weak performance of consultants and contractors, as well as delays in
resettlement (ICR pp 8, 11, 12). Furthermore, there was a significant reduction in scope, and a project extension of 12
months, and parts of the project’s credit were cancelled twice.

 a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
    re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                Rate Available?                           Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

    Appraisal                        No
    ICR estimate                     No
                                        * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



 6. Outcome:
   The Relevance of Objective was High and the Relevance of Design was Modest. Efficacy was rated Modest, as
many of the revised targets were partially achieved (and some not achieved), and for the relatively limited evidence to
show achievement of the final objective. Efficiency was rated Modest due to significant delays in implementation and
under-use of allocated funds.
  a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory


 7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:
   According to the ICR (p 13, section 2.5 and p 18, section 4), the water supply facilities had sound technical design
and were generally constructed following quality standards. The facilities were operational at project closing and the
WSCs had gained experience in operating and managing water supply systems. Households generally expressed
commitment to obtain water services through willingness-to-connect surveys, and water tariffs were set following the
full cost recovery principle. The provincial sanitation funds are likely to be sustained, according to the ICR, as the
repayment rate was 98 percent at the time of the ICR. Furthermore, the performance based contract for reducing
NRW in Ho Chi Minh City is now widely accepted in the country as an effective approach for improving utility’s
operational efficiency, and the water and sanitation database will be maintained.

   a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Moderate

 8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

 a. Quality at entry:
    The PAD properly identified and captured the problems in Vietnam’s water and sanitation sector. However, as
pointed out in the ICR (p 19, section 5.1 (a)), there were significant shortcomings at the appraisal stage of this
project. The Results Framework was inadequate in capturing the project’s performance. All the indicators were
output-based, and no indicators were set up to measure the intended outcomes of the project as defined in the
PDO. No targets were set at appraisal, and no baseline study were undertaken, which limited the ICR team’s
ability to assess the overall outcome of the project. Furthermore, the project design was complex and ambitious in
that it encompassed working with a vast number of implementing agencies that were not only geographically
dispersed but also had varying degrees of capacities, sizes and investment needs. The project also intended to
apply a number of innovations without prior testing for applicability or appropriateness to the local conditions, and
also failed to adequately assess the local capacity for carrying out such innovations.

   Quality-at-Entry Rating:                       Moderately Unsatisfactory

 b. Quality of supervision:
    The Task Team carried out 17 formal supervision missions over the eight years of project implementation, and
the ICR reports that the Aide Memoirs and Implementation Status Reports (ISRs) provided candid assessment of
project status (ICR p 19, section 5.1. (b)). The MTR was carried out on time, and the task team assisted the
Government of Vietnam to restructure the project.
However, the supervision of this project suffered some shortcomings. As explained on p 9 in the ICR, the project
was unable to optimize the benefits of restructuring because it took place just as the project was closing. The two
project restructurings were done one and two days prior to the project’s original and revised closing dates due to
discussions on whether the restructurings were at Level 1 or 2. The lack of relevant indicators to measure the
expected outcomes were not remedied during project implementation or at restructuring; not even when the
Results Framework was reviewed, were indicators to measure the expected final outcomes included, and this
made the assessment of project achievements difficult. Despite the fact that the project was considered to be a
problem project for many years, the Bank team did not carry out any quality-of-supervision assessment to further
support project implementation. The ICR points out (p 21, first para) that the Bank team failed to assist the GoV in
reviewing the appropriateness, adequacy and relevance of the indicators in the Results Framework.

The project faced several Financial Management related issues including poor contract management, delayed
submission of interim financial reports and low disbursement rate. The Central Project Unit and the Bank team
helped streamline the contract and fund flow arrangements, strengthened the Financial Management capacities of
the implementing agencies and carried out improvements in internal control, which resulted in improvements in
the low disbursement rate. Following allegedly fraudulent practices in one of the WSCs, the Bank conducted
several special missions to review the status and request corrective measures. Due to the project’s procurement
problems, the Bank team had a procurement manual developed to guide the PPMU. Procurement training was
provided and close supervision of the CPU was carried out to help resolve the issues.



   Quality of Supervision Rating :                Moderately Unsatisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating :              Moderately Unsatisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

 a. Government Performance:
    According to the ICR (p 20, section 5.2 (a)), the Government of Vietnam provided policy and institutional
support to the project. Sector reforms and decentralization efforts were carried out, and state owned enterprises
were transformed to limited liability companies operating under the Incorporation Law, which allowed WSCs to
make independent investment decisions. The Government provided decrees guiding the implementation of laws
that affected the water and sanitation sector, which allowed a clearer distribution of responsibilities at various
levels and a more streamlined decision-making process among agencies. Shortcomings included delays in
decision making during this transition and delays in mobilization of GoV counterpart funding for compensation.

   Government Performance Rating                               Moderately Satisfactory

 b. Implementing Agency Performance:
    There were several implementing agencies; the Vietnam Development Bank, the Ministry of Construction and
13 provincial project management units. The project thus involved a large number of implementing agencies with
varying commitment, capacity to implement and sustain investments, and compliance with project requirements.

There is no information in the ICR regarding the performance of the Vietnam Development Bank.

Ministry of Construction:
The Ministry of Construction established the CPU which provided clear guidance and strong support to provinces
during the project implementation, according to the ICR (p20, section 5.2 (b)). The MOC-CPU regularly carried out
field visits to the subprojects and reviewed implementation progress. The CPU provided advice in solving
implementation hurdles and urged participating Provincial People’s Committees to continue to support and
facilitate subproject progress. The MOC faced considerable hurdles in mobilizing the consultant who were to
support the CPU in project preparation and implementation.

13 provincial project management units:
The Provincial Project Management Unit (PPMU) staff had limited technical capacity in construction quality
assurance, contract and financial management, and in environmental and social safeguard implementation. This
caused severe delays in reviewing project documents, several procurement failures, cases of fraud and misuse of
project funds, and a number of contract management issues. The fraudulent practices occurred in one single
WSC, and in the case of misprocurement, the funds were returned to the province. Furthermore, there was delays
in submission of interim financial reports. During project implementation, training courses were provided to
improve the competencies of the PPMUs staff in overall management, contract and financial management, and
their performance improved during the last year of project implementation.

   Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                    Moderately Unsatisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                       Moderately Unsatisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

 a. M&E Design:
   The M&E design was weak. The PDO indicators and the intermediate outcome indicators (ICR fact sheet, PAD pp
29-30) were output-based and there were no indicators for the expected final outcomes; i.e. none of the indicators
was set up to measure health or economic potential. Output-based indicators in the results framework cannot provide
sufficient information about whether the project achieved its objectives of enhanced health and economic potential or
not.

According to the ICR (p 10, section 2.3, second para), the discussion to revise the Results Framework was initiated at
MTR, but formal revision only took place as the time of the project’s original closing date in June 2012; the revision
introduced project targets.

 b. M&E Implementation:
   No baseline data collection was carried out. According to the ICR (p 10, section 2.3, third para), the CPU had
hoped that baseline and target values could be generated early on from the feasibility studies and through the
mobilization of a consultant to help the CPU to develop a monitoring system for the project. However, the completion
of feasibility studies was substantially delayed and only 22 of the planned 120 studies were carried out (ICR p 8,
section 2.2, second para) and in addition, the hiring of the consultant fell through. The CPU designated an M&E
consultant to provide guidance to PPMUs in reporting, verifying and consolidating data at the project level. With those
efforts, the project M&E was improved during the last three years of implementation.

However, the significant weaknesses of the M&E design were not fixed during implementation, and target values were
only provided near the end of the project.

 c. M&E Utilization:
   There is very little information in the ICR about M&E Utilization, According to the ICR p.10, M&E was helpful in
informing decision and reallocation of resources, but no concrete examples are given.

M&E Quality Rating: Negligible
11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:
This was a Category B project that triggered two safeguard policies: Involuntary Resettlement OP 4.12 and
Environmental Assessment OP 4.01.

Involuntary Resettlement :
The project triggered Involuntary Resettlement (OP 4.12). The ICR p.11 reports that the project complied with social
safeguards policies. It was anticipated that adverse social impact would be created as a result of land acquisition for
the construction of rehabilitation of water treatment plants, source works and pipelines. The preparation of social
safeguards instruments followed the phasing of project activities. Four Resettlement Action Plans (RAPs) were
prepared for Phase 1 and a Resettlement Policy Framework (RFP) was developed to guide the preparation of RAPs
for Phase 2. The ICR reports (p 11, section 2.4, first para) that all social safeguard instruments were reviewed and
were found to be consistent with OP 4.12 Involuntary Resettlement, and land acquisition was carried out following the
requirements stipulated in the RAPs and the RFP. However, the project experienced substantial delays in the
implementation of site clearances and compensation, which had considerable adverse impact on the progress of civil
works.

Environmental Safeguards
The project was classified as Environmental Category B and triggered Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01). The ICR
reports that the project complied fully with environmental safeguard policies (p 11, section 2.4). Environmental
Assessment (EA) reports and Environmental Management Plans (EMPs) were prepared and disclosed for each
subproject. The project mobilized construction management consultants to monitor subproject impacts on the
environment. The mitigation measures specified in the EMPs were incorporated into the construction contracts and
these are reported in the ICR to have been adequately carried out during the construction phase (p 11, section 2.4,
second para).

There were no reported cases of complaints from local communities during the construction phase. The ICR p.11
notes that the project could have been better designed if it had included investments to address the issues related to
increased wastewater from new water supply connections.


b. Fiduciary Compliance:
Financial Management
There were substantial difficulties with the financial management of the project from start-up and up until 2010, such
as poor contract management, delayed submission of interim financial reports and a low disbursement rate. The
disbursement rate improved gradually as the CPU and the Task Team streamlined the contract and flow of fund
arrangements, strengthened the FM capacity of implementing agencies and carried out improvements in internal
controls. The project provided contract management training for all implementing agencies.

One of the participating WSCs was allegedly involved in fraudulent practices under the project (ICR p 12 last para).
The Task team requested corrective measures, which were followed by the implementing agencies, and the project
implementation in the Province was completed.

By 2011, the project had a functioning FM system, with adequate staff. Audit reports for 2012 were submitted on time
with an unqualified opinion on the total project expenditures. All WSCs disbursed funds as scheduled.

Procurement
The exceptions were one case that resulted in a declaration of misprocurement by the Bank and two cases that led to
re-bids of consulting services contract for the preparation of Phase 2 subprojects.

The project experienced a number of challenges regarding procurement procedures which led to serious delays in
construction. These included difficulties and delays in the preparation of standard bidding documents, failed bids, and
difficulties in evaluating bids. A contract was declared misprocurement in one of the provinces and the Bank was
refunded the amount relating to that contract in a timely manner. A Procurement Manual was developed to guide the
inexperienced PPMUs and procurement training was provided.

While there were serious challenges, the project also succeeded in implementing innovative procurement measures,
such as introducing the first performance-based works contract that involved the participation of the private sector in
the O&M of a part of the public water supply system, and the contract was successfully implemented. The project was
also the first in Vietnam to implement the innovative form of bidding using Design/Build contracts for the construction
of water supply schemes. This approach was replicated in another project (Red River Delta Rural Water Supply and
Sanitation Project).


c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):
The ICR states that the project did not have any significant unintended outcomes or impacts (p 18, section 3.5 (c)).

d. Other:



12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review                 Reason for
                                                                                     Disagreement/Comments
                     Outcome: Moderately                    Moderately
                              Unsatisfactory                Unsatisfactory
          Risk to Development Moderate                      Moderate
                     Outcome:

           Bank Performance: Moderately                     Moderately         .
                               Unsatisfactory               Unsatisfactory
       Borrower Performance : Moderately                    Moderately
                               Unsatisfactory               Unsatisfactory
               Quality of ICR:                              Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:
   A number of lessons may be drawn from this project:
  Sufficient attention to institutional readiness to implement is important. In low capacity contexts, a thorough
    assessment of institutional readiness of implementing agencies would be necessary in order for any project to
    craft feasible institutional and coordination mechanisms.
  Performance based contracts may be a good model for improving operational efficiency of water supply utility.
  Starting small and testing innovations before scaling up may help avoid large scale failures due to design
    flaws.
  Relevant and adequate indicators for a project’s expected outcomes are crucial for reporting on project
    performance. This is necessary for a properly designed and functional M&E. The ability of any project to steer
    implementation in light of many hurdles depends largely on whether it can (a) monitor and evaluate plans and
    activities, outputs and outcomes; (b) inform in a timely manner the key project decision-makers about project
    statues, issues, and key risks; and (c) obtain feedback on key actions needed to mitigate risks or resolve
    issues.

14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes      No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:

The ICR offers a good level of detail in the discussion of issues that affected the project's preparation and
implementation. However, the quality of evidence presented is low, and especially regarding the lack of reporting on
the project’s outcomes. The reporting on the project’s outputs is adequate.

The ICR analyses the PDO as if the five elements in the formulation are objectives at equal levels, failing to recognize
the different levels of the project’s causal chain. It thus also fails to recognize that “enhanced health and economic
potential” are the expected final outcomes of this project, and that “improved water supply” and “improved sanitation
services” are intermediate outcomes that should lead to the final outcomes. It also fails to identify the gap in the
causal chain; i.e. that there is an underlying assumption that improved water supply and sanitation services
automatically will lead to enhanced health and economic potential. However, the ICR did identify and report on the
significant weaknesses in the project’s Results Framework.
 a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
