L04J 510 -6A
T'ILE      COPY                   R E SRESTRICTED
Report No. P - 6 58
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF GABON
FOR A
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
December 23, 1968



T',IRTNATIOflAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RE0OPfl,DATIO1 OF TRE PR,tESIDENT
TO TM, EXLECUTIVE DIRECTORS
O, A PROPOSED LOAIT TO TTE REPUBLIC OF GABON
FOR A SECOND HIGHNTAY PROJECT
1.     I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan in an amount in various currencies equivalent to $6 million to the
Reyablic of Gabon to assist in financing a second highway project.
PARtT I - HISTORICAL
2.     In 1963-64, the Government of Gabon asked the Bank to help finance
a program of road construction aimed at opening the interior of the country
to logging operations. The Banlc found this program too large in relation
to the needs of the country, and recommended a smaller and more realistic
project limited to the construction of three roads totalling 185 km. This
was financed by a $12 million loan made in 1964. The project included
feasibility studies of other roads in order to prepare for a second high-
w,ay project to be financed at a later date. Feasibility stuudies were com-
pleted in 1966, and detailed engineering studies financed by the Government
wffere prepared by consultants in 1967/68. A Bank mission appraised the newJ
project in January/February 1968. In October 1968, shortly after the Annual
Meetings, the scope of the project and the terms and conditions of a possible
Banlc loan were discussed wiith a Gabonese delegation headed by the Ilinister
of Economic Affairs and Planning, Hr. Emile Kassa Napsi.  Negotiations were
completed in December. The proposed loan would be the fourth operation of
the Bank in Gabon.
3.  The following is a sumiary staterient of Bank loans to Gabon as of
liovember 30, 1968:                                Amount
Loan   Year    Borrower         Purpose           $ million     Undisbursed
230    1959    Comilog          Ore Nining          35.o
385    1964    Gabon            Roads               12.0
5o0    1968    Gabon            Education            1.8            1.8
Total (less cancellations):                7.8
of which has been repaid to
Banlc and others     13.8
Total now outstanding                     35.O
Amount sold:               26.9
of which has been repaid: 9.3       17.6
Total now held by Bank                    17.4
Total undisbursed                                          1.8



- 2   -
4.      The Bank has under zonsideratinn a request to assist in the
financing of the Owendo-5elinga railway project which would make possible
the exploitation of iron ore deposits in the Kekambo region.  The UNDP has
financed feasibility and detailed engineering studies of the railroad
which were completed in 1965 and 1968, respectively. The Bank acted as
Executing Agency for both studies. The international consortium which
would oi-n and operate the rmining facilities has not yet made a decision
on the timing of its proposed operation iwhich would provide an adequate
justification for the railway investment.
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED LOAN
5.   Borrower:            The Republic of Gabon
Aamount:             Equivalent in various currencies of $6 million
Purpose:             To assist in financing (i) the detailed engin-
eering and construction of two roads (Lalara-
IIitzic and Lalara-Koumameyong) totalling 119 km;
(ii) feasibility study and detailed engineering
of other roads and a bridge; and (iii) the pro-
vision of maintenance equipment.
Azmortization:       In 20 years, including a4-year peritd of grace
through seri-an-iual installments commencing on
January l5, 1973 and ending on Jnua    15, 1589.
Interest Rate:       6-1/2 per cent per annum
Commitment 3harge:   3/4 of 1 per cent per annum
Estimated Economic
Leturn:              28 per cent
PART III - TIE PROJECT
6.     A report (TO-692a) entitled "Appraisal of a Second IHighway Project"
is attached. The Gabonese Government attaches high priority to the pro-
ject which would open new forest areas for timber operations. The forest
industry is the second most important sector of the Gabonese economy after
mining. Forestry products contribute about 40 percent of export receipts
and 20 percent of Government revenuesp not including general income taxes
paid by logging operators.  However, Gabonts logging industry has showm
no production increase in recent years. Commercially exploitable timber
in the forest areas along the coast and navigable rivers, called the "First
Zone", is being exhausted, and forest exploitation is moving farther from
the coast into the so-called ",econd Zone".  This development requires
considerable public investment in transport infrastructure. Road invest-
ments, including the Bank-financed first highway project, have enabled



-3 -
the logging companies graclually to trans^er their activities from the first
to the second zone which already produces mnore than 50 percent of the Gabon-
ese timber production.  The proposed project would pernit further expansion
of the logging industry.
7.           No marketing problems are expected.   Gabon, together with Congo
(Brazzaville), is virtually the only producer of okoume, one of the most
valuable woods for the manufacturing of plyu,ood.  The market for okoume has
been very stable over the last fewi years, and prospects continue to be favor-
able. The project wzould make a substantial contribution to the Gabonese
economy in foreign exchange earnings and fiscal revenue. Its economic rate
of return is estimated at 28 percent. In addition to facilitating substantial
increases in timber production, one of the project roads (Lalara-Mitzic) would
also improve transport connections to agricultural areas in the north-eastern
region of Gabon, and provide an improved international link with Cameroon.
8.           The Department of Public Works and Transportation in the Ministry
of Public Works would be responsible for executing the project.   The organ-
ization of the Directorate is adequate, but there are insufficient qualified
staff to supervise construction.   Consultants  satisfactory to the Bank will
therefore be responsible for this supervision as wyell as for the proposed
feasibility studies and detailed engineering. The project wiould be completed
by the end of 1971.
9.           Total cost of the project is estimated at $8 million equivalent,
and the proposed loan of $6 million represents the estimated foreign exchange
component.  These estimates are based on the result of bids called by the
Government in Ilcy 1968, following procedures in accordance with the Bank's
Guidelines for internzational competitive bidding.  The low bid submitted by
the Italian company Vianini was substantially belolw initial estimates based
on bid prices for the first highway project.   After a thorough investigation,
the Government recommended that the contract be awarded to this company. Road
maintenaince equipment and spare parts would be purchased through international
competitive bidding, taking into account thle DP-"is standardization preferences.
It is proposed to include retroactive financing for the foreign cost of certain
detailed engineering, estimated at about $350,000. Ln early 1967, the Bank
considered making a special loan for this purpose, but in order to save time,
it was agreed that the Government would proceed to finance the detailed
engineering in consultation with the Bank and would seek reimbursement out of
the eventual construction loan.
PART IV - LEGAL IiiST,;TJ,i' T;, MID AUTHORITY
10.          The Draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Gabon and the
Bank, as well as the Report of the Committee provided for under Article III,
Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank, are being distributed
to the Executive Directors separately.



PAIRT V - TVC ,_EO&OIMY
I1.    A report on "TThe Economy of -abon" (A?-67a dated Hay 15, 1968) was
distributed to tie Ex;ecutive Directors on 1viay 21, 1968 (a, 68-75).
12.    The country has experienced an impressive economic growth since 1956
(15 percent per annum in real terms in the period 1956-60 and about 5 per
cent since 1960). The recent reduction in the rate of growth is due mainly
to a slower increase in the output of timber, manganese and uranium. Gabonts
export performance is good. The country has always had a positive trade
balance in the past decade, wlhich, together with an appreciable inflow of
official and private capital, has enabled it to keep its overall balance of
payments more or less in equilibrium in spite of considerable profit remit-
tances abroad.   Public savings are satisfactory, amounting to about one-
fifth of total current expenditures.
13.    The countryts medium-term economic prospects are good. The production
of petroleun may be expected to increase considerably in the next years.
In the longer run, economic growthn -rill depend to a large extent on the ex-
ploitation of huge iron ore reserves in the liekambo area which is under con-
sideration by an international group of steel producers. The exploitation
of the iron ore would requLire the construction of a railwjay to the sea for
which a final engineering study has recently been completed. The railway
would also open to exploitation large newr forestry reserves.  However, the
agricultural sector, which employs 70 percent of the active population, has
been lagging due to high land clearing costs, poor soils, marketing problems
and cattle diseases. Governiment technical assistance is being made available
to farmers in particular localities, primarily to increase prodlctivity.
while rapid imorovement cannot be expected, development of this sector can
begin on a modest scale.
14.    The Gove:rnment has, on the whole, a sound approach to its development
problems.  The development program is well conceived and carried out effec-
tively. It is mainly concentrated on investments in transport and coTmmuni-
cations, and seeks to increase Gabonese participation in the economic
activity of the country through improved education and training. The Gov-
ernment also recognizes the importance of promoting private enterprise, and
has done well in attracting foreign capital.
15.    Debt service payments at present constitute nearly 9 percent of export
earnings, but the service burden is expected to decline significantly within
tlhe next five years. 'Heanwhile, the country should be able to incur and
service the comparatively modest additional external indebtedness wchich it
will need to contract primarily for developing roads and education.
PART VI - COPEPITAHCE WITH ARTICLES CF A¶REEMENT
16.    I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply writh the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.



PART VII - RECOtMENDATION
17.    I rec nmend that the Executive Directors adopt the followiing reso-
lution:
2TESOLUTION M\O.
Approval of a Loan to the Republic of Gabon in an amount
eouivalent to US$ 6,000,000.
RESOLVED:
TI-AT the Bank shall grant a Loan to the Republic of Gabon
in an amount in various currencies equivalent to six million
dollars (US$ 6,000,000) to mature on and prior to August 15,
1988, to bear interest at the rate of six and one half per
cent (6-1/2%) per annum, and to be upon such other terms
and conditions as shall be substantially in accordance writh
the terms and conditions set forth in the form of Loan Agree-
ment (Second HigIhway Project) betwreen the Republic of Gabon
and the Bank, which has been presented to this meeting.
T?obert S. McNamara
President
by J. Burke Knapp
Attachment.
December 23, 1968.



